                                          RP992v5
   Government of the Republic of Sierra Leone
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food Security


     LOMA MOUNTAINS NATIONAL PARK

        Preliminary Management Plan
                 2013-2017




                   VOLUME II

       THE COMMUNITY ACTION PLAN
Copies available from:

Forestry Division
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food Security
Youyi Building
Freetown
Sierra Leone




This Document was developed by a team of consultants of Österreichische
Bundesforste (ÖBf) AG, including Alhaji M. Siaka, Francis Hurst and Alois
Schuschnigg under the supervision of the Forestry Division, Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Food Security, Government of Sierra Leone.

Financing to the GoSL for preparation of this Plan was provided by two World
Bank-assisted projects – the Biodiversity Conservation Project (BCP) and the
Bumbuna Hydroelectric Environment and Social Management Project (BHP)

The views and proposition expressed herein are those of the Experts and do not
necessarily represent any official view of the World Bank or any other
organization mentioned in the Report.

ÖBf AG Consulting

Pummergasse 10-12

A-3002 Purkersdorf

Austria

www.oebfconsulting.at




Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan             i
TABLE OF CONTENTS


1. INTRODUCTION .............................................................................................. 4

2. PURPOSE OF THE CAP ..................................................................................... 5

3. COMMUNITY-BASED NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT ............................... 7
  3.1. Property regimes .......................................................................................... 8
  3.2. Community and state options ........................................................................ 9
  3.3. Costs and benefits ....................................................................................... 10
  3.4. Authority and responsibility for forest resources .............................................. 10
  3.5. Tenure and pricing ...................................................................................... 10

4. WHAT IS THE CAP? ....................................................................................... 11
  4.1. How the CAP will work ................................................................................. 12
  4.2. The CAP and the LMNP Management Plan ....................................................... 12

5. IMPLEMENTING THE CAP .............................................................................. 13
  5.1. Getting started ........................................................................................... 13
  5.2. Step 1: Sensitisation ................................................................................... 13
  5.3. Step 2: Determining the scale at which management takes place ...................... 13
  5.4. Step 3: Determining the unit of management ................................................. 13
  5.5. Step 4: Developing the internal organisation and the enabling environment ....... 14
  5.6. Step 5: Delineating the boundaries ................................................................ 14
  5.7. Step 6: Empowering the community .............................................................. 14
  5.8. Step 7: Developing the capacity of the community to manage and benefit
         from forest resources ................................................................................ 15
  5.9. Step 8: Monitoring, evaluation and adaptation ................................................ 15

6. THE COMMUNITY ACTION PLAN .................................................................... 16

7. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.................................................................... 27
  7.1. The Forest Department ................................................................................ 27
  7.2. The District Council ..................................................................................... 27
  7.3. The Paramount Chiefdom ............................................................................. 27
  7.4. Section Chiefs ............................................................................................. 28
  7.5. Township Chiefdoms .................................................................................... 28
  7.6. Heads of Families ........................................................................................ 28

ANNEX 1 GUIDELINES FOR THE DRAFTING OF A CONSTITUTION ..................... 29

ANNEX 2 MONITORING AND EVALUATION INDICATORS .................................. 34




Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                                                    ii
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS

BCP            Sierra Leone Biodiversity Conservation Project
BHP            Bumbuna Hydroelectricity Project
CAP            Community Action Plan
CBNRM          Community-Based Natural Resource Management
CSMC           Conservation Site Management Committee
CSMT           Conservation Site Management Team
DC             District Council
FD             Forestry Division
GEF            Global Environment Facility
HWC            Human Wildlife Conflict
LMNP           Loma Mountains National Park
MAFFS          Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food Security
NGO            Non-governmental Organisation
NTFP           Non-timber Forest Products
ÖBf AG         Österreichische Bundesforste AG
PA             Protected Area
SC             Section Chief
TA             Traditional Authority
TC             Town Chief
WB             World Bank




Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan     iii
1. INTRODUCTION
The Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project (BHP) identified the Loma Mountains Non-
hunting Forest Reserve as a suitable biodiversity off-set for important habitats
that would be lost due to flooding once the Bumbuna Dam was operational. In
order to off-set this loss of biodiversity the Loma Mountains were identified as
being of equal or greater global biodiversity importance and a decision was taken
to establish a national park, the Loma Mountains National Park (LMNP).

During this process it was also recognised that the creation of the national park
could significantly impact upon the livelihoods and development aspirations of
the neighbouring communities. In order to mitigate this, a socio-economic survey
was carried out and a process-framework developed during the management
planning for the future national park.

A key recommendation stemming from this was to develop a management plan
for the national park and a Community Action Plan (CAP) for those communities
impacted by the parks’ creation; the latter was to be developed by the Sierra
Leone Biodiversity Conservation Project (BCP). There was little description given
to the form the CAP should take, however, during the management planning
process for LMNP it was widely recognised that it was necessary to develop the
capacities of local communities to sustainably manage biodiversity from both a
biodiversity conservation, and from a sustainable rural livelihoods, perspective.
The reasoning behind this approach was two-fold. Firstly there is clearly a
considerable livelihood dependence upon these resources, and secondly, given
the topography, climate and soils in the community lands, there are limited
opportunities for conventional or intensive agriculture, indeed it is necessary to
reach a careful balance between intensification of agriculture and the risk of
rapid land degradation.

The proposed Community Action Plan stems from the LMNP Management Plan. It
recognises that there are few options available for both the local communities
around LMNP and for the Forestry Division (FD) as the statutory agency tasked
with conserving biodiversity and other ecosystem goods and services.

It provides a new concept for Sierra Leone to sustainably manage renewable
natural resources on customary lands, under custodianship of Traditional
Authorities (TA) by devolving management authority and responsibility to the
lowest appropriate level, in accordance with the Conservation and Wildlife Policy
of 2010. Furthermore, it gives an opportunity for the local community to take
stock of what they have before they replace it with other land use opportunities
that may be less resilient and only offer short-term advantages over what they
already have, but are currently denied the ability to manage and benefit from.
The local rural communities’ needs are intimately linked with the sustainability
and well-being of the natural resource base. Any premise that rural people have
little interest in natural resource management and must therefore be offered
external incentives to encourage them to participate in its management are
largely unfounded. In fact their very future wellbeing depends upon their
participation and the sound conservation management of these resources. Many
rural people regard biodiversity and other natural values as an important part of
their livelihood and its sustainable use is of real concern to them. What is at


Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                 4
stake is the nature of their participation. Passive participation will incur
significant time costs, and alternative livelihoods might expose them to
significant economic risks and enterprises founded upon the existing resource
base of forest products are vulnerable because this remains largely unmanaged.
In order to maximise the effectiveness of management and the efficiency of local
income-generating livelihoods it will be important to develop different
approaches to management and to distribute management costs and benefits
equitably amongst stakeholders to reward good management. In order to meet
both the aspirations of local communities and achieve biodiversity (and other
natural values and ecosystem services) conservation it must be assumed that
the state will protect those resources or areas most vulnerable. The remainder,
those areas off-reserve and belonging to the community, will need to be
managed by those people closest to the resources. What is being described is the
local communities playing a greater role in managing the natural resources in
and, in return, benefiting to a greater extent from them at the same time
diversifying their livelihood opportunities and reducing their risks. Where
resources are not totally protected by the state; this might be described as -
community-based natural resource management (CBNRM).
In any event, and by whatever name we describe it, it should not be regarded as
a “solution to solve all problems? in a rural development and biodiversity
conservation context, faced by LMNP and the surrounding communities. “It is
important that the economic gains from community-based resource management
or alternatives such as eco-tourism are not overplayed. In certain circumstances
the income generated by sustainable use of biodiversity can be extraordinary.
But in most instances, utilisation of wild products (both consumptive and non-
consumptive) offers no more than modest sustainable and secure incomes to
local communities. That said; linking the economic benefit with the management
of the resources has the effect of substantially empowering local communities,
particularly women, and producing significant and lasting social capital?1.



2. PURPOSE OF THE CAP
There are two purposes of the CAP. Firstly, it is intended to guide the
development of the management of biodiversity resources off-reserve, and
secondarily, to provide the basis for co-management of certain biodiversity
resources and other natural values within the national park and to secure these
resources both within and outside the NP for the benefit of all:
    From biodiversity conservation perspective the primary aim is to protect
      these resources from over-exploitation.
    From a rural livelihoods perspective the primary aim is to secure a
      sustainable supply of these forest goods and services for the benefit of
      local communities.

Therefore the CAP is a dual purpose action plan and there is no priority (between
these two perspectives) because the local rural communities’ needs are very
closely linked with the sustainability and well-being of the natural resource (or
biodiversity) base, and vice versa. As was stated in the introduction; what is at
stake is the nature of their participation; passive participation is unlikely to
1
    Prof. Marshall Murphree




Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                5
create the security of tenure necessary for investment, therefore, local
communities must be enabled to take an active role in resource management.
The CAP, through a CBNRM approach, offers:
    A new option and approach to tackle developmental problems and issues
      by focussing attention on natural resource use and land management.
    An improvement of local livelihoods and introducing natural resource
      products into the formal market place the revenue to local authorities will
      improve.
    Support to democratisation and strengthening local governance structures.


The LMNP management plan in combination with the CAP provide for a
framework that strengthens village/section level traditional institutions to give
them the authority and the responsibility to manage renewable natural resources
found on their village territories. Furthermore, it clearly defines a unit of
management with which the Forestry Division can enter into agreements on
conditional user rights within the protected area (e.g. for NTFPs).




Schematic representation of a twofold governance structure for the management
of LMNP as well as adjacent village territories

In the national park, Forestry Division, both has the authority and the
responsibility to manage the area. It is foreseen that a Conservation Site
Management Committee (CSMC) is established which is representative of the
main stakeholder groups (e.g. Forestry Division, District Council, Traditional
Authority, etc.) concerning the management of LMNP.




Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                6
When it comes to the management of off-reserve natural resources the CSMC
does not reflect the scale at which day-to-day management decisions are taking
place. This is better reflected and more representative if it is placed at the
Township Chieftaincy-level, in particular with the Village Council as schematically
shown in the figure below.

The green circle represents the CSMC which is governing the national park. The
purple circle represents the village territories in two chiefdoms. Each chiefdom
(headed by a Paramount Chief) is subdivided into Section (headed by a Section
Chief), which is indicated by the blue, green and orange circles. A number of
villages (headed by a Village or Township Chief) fall under a Section. At the
village level, the Village Chief is represented by a Council which essentially
represents the family heads of the households within a village. This Village
Council with its Chief is essentially representative of the “land user? who takes
his or her day-to-day decisions on how to use any natural resource found in his
or her vicinity.

3. COMMUNITY-BASED NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
The approach advocated by the CAP is far from theoretical. Rather it is grounded
in a careful analysis of the driving forces behind the loss of environmental goods
and service, the likely response strategies of local communities, individual
farmers, hunters and gatherers, as well as the principles and experience that
have been learned from similar situations in other countries. The most relevant
are listed below. However, it is worth reiterating that this approach is not a cure-
all for natural resource management, it is merely a means to addressing
resource use challenges in complex rural socio-ecosystems (outside of the
strictly protected areas) and provide an enabling environment that supports the
sustainable management of biodiversity as a common property. Therefore
CBNRM should be seen as little more than the application of the following five
principles2:
        1. Effective management of wildlife is best achieved by giving it
           focussed value for those who live with it. People seek to manage
           the environment when the benefits of management exceed the costs.
           Simply put if the income or benefit from managing/conserving natural
           resources exceeds the opportunity costs of reduced harvesting, better
           harvesting techniques, reduced farming, etc..; then people will tolerate
           and conserve those resources. If the benefits are a substantial
           proportion of income then people will incorporate their management
           into their conventional agriculture and land use.
        2. Differential inputs must result in differential benefits. This
           principle relates to the question “value for whom?? The answer is –
           those who have the resources and pay for its existence. At a national
           level, the FD is recognised as the custodians of protected areas and the
           resources they contain as well as biodiversity resources outside of the
           protected areas system. However, it is equally important to recognise
           that these people who we might term “local people? or “local
           community? are the de facto custodians of many, or most, of these
2
 Principles for developing a sustainable use system (adapted from Murphree, M. J., Wildlife
Division Support Project, CREMA Review Report No. 56. Wildlife Division of the Forestry
Commission, Ghana and IUCN. October 2005)




Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                              7
            resources off-reserve, bear the cost of their continued existence, and
            might be considered the principle beneficiary from their management in
            order to achieve sustainability within the system.
         3. There must be a positive correlation between quality of
            management and the magnitude of benefit. The differential input
            requiring differential benefit involves not only the assets and costs
            mentioned above, it also incorporates management costs, both
            quantitative and qualitative. A fundamental policy objective is to
            provide the motivation for good management; thus, policy should
            ensure that good management pays. Failure to encourage and reward
            good management will result in “mining? of the resource for short-term
            gain.
         4. The unit of proprietorship should be the unit of production,
            management and benefit. This means that the unit of decision-
            making must also be the same as the unit that manages and benefits.
            This component is fundamental to any sustainable resource
            management regime. However, it is recognised that due to issues of
            scale and the mobile nature and temporal and spatial boundaries of
            wildlife resources, mechanisms that allow for collective management
            decisions need to be used. These mechanisms generally exist within
            the community and need to be identified.
         5. The unit for collective management should be as small as
            practicable and functionally efficient within ecological and
            socio-political constraints. From a social dynamics perspective scale
            is an important consideration; large-scale externally imposed
            structures tend to be ineffective, increasing the potential for corruption,
            evasion of responsibility and lethargy in respect of broad participation.
            Where collective management structures are based on existing
            collective management structures and are at a scale that ensures
            regular contact of the members, it becomes possible to enforce
            conformity to rules through peer pressure and control individual actions
            through collective sanction.


3.1. Property regimes
Underpinning the approach is an explicit understanding of the property regimes
that are prevalent in the project area. A property regime or tenure is taken to
mean the strength of ownership, proprietorship or rights of access to a resource.
There are four systems of tenure that can be applied to biodiversity resources,
namely3:
      Single owner state – in which the rights are vested in the state, for
      instance in a strictly protected area or core zone of a protected area;
      Single owner private – in which the rights are vested in an individual or
      corporate body. Such arrangements relating to natural resource use and
      management are unusual in most countries where these resources are
      normally considered the property of the state;



3
 Barbier, E. B., In Economics for the Wilds, Wildlife, Wildlands, Diversity and Development. Timothy M. Swanson and
Edward B. Barbier




Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                                                      8
       Common property - in which clearly defined and agreed rights of access
       are established within a defined user group and with agreed rules of
       access and use, for instance for access to grazing or fisheries, and;
       Open access – in which there are no constraints on access or recognition
       of individuals that are allowed to use the resource. As a result, resource
       use becomes opportunistic. Open access systems are inherently unstable
       while not necessarily unsustainable. Resources are effectively treated as
       res nullius (belonging to no one) and the lack of any agreed controls over
       resource use can rapidly lead to overexploitation and result in economic or
       biological extinction.
A fundamental policy objective of the CAP is to facilitate the transfer of authority
and responsibility between agencies, institutions and individuals so that it more
effectively and efficiently reflects the costs and benefits of wise management,
provides greater security of resource tenure to those closest to the resource and
dependent upon it for their livelihoods. In short it legitimises a common property
management regime4.


3.2. Community and state options
It can be rationally argued that at all levels – global, regional, national and local
– society has three options regarding how biodiversity resources are managed.
These are protection, utilisation or abandonment. Based upon the premise that a
resource can be utilised and that utilisation can – under favourable conditions -
contribute to the sustainable management of a resource. Therefore, there are
three management alternatives for natural resources:
       Protection: Given that the particular circumstances of a resource – such as
       scarcity, level of threat, historic events etc. – result in a precarious
       situation where utilisation of the resource is considered too risky,
       protection – through legislation, protected area, etc. – is a valuable tool to
       ensure sustainability of the resource. However, this is a costly option and
       these costs – prohibition, enforcement, management, opportunity costs
       etc. – are both definable and measurable and, therefore, sustainability can
       be measured against the ability of society/national governments to meet
       these costs.
       Utilisation: Given that a resource can withstand a level of utilisation that is
       biologically sustainable it is possible to establish a management regime,
       which maintains the resource at an acceptable level providing that those
       who incur the management or opportunity costs are able to benefit from
       its utilisation.
       Abandonment: Given that a resource cannot be utilised sustainably and
       society is either unable or unwilling to incur the costs of protecting the
       resource, then the resource must be “abandoned?. That is; there is a high
       risk of extirpation or biological or economic extinction. While it is unlikely
       that any society would knowingly advocate abandoning a resource –
       species, population or ecosystem – when protective measures are applied
       without the material resources or capacity to effectively carry this out,
       there is a high risk of abandonment by default. This situation can
       commonly be found throughout many protected areas and off-reserve

4
 It should also be noted that it is possible to have private property regimes operating within this and private enterprises
based upon a common property




Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                                                              9
        where competition for scarce financial resources across all policy sectors-
        health, education, infrastructure, defence, etc. – results in under-funding
        and a gradual degradation of the resource and species loss as a result of
        uncontrolled illegal activity.



3.3. Costs and benefits
The greatest opportunity for sustainable management occurs when the primary
beneficiaries are those people who are closest to the resource, using the
resources and incurring management and/or opportunity costs. Simply put –
people will manage a resource if the benefits from managing it are greater than
the costs incurred. A frequently encountered situation is one where the benefits
of protection (wilderness, tourism and recreation, spiritual values, etc.) are
realised by the wider society, but the local people have to bear the costs of
protection. Therefore this is a critical component underpinning the CAP should be
an understanding that benefits reflect the costs of management and be should
shared with local people where there is a reasonable and equitable case to be
made.



3.4. Authority and responsibility for forest resources
Authority and responsibility are conceptually linked. That is - authority without
responsibility becomes meaningless or obstructive. Conversely, responsibility
without authority lacks the necessary instrumental and motivational components
for its efficient exercise. The significance of this becomes apparent if the term
authority is replaced with control or regulation and responsibility by management
or use within communal lands immediately surrounding LMNP. In many instances
of protected areas the state may be the de jure authority for biodiversity,
however due to insufficient material and human resources the de facto managers
may be the local people or communities responsible for day-to-day land
management and whose actions will have the most significant impact upon
biodiversity.



3.5. Tenure and pricing
Property or tenure strongly influences how a wild resource, such as biodiversity,
is managed and should be an important component of any planning
considerations. A property or tenure regime is taken to mean the strength of
ownership, proprietorship or rights of access to a resource.
Recognising that the strength of tenure of a resource plays a significant role in
the way in which it will be managed, a fundamental objective of the CAP should
be to ensure that rights of access to a resource are clearly defined and broadly
accepted, with transparent and democratic mechanisms available to resolve
conflicts and enforce these rights.
In order to be sustainable, security of tenure need not necessarily be absolute.
However, the greater the perception of security and the fewer restrictions
imposed upon the users, the greater the opportunities for sustainable
management. An important measure of security of tenure can be the decision
not to use a resource.


Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                 10
It should be clearly stated that it is possible to maintain these resources under
state ownership while allowing conditional and proprietary rights to local
communities. In effect the resources can be held in trust by the communities for
an agreed set of objectives (e.g. sustainable management and income
generation). It is the strength of the relationship and arrangements between the
state and the local communities that will determine the quality of this
management and the perception of local “ownership? which will motivate their
investment in sustainable management.



4. WHAT IS THE CAP?
The approach taken by the CAP will provide a number of positive developments
mostly with regard to the enabling environment at the community level and
related to the way that forest natural resources can be sustainably managed and
utilised for the social and economic benefit of those communities surrounding
LMNP. Therefore the approach taken by the CAP, at the community level, is:
      About creating the opportunity and the freedom to choose. It is about
        giving the farmers an opportunity to incorporate natural resource
        management into his/her livelihood strategy.
      It is not about development projects or conservation projects per se, but
        it is about developing a framework in which these things can happen.
      It is not about law enforcement but it empowers people to protect their
        resources.
      It does not encourage the expansion of protected areas but rather creates
        a framework for protected areas and people working together for each
        other’s benefit.
      It does not promise money but it provides a way for people to improve
        their livelihoods and income.
      It does not solve development problems but it can help people find the
        answers to some.

At the District level the interest are primarily about costs, income and politics. It:
     Offers a new option and approach to tackle developmental problems and
       issues by focussing attention on natural resource use and land
       management.
     By improving local livelihoods and introducing natural resource products
       into the formal market place the revenue to local authorities can improve.
     The process supports democratisation and strengthens local governance
       structures.

At a National level it can be seen to be stimulating rural development, enhancing
bio-diversity conservation and reducing state costs. In this respect:
     It is not the solution to human wildlife/protected area conflicts. But it is
       an important part of a range of measures that together can form Sierra
       Leone’s conservation strategy.
     It can reduce pressure on protected areas and provide additional security
       for the protected areas and the integrity of its boundaries.
     It can reduce the costs of law enforcement outside and inside the
       protected area.
     It can provide a foundation upon which other development and
       conservation strategies, projects and approaches can be built.


Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                    11
It is not a quick, nor easy, solution, neither is it a model to be imposed upon the
local District and communities, rather it provides a robust approach to
understanding complex ecological and social relationships in rural areas.



4.1. How the CAP will work
The CAP will follow a process leading to the transfer of rights and responsibilities
from the state to a level that can be broadly described as “the community? but in
reality it represents a unit of natural resource management that closely fits the
existing mechanisms and institutions for collective decision-making and conflict
resolution. In this instance it is likely to be the Township Chiefdom and will in all
likelihood incorporate the Section Chiefs for reasons of scale in managing the
resources and harmonising the arrangements between neighbouring Townships.



4.2. The CAP and the LMNP Management Plan
The CAP is drawn from the Vision:
    “LMNP is effectively managed with the full participation of local stakeholders
    securing all the biological resources and providing environmental goods and
    service for the benefit of local communities and wider society.
    Local communities have agreed rights of access to certain areas and
    resources and worship sites.
    The lands surrounding LMNP are sustainably managed by the local
    communities supplying them with a rich source of farmland, bushmeat and
    other resources and ecosystem services for their self-sufficiency and
    economic development.
    Non-timber forest products, including bushmeat, are making a significant
    contribution to local social and economic development?


And the objectives of the LMNP Management Plan. The MP has three objectives
relevant to the CAP. These are:
        Objective 2: Conservation of biological diversity by sustainable use of
        species, habitats and ecosystems goods and services.
        Objective 3: Sustainable economic and social development of the Loma
        Mountains National Park local communities through the sustainable
        utilisation of the natural and cultural resource base.
        Objective 4: An enabling environment supportive of biological diversity
        conservation through protection, sustainable utilisation, and the social and
        economic development of Loma Mountains communities, creating a
        functionally efficient policy, legal and institutional framework and a broad
        public awareness and support for the national park’s Vision




Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                   12
5. IMPLEMENTING THE CAP

5.1. Getting started
The CAP will initially be project driven in as much as components will be
supported by the BCP particularly with regards to facilitation. However, the FD,
DC and TA will be expected to play a significant role in the process.



5.2. Step 1: Sensitisation
This process has already begun with the participatory approach followed during
the management planning exercise. However, this will need to be stepped up
and extended to all 30 Township Chiefdoms, 3 Section Heads and the 2
Paramount Chieftaincies. At the District Council there will be a need to “sell? the
approach to an institution that is very much focused on conventional
development approaches and will therefore need to become familiar with the
process and objectives. The FD will also need to be sensitized to the idea of
devolving some of its powers to non-state actors. An important part of this will
be helping the agency to understand that it is not abrogating its responsibilities
but rather it is ensuring that the management of these resources is effectively
taking place at an appropriate level.



5.3. Step 2: Determining the scale at which management takes place
Scale is important in the decision-making process as well as in resolving conflicts
between individuals and collectives. To some extent this process has already
begun during the management planning exercise which sought to determine the
appropriate levels for transferring management authority and responsibility to a
level that more effectively reflects the costs and benefits of wise management.
However, it will need to continue until it is clear which decisions can be made at
which level within the system (e.g. FD, DC, TA, SC, TC [Council of Elders] or
individual farmers])



5.4. Step 3: Determining the unit of management
The term community is ill-defined for the purposes of forest resource
management lacking any clear definition. Importantly, it lacks the numerical,
spatial and legal context that would define a system of management. In practice
it is necessary to determine a unit of management to which the authority and
responsibility can be transferred (or devolved), which can make collective
decisions about the time, means and type of use of these resources, it has a
membership that can not only have the rights to use the resource but critically it
can identify who cannot use the resources, possess an executive that can take
decisions on behalf of the membership and be held accountable by outside
agencies, and lastly, it must be easily defined in law as a body corporate. The
initial investigations carried out during the preliminary planning phase suggest
that the Township Chiefdom might provide be suitable structure for collective
management because it is small but still practicable and functionally efficient
within ecological and socio-political constraints. “From a social dynamics
perspective scale is an important consideration; large-scale externally imposed



Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                 13
structures tend to be ineffective, increasing the potential for corruption, evasion
of responsibility and lethargy in respect of broad participation. Where collective
management structures are based on existing collective management structures
and are at a scale that ensures regular contact of the members, it becomes
possible to enforce conformity to rules through peer pressure and control
individual actions through collective sanction5?



5.5. Step 4: Developing the internal organisation and the enabling
environment
While the DC, TA, SH and TC all have a functioning internal organisational
structure this has rarely been applied to common resource management except
where it relates to land for farming. There appear to be some examples of how
people have made arrangements to manage and benefit from a common
property (for instance in the management of natural fisheries in the area) but
this has not been formalised. Therefore it is important at this early stage that
there is external assistance in organising and developing the internal
governance. In some respects this will take the form of due diligence by external
agencies to determine that the costs and benefits are equitably distributed
throughout the membership but there is also an organisational aspect that will
need to be developed. It is likely that this can be largely delivered by
conventional capacity building delivered by non-governmental organisations
currently working with local communities.
In order to be       recognised by the state as the appropriate authority for the
management of        forest resources the existing internal arrangements need to be
formalised. This     can be achieved by developing a Constitution and internal Rules
and Regulations      which can be recognised by District Council bye-laws.



5.6. Step 5: Delineating the boundaries
While the TA boundaries are already reasonably well defined and accepted it
becomes necessary to accurately fix these and map them. Furthermore, these
need to be clearly accepted by neighbours if they are not to cause conflicts over
resources in the future. This can be carried out using conventional GIS
techniques and the participation of the TC membership.



5.7. Step 6: Empowering the community
Having demonstrated a willingness to invest in forest resource management by
developing the internal governance (a process that can be considered as an
investment by the local community) in order to develop the unit of resource
management it is then necessary for the state, through the FD, to transfer
sufficient powers to this level in order that they can effectively assume a
management role. It is not immediately apparent what form this might take but
in all likelihood it could be a provision in the new Wildlife Act and an area specific
5
 Principles for developing a sustainable use system (adapted from Murphree, M. J., Wildlife
Division Support Project, CREMA Review Report No. 56. Wildlife Division of the Forestry
Commission, Ghana and IUCN. October 2005)




Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                              14
certificate devolving the rights to manage to the registered community or unit of
management.



5.8. Step 7: Developing the capacity of the community to manage and
benefit from forest resources
This takes three forms:
    1. Timber resources: these represent a significant economic value and the
       sustainable harvesting of timber requires a certain level of technical
       expertise that is unlikely to be found immediately within the local
       community. However, it should be possible for the community to work
       with the FD to develop a harvesting schedule, according to their needs
       that can be enforced and monitored by the local community.
    2. The capacity to sustainably manage wildlife (e.g. non-listed abundant
       species) and NTFP resources is unlikely to require specific technical
       assistance. It may be that the FD can provide some assistance in stock
       assessment (particularly with regards botanical NTFPs).
    3. Once the resource base is secured it is possible to encourage and support
       small to medium enterprises based upon forest products on the
       understanding that the resource base is securely managed and that
       consumption will not outstrip production. This can be delivered by
       conventional non-governmental organisations and the DC to improve the
       level of small to medium enterprises and ensure that they are capable of
       negotiating with external markets.



5.9. Step 8: Monitoring, evaluation and adaptation
It is important that the effectiveness of the system is monitored against a range
of indicators and to meet a variety of expectations. The expectations of local
communities might differ from those of the FD in determining success but the
objectives of management are broadly aligned. An important aspect of
monitoring this process is to not overburden the community with indicators or
targets and to remember that they will in all likelihood choose subjective
indicators to measure performance. From a national institutional perspective a
brief outline of the types of indicators that might be useful to monitor is given in
Annex 2.




Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                  15
6. THE COMMUNITY ACTION PLAN
Action no.       Activity                                    Primary              Contributing       Timing      Priority     Indicator        Baseline
                                                             responsibility       partners

Action 1: Sensitisation of Township Chiefdoms, Paramount Chiefdoms & District Council

Objective        To make villagers and local administrative institutions aware of the aims of the CAP off-reserve CBNRM programme and the process
                 that will be followed.

Brief              i.    A series of village-level meetings will be carried out at the Section Head and Township level. The aims of the programme
description              will be discussed, the limits of what can be achieved will be made clear to all in order to manage expectations and the
                         process that will be followed will be mapped out, including a realistic time frame to develop the CBNRM system.
                   ii.   Meetings and a number of workshops will be carried out with the DC to raise awareness (of biodiversity management and
                         sustainable utilisation) and develop a clear pathway, integrated into the District-level planning framework

1.1              Hold meetings with the 3 affected           BCP                  DC & TA            Year 1      High         Minutes of       Villages are aware of the
                 Section Heads. At least 2 rounds of                                                                          meetings         challenges to sustainable
                 meetings will be held. Township                                                                                               management of natural
                 Chiefdom representation should be                                                                                             resources but are unaware of the
                 included in the second round                                                                                                  possibilities of changing the
                                                                                                                                               system
1.2              Hold meetings in all 30 Township            BCP                  DC & TA            Year 1      High         Minutes of
                 Chiefdoms that border upon LMNP6                                                                             meetings




1.2.1            Select 10 Township Chiefdoms and            BCP                  DC                 Year 1      High         Minutes of
                 carry out follow-up visits                                                                                   meetings




6
 Note that if Townships are agreeable to combine meetings this can be arranged to reduce the number of site visits but should only be carried out on the request of the
Townships involved. Follow-up meetings can be combined if the Townships are in agreement.



Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                                                                                                          16
Action no.          Activity                                      Primary              Contributing       Timing      Priority   Indicator      Baseline
                                                                  responsibility       partners

1.2.2               Select 6 Township Chiefdoms and               BCP                  DC                 Year 1      High       Minutes of
                    carry out follow-up visits (2 TCs per                                                                        meetings,
                    Section Head)                                                                                                selection of
                                                                                                                                 Townships

1.3                 At least 3 workshops with the DC to           DC                    BCP               Year 17     High       Work plans     DC is unaware of the potential to
                    introduce the concept, to decide on                                                                                         build social capital and provide a
                    the most effective means to carry out                                                                                       secure basis for economic
                    the programme and to integrate the                                                                                          development based upon wildlife
                    activities into the annual work plans                                                                                       resources as a land use option

Action 2: Sensitisation of FD

Objective           To ensure that the FD is fully aware of the process of establishing a CBNRM programme to support LMNP and can provide agency
                    support to the process

Brief                  i.    3 workshops held with the FD to raise awareness of the implications of the CBNRM approach followed by the CAP and the
description                  roles and responsibilities of the FD in this process
                      ii.    Annual work planning including the LMNP CBNRM programme

2.1                 A minimum of 3 facilitated workshops          FD                    BCP               Year 1      High       Workshop       FD has no experience of CBNRM
                                                                                                                                 reports        as an approach to biodiversity
                                                                                                                                                conservation and rural
                                                                                                                                                development

2.1.1               A facilitated workshop and follow up          FD                   BCP                Year 1 –    Medium     New Wildlife   The current legislation could
                    work to ensure that the new Wildlife                                                  2                      Act            arguably support this approach
                    Act      supports   CBNRM      where                                                                                        but there would be a number of
                    appropriate                                                                                                                 inefficiencies and perverse
                                                                                                                                                incentives which would weaken
                                                                                                                                                the system and reduce the
                                                                                                                                                effectiveness



7
    In following years the annual work planning activities will be integrated into the ordinary DC planning process



Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                                                                                                      17
Action no.       Activity                                      Primary              Contributing       Timing      Priority     Indicator        Baseline
                                                               responsibility       partners

2.2              Annual strategy workshops to review           FD                    BCP8              Year 2-     High         Work plans       There is currently no CBNRM in
                 progress and adjust the CAP as                                                        3                                         the annual work plan
                 necessary

Action 3: Develop the Township Chiefdom and/or Traditional Authority Section Head as an appropriate unit of natural resource management

Objective        To develop a community-level structure capable of sustainably managing biodiversity resources and ensuring that the costs and
                 benefits of wise management are equitably distributed

Brief               i.    Meetings & workshops (as needed9) to be held with the 6 Township Chiefdoms and Section Heads selected through Action 1.
description        ii.    Identify the scale at which natural resource management should take place and to clarify the roles and responsibilities of
                          the TA (PC, SH and TCs)
                  iii.    Agree an appropriate name for the “unit of management?
                  iv.     Develop the internal governance structures (e.g. the Council of Elders) suitable for collective decision-making and internal
                          conflict resolution
                   v.     Identify the membership of the “community? or unit of management and ensure that there is adequate representation of
                          the Membership by the Township-level Council of Elders
                  vi.     Identify the scale (e.g. individual members, Council of Elders/Township Chiefdom, Section Head, Paramount Chief) at which
                          decisions can be made, and about which resources these should include
                  vii.    Assess the resource base

3.1              A minimum of 2 meetings per Section           DC & BCP10           FD                 Year 1-     High         A clear          The TA (Section Head and
                 Head a year to discuss and decide the                                                 3                        framework        Township Chiefdoms) currently
                 appropriate level within the TA                                                                                for decision-    has no formal mandate or
                 structure for making decisions about,                                                                          making and       structure for managing natural
                 and, resolving conflicts over, natural                                                                         conflict         resources other than farmland
                 resources                                                                                                      resolution

3.2              An intensive programme of meetings            BCP & DC             FD                 Year 1-     High         Local            The “community? currently is
                 and workshops with the selected                                                       2                        “community?      largely responsible for the day to
                 Township Chiefdoms to develop the                                                                              resource         day activities that impact upon


8
  Year 2, FD to carry out in year 3 without BCP
9
  This is an iterative process and will require significant follow up meetings to allow the community to discuss issues and reach conclusions and make decisions
10
   Year 1 & 2



Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                                                                                                       18
Action no.       Activity                                     Primary               Contributing       Timing      Priority     Indicator        Baseline
                                                              responsibility        partners

                 arrangements for assuming the                                                                                  users are        these resources but has no
                 authority and responsibility to                                                                                fully            authority to control these
                 manage the “community’s? natural                                                                               sensitised       activities and to exclude anyone
                 resources                                                                                                      and              from using them, therefore use
                                                                                                                                prepared to      of these resources is largely
                                                                                                                                take             opportunistic and open access
                                                                                                                                “control? of
                                                                                                                                the process

3.2.1            Identify the membership of the               TC                    BCP & DC           Year 2      High         Clearly          Membership is very likely
                 “community? or unit of management                                                                              defined          recognised already but this
                                                                                                                                membership       needs to “tested? to ensure that
                                                                                                                                                 no one with a legitimate claim is
                                                                                                                                                 disadvantaged

3.3              Assess the resource base in the              TC                    BCP & FD           Year 2      Medium       Schematic        It is likely that the members of
                 selected Township Chiefdoms11                                                                                  plan of          each Township are broadly aware
                                                                                                                                natural          of the natural resources on their
                                                                                                                                resources        land but there has been no
                                                                                                                                and relative     formal effort to try to evaluate
                                                                                                                                abundance        these (however subjectively)
                                                                                                                                within the
                                                                                                                                Township
                                                                                                                                Chiefdom

Action 4: Spatial delineation of the community

Objective        To clearly agree and fix the boundaries of each communal area (carried out in conjunction with Action 3)


Brief               i.    To define the existing boundaries of the Township Chiefdoms, ensure that these are broadly accepted and clearly recognised
description               by both the membership of a specific community and the neighbouring communities
                   ii.    Using a GPS fix the boundaries so that they can be plotted accurately using a GIS

11
  This should have already been a determining factor in making the selection of the 6 initial communities in that they should have had a sufficient NTFP, wildlife and timber
resource base and should be bordering on LMNP



Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                                                                                                         19
Action no.      Activity                                 Primary          Contributing   Timing    Priority   Indicator      Baseline
                                                         responsibility   partners

                 iii.   Using the process of agreeing the boundaries and ensuring that they are agreed to build the capacity of the Township
                        Council(s) and the Township membership to spatially plan for natural resource management

4.1             Walk boundaries with Township            BCP              DC, FD & TA    Year 1-   High       Boundaries     Township Chiefdoms geographic
                Council(s), define any contested                                         2                    entered onto   boundaries are already widely
                areas, agree boundaries and fix the                                                           GIS, hard      recognised although there may
                boundaries with a GPS                                                                         copies left    be some contested areas these
                                                                                                              with           are thought to be few in number.
                                                                                                              Township       They have not been fixed using a
                                                                                                              Councils       GPS and accurately mapped

4.1.2           Identify areas that may be jointly       TC               FD             Year 2-   Medium     Maps           The arrangements between
                managed between communities (e.g.                                        3                                   “local communities? for the
                resources that are distributed                                                                               access to resources that are
                between two neighbouring Township                                                                            spread across two or more
                Chiefdoms, etc.)                                                                                             Township Chiefdoms (e.g. an
                                                                                                                             area of remaining forest, etc.)
                                                                                                                             are not clearly understood.
                                                                                                                             Many of these resources will
                                                                                                                             need to be managed with the
                                                                                                                             collaboration of two or more
                                                                                                                             Townships (e.g. buffalo) and
                                                                                                                             there are no formal
                                                                                                                             arrangements in existence to
                                                                                                                             achieve this

Action 5: Developing a Constitution and the Rules and Regulations

Objective       To develop and formalise the internal governance of the Township Chiefdom sufficiently for effective natural resource management
                of common property resources




Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                                                                                   20
Action no.          Activity                                     Primary              Contributing        Timing      Priority   Indicator      Baseline
                                                                 responsibility       partners

Brief                  i.    Develop a Constitution12 for each “community? or unit of management13
description           ii.    Develop the internal Rules and regulations for the membership

5.1                 Develop the Constitution                     TC                   DC & BCP            Year 2      High       Constitution   There is likely to be informal
                                                                                                                                                agreements and formally agreed
                                                                                                                                                traditional norms but there is no
                                                                                                                                                formal Constitution for the
                                                                                                                                                internal governance of the
                                                                                                                                                Township Chiefdom as it relates
                                                                                                                                                to whole spectrum of natural
                                                                                                                                                resources available to the
                                                                                                                                                “community?

5.2                 Develop the internal Rules &                 TC                   DC & BP             Year 2                                There are no formalised rules
                    Regulations                                                                                                                 and regulations related to NTFP
                                                                                                                                                or wildlife management,
                                                                                                                                                utilisation and enterprises. There
                                                                                                                                                are however clearly accepted
                                                                                                                                                norms and behaviours that are
                                                                                                                                                expected of community members
                                                                                                                                                and are reinforced through social
                                                                                                                                                ties and peer pressure, etc.

Action 6: Developing a by-law(s)

Objective           To legitimise the Township Chiefdoms (“community’s) authority and responsibility over forest resources on their land


Brief                  i.    Review the existing legislation to ensure conformity
description           ii.    Develop any necessary by-laws to support the development community-based natural resource management




12
     A format for a Constitution is provided in Annex 1
13
     It may be possible to develop a generic Constitution that is suitable for all of the “communities? or units of management



Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                                                                                                     21
Action no.      Activity                                   Primary          Contributing   Timing     Priority   Indicator       Baseline
                                                           responsibility   partners

6.1             Membership decides on those matters        TC               DC & FD        Year 3     High       Description     By-laws already exist developed
                that need to be legitimised through                                                              of by-laws      through the TC, TA and DC
                by-laws                                                                                                          however, there are no by-laws
                                                                                                                                 that specifically control natural
                                                                                                                                 resources and importantly, no
                                                                                                                                 by-laws that allow access to
                                                                                                                                 these resources by the “local
                                                                                                                                 community? but exclude others
                                                                                                                                 from the resource

6.2             Preparation and approval of                DC               FD             High       Medium     District by-    As above, the District does not
                appropriate by-laws and ensure                                                                   laws that       currently enact by-laws that
                conformity with national legislation                                                             explicitly      specifically promote the
                                                                                                                 recognise       sustainable utilisation of forest
                                                                                                                 the             natural resources
                                                                                                                 Township
                                                                                                                 Chiefdoms
                                                                                                                 Constitution,
                                                                                                                 Rules &
                                                                                                                 Regulations
                                                                                                                 to manage
                                                                                                                 the forest
                                                                                                                 resources on
                                                                                                                 their land

6.3             Develop District-level certification for   FD, DC           TA             Year 3 –   Medium     Certification   No certification scheme available
                locally produced forest natural                                            4                     scheme
                resources

Action 7: Devolution of management authority to the Township Chiefdom registered with the DC and FD to manage forest resources on their land

Objective       To transfer the authority (the “power?) to the level of the local “community? and to empower them to make decisions regarding
                the day to day and long-term management of forest natural resources




Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                                                                                        22
Action no.       Activity                                     Primary              Contributing        Timing      Priority    Indicator         Baseline
                                                              responsibility       partners

Brief               i.    Determine the process by with authority and responsibility14 can be transferred
description        ii.    Develop a certificate of devolution (specific to each Township Chiefdom that has successfully demonstrated that it has the
                          capacity to manage forest natural resources on its communal land
                  iii.    Transfer or devolve the authority and check conformity with national legislation

7.1              Review the Township Chiefdom                 FD                   -                   Year 2 -    High        Report to         There are currently no condition
                 Constitution, Rules & Regulations, the                                                3                       Minister          by which authority and
                 DC by-law                                                                                                                       responsibility can be devolved to
                                                                                                                                                 non-state actors to manage
                                                                                                                                                 forest natural resources (outside
                                                                                                                                                 of the protected areas)15

7.2              Approval by the Minister                     FD                   -                   Year 3      High        Certificate of    See above
                                                                                                                               Devolution

7.3              Transfer ceremony16                          FD & DC              TA & TC             Year 3 –    Medium      Certificate of    There has not been             such   a
                                                                                                       4                       Devolution        ceremony before
                                                                                                                               held by the
                                                                                                                               Township
                                                                                                                               Chiefdom

Action 8: Developing Township and Section-level capacity to manage forest natural resources

Objective        To ensure that the “local community? has sufficient capacity to manage the forest natural resources sustainably. Capacity building
                 will take three forms (1) capacity building to manage the natural resources, (2) capacity building for internal governance and (3)
                 capacity building to develop SMEs based upon the forest natural resource products




14
   It should be widely recognized that farmers, hunters and other resource users at the level of the community or Township Chiefdom are already largely responsible for the
day to day management of forest natural resources on community land. However, they lack any legal status or authority to manage these resources sustainably because the
authority is nominally vested in the FD
15
   Gola Forest NP is an example where there is collaborative management between the state (FD) and a non-state actor (the RSPB) but not the community
16
   While not essential the political significance of this process should not be underestimated as it represents a significant shift in policy approach towards the management
of natural resources that has remained largely obsolete and unchanged since colonial times



Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                                                                                                         23
Action no.      Activity                                 Primary          Contributing   Timing     Priority   Indicator      Baseline
                                                         responsibility   partners

Brief              i.   Training and facilitation with the Township Chiefdom membership and the Township Councils
description       ii.   Impartial support to address issues and challenges as they arise

8.1             Identification of NGOs and other         DC               FD             Year 1 -   Medium     List of NGOs   There are no NGOs with specific
                organisations capable of delivering                                      3                     (and other     training in CBNRM currently in
                capacity building and training                                                                 organisation   Sierra Leone
                (resource management, internal                                                                 or agencies)
                governance & SME development)

8.2             Capacity building of Township            BCP              FD             Year 2     Medium     TC-level       No such plan exists
                Chiefdoms in resource management                                                               NTFP     and
                (wildlife and NTFPs)                                                                           wildlife
                                                                                                               management
                                                                                                               plans

8.3             Training and development of TC-level     FD               TC, TA & DC    Year 2 -   High       TC-level       A plan exists for the utilisation of
                timber utilisation plan                                                  3                     timber         timber resources at this level but
                                                                                                               utilisation    the TC (local communities) are
                                                                                                               plan           not involved in its development
                                                                                                                              or implementation

8.4             Training and capacity building for       NGOs (other      DC             Year 2 -   High       Accounting,    The TC Council provides a level
                internal governance                      organisations                   5                     meetings,      of decision-making and conflict
                                                         and agencies)                                         recording      resolution that is arguably
                                                                                                               (see M&E       representative of the
                                                                                                               section)       membership in as much as there
                                                                                                                              is representation on the TC
                                                                                                                              Council and this is broadly
                                                                                                                              accepted by the membership
                                                                                                                              who will abide by any decisions.
                                                                                                                              However, the TC Council
                                                                                                                              currently does not have any
                                                                                                                              authority over forest resources.

8.5             Training and capacity building in the    NGOs (other      DC             Year 2 -   Medium     Number of      A large proportion of local
                development of SMEs based upon           organisations                   5                     SMEs,          livelihood activity is based upon
                (mainly but not exclusively) forest                                                            household      forest natural resources.



Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                                                                                     24
Action no.          Activity                              Primary          Contributing   Timing   Priority   Indicator       Baseline
                                                          responsibility   partners

                    natural resources                     and agencies)                                       incomes, DC     However, it is difficult to develop
                                                                                                              revenues.       these as SMEs because the
                                                                                                              Legal basis     resource base from which they
                                                                                                              for             obtain their raw materials is
                                                                                                              extraction of   largely un-managed and many of
                                                                                                              resources       the resources that they are
                                                                                                              from the        utilising are de jure illegal (e.g.
                                                                                                              LMNP            bushmeat), there is little
                                                                                                                              incentive to invest in these SMEs
                                                                                                                              because there is a question
                                                                                                                              about their legality as well as the
                                                                                                                              management the sustainable
                                                                                                                              flow of products that they
                                                                                                                              depend upon

Action 9: Adaptive management, monitoring and evaluation

Objective           To ensure that resilience (of the socio-ecosystem) is determined not only by the systems’ ability to buffer or absorb shocks, but
                    also by its capacity for learning and self-organisation to adapt to change

Brief                   i.   Clearly identify the assumptions upon which the approach to community development is established
description            ii.   Identify the indicators of sustainability and success
                      iii.   Provide a mechanism for adjustment to the system based upon learning

9.1                 Establish baseline indicators         BCP              TC, DC, TA &   Year 2   High       M&E plan        There is currently no M&E plan
                    (qualitative & quantitative)                           FD                                                 for biodiversity, livelihoods,
                                                                                                                              governance, etc.

9.2                 Establish a procedure for meeting,    DC17             TA, FD, TC     Year 2   High       Revisions of    Planning is largely top down
                    reporting, evaluating and decision-                                                       the CAP         (through the DC) or
                    making across the system (FD, DC,                                                                         opportunistic (through the TC)
                    TA, Sections & TC)                                                                                        and does not include NTFPs or
                                                                                                                              wildlife resources and tends


17
     The BCP will provide this in Year 2



Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                                                                                    25
Action no.      Activity                                 Primary          Contributing   Timing   Priority   Indicator     Baseline
                                                         responsibility   partners

                                                                                                                           towards the development of
                                                                                                                           agriculture (even on marginal
                                                                                                                           lands)

Action 10: Supporting the process

Objective       To ensure that there is a continued support to the process which will likely extend beyond the life of existing project support


Brief             i.    Develop a proposal for continuing support to the process recognising that the timescales for change within the community,
description             institutions and the ecosystem generally extend beyond the lifetime of a project’s support

10.0            Develop a funding proposal for           BCP              FD             Year 2   High       Submission    There is currently no provision
                continued support to DC and TC                                                               of proposal   for the continued support to the
                                                                                                                           process of developing a system
                                                                                                                           of natural resource management
                                                                                                                           beyond the end of the BCP
                                                                                                                           Project




Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                                                                               26
7. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
In many ways it might be argued that the conflicting roles and responsibilities
has contributed to the current situation and it is therefore important that there is
a clear distinction between the role and responsibility of each participant in this
process.



7.1. The Forest Department
Is the statutory agency for the management of forest or biodiversity resources in
Sierra Leone. As such it is the authority for these resources but due to the lack of
human, material and financial resources it struggles to effectively prosecute its
responsibility. However, it remains the national regulator for biodiversity
resources and is the principal “owner? and manager of the LMNP.
Within the CAP the FD will play a pivotal role by:
    1. Providing the statutory environment and legitimacy to the CBNRM
    2. Carrying out due diligence prior to the devolution of management rights to
       the community
    3. Developing community-based timber management plans with approved
       communities



7.2. The District Council
The primary role of the DC is to develop a local-level strategy for development
and prioritising the development needs of district residents. This is captured in
District Development Plans. These plans, by the District Council, are developed in
a participatory manner through their decentralised structures down to village
level (village-wards-chiefdoms-district). These plans form the basis for the
development strategy and action of the district. As such the local management of
forest resources will be of primary concern to the DC both in terms of local
livelihood security, opportunities for economic development and conventional
mechanisms (e.g. market taxes, etc.) of raising revenues.
The DC is also tasked with local environmental management of which a CBNRM
will play a pivotal role.
The DC has the authority to pass local bye-laws which are a key component in
legitimising the CBNRM and ensuring that there is a legal basis for the Rules and
Regulations developed at the Township Chiefdom level.



7.3. The Paramount Chiefdom
The PC is the highest office of the Traditional Authority and the custodian of the
community lands. The TA provides the basis for communal land ownership and to
a large extent can determine what happens on the land within its jurisdiction.
The PC and TA is also the highest level to which disputes within the community
can be taken and is effectively the highest level at which collective decisions can
be made and sanctions can be applied to transgressors.



Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                  27
As the CBNRM approach is based largely upon the existing system of communal
land ownership the TA and the office of the PC is a key player in the process of
developing and maintaining the system providing collectively agreed norms and
rules as well as the channel through which community wishes can be established
through bye-laws.



7.4. Section Chiefs
The SC represents a division within the TA that contains a number of Township
Chiefdoms (TC). Its role is one of escalating decision-making and conflict
resolution, adjudicating on disputes that cannot be resolved at the TC level or
providing a basis by which decisions can be reached on issues that affect the
membership of more than one TC. As such it plays a critical role in the CBNRM
system by providing an existing mechanism of scale for management decisions.



7.5. Township Chiefdoms
This is the lowest level of the TA administration and also reflects land ownership
providing the basis of owning and allocating (for farming) communal land.
Effectively this structure most closely represents what we might call community
although in effect it is further comprised of Families (each with a Head of
household/family). It is likely that the TC will prove to be the most suitable level
to be recognised as a unit of community management and to which the authority
and responsibility for forest resources management can be devolved.
An important aspect of the TC is the Council of Elders which represents the
Families. Made up of the Heads of Families18 this Council essentially represents
an executive at the TC level. It is broadly democratic in as much as it appears to
represent the membership through the Families.
As such it constitutes the first level of collective decision-making on issues
relating to non-farm resources.



7.6. Heads of Families
The Family appears to be the first level of decision-making and conflict resolution
at least as it relates to on farm issues and resources. It is represented on the
Council of Elders by the Head of Family (who is normally an elder and considered
wise decision-maker). The Family also represents the lowest level of land
“ownership? through the farm, which is a collectively managed enterprise
belonging to the Family.




18
  It should be noted that there was a discussion on this issue and the conclusion was that formerly
the Heads of Families had been mainly men but there were now some women Heads of Family and
that these women could be on the Council of Elders. The CE also has a number of other members
representing women and youth.




Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                                 28
ANNEX 1 GUIDELINES FOR THE DRAFTING OF A CONSTITUTION

A Name by which it is known
What will be the name of the organisation be? This is a very important question
and the name should reflect the aspirations of the members and the objective of
the association.
    The name should readily identify the association to the people living in the
      community
    Avoid acronyms
    It can reflect the geographical area (e.g. LMNP. Township Chiefdom, etc.).
    It can reflect an objective an objective that the community aspire to (e.g.
      the “Tchuma Tchato? programme in Mozambique that means “Our
      Wealth?).

Incorporation (legal status)
The primary legal instrument for the constitution - in this case it will be the legal
instrument for forming an association will likely be the new Wildlife Act and a
District Council bye-law
Objectives
Simply put this section broadly sets out why people are establishing an
association. Some important elements might include:
     Improve the livelihoods of farmers, hunters, collectors, processors, et al.
     Improve the security of the NTFP, timber and wildlife resource base that
       all of the above depend upon for their livelihoods.
     To protect the traditional heritage, culture and traditions of the
       community.
     To improve the land management and secure scarce natural resources.
     To protect any future use values and intellectual property of the local
       community.

Powers
This section sets out the powers that are given to the association. It also sets out
the roles and responsibilities of the association and the individual members.
Some of the powers might be:
    To regulate and control access to timber, NTFP, wildlife, farmland and
       fishery resources within the Township Chiefdom by outsiders and other
       members of the community.
    To establish rules and regulations regarding the use or these resources
       within Township Chiefdom.
    To raise revenue from members to further the aims and objectives of the
       association and to raise revenues for the District Council in return for
       specific services.

Membership
This section establishes who is a member of the association. This section will be
one of the most critical from the perspective of the community. Considerable
time will have to be spent working with the community at a number of levels to
determine who should be members. In the final analysis this should be decided
by the farmers, hunters, collectors, processors themselves.

Qualification


Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                   29
The qualification for membership will generate considerable debate and
discussion. It is critical that it is the community who decide the qualifications and
not “technical outsiders?. This issue may raise disputes within the community
and it is important that they are resolved at this level with only facilitation from
the external supporting facilitators. As outsiders our role will be to facilitate such
issues but not to resolve the disputes ourselves. Some of the major issues to be
expected might revolve around the following:
     How is subsistence use catered for?
     How is commercial use catered for?
     Are all segments of society catered for?
     What is the role of women?
     How are conflicts with other resource users e.g. grazers, timber
       contractors, etc. resolved?
     What role will people living outside but with reasonable claims to residency
       play, etc?

Honorary Members
This is an option open to the community. They may wish for example to make a
person who is not a member of the community but has contributed to the
community an honorary member, for example the Paramount Chief. If this were
a Trust this would be the same as a Patron. Honorary members are not generally
entitled to any financial benefits.

Ex-Officio Members
An ex-officio member would generally be an outsider or an institution that the
community would want to recognise without ascribing any voting powers. Such a
person might be someone who could provide technical or legal advice.

Representation
Can a member be represented by another person? If so, how, and under what
circumstances?

Discipline
If a person violates the rules of the constitution how are they to be disciplined?
How will members of the association enforce discipline on outsiders?
It is important in this section to understand existing control and disciplinary
mechanisms that the community currently employs. You will need to consult
closely with the Traditional Leaders and the any external facilitation on this issue.

Termination
This establishes the circumstances and steps by which membership of the
association is terminated.
 For example if a person no longer wishes to be involved in the collective
management of the resources, processing or trade or if a person moves to
another area or town outside the area of the association or other circumstances
where the community would wish to terminate membership and why.

Organisations and Officers
Having set up the membership how is the membership going to organise itself
effectively. We are providing a “model? or example here and it is not cast in
stone; the community may wish to change this if they wish.




Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                    30
The Executive Board
Who should be a member of this Board (it will be the highest decision-making
structure within the association)? In all likelihood this will be the Council of
Elders but it is important to determine the relationship of this group with the
membership, the Township Chief, Section Head, etc.
    What will their powers be?
    How are the different interests (collectors, hunters, farmers, fishers,
       traders, etc.) represented on the Board?
    Are there other members? If so who?
    Are there any ex-officio members?
    How is the Chairman/woman elected/selected?
    What about the role of woman?


Other Committees in the association
Are there going to be interest groups (represented by subcommittees) within the
association?
If so what are they? Who should be members of these committees? How is the
chairman/woman elected/selected?

Powers and Duties of the Board members
For each of the below it is necessary to look at the role and function of each of
the officers. Some of the issues involved here are:
    How are meetings called?
    What are the decision-making procedures?
    Presentation of accounts.
    Maintaining a record of meetings.
    Dissemination of decisions and communication.
    Term of office for Board members and officers.
    Removal from office.
    Quorum19 for meetings.


Chairman and Vice Chairman (male or female)
How is the Vice Chairman elected/selected?
What is the relationship between the Chairman and Vice Chairman and the
Traditional Leaders?

Secretary
Qualifications for the Secretary such as the ability to read and write.
Will they be salaried?

Treasurer
Qualifications for the position of Treasurer.
Will they be salaried?

Financial



19
  A quorum is the minimum people required to vote on a decision. Normally this is a majority of
the Board and should be an odd number (e.g. 5 or 7 of 10 but not 6).




Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                                  31
This section deals with the financial structure of the association and one of the
issues here will be how funds are to be managed the association/community
Board.

Income
How will the association income be generated?
How will the association collect income?
Where are the monies collected by the association kept?

Expenditure
How will the association spend money?
How will expenditure be decided upon and who will authorise expenditure?

Fees
What percentage of revenue generated by the trade in forest resources will go to
the association?
What percentage of revenue generated by the trade in forest resources will go to
the District Council, if any?
Apart from revenue generated when forest resources are traded are there any
other sources of income (e.g. timber concessions, etc.)?

Accounts
How are monies going to be accounted for?
How will this be kept transparent to the membership?

Meetings
Covered to some extent in earlier sections, this section will deal with how
meetings are called and organised. Important issues here are notification of a
meeting, setting a quorum and dissemination of proceedings. Thought must be
given to the practicalities and logistics of calling meetings.

Ordinary
An ordinary meeting refers to a meeting of the association Board.
    How are these called?
    Quorum for the meeting?
    Dissemination of proceedings?

Annual General Meeting
The annual general meeting is for all members and could be given a local name
for an annual meeting. The calling and structure of this meeting should be
examined. It is where the association executive will be held accountable to the
membership.

General Regulations
The general regulations are an important section of the constitution and much
thought will have to go into this section. It may be necessary to create further
sub-sections or prepare a separate regulation document that this constitution will
refer to. It is the intent of this programme to promote forest resource use as a
viable and sustainable land use option and this needs to be recognised in
developing the regulatory framework. It will be counter-productive to have
regulations that are unnecessarily restrictive on the use of these resources.
Some of the issues that need to be addressed here are:



Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                32
       Who has access to the forest resources?
       What is the difference between forest resources used for subsistence and
        those that are traded?
       Where will these resources be sold? How will this be regulated?
       Will outsiders be allowed to collect these resources in Township Chiefdom
        and how will this be regulated?
       Will there be a quota system and if so how will this operate?
       How will harvest rates be determined?
       Certain species (types) of forest resources may not be collected. What are
        these? How will this be controlled or enforced?
       How will harvests be recorded? Who will keep these records?

Expansion of the Association
This section is a brief statement that allows other communities to be added to
the association. However, you may wish to set certain over-riding conditions in
the case of expansion. Such conditions must be in agreement with the Traditional
Authority, District Council and the national legislation.

Constitutional Amendments
This section addresses the procedures to be followed in the case of an
amendment       to     the   constitution.    This   involves    the   steps   of
notification/consultation and voting. It also covers who is allowed to propose an
amendment.

Relationship to Government, Traditional Authority and Other
Organisations
This section is to be completed in consultation with the Traditional Authority
(Paramount Chief) District Council, Forestry Division and LMNP. It provides the
operational guidelines for the association and these external entities. It outlines
for example how the FD will relate to the association in respect to law
enforcement, research and monitoring. It is the section that spells out the
“contract? between the association, Traditional Authority, District Council and the
Government (FD).




Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                 33
ANNEX 2 MONITORING AND EVALUATION INDICATORS


 IMPACT INDICATORS
  These indicators help us track how CBNRM is delivering
  conservation benefits contributing to improving local livelihoods,
  developing social capital in rural communities and contributing to
  the national economy

      1)   Conservation/ Natural Resource Management indicators
      2)   Livelihood indicators
      3)   Social capital indicators
      4)   National economy indicators

      ENABLING ENVIRONMENT
      To achieve the intended impacts, CBNRM requires an enabling
         environment which consists of: (i) devolved NRM rights and powers;
         (ii) viable market; (iii) safety and security; (iv) sufficient capital
         investment; and (v) sufficient and capable technical support
      1) Devolution indicators
      2) Market indicators
      3) Safety and security indicators
      4) Capital investment indicators
      5) Support provision indicators

      LOCAL CAPACITY
      To achieve the intended impacts CBNRM requires practical local delivery
         mechanisms such as skilled people, good governance structures,
         sufficient resources for management. People complying with local by-
         laws and national laws
      1) Sufficient skill indicators
      2) Clean governance structures indicators
      3) Sufficient resources and systems indicators
      4) Compliance indicators
      5) Doing the ‘right things’ indicators

      ADEQUATE RESOURCE BASE
      To achieve the intended impacts CBNRM needs to be based on a
         resource base that has the capacity to achieve expectations. The
         following indicators try to evaluate alternative land use potentials and
         match these to the social demands.
        1) Land use potential indicators




Preliminary Management Plan: Volume II The Community Action Plan                    34
