 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14876

                     ICR Review
                     Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 12/02/2015

               Country: Sierra Leone
             Project ID: P086801                                                  Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Sl Bumbuna                     Project Costs (US$M):                   91.8                 26.8
                         Hydroelectric
                         Environmental And
                         Social Management
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                    50.5                 22.0
      Sector Board:      Energy and Mining             Cofinancing (US$M):                    32.4                  3.8

           Cofinanciers: African Development         Board Approval Date :                                 06/16/2005
                         Bank                                 Closing Date:            08/31/2009          06/30/2013
          Sector(s):     Central government   administration (73%); Other social services (20%); General  education
                         sector (3%); General water; sanitation and flood protection sector (3%); Rural and
                         Inter-Urban Roads and Highways (1%)
          Theme(s):      Other social development (29%); Pollution management and environmental health (29%);
                         Environmental policies and institutions (14%); Education for the knowledge economy (14%);
                         Other social protection and risk management (14%)

Prepared by:                Reviewed by:            ICR Review                Group:
                                                    Coordinator:
Fernando Manibog            Peter Nigel Freeman     Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                    Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

Important Background:
Lack of electricity has been and still remains a serious impediment to economic growth in Sierra Leone, where less
than 5% of the population had access to electricity at the time of project appraisal. Support for a dam in Bumbuna was
considered a high priority: feasibility studies were conducted from 1970-1985 with some Bank support, and
construction began in 1986. Construction of the Bumbuna hydroelectric dam and power plant (BHD) was suspended
in 1997 due to civil war. As the armed conflict ended in 2002, the Government of Sierra Leone (GOSL) sought
assistance to finalize the project, for which the Bumbuna Hydropower Project (BHP) was approved in 2005 with IDA
funding. Construction of the BHD and its ancillary facilities were 85 percent complete at the time of approval. To lay
the enabling groundwork for this new project, the Power and Water Project (PWP) was approved in 2004 to: (i)
address structural constraints in Sierra Leone's electricity sector and support GOSL’s sector reforms; (ii) upgrade and
strengthen the dilapidated distribution network in Freetown; (iii) strengthen business practices; and (iv) improve
revenue collection and financial viability of the National Power Authority (NPA).

The original BHP included: (a) an IDA Partial Risk Guarantee (PRG) to help mobilize commercial loans to complete
civil works for the Bumbuna hydroelectric dam; and (b) an IDA grant to support the implementation of environmental
and social safeguards, and institutional strengthening. At the 2010 restructuring, the PRG was dropped at GOSL's
request due to difficulties in making the PRG effective, and the safeguards-related activities were increased.

Original Objective

The 2005 Project Appraisal Document (PAD) indicates that the project development objectives (PDOs) were:
    “To expand the capacity of Sierra Leone to increase the supply of electricity services at least -cost, and in an
    efficient and environmentally and socially sustainable manner .”

While the PDOs had separate supply and safeguards components, the Development Grant Agreement (DCA) added
a specific focus and more detailed formulation of the project's safeguards objective, namely:

    "To assist the Recipient in completing the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project (BHP) activities in an environmentally
    and social sustainable manner through the carrying out of measures to avoid mitigate , reduce and/or offset the
    adverse environmental and social impacts of the BHP in the Project Area , and to enhance the environmental
    and social benefits to be derived from the BHP in the Project Area” .

For the purposes of this ICR Review's Section 4 on Efficacy, the safeguards-related component of the main
formulation of the objective was combined with the longer, more detailed formulation of the just the safeguards
objective, since they essentially have the same goals.

Revised Objective

At the project's restructuring in 2010, the PDOs and outcome indicators were changed to remove the electricity supply
expansion objective and focus only on the safeguards objective, as follows:

    “To assist the Recipient in satisfactorily addressing and mitigating the environmental and social impacts in the
    Project Area associated with the completion and initial operation of the Bumbuna hydroelectric dam and
    transmission line” .

Split Rating
This IEG Review is based on the original and revised objectives with weighted ratings for outcomes, which were also
changed during the 2010 restructuring, in line with the harmonized IEG and OPCS Guidelines and the OPCS
Guidelines for Implementation Completion & Results Reports dated October 25, 2011. The original objectives were
separated into the electricity supply objective and the safeguards objective, and the more detailed wording of the
safeguards in the DCA was used for this ICR Review.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 09/01/2010

c. Components:

(Note: Only the estimated costs at appraisal are available and provided below. Annex 1, page 30 of the ICR indicates
that "The breakdown of actual expenditure by component is unavailable.")

Original Components :

Component A: Hydroelectric Project Contracts (US$71.8 million)
This component included a US$38 million Partial Risk Guarantee (PRG) to mobilize and back commercial loans, that
together with donor financing, would finance completion of the BHD, including civil works, hydraulic steel structures,
the electro-mechanical equipment, and the transmission line. The PRG was to cover a breach of payment obligations
by GOSL under the Concession Agreement and NPA’s obligations under the Power Purchase Agreement (PPA).

Component B: Environmental Mitigation, Resettlement, Watershed Management and Benefit-Sharing (US$8.3 million)
The three sub-components under this component were:
(i) environmental management - implementation of the Environmental Management and Mitigation Plan (EMP),
leading to the efficient operation of the Bumbuna Watershed Management Authority (BWMA);
(ii) social mitigation - implementation of the Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) for the dam, the reservoir and
surrounding areas, and the transmission line (T-Line) in accordance with RAP implementation schedules; and
(iii) benefit sharing - effective establishment and demonstration of the basic institutional model for the proposed
Bumbuna Trust (BT) for local resource development programs under the Upper Seli Community Development
Initiative (USCDI) and the Community Action Plan (CAP).

Component C: Technical Assistance (US$9.6 million)
This component included:
(i) support for the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) , the RAP Implementation Team, and the Communications
Program, including management and supervision of the activities under Component B;
(ii) two international panels of experts, namely, the Dam Safety Review Panel (DSRP) and the Environment and
Social Advisory Panel (ESAP); and
(iii) capacity-building for relevant ministries and agencies for implementing the project’s safeguards measures.


Revised Components:

The PRG in Component A above was cancelled as part of the September 2010 restructuring of the project, which
added a new "benefit-sharing" component and became focused exclusively on safeguards management components,
as follows (the reallocated amounts, in addition to the cost estimates above, are shown):

Component A - Environmental Management and Social Mitigation (US$7.05 million)
This revised component included : (i) implementation of the RAPs for the dam, reservoir and T-Line; (ii) establishment
of the BWMA; (iii) establishment of the Loma Mountains National Park as an environmental offset; (iv) implementation
of the Emergency Preparedness Action Plan; and (v) implementation of the Livelihood Assessment and Income
Restoration (LAIR) and the Stabilized Agriculture Program (SAP).

Component B - Community Growth Poles or "benefit-sharing" component (US$1.25 million)
This added component supported the implementation of energy-based community growth pole sub-projects, which
covered directly affected villages, and three indirectly affected downstream villages. The community development
program was designed to ensure that eligible communities around the Bumbuna reservoir area share in the benefits of
the Bumbuna hydroelectric dam in a sustainable manner.

Component C - Technical Assistance (US$1.20 million)
This component supported: (i) the PIU to ensure continued financial management, procurement and monitoring and
evaluation; (ii) the independent expert panels ESAP and DSRP; and (iii) the updating and implementation of the
Communication Strategy and Plan.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Cost

The total project cost estimated at appraisal was US$91.8 million, comprising Components A, B and C under the
original components plus US$2 million as repayment of the Bank's Project Preparation Facility. The original project
included an IDA PRG for US$38.0 million (as part of Component A) and an IDA grant for US$12.5 million (to finance
Components B and C together with other donors).

Actual total project costs were US$26.8 million, but as indicated in the ICR, the breakdown of actual expenditures by
component is not available.

Project Financing

IDA's original allocation was US$12.5 million. Its actual financing was US$22 million. Several donors were originally
part of the financing plan, namely, the African Development Bank (US$3.8 million), OPEC (US$8.4 million), and the
Governments of Italy (US$19.9 million) and the Netherlands. Only the AfDB financing was disbursed; the rest of the
financing sources did not materialize. The Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF) provided parallel funding for the
activities under the new Component B (see Revised Components in Section 2(c) above).

Borrower Contribution

While the Borrower committed at appraisal to provide US$8.9 million, its actual contribution was US$1 million.

Dates

The project was approved by the Board on July 16, 2005. Effectiveness, which occurred on December 2006 or about
14 months after the original target date, was delayed as GOSL was unable to make the PRG effective. Negotiations
with commercial banks did not result in an acceptable commercial loan facilitated by the PRG. The project underwent
6 restructurings. The Board approved a Level 1 restructuring on September 28, 2010, at which the PDOs and key
outcome indicators were revised to focus on safeguard issues associated with the final stages of completion and initial
operation of the BHP and T-Line. The restructured project was renamed the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Environmental
and Social Management Project. The 5 other restructurings involved reallocations and extensions of the closing date
due to implementation delays. The final restructuring on September 2012 reallocated funds for the supply, installation,
commissioning and testing of an extended siren warning system (discussed later). After 5 extensions, the project
closed on June 30, 2013, or about 4 years later than the original closing date of August 31, 2009.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

ORIGINAL OBJECTIVES:

Substantial

At the time of appraisal, the relevance of the original objectives was substantial. The objectives directly support the
strategic and long-term development outcome of "Increased investment in, and improved maintenance of,
infrastructure" -- specifically electricity generation -- which falls under the pillar of Sustainable Growth, Food Security
and Jobs Creation, as stated in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), FY2006-2009. The CAS indicated that: "The
Government considers infrastructure a top priority, and that...new financing under the CAS will focus on power and
roads." (CAS, pages 19-20)

At present, the relevance of the original objectives remains substantial, based on the latest available CAS. Energy as
one priority area for GOSL's support was emphasized in both the Joint World Bank/IFC Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for Sierra Leone for FY10-FY13 and the Second Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP II) for 2008-2012.
(The other two priority areas were agriculture and transport infrastructure.)


REVISED OBJECTIVE:

Substantial

The relevance of the revised objective is substantial, based on the latest available CAS as discussed above. The
efficient operation of Bumbuna in a safe, environmentally sustainable, and socially responsible manner remains a high
priority for Sierra Leone; moreover, it supports the CAS pillars of human development and inclusive growth. Bumbuna
is the country's largest installed power generation capacity and is critical to continued economic growth.

b. Relevance of Design:

ORIGINAL OBJECTIVES:

Modest

The project had serious design flaws. The design was highly complex, even though its was only filling in a relatively
small financing gap to finish the construction of the almost-completed dam and associated facilities. Its successful
implementation depended heavily on important policy actions that GOSL had to undertake under a separate IDA
project, the Power and Water Project (PWP), including much-needed tariff reforms and the selection of a
management contractor for NPA, which eventually were not implemented. It was simply assumed that the PRG would
improve financing terms of commercial loans, lower NPA's offtake tariff from Bumbuna under its Power Purchase
Agreement (PPA), and thereby result in lower tariffs to consumers. However, the PRG was over-ambitious and its
design was not very advanced when the project was presented for Board approval, capping what was already a poor
quality at entry overall (see also Section 8a on Quality at Entry). Many of the PRG's aspects were unusual or
incomplete:
     (a) the PRG would cover a small commercial loan to finish construction of remaining works, which was
     non-traditional;
     (b) GOSL and the Italian main contractor Salcost had not yet made arrangements to set up the special purpose
     company BHC to reduce the performance risks during operation and maintenance of the hydropower project.;
     (c) the 20-year concession contract between the GOSL and BHC was not yet drafted; and
     (d) the PPA had not yet been agreed, which should have been achieved at the time of appraisal.
The concession contract itself was unusual in that it excluded construction, because the project was designed to
complete a mostly finished dam, to be complemented by environmental and social measures aligned with
international good practices. These design shortcomings led to project failure: "The relative small size of IDA
support...and the fact that IDA got involved in the project at a late stage provided little leverage vis-à-vis the GOSL
and the contractor/concessionaire to influence project implementation." (ICR, page 6, para 26)
Moreover, although risks were satisfactorily assessed, the proposed mitigating measures were inadequate or
mismatched. For example, the risk of failing to establish BHC was recognized as high, but no alternative institutional
arrangements were identified. Another example was the substantial risk of limited capacity from GOSL and the
implementing entities. Although adequate resources were allocated for capacity-building, the project design focused
on internal ministry staff, even though day-to-day project management was the responsibility of a Project
Implementation Unit. Finally, the Bumbuna Trust was agreed to support long-term environmental and social
safeguards, but options for sustainable financing of the Trust were not factored into project design.

In summary, as the ICR concludes (page, 14, para 60): "The use of a PRG...was too ambitious for the country
circumstances. The design overestimated the political will to undertake significant policy reforms and was not
thoroughly informed by background analysis as it related to the PRG."


REVISED OBJECTIVES:

Substantial

After dropping the PRG at the 2010 restructuring, the relevance of focusing on strengthening and sustaining
environmental and social safeguards remained substantial. The design was adjusted to adopt most of the
recommendations and advice of two Expert Panels (Environmental and Social Advisory Panel and the Dam Safety
Review Panel), which involved significant revisions to improve the measures for complying with safeguards
requirements. However, one major shortcoming that negatively influenced the project's outcomes is that: " The
redesign of the project at restructuring still did not fully take into account the client’s institutional capacity." (ICR, Page
14, para 60)


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

ORIGINAL OBJECTIVES

PDO 1:
“To expand the capacity of Sierra Leone to increase the supply of electricity services at least-cost and in an efficient
manner.”

Negligible

Outputs
The following targeted outputs did not materialize:
      (a) Electricity sales (GWh) increasing from 68.9 GWh in 2003 to 230 GWh in 2008
      (b) Percentage reduction of average electricity tariffs
As indicated in the ICR (page 15, para 63): "The PRG never became effective ; therefore no progress was made in
relation to the PDO and intermediate indicators related to electricity sales, percentage reduction in electricity tariffs,
establishment of the public private partnership through the concession contract to BHC, or the establishment of the
regulatory legal function and appropriate legal environment."

Outcomes
The results anticipated from the PRG did not materialize, as negotiations for a commercial loan that was integral to
the PRG were unsuccessful. In April 2007, the Minister of Finance requested the PRG to be cancelled. GOSL
mobilized donor funds for the remaining costs of completing the Bumbuna dam construction.

The hydropower plant has had many problems since its commissioning in late 2009. It has had technical problems
early in its operations and has not produced power at its installed capacity. Those technical issues may be due to
engineering problems during the design and construction phase, or the ad hoc operation of the dam and powerhouse.
The ICR reports that in November 2012 (7 months before the final closing date), the shaft of Generator Unit-2 cracked
and it had become completely inoperable; subsequently, Unit-1 also started exhibiting excessive vibration and had to
be run at much lower generation capacity (8-10 MW). During April 2013, Generator Unit-1 was shut down for
maintenance, the shaft replaced, and has since been generating between 22-23 MW (against a rated capacity of
25MW). GOSL has extended the interim operator’s contract up to December 2014 to undertake repairs and replace
the shaft in Generator Unit-2. As of the ICR preparation, GOSL has incurred a backlog of payments to the interim
operator (the company that constructed the dam) and dam engineer.

There was back-sliding on agreed reforms. Instead of the PPP structure as originally agreed with the Bank, GOSL
decided to develop the dam as a public project. At the same time, the precursor PWP, which was supposed to
implement key sector reforms, such as tariff reforms and the selection of a management contractor for NPA, and
thereby lay the groundwork for this project under review, was restructured in 2007. Support for reforms was eliminated
from the project, which focused instead on rehabilitating an existing power plant that had stopped working. It was not
possible to attracting a willing international operator into that environment. IEG's overall outcome rating for PWP was
unsatisfactory.


PDO 2:
"To expand the capacity of Sierra Leone to increase the supply of electricity services in an environmentally and
socially sustainable manner.” The DCA expanded this as follows: "To assist the Recipient in completing the Bumbuna
Hydroelectric Project (BHP) activities in an environmentally and social sustainable manner through the carrying out of
measures to avoid mitigate, reduce and/or offset the adverse environmental and social impacts of the BHP in the
Project Area, and to enhance the environmental and social benefits to be derived from the BHP in the Project Area”.

Modest

Overview:
Although most of the activities called for by the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and Resettlement Action
Plan (RAP) were carried out during the construction and impoundment stages, implementation had not progressed
sufficiently by the time of project restructuring to allow monitoring of progress on intermediate and final outcome
indicators.

Outputs:
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and the Bumbuna Watershed Management Authority (BWMA) were
established. The preparation of the Bumbuna Watershed and Management Plan, which had a target date of March 1,
2007, was not fully developed; however, a community awareness campaign and education program for watershed
management was carried out. A water quality monitoring program and a Communications Action Plan were also
formulated. The Bumbuna Conservation Area was established, but the management plan had not yet been
developed. Biodiversity baseline studies, leading to the identification and boundary demarcation of the Loma
Mountains National Park (LMNP) environmental offset, were initiated. Clearing large trees from the reservoir area to
reduce methane gas emissions and navigation risks was also carried out.

Outcomes:
The PIU was able to conduct oversight of the EMP and RAP implementation, but its overall performance was poor
and it needed significant strengthening. At the time of restructuring, documentation was disorganized or incomplete,
withdrawal applications were seriously delayed, and operations were hampered by the lack of financial management.
Serious procurement issues delayed the release of funds for project activities.

The Bumbuna Trust for local resource development had not yet been created, although a draft Act had been
submitted to approve its establishment The BWMA, although established, was not yet operational. A Stabilized
Agriculture Program (SAP) was implemented, focussing on agricultural extension and training for conservation
farming. The RAP (updated in 2008) for the dam and reservoir area was implemented prior to the first phase of
Bumbuna’s impoundment. By December 2008, the following activities were completed:
     (a) Resettlement and compensation covering 38 villages, 599 households, and 5,033 Project Affected People
     (PAPs)
     (b) Provision of emergency food aid for two years (2007 to 2009);
     (c) Land-for-land exchange for 41 households (186 people) in five villages covering 179.3 hectares of agricultural
     lands; and
     (d) Cash compensation for lost crops, trees and other assets to 171 farmers with 117 hectares of partially or fully
     inundated farmlands.
At the time of restructuring, the implementation of the RAP for the T-line was partially complete. Implementation of the
Livelihood Assessment and Income Restoration (LAIR) programs had only commenced. The two expert panels
(Environmental and Social Advisory Panel and Dam Safety Review Panel) operated satisfactorily. The panels visited
the project 4 times between 2005 and 2010 and their panel reports' recommendations "led to significant changes in
project design and a broadening of the scope of safeguards measures ." (ICR, page 17, para 72)

(Note: The foregoing assessment covers the period up to the 2010 restructuring, while IEG assesses the original
objectives up to the project's final closing date. In this specific case, PDO 1 was cancelled at restructuring, thus
leaving only PDO 2. However, both the PDO 2 under the original objectives and the revised PDO after restructuring
(with some additional activities) focus on safeguards strengthening and management. Therefore, the assessment of
PDO 2 (under the original objectives) and the restructured PDO is merged below since those objectives are
essentially the same.
REVISED OBJECTIVE

PDO: “To assist the Recipient in satisfactorily addressing and mitigating the environmental and social impacts in the
Project Area associated with the completion and initial operation of the Bumbuna hydroelectric dam and transmission
line”. (See also PDO 2 above, which is being jointly assessed here as it is the same in substance as this revised
PDO.)

Modest

Overview:
Nearly all the final and intermediate outcome indicators related to safeguards were substantially achieved, except for
two intermediate indicators that were partially achieved and not achieved, as some of the Project Affected People
(PAPs) could not be reached. However, financial sustainability issues continue to negatively impact the long-term
viability of: (i) the Bumbuna Watershed Management Authority (BWMA) that was established to manage the reservoir
watershed upon dam commissioning; (ii) the Emergency Action Unit (EAU), and (iii) the Loma Mountains National
Park (LMNP) environmental offset, which was identified by the external Environmental and Social Advisory Panel in
2007 as an offset for the project's natural habitat impacts. There are no assurances that GOSL will provide
sustainable financing for the continued implementation of the environmental and social safeguards measures. The
emergency siren system for dam safety has been mired in procurement delay and is still non-operational. Given the
sustainability objective in the PDOs, and the modest or negligible achievement of project activities that are critical to
achieving sustainability, the achievement of the revised project objective is rated modest.

Outputs
See Outputs under PDO 2 of the Original Objectives above. In addition, after the 2010 project restructuring, the
LMNP was established and made operational. The RAP for the 161-kV T-Line was revised and approved, and
replacement land was provided and implemented on schedule. The Stabilized Agriculture Program (SAP) and
Livelihood Assessment and Income Restoration Program (LAIR) were also implemented.

Outcomes -- classified under (A) Fully or /Partially Achieved and (B) Not Achieved

A. Fully or Partially Achieved

Resettlement and compensation of PAPs around the dam and reservoir area were completed according to schedule,
and "livelihoods have been restored to pre-project levels" (ICR, page 17, para 74), except for a few PAPs that could
not be contacted. Almost all of the claims from PAPs affected by the T-Line were addressed. Institutional structures
were constructed, including four schools, three churches, and two mosques. However, some PAPs (95 persons) could
not be contacted as they had migrated out of the area; moreover, some cases related to legacy PAPs remain to be
paid. The figures provided by the ICR (para 51, pages 12-13) are as follows:

    "The implementation of the EAs and the RAPs entailed resettlement and compensation covering 38 villages, 599
    households, and 5,033 PAPs, emergency food aid, land for land exchange for 41 households (186 people) in five
    villages covering 179.3 hectares of agricultural lands, and cash compensation for lost crops, trees and other
    assets to 171 farmers with 117 hectares of partially or fully inundated farmlands. For the Tline, roughly 910
    households and 1,565 PAPs were found to be within the ROW's built-up areas under the revised requirements in
    2009, including over 50 structures within the clearance limit. RAPs were revised in 2008, including a shoreline
    survey in 2007. Following an influx of grievances after impoundment, a resurvey was conducted in 2009 and
    2012. At the project’s close, there were a few activities that were still incomplete, for example the emergency
    warning system was not yet fully functional, thus consistent with the Bank’s environmental safeguard policies, the
    Bank will continue to supervise implementation of these activities."

Regarding the SAP, over 95 percent of households reported improvements in living conditions since the SAP activities
started in 2007, based on baseline surveys taken in 2008 compared to impact measures surveyed in 2011.
Regarding LAIR, outcomes include awareness-raising, training, materials and boat-building for fishing as a livelihood;
knowledge and skills to improve health and sanitation behaviors; storage to minimize post-harvest losses; and
livelihood micro-grants for women. Female beneficiaries were estimated to be about 51 percent under both SAP and
LAIR.

The project's benefit-sharing activities consisted of energy-based community growth pole subprojects, which were
satisfactory implemented. These include: the electrification of Bumbuna Town, including connections for community
schools, health centers, and streetlights; housing rehabilitation; six communication centers; and landing points and
foot-trails.
B. Not Achieved

Regarding BWMA, a sustainable financing mechanism has not yet been established. A functioning technical team
was put in place in 2012 and the Bumbuna Watershed Management Plan was developed and adopted. While still
unable to monitor waterborne diseases, the BWMA fulfills these other key functions: (i) dam and reservoir RAP; (ii)
regular water quality monitoring; (iii) management of the conservation area; and (iv) regularly reporting on the state of
the environment in the watershed.

Similarly for LMNP, a sustainable financing mechanism has not yet been established. LMNP was established as a
national park in December 2012. It is now operational, comprising 33,201 hectares or 128 square miles. Local
communities participated in the physical demarcation of the Park's boundaries. Women’s groups also participated in
planting 20,000 economic tree seedlings. Regular patrolling and threat monitoring to prevent illegal use of park
resources are being carried out by 15 trained Park rangers. An initial biodiversity inventory has been done through
collation of existing studies. A management plan and process framework has been developed and disclosed.
Collaboration between local and chiefdom officials is evident by the signing of a Memorandum of Agreement between
the Forestry Department and the affected communities on appropriate land uses in and around the Park, and a
Community Action Plan.

By project closing, the installation of a provisional warning system downstream of the dam had not been achieved. At
the 2010 restructuring, an Emergency Preparedness Plan dam safety was in place and an Emergency Action Unit
was established to issue early warning messages and respond to emergency situations. The Dam Safety Review
Panel had recommended an extensive emergency warning system of 27 sirens. Due to significant delays in
procurement and delivery of the sirens to Bumbuna, only 19 siren sites had been completed and partial foundation
and perimeter wall work was completed for the remaining 8 siren sites. The siren system is still non-operational.

According to the ICR, page 24: "There is no immediate or foreseeable prospect of Bumbuna Trust (BT), given the
inability of GoSL to put the overall electricity sector and the hydropower project on a sustainable financial footing." The
BT was supposed to provide sustainable financing of environmental and social mitigation actions in Bumbuna, and
funded through the revenues accruing through the Power Purchase Agreement from the sale of electricity to the
National Power Authority. Although the draft Trust Deeds and the Implementation Manual were drafted and submitted
to GOSL, the Bumbuna Trust has not been established.

Finally, from a sector perspective, the project did not achieve the institutional strengthening and public sector reforms
through the establishment of a public-private partnership, as envisaged in the CAS.


5. Efficiency:

Negligible

A Financial Summary for the project's revenue-earning entities (Bumbuna Hydropower Company and the Project
Company) was prepared at project appraisal. However, because the PRG was cancelled, BHC was not established
hence the cost and revenue streams did not materialize. The project was restructured into a technical assistance
project comprising environmental and social mitigation actions. Given the project's scope, economic or financial rate
of return calculations are not applicable. Overall, although the project achieved tangible results, the costs involved
were too high compared to the implementation record of other IDA projects.

Cost Inefficiency

The magnitude and costs of key activities were underestimated, particularly the RAPs and the LMNP environmental
offset, while potential revenue streams (e.g., trom energy generation) were greatly overestimated. The frequent
changes in project activities negatively influenced procurement and resulted in higher unit costs. The original project
amount of US$12.5 million for environmental and social components was increased by 76 percent (i.e., an additional
US$9.5 million) at the 2010 restructuring to cover cost overruns and fund new activities. The Bank's budget spent on
the project since 2005 is over 20 percent of the IDA amounts disbursed, i.e., about US$4.0 million, including US$2.2
million in staff costs, US$1.3million in travel, and US$504,000 in other expenses.

Implementation Inefficiency

The period for preparation and implementation of this relatively small project spanned one decade, and still not all
project activities were finalized at project closure (key activities underlying sustainability and dam safety were not
implemented). The project underwent one Level 1 restructuring, as well as multiple Level 2 restructurings and
reallocations of IDA funds, which fragmented procurement and dragged project implementation.

When resources started being inadequate as impoundment of the dam approached in 2008, measures to ensure
safeguards compliance during impoundment were prioritized, but this was done by scaling back drastically on the
benefit-sharing program and deferring the LMNP environmental offset, the Emergency Preparedness Plan, and the
environmental capacity building within the Ministry of Energy.

At the midterm review, and just prior to restructuring, major deficiencies became evident just at the time of dam
commissioning:
(a) Arrangements for dam operations were unclear.
(b) A professional dam operator had not been been recruited for the initial impoundment and the testing phase, as
agreed with IDA at appraisal.
(c) A legal framework for Bumbuna’s operational and financial sustainability was lacking. A Power Purchase
Agreement (PPA) governing the National Power Authority's purchase of power had not yet been approved, even
though a draft PPA and a national energy tariff study had already been completed with assistance from DfID (UK) and
AfDB.
(d) The implementation capacity of PIU and GOSL was very weak, thus requiring the IDA team's intensive support for
even small tasks. PIU suffered from the frequent changes in its management and staff, while ministerial leadership
changes were occurring in parallel.

There were no arrangements for the operation and maintenance of the dam when the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project
was commissioned on November 6, 2009, GOSL asked the dam contractor to operate the BHP for 18 to 30 months.
This interim arrangement was extended repeatedly and the contractor continues to work as the interim operator until
the preparation of the ICR, which indicated that the services of both the contractor and the owner’s engineer have not
been fully paid by GOSL.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         No
    ICR estimate                      No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

The relevance of the original and revised objectives, which focused on electricity supply and safeguards
management, were and remain substantial.

The relevance of the original design was modest: the PRG was over-ambitious and not adequately prepared and
appraised. The relevance of the revised objectives is substantial given its focus on strengthening and sustaining
environmental safeguards.

Achievement of the original PDO1 was negligible: the Government was not able to make the PRG effective and
requested its cancellation, while also restructuring the prior Power and Water Project to remove reform components
that were supposed to lay the groundwork for the Bumbuna hydropower project. Achievement of PDO2 and the
revised objective (both essentially focused on safeguards) was modest. Although the EMP, RAPs and social
programs were mostly implemented, the sustainable financing of key components to sound environmental and social
management (BMWA, LMNP, and Bumbuna Trust) was not achieved. Moreover, the emergency siren system was
still not in operation at project closing. Safety remains a serious concern (there were two accidental deaths during the
2009 impoundment). Institutional capacity remains seriously weak, as shown by the inefficient operation of the dam
and power house..

Efficiency is negligible, given the high costs -- in project funds and the Bank's budget -- that far outweigh the project's
benefits, of which some important ones remained incomplete at project closing due to implementation inefficiencies
and long delays.

The outcome rating under the original PDOs is Unsatisfactory (value of 2.0), while the outcome rating under the
revised PDO is Moderately Unsatisfactory (value=3.0). With 63 percent disbursed under the original PDOs and 37
percent under the revised PDO, the weighted rating value of 2.37 leads to an overall outcome rating of Unsatisfactory
(value of 2.0).

 a. Outcome Rating: Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

It is highly unlikely that the project's development outcomes -- that is, safeguards management and enhancement of
BHP's environmental and social benefits -- will be maintained. The responsible institutions do not have sustainable
financing and are either not yet created or not fully operational. Operations of the Bumbuna dam and power house
remain ad hoc, resulting in reduced power generation. Agreed payment structures for operations and maintenance
have not been implemented. The emergency siren system was not operational at project closing, and dam safety
issues remain a concern. The Bumbuna Trust, which was the institutional instrument intended to provide sustainable
financing for maintaining project safeguards, has no funding and is not operational. Despite some achievements,
GOSL did not complete before project closing date all the agreed environmental and social measures financed by the
project.

The Bank itself had a role in augmenting these risks. According to the ICR (page 25-26, para 106): "The long delay in
restructuring the project and the decision to limit Bank financing to safeguard activities weakened the Bank’s ability to
influence institutional and financing issues bearing on the project’s longer term sustainability."

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

The quality of entry in terms of assessing environmental and safeguards issues was satisfactory and consultations
were extensive. However, the magnitude and costs of environmental and social measures were underestimated,
particularly for the RAPs and the LMNP environmental offset, while revenues from carbon credits and energy
generation were highly overestimated.

Moreover, there were major shortcomings in appraising the public-private partmership, its PRG framework, and
the supporting financial analysis. Due diligence was seriously limited. The ICR (page 6, para 22) indicates that no
market testing was done to determine the likely terms of a commercial loan in Sierra Leone, which led to an
unrealistic assumption that a 15-year loan at 4.5 percent interest could be secured, resulting in a cost of power of
just 8.7 US cents/kWh. The over-optimistic assumption about involving a private operator did not take adequately
into account the advanced stage of dam construction and the pressure to quickly start up the plant in given the
country's serious electricity supply shortages. Technical diligence was also deficient. The Bank team lacked an
experienced hydropower engineer and, for its technical appraisal, relied instead on a revalidation of a feasibility
study from the 1980s. The PAD did not assess the adequacy of the sector policy framework as required by
OP14.25.

Finally, the power sector reform context was seriously deficient at entry. The achievement of the PDOs depended
directly upon the success of a reform program under the prior Power and Water Project, which did not achieve its
objectives as it was restructured to remove those reform components.

As indicated in the ICR ([age 24, para 101): "Project preparation was done under time pressure with the specter of
loss of Sierra Leone's exceptional IDA allocation at the end of the fiscal year."


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:

Safeguards supervision and implementation support by the IDA project team was intense. Supervision missions
were frequent throughout the project period and focussed on safeguards. The experienced and senior staff
included lead energy specialists, a lead social safeguards specialist (with support from senior social specialists
based in Accra and Freetown), as well as energy and dam safety staff. Senior safeguards staff from the Bank’s
central units also provided supervision support. PIU and GOSL staff received training on fiduciary management,
including two procurement and one financial management workshops.
However, there were frequent changes in task team leaders. The Bank was slowly reactive rather than proactive
as the operating environment changed. For example, the Bank delayed action even though the Government
requested the cancellation of the PRG within a year after Board approval. Consequently, activities under the
project's investment lending component continued to be implemented for three years even though there was no
prospect of achieving the project’s original PDO related to the PRG. When the project was finallyl restructured in
2010, the Bumbuna dam was already commissioned and operational under public ownership. Faced with a
finished infrastructure project, the Bank was limited largely to retrofitting environmental and social measures on an
already completed and operational dam for which the Bank provided no financing and has little influence.

Yet, while having little leverage, and despite GOSL's well-known capacity constraints on safeguards
implementation, the Bank was legally obliged to remain engaged and ensure compliance of the BHP on the
still-incomplete social and environmental activities of the BHP. GOSL already showed its unwillingness to
outsource the operation and maintenance to an independent operator. On the contrary, GOSL was backsliding on
reforms. As the 2010 restructuring paper states: “NPA has already accumulated arrears in making payments to
Bumbuna and GOSL is considering dropping the wholesale tariff to reduce NPA’s payment liability.” The 2010
restructuring did not substantively much less effectively address these issues.

(See also Section 11 on Safeguards, which discusses the Bank's continuing supervisory role.)



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

The Government was inconsistent and did not fully deliver on its commitments. For example, soon after project
approval, GOSL dropped the agreed PRG structure, as well as the sector reforms necessary for BHP's viability.
Instead, GOSL followed the traditional public sector ownership and management structure. Although GOSL
passed the legislation and established institutional structures for the Bumbuna Watershed Management Authority
and the Bumbuna Conservation Area, GOSL did not establish the budgetary commitments to sustain their
activities. Finally, as the ICR indicates (page 26, para 107):" There were two presidential elections and four
leadership changes in the Ministry of Energy during project implementation, which led to slow and incomplete
sector reforms, as well as rapid dilution of institutional capacity and memory for the project."


   Government Performance Rating                               Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The agency ultimately responsible for implementing the project is the Ministry of Energy and Water Resources,
which rushed into commissioning the dam and powerhouse while muddling through with its operation and
maintenance. There was no clear plan for operating the dam and a professional operator was not recruited,
choosing instead to extend the dam operator's contract while not fully paying that contractor. After dam
commissioning, there was a marked loss of interest in the environmental and social safeguards activities, which
comprised the project's PDOs.

The Ministry was supported by a PIU. The PIU suffered at first from weak capacity and frequent managerial
changes. It was eventually strengthened and was able to complete procurement tasks, establish the LMNP, and
implement the EMP and RAPs. With the 2010 restructuring, project activities and procurement expanded, and
additional staff was hired to assume the increased work load. PIU's performance on M&E and communications
was lagging initially, but as the ICR indicated (page 26, para 108): "...the PIU was able to put in place a revised
program for developing monitoring indicators and improving the collection and analyses of evaluation surveys."

Despite the administrative achievements of the PIU, the overall Borrower Performance rating is Unsatisfactory,
given the Ministry of Energy's serious shortcomings in dam and powerhouse operations, and the Government's
inaction on sector reforms as well as budgetary commitments to sustain safeguards,


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The PAD included adequate arrangements for M&E. The baselines, outcome indicators and targets are clearly stated
and measurable. Criteria for data collection, reporting by indicator, frequency of reporting, data collection instruments,
and parties responsible for collection, are also adequately specified. The M&E design for the restructured project also
clearly delineated the revised outcome indicators, intermediate outcomes and associated indicators.

b. M&E Implementation:

Between 2005 and the 2010 restructuring, M&E implementation was ad hoc, in part because the results framework
was not transferred into the electronic system for implementation reporting. Thus, for ICR preparation, it became
necessary to gather information from the Implementation Status Report (ISR) # 11 and the 2010 restructuring paper to
determine project progress at the time of restructuring. After restructuring, the IDA team's Aide Memoires and ISRs
showed rigorous M&E, as well as adjustments to supervision plans to address underperforming activities.

c. M&E Utilization:

Prior to restructuring, the M&E framework in the PAD was not fully utilized because of the delay in implementing the
Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project, as well as the delays and eventual restructuring of the Power and Water Project
under which reforms were to be carried out. After restructuring, the strengthening of M&E activities within PIU was
emphasized, for which a full-time specialist was hired. Bank supervision missions closely reviewed PIU's M&E work
and provided guidance on how to utilize M&E findings to inform decision-making.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

The project was assigned a Category A. It triggered 6 of the Bank's safeguard policies, namely, on Environmental
Assessment (OP/BP4.01), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP4.12), Safety of Dams (OP/BP4.37), Natural Habitats
(OP/BP4.04), Forests (OP/BP4.36), and Cultural Property (OPN 11.03). The ICR discusses only the environmental
and resettlement aspects of the project; little or no information is provided on the implementation of, or compliance
with the other four safeguard policies.

The project itself was essentially a safeguards management project after the 2010 restructuring, and intended to
address environmental and social safeguards related to the operation of the Bumbuna hydroelectric dam. At entry, the
extensive consultations that were carried out complied with the Environmental Assessment and Involuntary
Resettlement policies.

The outputs and outcomes of the project's environmental and social safeguard components are discussed in detail in
Section 4 above. After the 2010 restructuring, GOSL shifted leadership on project activities to the Bank team and
showed little ownership on the implementation of incomplete safeguards measures, since its focus was deflected to
the urgent issue that the Bumbuna hydropower project was no longer operating at full capacity.

According to the ICR (page 14, para 58): "At project closing in June 2013, conformance to the provisions of the Bank’s
environmental and social safeguards policies was incomplete. In compliance with its Operational and Safeguards
Policies, the Bank will continue to supervise the implementation by the GOSL of the following outstanding
environmental and social safeguards after the project closing date: (i) installation and commissioning of a siren
warning system, continued functioning of Emergency Action Unit; and completion of three new Communication
Centers (for safety information dissemination). (ii) operationalization of Loma Mountains National Park as an
environmental offset for Bumbuna project, including measures to protect the park; maintenance of the Bumbuna
Conservation Area; and continued functioning of the Bumbuna Watershed Management Authority. (iv) payment of
compensation to the few remaining PAPs; and (v) completion of the remainder of livelihood related training and
distribution of tools/seeds to forest-edge communities."

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial Management. The project's financial management responsibilities were assigned to a full-time FM specialist
in the Project Management Unit. Initially faced with challenges at implementation start-up, FM functions were
streamlined later. The Bank's FM team continuously reviewed the FM arrangements in light of the Bank's
requirements. A detailed FM assessment was completed in January 2013, or 6 months before the closing date. The
assessment found that there were adequate systems in place within the Accounts Department, which was also found
to be providing reliable and credible financial data with adequate supporting documentation. There is no information in
the ICR regarding compliance with financial audit requirements.

Procurement. The PIU's procurement capacity ran into serious problems at the start of project implementation given
the lack of required skills and unfamiliarity with the IDA procurement guidelines. Although each small in size, a large
number of procurement packages were involved in the restructured project. In March 2013, the Bank conducted a
procurement review, which was discussed with GoSL. Following the review, the project's overall procurement
arrangements had a Moderately Satisfactory rating, but procurement risk was rated as 'High’.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):




d. Other:



12. Ratings:                              ICR                  IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                Unsatisfactory          The design was over-ambitious, and
                              Unsatisfactory                                    the Partial Risk Guarantee had to be
                                                                                cancelled, in a context of backsliding on
                                                                                reforms (the precursor Power and
                                                                                Water Project was restructured to
                                                                                remove reforms essential to this
                                                                                Bumbuna project). Key foundations of
                                                                                sustainability have not been achieved,
                                                                                specifically the sustainable financing of
                                                                                the BMWA to manage the dam and
                                                                                watershed, the LMNP environmental
                                                                                offset, and the Bumbuna Trust to fund
                                                                                sustained environmental and social
                                                                                mitigation actions. In any case, the
                                                                                Bumbuna Trust has not been
                                                                                established. The emergency siren
                                                                                system recommended by the Dam
                                                                                Safety Review Panel is not operational.
                                                                                The institutional strengthening and
                                                                                public sector reforms (through a PPP
                                                                                structure) envisaged in the CAS did not
                                                                                occur. Cost and implementation
                                                                                performance were highly inefficient.
          Risk to Development High                      High
                     Outcome:
            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Unsatisfactory   There were serious shortcomings in
                              Unsatisfactory                                 due diligence during project preparation
                                                                             and appraisal, and serious cost and
                                                                             other inefficiencies during project
                                                                             implementation.

                                                                             The summary rating (for Quality at
                                                                             Entry and Quality of Supervision) is
                                                                             aligned with the overall Outcome rating.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Unsatisfactory   Despite the administrative
                              Unsatisfactory                                 achievements of the PIU, the Ministry of
                                                                             Energy had serious shortcomings in
                                                                             dam and powerhouse operations, and
                                                                             the Government's as well given its
                                                                             backtracking and inaction on sector
                                                                             reforms, and lack of budgetary
                                                                             commitments to sustain safeguards,

                                                                             The summary rating (for Quality at
                                                                             Entry and Quality of Supervision) is
                                                                             aligned with the overall Outcome rating.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The following lessons were derived from the project's implementation experience and are quoted from the ICR
(page 27-28, paras 110-113):

(1) The Bank should more prudently assess the pace of sector reforms in a fragile environment and to adjust (and
where possible ring-fence) project objectives and design to fit the environment.

(2) The Bank needs to be involved more upstream in hydropower project development, ensuring in particular that
safe operation and maintenance of the plant after commissioning is secured at the planning stage. Also, the Bank
needs to provide broader support on complex hydropower developments in order to be better aligned with the
interests of client governments.

(3) The Bank needs to establish clear understandings, commitment and prior actions by the client, and remedies for
handling situations where prior actions are not met.

(4) The Bank and the project stakeholders need to better define upfront what needs to be done for safeguards
compliance and to have a clearer decision making framework on revisions of the various safeguards instruments.
This would increase the efficiency and predictability of Bank support and help create ownership of the additional
activities for various stakeholders, in particular the government.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:
The ICR is of good quality and well written. It has strong analytical rigor and is amply supported by quantitative and
qualitative evidence. The ICR is also refreshingly candid, and as a result, it has yielded highly useful set of "lessons
learned", each of which is supported by evidence derived from the project's implementation experience. It complies
with OPCS guidelines for ICR preparation, including the split rating for restructured projects where the PDOs and
outcome indicators have been changed. Much effort went into this ICR's preparation, given the complexity of the
project and the large amount of documentation involved, some of which are not readily available, or could not be
found.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
