Report No. 515a-BR                                                                FILE  COPY
Appraisal of
a Second Education Project
Brazil
October 29, 1974
Education Projects Division
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equrivalents
(As of October 10, 1974)
us$ 1.00       .         Cr   7.13
Cr. 1.00                 us$  0.140
Cr. 1,000               Us$ 140.25
Cr. 1,000,000            U US$ 140,252
Measures
1 a2                     10.76 sq. it.
1 k                      0.38 sq. mi.
1 hectare                 2.47 acres



BRAZIL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJBCT
BASIC DATA
Population (1970)                                                     93.2 million
Annual growth rate (1960-1970)                                   2.9%
14 years and under                                                42%
Density per km2                                                 11.2
Labor force                                                     29.5 million
Adult literacy rate (1970)                                         68%
Enrollment ratios (1971)
Basic Education (grades  1-8)                                      79%
Secondary Education (grades 9-11)                                 18%
Higher Education (grades 12-17)                                    6%
Higher Education Graduates per year
per 100,000 population                                             79
Public Expenditure on Educati.on as % of GNP (1972)                   3.0%
Public Expenditure on Education as % of
Total Public Expenditure  (1972)                                12.0%
Public Education Expenditure per capita (1972)                       US$16






BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .............................  i - v
I.   INTRODUCTION  ...................................    1
II.   BACKGROUND  .....................................    2
III.   EDUCATION AND TRAINING  ....................      .....    3
Formal Education - Present Structure and Education
Reform  ....................................    3
Non-Formal Education and Training ....         ...........    3
Administration of the Formal System ....         .........    4
Education Development Strategy  ....          .............    5
Education Problems and Needs of the Project States   6
Teacher Education  ..............................    8
IV.   EDIUCATION FINANCE  ..............................    8
Overview  ........        ...............................    8
Project States  .................................    9
Finance of the Education Reform  ....         ............    9
V.   THE PROJECT  ....................................   10
Project Strategy  ...............................   10
Elements of the Project  ........................   12
Basic Education  ................................   13
Secondary Education  ............................   14
Training of Teachers and Administrative Staff  .. 15
Technical Assistance  .......................    15
Pre-investment Studies  .......................    16
Cost of the Project . .......................    17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil during January/February, 1974. The mission consisted of Messrs. A.
Cespedes (general educator), R. Hemingway (technical educator), J. Besa
(architect), ';. Lee (economist), D. Klaus (economist), R. Harris (technical
educator, Unesco), K. Aiderson (architect, Unesco), N. Fisher (general
educator, consultant).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
VI.   IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT  ....    ...........  18
Project Administration  ......   ..................  18
Sites  .......................................      19
Procurement       ...................................   19
Disbursement   ........................... * *.   ...   20
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ........  20
APPENDICES
1.   Education and Training System
2.   The Education Financial System
3.   Technical Assistance
ANNEXES
1.  Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Actual and Projected Enrollment in Basic Education, 1966, 1971 & 1980
3.   Actual and Projected Enrollment in Secondary Education, 1966,
1973 & 1980
4.   Public Education Expenditure in the Project States, 1974
5.   Enrollments and Teacher Requirements for the Project Institutions,
1980
6.   Summary of Estimated Capital Costs of the Proposed Project
7.   Contingency Allowances
8.  Project Implementation Schedule
9.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
1.  Development Structure of the Education System, 1973
2.   Administration of Education, 1974
3.   Educational Pyramid, 1971
4.   Educational Pyramid of the Project States, 1971
3AP



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the implementation of a national
education reform at the basic and secondary levels of education in eight north-
northeast states of Brazil. These states, henceforth referred to as the Project
States, are Amazonas, Para, Maranhao, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba,
Alagoas and Sergipe. The main objective of the project is to support the
federal government's effort to assist these poorer states of Brazil in their
efforts to implement the national education reform aimed at improving effi-
ciency and relevancy of their education systems and their priority education
programs that include expansion of educational opportunities. While the
project would help to alleviate shortages of technicians and skilled labor
in the Project States, it would also help to correct imbalances in educational
opportunities that have developed between these poorer states and other more
developed ones in the country. Further, it would assist the Project States
in establishing a sound educational base that would be flexible and responsive
to their needs and in strengthening the educational planning units at national
and state levels.
ii.       This would be the Bank Group's second education loan designed to
support priority needs of the planned reform of the Brazilian education sys-
tem. The first Bank Loan (755-BR), for US$8.4 million in 1971, supported the
expansion and/or improvement of 16 federal institutions for the training of
industrial and agricultural technicians at the secondary and post-secondary
levels. Implementation of that project is expected to be completed in 1975.
iii.      In 1971 the Federal Government enacted a comprehensive education
reform law. Targets for the implementation of this reform were first pro-
vided in the 1972-74 educational development plan and were later amplified
in the 1975-79 Plan. The reform basically consists of a change in the struc-
ture of the education system and a change in the school curricula to make them
more relevant to national and state socioeconomic needs. The reform will in-
tegrate the primary (grades 1-4) and lower secondary (grades 5-8) levels into
a basic education cycle (grades 1-8), and secondary level education will con-
sist of grades 9-11. Under the reform, programs affording students the op-
portunity to develop their practical skills in such areas as industrial arts,
agriculture and home economics will be introduced in the last four years of
the basic cycle; diversified work-oriented programs, adapted to state manpower
training requirements, will be introduced at the secondary level. However,
because of the severe human resource constraints in the Project States the
reform would have to be implemented at a slower pace than currently conceived
by the federal government.   The federal government, however, is prepared to
provide financial resources to the states to implement the reform at a rate
consistent with the states' ability in terms of administrative and human
resources to absorb these funds.



- ii -
iv.       The state governments are responsible for implementing the reform
measures and meeting the enrollment targets set by the Ministry of Education.
But as action at the state level is determined largely by each state's own
administrative and financial constraints, the federal government is faced
with difficulties and challenges in getting the reform implemented in the
poorest states of the north-northeast region, where the education systems
are the least developed and most deficient. The proposed project would as-
sist these states in commencing a systematic implementation of the education
reform.
v.        Educational development in the Project States lags dramatically
behind the rest of the country. Illiteracy is as high as 60% and about two-
thirds of the labor force has less than one year of schooling. Enrollment
ratios in basic education vary from 47% to 70% of the respective age group
_x pared with a national average of 79%.  The respective ratios for second-
ary education average 10% for the Project States versus a national one of
18%. In primary education, 70-75% of all schools have only one room, used
in three or even four shifts. Teacher qualifitions are very poor; in the
municipalities, only 20% of the teaching staff is qualified. The curricula
at the secondary level are academic and do not prepare students for entry
into the labor force. The Project States lack the sound educational base
which is a pre-requisite for the preparation of middle-level manpower required
for the development of their modern sectors. While concerted efforts have
been uindertaken to meet the more immediate manpower needs through non-formal
traini:ng, gradual implementation of the education reform would help overcome
the weaknesses of the formal education system and meet long-term objectives
for improvement of the system.
vi.       The scope and extent of the proposed project have been constrained
by the Project States' financial and human resource limitations that militate
against rapid implementation of the reform in these states. While the main
objective of the project is to assist the qualitative improvement of the
Brazilian education system, it would also contribute to correcting regional
imbalances on educational opportunities particularly at the second level.
Most of the project institutions are located in the urban areas and middle-sized
towns of the states. This location would allow for better monitoring of the
application of the new curriculum, the effectiveness of the teacher training
programs to be financed within the project and of maintenance and logistic
support. The project schools will also function as "nuclei institutions" to
be fed by satellite schools which are mostly located in poor neighborhoods.
The complex institutional, teacher training and financial requirements of the
implementation of the reform in smaller urban-rural areas in these regions
will be analyzed by more detailed regional studies, to be organized within
this project and which may form the basis for identification of possible
future Bank projects. The project would include the following items:
(1) Construction, furniture and equipment:



- iii -
(a) Basic Education
-    10 basic-level schools (grades 1-8);
-    5 common facilities centers for the teaching of
practical subjects and science to students in
grades 5-8 in surrounding satellite schools.
(b) Secondary Education
-    19 secondary schools "colegios" (grades 9-11);
-    12 common facilities centers for the teaching
of work-oriented courses to students (grades
9-11) in surrounding satellite schools.
(2)  Intensive training programs for the teaching staff (2,200
teachers) and administrative staff (about 300 administrators)
of the project institutions.
(3)  Related technical assistance, comprising 20 man-years of
specialist services and 80 man-years of fellowships for
local staff.
(4)  A school facility and school mapping survey and pre-
investment studies to assess the institutional, teacher
and financial requirements for implementation of the
education reform, particularly in rural areas of the
north-northeast region.
vii.      The project institutions would provide a total of 27,790 student
places, of which about 9,310 would be in basic and 18,480 in secondary educa-
tion. The total number of students served (in multiple shifts) would be about
71,580. At the basic level, the project will contribute marginally to enroll-
ment growth but it will assist the state governments in establishing the first
fully integrated basic education schools in their states, for future evaluation
and replication. At the secondary level, the project would increase the pre-
sent enrollment in the project states by about 25% and provide by 1980 about
15% of the secondary enrollments with the reform curriculum. All project
institutions would also be used outside school hours by other community groups
and organizations for literacy courses and adult skill training programs.
viii.     The basic education schools and centers would have 9,310 student
places and serve about 23,820 students. The schools would be located in
poor neighborhoods of the Project States' capital cities and in isolated
middle-sized towns where there are severe shortages of education facilities.
The schools would have suitable facilities for implementing the new curri-
culum and the centers would provide the practical facilities required for
the teaching of practical subjects to a total of 20 existing basic schools
now completely lacking such facilities needed for adopting the new curri-
culum. The students from the satellite schools will spend 7-8 hours per
week in the center and with proper scheduling of classes it would enable
the satellite schools to increase their enrollments by about 30%. A total



- iv -
of about 3,000 students would graduate annually from grade 8 by 1980, of
whom about 60% would proceed to higher levels of education and non-formal
training, while the remainder would seek employment in or out of their
home states.
ix.       The proposed schools and centers at the secondary level of educa-
tion would be the first such state institutions implementing the reform at
this education level in the states. Like the basic education schools, these
facilities would also be located so as to serve the more underprivileged
communities in the capital cities and middle-sized towns of the Project
States. They would provide 18,480 student places and serve a total of about
47,760 students. About 7,500 students would graduate annually by 1980, of
whom about two-thirds are expected to be absorbed by the labor market (in or
out of their home states). The curriculum to be implemented in these schools
will have a common-core program of general education and diversified work-
oriented courses in the areas of construction, commerce and industry. The
schools would provide the students with some basic skills and practical
knowledge for a wide range of middle-level occupations. The proposed centers
would serve a total of about 45 satellite schools. The intensive use of the
centers, through multiple shifts, would permit significant economies in
capital investments per student and in the operation of the centers.
X.        The proposed project includes the cost (US$2.5 million) of inten-
sive in-service training programs for about 2,200 new teachers and about 300
administrative staff to be employed in the project institutions and satellite
schools. These programs are necessary to overcome existing shortages of
qualified teachers. They would be organized and implemented by specialists,
also to be provided under the project. The project includes the cost (US$1.4
million) of additional technical assistance (20 man-years of specialist serv-
ices and 80 man-years of fellowships) in the areas of education planning,
curriculum development, rural education, and school construction. All the
specialists would work in close collaboration with the Federal Government
and the participating Project States.
xi.       The project also includes a provision for comprehensive and system-
atic studies that would help the government assess the education needs of the
poorer states and lead to the formulation of specific investment programs.
These studies would involve a school facility and school mapping survey,
assessment of the institutional and teacher training requirements, cost im-
plications for implementing the reform objectives and enrollment targets in
the rural areas, and the means of achieving greater efficiency in the educa-
tion system, particularly with regard to the over-aged student groups in
basic education. An amount of US$500,000 has been included in the project
to cover the cost of these studies and initial preparation expenditures in
connection with a possible third education project in the rural areas of the
poorer states.
xii.      The total project cost is estimated at US$58.7 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$6.7 million. The proposed loan of US$23.5
million would be equivalent to 40% of total project costs and would finance



all the foreign exchange costs and 32% of the local costs. The Federal gov-
ernment would finance another 40% and the state governments would finance
20% of the total project costs. Base cost estimates are expressed in prices
as of September 1974, to which a contingency allowance of 35% has been added.
xiii.     PRODEM, the federal agency responsible for coordinating and super-
vising implementation of the first education project, would also be respon-
sible for the proposed second project. This agency would supervise project
implementation, coordinate activities with the ministries and states involved
in the project, and provide liaison with the Bank. PRODEM would establish
regional offices in each state consisting of a project architect and an as-
sistant to assist in project implementation and supervision. The states
would appoint counterparts to PRODEM staff. PRODEM would provide the states
with basic information on procedures for properly carrying out the project
and would prepare the terms of reference and basis for selection of consul-
tant architects who would prepare the designs of the project institutions
in each state. The Federal Government will sign subsidiary agreements,
satisfactory to the Bank, with the states participating in the project to
ensure its proper implementation.
xiv.      Suitable sites for most of the project institutions have already
been selected. Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment would be
awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines for procurement. However, Brazil has a competitive local construc-
tion industry capable of carrying out the project and not many foreign con-
tractors are likely to participate. Furniture and equipment would be grouped
to form sizable packages for bulk purchasing. Items that cannot be grouped
into packages of at least US$5,000 would be procured in accordance with the
government's regular procurement procedures and would not exceed in aggregate
the equivalent of US$600,000 (corresponding to about 5% of the total cost of
furniture and equipment). Domestic manufacturers (whose bids contain compo-
nents manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the bid
as defined in accordance with Brazilian law) would be allowed a preferential
margin of 15% of the c.i.f. price or the prevailing tariff, whichever is
lower. PRODEM would be responsible for preparing and issuing tenders, evaluat-
ing bids and awarding the contracts in consultation with the Bank. Retro-
active financing, not exceeding US$300,000 is recommended for expenditures
from July 1, 1974 in respect of professional services and technical assistance
costs. The project would be carried out in about 4-1/2 years and the construction
would be completed in about 3 years.
xv.       The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank Loan
of US$23.5 million to the Federal Government of Brazil for a period of 30
years, including a grace period of ten years.






BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Brazil has requested Bank assistance in support-
ing its efforts to assist eight states in the north-northeast region to imple-
ment their education development programs. These states, henceforth referred
to as the Project States, are Amazonas and Para in the north and Maranhao,
Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Alagoas and Sergipe in the northeast.
Their programs aim at extending educational opportunities and the national
requirements for reform of the structure and curricula of education, partic-
ularly at the primary and secondary levels of the formal system.
1.02      The proposed project would assist in the financing of 46 priority
state educational institutions at the basic (grades 1-8) and secondary (grades
9-11) levels and related teacher training and technical assistance. It would
help to alleviate shortages of middle-level manpower in the Project States
and correct imbalances in educational opportunities that have developed in
the past, particularly between these poorer states and other more developed
ones in the country. Further, it would assist the Project States in estab-
lishing a sound educational base that would be flexible and responsive to
their needs. The total cost of the project, for which a Bank loan of US$23.5
million equivalent is proposed, is estimated at US$58.7 million, with a for-
eign exchange component of about US$6.7 million.
1.03      This would be the second Bank loan to assist the Brazilian Govern-
ment in meeting high priority needs in the education sector. Loan 755-BR,
signed in June 1971, provided US$8.4 million to support the expansion and/or
improvement of 16 federal institutions for the training of industrial and
agricultural technicians at the secondary and post-secondary levels. After
some initial delays, implementation of the project is proceeding satisfac-
torily. Its completion is expected by the end of 1975.
1.04      The initial discussions with the government on the possible com-
position of a second education project commenced in May 1973 when a recon-
naissance mission agreed with the government on the possible items to be in-
cluded in the proposed project for preparation and appraisal. The project
was prepared by local education officials and reviewed by a Bank preappraisal
mission in October 1973. It was appraised in January/February 1974 by a mis-
sion composed of Messrs. A. Cespedes (general educator), R. Hemingway (tech-
nical educator), J. Besa (architect), K. Lee (economist) and D. Klaus (econ-
omist) of the Bank, and Messrs. R. Elarris (technical educator, Unesco), K.
Anderson (architect, Unesco) and N. Fisher (general educator, consultant).
The mission split into two self-contained groups and visited all of the
project states. In June 1974, a post-appraisal mission reviewed the out-
standing issues with officials of the new government and updated the project
cost estimates on the basis of newly collected data.



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      Despite an impressive performance of its overall economy in recent
years, Brazil is experiencing serious regional imbalances in its economic and
social development. The Project States account for about one-third of the
total population of 93.2 million (1970) but produce only about 15% of the
country's total output. As much as two-thirds of their labor forces earn
less than the lowest minimum wage (US$25 per month), leading to very low per
capita GDP of about US$90-245, compared with the national average of US$355
in 1969.
2.02      The low income base of most of the Project States has made them
highly dependent on federal fund transfers, particularly for the provision
of social services such as health and education. Moreover, difficulties in
providing adequate educational services are compounded by the large school-
age groups (on average, 21% of the population is between 7 and 14 years of
age and 11% between 15 and 19), by the lack of essential physical infrastructure,
particularly in the Amazon region and in the neighboring states of Maranhao
and Piaui and by the weak administrative infrastructure in these states.
2.03      The striking poverty in the Project States is partly a reflection
of the socio-economic structure and of insufficient investment in human re-
source development. Although the industrial sector has expanded rapidly, it
accounts for no more than 10% of total employment. With more than 60% of the
labor force engaged in traditional agriculture, the overall under-employment
rate in the north-northeast region reaches 21%, as against 14% for Brazil
as a whole. Regional imbalances have also prevailed in the development of
human resources. Illiteracy is as high as 60% in the Project States, com-
pared with about 30% for the country as a whole. About two-thirds of the
labor force in the Project States have had less than one year of schooling;
the country's average is one-third.
2.04      Having developed little more than the lower basic level of educa-
tion (grades 1-4), the Project States lack the training facilities and the
sound educational base to meet critical manpower requirements of their small
but growing modern sector. Due mainly to an upsurge of economic activity in
recent years, shortages of suitably tra'ned technicians and of skilled labor
have now developed in this region. While the proposed project would help to
alleviate these shortages in manpower, it would also help to establish a sound
educational base in the Project States.
2.05      The government believes that poverty, which afflicts most severely
the north-northeast region, can be ameliorated only if high rates of economic
growth are sustained, permitting absorption of the country's economically
marginal population into the modern sector of the economy. A large number
of programs in the productive and social sectors has been initiated to meet
this objective. However, the effort in the north-northeast seems unbalanced,
with a disproportionate emphasis on investments in physical infrastructure.



Hence, to broaden the benefits of economic growth and increase access of this
region's population to the modern sector of the economy at large, the govern-
ment has now given very high priority to the improvement of education, inclu-
ding development of new funding mechanisms to increase education finance. In
the past, because of inadequate financing, and lack of an efficient adminis-
trative and managerial system at the state level, educational development has
lagged behind in the north-northeast states. The proposed project is designed
to reinforce the government's effort in these states.
III.  EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Formal Education - Present Structure and Education Reform
3.01      The structure of education in Brazil is in process of change (Chart
1). The present structure consists of four years of primary and seven years
of secondary education, divided into two levels: the lower or "ginasio"
(grades 5-8) and the upper or "colegio" (grades 9-11). Higher education is
offered in courses of one to six years in post-secondary institutions and
universities. Implementation of the 1971 education reform law will integrate
the primary (grades 1-4) and lower secondary (grades 5-8) levels into a basic
education cycle (grades 1-8), and the secondary level of education will consist
of grades 9-11 (Chart 1). The new education structure is an evolution of the
government's introduction in 1968 of the "ginasio polyvalente," a lower-level
secondary school offering general education and also an opportunity for students
to develop practical skills in such areas as industrial arts, agriculture and
home economics. The reform makes mandatory over the long term the inclusion
of such courses in the last four years of basic education; furthermore, it
introduces diversified and work-oriented programs at the secondary level, to
be adapted to state manpower and training requirements. Along with improve-
ments in overall planning, administration, supervision and staffing, these
developments are designed to make the education system more cost-effective
and responsive to national and state socio-economic needs.
Non-Formal Education and Training
3.02      Many organizations are engaged in training programs for various
groups of the population. They operate in the fields of literacy, community
development, vocational, technical teacher and management training (see Ap-
pendix I). A dynamic national campaign aimed at all illiterate persons
achieving functional literacy has been undertaken by the Brazilian Movement
for Literacy (MOBRAL). This organization, which reaches every municipality
in the country, devotes more than 40% of its resources to the north-northeast
region where most of the illiterates live. A large number of the non-formal
training programs are financed by the Intensive Program for Preparation of
Industrial Labor (PIPMO), a very flexible organization whose objective is
to identify both the urban and rural training needs of the states and finance
short training programs. MOBRAL and PIPMO are autonomous agencies under the



Ministry of Education; they own no physical training facilities and their
programs are conducted mainly at night in schools or in other public and
private buildings and training facilities.
3.03      Other prominent non-formal training organizations are the National
Service for Industrial Apprenticeship (SENAI) and National Service for Com-
mercial Apprenticeship (SENAC), which operate their own well-equipped and
maintained facilities in each state. Priorities for vocational training
are determined through studies commissioned by these two organizations or
by PIPMO and through the training requirements of local firms. The National
Center for Vocational Training (CENAFOR), an autonomous agency located in
Sao Paulo, provides facilities through seven regional centers for the train-
ing of technical teachers, instructors and school management personnel em-
ployed in the technical schools and training centers of the Ministry of
Education and often of other private and public organizations.
Administration of the Formal System
3.04      The administration of education in Brazil is decentralized, with
authority shared by three governmental levels -- federal, state and muni-
cipal. Their functions and areas of authority often overlap. The principal
thrust of constitutional and legislative measures concerned with education
has been to assign policy-making, planning and coordination authority to the
federal level, leaving to the states and municipalities the main responsi-
bility for education administration (excluding most of the institutions of
higher learning). Financial responsibilities are shared by both the federal
government and the states. In this context, the Federal Council of Education
develops overall policy and the Ministry of Education allocates federal
resources to support the implementation of such policy. The states have the
main administrative responsibility for primary and secondary education, but
the municipalities share this responsibility for primary education. The
universities are administratively autonomous institutions.
3.05      In order to assist the state in carrying out federal and state
policies, the Ministry of Education through each of its Departments, parti-
cularly those concerned with educational planning and primary and secondary
education, maintains direct contact with state education authorities, largely
through the provision of technical assistance. However, in the past such
assistance has been sporadic in nature. The Federal Government and the
states, particularly the poorer states, intend to strengthen their planning
units and establish closer liaison between the Planning Office of the Ministry
of Education and the states in order to bring about better integration of
their planning efforts. The proposed project would provide technical assist-
ance to assist in this respect.
3.06      Lacking competent management and adequate resources, which are
essential to efficient decentralization of administration, it is difficult
for the Federal Government to assure the proper and timely implementation of
nationwide qualitative and quantitative reforms under the decentralized system.
The federal authorities must rely on the states and municipalities to implement
federally initiated policies and guidelines. Action at the state level has



- 5 -
been determined largely by the states' own administrative and financial
constraints; thus when a substantial financial contribution has been attached
to federally originated policies the states have been more enabled to comply
in due time. In consequence, adoption of national policies in fundamental
areas such as enrollment expansion, distribution of educational opportunities,
structure of education, curricula reforms and improvements in teaching condi-
tions have occurred in varying degrees and at different times throughout the
country; the poorer states in the north-northeast regions lag substantially
behind the other states.
Education Development Strategy
3.07      The objective of federal education policies in the last few years,
and reiterated in the educational development plans of 1972-74 and 1975-79,
has been the expansion of the formal and non-formal programs at state level,
combined with initiation of a new structure and reform of the curricula of
the formal education system (para. 3.01). This two-pronged strategy has not
been overly successful, mainly because few states have had both the financial
resources and requisite managerial and technical competence to produce well
designed programs, adapted to state needs, for its implementation. Federal
subventions and support to the poorer states have not been adequate to over-
come the shortfalls.
3.08      The 1975-79 educational development plan is in essence an amplifica-
tion of proposals and programs included in the 1972-74 Plan. It proposes
major human resource development programs and establishes targets for imple-
menting the education reform and enrollment targets which are to serve as
the framework for state educational development policies. The programs and
basic targets proposed in the plan include, inter alia: (a) an increase in
the literacy rate from about 68% to 95%; (b) expansion of basic education
from 84% to 100% of the 7-14 age group; (c) expansion of secondary school
facilities to increase the enrollment ratio of the 15-17 age group from 18%
to 30%; (d) introduction of practical subjects at the basic education level
and work-oriented courses at the secondary level; (e) rationalization and
improvement of education administration, supervision and planning at both
the federal and state levels; (f) development of new funding mechanisms and
new criteria for an optimum deployment of financial resources, including the
transfer of funds from the federal government to the states and municipalities:
(g) expansion of agricultural education and of adult literacy, education and
skill programs; (h) establishment of post-secondary technician level programs;
and (i) experimentation with and more rapid introduction of modern education
technology as appropriate.
3.09      In its major programs of human resource development and statements
on objectives and targets, the 1975-79 Plan is overly ambitious in its timing,
due to the fact that the proportion of resource allocation to the various
programs is not reconcilable with the proposed enrollment targets for the
formal system. The Plan also fails to provide guidance to the states on how
they should respond in meeting the additional costs required if the 1979
targets are to be achieved. The objectives and targets set by the Plan are
national, and it is evident that they may have to be modified and programs



-6-
re-phased (perhaps by 1985-90) in accordance with the states' ability to ab-
sorb new funds and their institutional and administrative constraints. Pre-
sently, the Federal Government is adjusting the targets, particularly the en-
rollment targets at the basic and secondary levels, and is prepared to develop
new funding mechanisms to ensure that the state governments would have suffi-
cient resources to implement the reform at a rate consistent with their ab-
sorptive capacity and human resource constraints. Given this flexibility
along with sound planning and programming and additional resources, the poorer
states could find the Plan a useful guide for action. In fact, the proposals
for capital investment in the states over the next five years reflect such a
flexible approach. In going only part way to meet the enrollment needs of
the Project States, the proposed project is in line with these targets and
would lead to a significant new flow of the resources required for human re-
source development in the poorer states.
3.10      Consistent with the national priorities in the sector, the Project
States' educational development strategy attaches high priority to implement-
ing the reform with respect to structure and programs at the basic and second-
ary education levels. Actual implementation has been limited to the basic
level. The proposed strategy of almost all the Project States in carrying
out the reform is to concentrate their limited resources in the more urbanized
areas and to leave the educational development of the rural areas exclusively
to local authorities. This allocation of resources is efficient in the medium
term because it allows the financially weaker local authorities to concentrate
on the needs of a smaller proportion of their population. However, it is
still inadequate. The Federal Government is interested in correcting inequi-
ties in educational opportunities in the long run and therefore intends to act,
through special rural education projects, to help meet the education/ training
needs of the rural communities. Planning of comprehensive investment programs
will be facilitated by systematic studies such as a school facility and school
mapping survey and assessment of the institutional, teacher and financial
requirements for properly implementing the reform in the rural areas. These
studies are included in the proposed project and were discussed during nego-
tiations (para. 5.10).
Education Problems and Needs of the Project States
A.   Basic Education (Annex 2)
3.11      The lag in educational development in the north-northeast region,
compared with the rest of the country or even the national average, is dramatic.
In 1971, enrollment for the 6-14 age group was 79% in the country as a whole,
while in the Project States it ranged between 70% in Piaui and only 47% in
Amazonas. Within states there is an equally wide gap between urban and rural
areas. There is an acute shortage of functionally designed and appropriately
equipped places to meet expansion and curriculum needs; one-room schools
account for 70-75% of all schools offering grades 1-4. This has led to over-
utilization of existing facilities, with the majority working on a two-shift
basis, many on three shifts and some even on four. As a result, sessions are



-7-
short (about 2-4 hours a day). The educational value of attendance at a three-
shift school is minimal over a four-year course and more so at a four-shift
school. With three and four shifts, resources not only are being wasted but
are not available for adult and community purposes. Similar problems are
being encountered in the schools offering grades 5-8.
3.12      The high proportion of unqualified teachers (over 50%) also con-
tributes to the poor quality of education at the basic level, and compares
unfavorably with 37% for Brazil as a whole. Paradoxically, the present
teacher shortages exist in the face of a surplus of graduate teachers; this
is because salaries are low, and also because the teacher training course is
sought by students as an easy route to higher education. Thus, only 45-50%
of the graduates go into teaching.
3.13      The above-mentioned factors reduce the efficiency of the education
system. The dropout rate for the first four grades is about 80% in the Pro-
ject States, with most dropouts occurring in the first grade and in rural areas.
Efficiency could be improved if, in addition to corrective action with regard
to the deficiencies already mentioned, a serious attempt were made to ration-
alize student flows for the different age groups by introducing appropriate
programs to meet the specific needs of the over-age students who now occupy
more than a third of total student places in the first four grades and about
two-thirds of those in grades 5-8. Significant experiments offering these
students accelerated supplementary programs are being undertaken by MOBRAL
with encouraging results: the examination passing rates of these students
are about double the national average. Clearly, the need for such programs
and the evaluation of the current experiments for possible replication should
be systematically explored. The government has expressed interest in pursu-
ing this through a study to be included in the proposed project.
B.   Secondary Education (Annex 3)
3.14      The problems encountered at the secondary level of education (grades
9-11) are likewise acute. The nationwide participation rate of the relevant
age group (15-17 years) is low, about 18%. In the Project States the rate
is much lower, 10%. These participation rates include about two-thirds over-
age students. Moreover, the enrollment distribution between academic and
practical subjects is unbalanced. This is particularly acute in the Project
States, where about three-quarters of the students seek the academic and
teacher training streams.
3.15      Nationwide, and especially in the Project States, the shortage of
facilities has prevented the sound development of secondary education. The
existing schools are used intensively in two or three shifts, but the facil-
ities and materials for science and practical courses are extremely limited.
Most teachers are teachers of academic subjects. The state school systems
have to compete with the higher salaries which qualified practical-subject
teachers can earn in non-teaching occupations. As a result of all these
factors, traditional rote-learning and textbook recitation dominate the
teaching-learning process. These circumstances have adversely affected the
quality of education and the efficiency of the system and underscore the
states' inability to correct the situation with their own resources.



-8-
3.16      Implementation of the 1971 education reform has proceeded the most
slowly at the secondary level, due largely to the high capital and operating
costs of the required specialized facilities (workshops and laboratories).
To conserve their resources, some of the Project States have made arrange-
ments with the Federal Technical Schools in the states and with SENAI and
SENAC state organizations for specialized technical and commercial courses
to be given in the facilities of those entities to at least some of the
students of the academic secondary schools. However, these efforts are
constrained by the limited availability of such facilities and by the
entities' commitments to ongoing regular programs; furthermore, the efforts
are necessarily limited to the large towns, usually state capitals, where
the facilities are located.
3.17      An important role in implementing the education reform at the
secondary level will be undertaken by the new and expanded Federal Agricul-
tural Colleges and Federal Technical Schools provided under the first educa-
tion project (Loan 755-BR). These institutions will be used in the training
of teachers for practical subjects and will make their workshops and labora-
tories available to students of the traditional "colegios" in the surrounding
areas. Arrangements to this effect are being worked out between the institu-
tions concerned and the state secretariats of education.
Teacher Education
3.18      The problem with regard to teacher qualification, at both the basic
and secondary levels, is twofold: first, it is a question of how to create
appropriate incentives for service; second, the quality of the teacher train-
ing programs, pre-service and in-service, must be improved and made relevant
to the requirements of the reform curricula of basic and secondary education
of all types. Also, the existing in-service programs need to be further ex-
panded, intensified and broadened in scope to cover adequately the new subject
areas being introduced into the schools.  Trained teachers have to be re-
tained and re-oriented and the masses of untrained teachers upgraded.
3.19      The question of teacher education in the new context of educational
reform has such major implications in terms of supply and demand by level and
discipline, education costs, content of studies, structure of training and
institutional organization, that a detailed study of this sub-sector's develop-
ment is necessary. The government recognizes the need for such a study and
it is included in the project.
IV. EDUCATION FINANCE
Overview
4.01      The multiplicity of sources, transfers, earmarked funds and expendi-
tures has given the public education financing system in Brazil a complex char-
acter. In many of the poorer states, it is not always possible to identify
the sources of funds spent by level or type of education; this has impeded
full analysis of education finance in these states.



- 9 -
4.02      The Federal Government bears the greatest burden for education expen-
ditures in the north-northeast states, its transfers amount to more than half
of these states' expenditures on education and over three-fourths those of
the municipalities (Annex 4).   The federal transfers are being effected
mainly through three federally established revenue-sharing and transfer
programs: the Education Salary Fund, the Participation Fund and a Special
Fund. 1/ The funds are distributed to the states according to a composite
formula which favors the most populous, least educationally advanced and poorest
states; by design, they involve a net transfer of resources to the north-northeast
states.
Project States
4.03      The Project States allocate almost two-thirds of their education
expenditures to the first four grades of basic education, leaving a relatively
very small share for the subsequent levels of education. Such a high relative
allocation would not be necessary, however, if efficiency of the system were
improved. The potential savings in recurrent and capital expenditures from
rationalizing student flows could help finance much of the expansion and reform
of education (para. 3.13).
4.04      The significant disparity in education expenditures between the
Project States and the rest of Brazil is reflected in the per capita educa-
tion expenditures: they are between US$4 and US$6 for the project states
versus US$15 for the national average. Recurrent unit costs in the Project
States are half or even one-third of those prevailing in such high-income
states as Rio Grande do Sul and Sao Paulo, and are very low in absolute terms
when compared with similar expenditures in other education systems. Factors
accounting for these differences are mainly the very low teacher salaries,
the great proportion of unqualified teachers and the lack of education ma-
terials. The situation in the municipalities is much worse and teacher
salaries vary from one-half to one-tenth of the state salaries for teachers,
hence the overwhelming proportion of the unqualified teaching staff (80%)
are in rural areas (para. 3.12).
Finance of the Education Reform
4.05      The overall recurrent cost implications of the reform for the poorer
states, particularly in the rural areas, are yet to be systematically determined.
The recurrent costs per student would almost triple at the basic level and
about double at the secondary level if more qualified teachers were to be em-
ployed (as the reform proposes) and were paid in accordance to their qualifi-
cations, and if schools were supplemented with the required education materials
and funds for maintenance of equipment and facilities. Also increased capital
1/   See Appendix II.  For a detailed analysis of education expenditures,
education institutional arrangements for education finance, and financ-
ing of non-formal education/training in the northeast, see The Economic
and Social Development of Brazil, Vol. V, "Employment and Education in
the Northeast" (IBRD No. 38-BR, March 12, 1973).



- 10 -
expenditures associated with the enrollment expansion and implementation of
the new curriculum are estimated to add about 30% to costs in the traditional
system. However, such cost increases can only be feasible in the north-
northeast states, including the Project States, if substantial further assis-
tance of the Federal Government is extended to the poorer states. Still,
administrative and human resource constraints might require a slower pace in
the implementation of the education reform than is currently conceived by the
federal government.
4.06      An examination of alternatives shows that only a gradual and modest
implementation of the reform can be accommodated within the present education
financing arrangements. This accounts for the limited scope of the proposed
project. If the state governments attempted implementation of the reform on
their own and on a larger scale -- for example, to affect about one-third of
basic and secondary enrollments -- they would need to devote 26% of their
total expenditures to education. This would represent almost a 50% increase
over their present share of 17%. In order to implement the reform on this
scale they would require almost 100% financing by the Federal Government
or other agencies of the capital expenditures associated with such a reform,
which would amount to US$83 million annually.
4.07      Implementation of the reform on such a scale would not be financially
feasible because of competing claims for state resources by other sectors. The
state governments cannot implement the reform under present institutional and
federal transfer arrangements. An assessment of the pace of educational devel-
opment and scope of the implementation of the reform in these poorer states,
and particularly in the rural areas, will be intensively and systematically
reviewed by the Government and would be the subject of a study to be undertaken
under the proposed project (para. 3.10). The Federal Government provided
assurances that it would take necessary steps to ensure that the state
governments possess sufficient financial resources to implement the education
reform (including both capital and recurrent expenditures) at a pace con-
sistent with the states' ability in terms of administrative and human re-
sources to absorb these funds.
V. THE PROJECT
Project Strategy
5.01      The proposed project is designed to support priority needs of the
reform of the Brazilian education system in the Project States. While the
main objective of the project is to assist in the planned qualitative improve-
ment of the Brazilian education system, it would also contribute to correcting
the regional imbalances in educational opportunities, particularly at the
second level, which have developed over the years. It would provide urgently
needed facilities at the basic and secondary levels in eight states of the
north-northeast region -- the northern states of Amazonas and Para and the
northeastern states of Maranhao, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Alagoas
and Sergipe -- and for communities and target groups presently underprivileged
in this respect. Further, it would assist in establishing a sound educational



base and in alleviating the shortages of technicians and skilled labor in the
Project States. The proposed project institutions are concentrated in the
poorest states of the country with per capita incomes ranging from US$90 to
US$245.
5.02      Most of the project institutions are located in the urban areas and
middle-sized towns of the states. This location would allow for better moni-
toring of the application of the new curriculum, the effectiveness of the
teacher training programs to be financed within the project and of maintenance
and logistic support. The project schools will also function as "nuclei
institutions" to be fed by satellite schools which are mostly located in poor
neighborhoods. The complex institutional, teacher training and financial
requirements of the implementation of the reform in smaller urban-rural areas
in these regions will be analyzed by more detailed regional studies, to be
organized within this project and which may form the basis for identification
of possible future Bank projects. The project complements USAID assistance
to other states in implementing the education reform at the basic level, and
IDB support and Bank Loan 755-BR for technical and agricultural education.
The scope and extent of the project have been constrained by the severe state
financial and human resource limitations that prevent rapid implementation
of the education reform.



- 12 -
Elements of the Project
5.03      The proposed project comprises:
(i) construction, furnishing and equipping of educational institu-
tions as outlined in the following table:
Student Places
Project States                  and Enrollments
CA   0                                      aJw
ud 0                    0 U4O 0  4'
aq   o                       d     GIG     v-0.
r-     CU  C    CU  v   H  0   C)    4J .-4    4G
Types of Institution                             X        . n      4   WCI CI
(a)  Basic Education
10 Basic Level Schools  1   2   1   2   1   1   2          -   8,010    16,020
(Grades 1-8)
5 Common Facilities
Centers (Grades 5-8) 1   -   1   -   -   -   -         3   1,300       7,800
Sub-total           2   2   2   2   1   1   2        3   9,310    23,820
(b) Secondary Education
19 Secondary Schools
"Colegios" (Grades
9-11)                 3   1   3   1   3   3   3       2  12,000    24,000
12 Common Facilities
Centers (Grades
9-11)                  2   1   1   1   -   2   1       4   6,480    23,760
Sub-total           5   2   4   2   3   5   4        6  18,480    47,760
Total                7   4   6   4   4   6   6       9  27,790    71,580
(iii)  intensive training programs for the teaching staff (2,200
teachers) and administrative staff (about 300 administrators)
of the project institutions and satellite schools;
(l)  related technical assistance, comprising 20 man-years of specialist
services and 80 man-years of fellowships for local staff; and



- 13 -
(iv) a school facility and school mapping survey and pre-investment
studies to assess (i) institutional, teacher training, non-formal
training and financial requirements for the implementation of
the education reform, particularly in rural areas of the
north-northeast region, and (ii) post-secondary technician
training requirements.
Basic Education
5.04      The project provides 10 new basic education schools (grades 1-8)
and five common facilities centers (grades 5-8). They would have a capacity
of 9,310 student places but would service about 23,820 because of multiple-
shift use of the facilities. Although contributing only to marginal enroll-
ment growth, this project item will assist the state governments establish
the first basic education schools in their states implementing the reform,
for future evaluation and replication. They would also be used after school
hours by other community groups and organizations such as MOBRAL for literacy
courses and PIPMO for adult skill training programs and assurances to this
effect were obtained from the government. A total of about 3,000 students
would graduate from grade 8 annually by 1980, of whom about 60% would proceed
to higher levels of education and non-formal training, while the remainder
would seek employment in or out of their home states.
New Basic Schools:  These 10 schools would be located in poor
neighborhoods of the capital cities of the Project States and in
isolated middle-sized towns where there are severe shortages of
education facilities. The schools, averaging in size about 800
student places, would contain laboratories and workshops for the
teaching of practical subjects such as industrial arts, commerce,
agriculture and home economics. The 10 schools would have a total
of 8,010 student places; they would be used on a double-shift basis
by 16,020 students.
Common Facilities Centers: These 5 centers, comprising workshops,
laboratories and related facilities, would be located so as to enable a
total of 20 existing basic schools lacking facilities to adopt the new
curriculum in grades 5-8. With an average capacity of 260 student
places, the centers would provide a new and economic approach for im-
plementing the government's policy of introducing practical subjects
in existing basic schools where, because of the small size of the
schools, the provision of such facilities to each school would be
uneconomic. Furthermore, the use of these centers would free class-
room space for the satellite schools which would enable them to
increase their enrollments by 30%. The students would spend an
average of 7-8 hours per week in a center and the remaining time in
a satellite school. The centers would have about 1,300 student places;
however, because of their intensive use (six shifts), they would have
a total enrollment of 7,800 students. The supervisory staff of the
state secretariats of education would be responsible for the supervision
of their use.



- 14 -
Secondary Education
5.05      Like the basic education schools, the 19 new secondary schools and
12 common facilities centers would be located so as to serve the more under-
privileged communities in the capital cities and middle-sized towns of the
Project States. They would be the first state schools implementing the reform
at this level of education. Their facilities would also be used after school
hours for literacy and non-formal training programs for out-of-school youths
and adults by such organizations as MOBRAL and PIPMO and assurances to this
effect were obtained from the government (para. 5.04). The total capacity
would be 18,480 student places and they would serve about 47,760, in multiple
shifts. The provision of these facilities would increase the present secondary
enrollments in the Project States by about 25% and enable at least about 15%
of the enrollments in secondary schools to receive by 1980 education in
accordance with the new curriculum. By 1980, a total of 7,500 students would
graduate annually, of whom about two-thirds are expected to be absorbed by
the labor market, in or out of their home states. A student tracer mechanism
will be introduced in each state for project secondary school graduates to
obtain continuous feedback on their school preparation.
New Secondary Schools: The proposed 19 new schools would be the
forerunners in implementation of the new curriculum in the project
states. The curriculum will have a common-core program of general
education and diversified work-oriented courses in the optional
areas of construction, commerce and industry. The schools would
thus provide students with a broad base of knowledge and basic
skills for a wide range of middle-level occupations. Thev would
have a total capacity of 12,000 student places, for a total
enrollment of 24,000 students, in two shifts, and an output of
7.500.
Common Facilities Centers: The proposed 12 centers would provide
about 50 workshops for practical subjects and about 35 science
laboratories to service some 45 small secondary schools to enable
them to adopt the new diversified curriculum. The centers would
also have resources for counselling and placement services. Each
center would serve three to four satellite secondary schools and the
number of student places in each would vary from 1,680 to 2,400,
and the facilities would service about 23,760 students in four shifts.
These large enrollments would permit significant economies in initial
investments per student and in operations, due to intensive use of
the teaching facilities. Furthermore, a more diversified program
would be offered, adapted to each state's basic requirements for
manpower training, and specialized staff could be used more effi-
ciently. Overall coordination and supervision of the centers and
satellite schools would be provided by the Department of Secondary



- 15 -
Education of each Secretariat of Education. In addition, there
would be a coordinating committee that would include representa-
tives of the satellite schools and the centers; it would deal with
problems and issues of common concern to these institutions
(e.g., scheduling, curriculum development and student guidance).
Training of Teachers and Administrative Staff
5.06      By 1980, the new teachers and administrative personnel needed to
staff the project institutions and the satellite schools would be about 2,500,
of whom some 1,000 teachers would be for technical and practical subjects.
To overcome the existing shortages of qualified secondary teachers (paras.
3.12 and 3.15), the Project State governments are organizing short-term train-
ing seminars and workshops. However, a more systematic training program
to meet the needs of the proposed project must be developed. This program
should include the training and upgrading of not only teachers but also
aadministrators and supervisors. In order to assist the Project State
governments in strengthening their managerial capabilities and in upgrading
the qualifications of their teaching and administrative staff, the project
includes the cost of specially designed training programs (US$2.5 million)
for about 2,200 teachers and about 300 school administrators (Annex 5). The
cost estimates are based on actual similar expenditures per teacher (about
US$1,000) in a similar USAID-financed training program currently in operation,
5.07      The abovementioned training programs would consist of courses of
800-1,600 hours duration and include refresher courses for teachers in the
field of agriculture, science, mathematics, commerce, home-economics and
industrial subjects. Courses for administrators would include educational
planning, school administration and supervision, and curriculum development.
These courses would be conducted in collaboration with the state universiti"-
the operational engineering centers provided under the first education projert.
the federal technical schools (including eight provided under the first edu-
cation project), and the regional centers of CENAFOR (para. 3.03). Some of
the southern states (Guanabara, Sao Paulo, Rio Grande do Sul), where the
education reform and institutional reorganization are more advanced than
in the north-northeast region, would also assist in this in-service training
through the provision of staff and possibly some facilities. The government
has given assurances that within six months of the signing of the Loan Agree-
ment it will submit a comprehensive staff development plan for the recruitment,
selection and training of the teaching and administrative staff needed for
the project institutions. The plan would also indicate the incentives that
will be used to retain full-time qualified teachers in the project schools,
so as to avoid the prevailing high turnover of qualified staff because of
low salaries.
Technical Assistance
5.08      In order to assist the federal and Project States' governments in
the implementation of the project and develop state human infrastructure for
the long-term implementation of the reform, the project would include 20
man-years of specialist services (expatriates or Brazilians) and 80 man-years



- 16 -
of fellowships (Appendix III). The specialists would work in closa collabo-
ration with federal and state counterparts in such fields as education plan-
ning and management, education finance, teacher training, school construction
and rural education. They would also collaborate with the human resources
planning group of a UNDP/ILO/UNESCO project which is reviewing national man-
power requirements and training programs. The cost bf this technical assis-
tance and fellowships is estimated at US$1.4 million, including some US$300,000
for field expenditures of the specialists and materials for training programs.
Specialists to be financed by the proposed loan would be acceptable to the
Bank and would be employed on terms and conditions agreeable to the Bank.
Pre-investment Studies
5.09      Formulation by the Federal Government of specific targets for the
educational development of the north-northeast states, particularly in rural
areas with the lowest enrollment ratios, and the resolution of various out-
standing issues concerning the capacity of these states to implement the
reform as currently articulated in the 1975-79 Plan (para. 3.07) require
comprehensive and systematic studies that would help the government to assess
these states' education needs and lead to the formulation of specific invest-
ment programs. The need for such studies was discussed with Ministry of Edu-
cation officials and it was agreed to include them in the project (para. 3.10).
The government intends in the near future to appoint a Commission that will
review the objectives of these studies in the context of national and state
priorities and prepare proposals for their implementation. The Commission
will remain in force for the articulation of the government's views on possi-
ble future Bank projects in rural education. Agreement has been reached with
the government on the basic scope and design of the studies to be included in
the project (see Appendix III).  The project cost estimate includes US$500,000
to cover the cost of the studies and initial preparation expenditure in connec-
tion with a possible third education project in the rural areas of selected
states.
5.10      In summary, the proposed studies related with the education reform
consist of a school facility and school mapping survey, extending the school
inventory exercise that has already been undertaken in most states (para. 3.10);
development of a program for achieving greater efficiency in the education
system, particularly with regard to the over-aged student groups in basic
education (para. 3.13); an assessment of teacher training and related insti-
tutional requirements (para. 3.18); and an assessment of the cost implications
of implementing the reform objectives and enrollment targets in rural areas
of the north-northeast states (para. 4.07).  A study to determine the require-
ments for broader development of post-secondary technician programs in Brazil
(para. 3.08) and formulate a plan for development of this level and type vf
education would also be included in the proposed project.



- 17 -
Cost of the Project
5 .11     The cost of the project is estimated at US$58.7 million equivalent
(exchange rate US$1.00 = Cruzeiros 6.9). The components, shown in Annex 6,
are summarized below.
Cruzeiros (millions)        US$ (millions)       % of
Local   Foreign   Total  Local   Foreign  Total  Total
10 Unified Basic Level
Schools (Grades 1-8)  56.2         5.9    62.1    8.1         0.9     9.0   15.4
5 Common Facilities
Centers (Grades 5-8)  12.5         1.3    13.8    1.8         0.2     2.0    3.4
19 Secondary Schools
"Colegios"
(Grades 9-12)          98.8       10.4   109.2   14.3         1.5    15.8   28.9
12 Common Facilities
Centers (Grades 9-12) 70.0         7.3    77.3   10.1         1.1    11.2   19.1
Project Administration    6.2          -       6.2    0.9         -      0.9    1.5
Technical Assistance       6.9        2.6      9.5    1.0        0.4      1.4    2.4
Teacher Training          13.5        4.8    18.3    2.0         0.7      2.7    4.6
Base Cost Estimates      264.1       32.3   296.4   38.2         4.8    43.0   74.1
Contingencies
(a) Physical            26.4        3.2    29.6    3.8         0.5     4.3    7.3
(b) Price               67.1        8.5    75.6    9.7         1.2    10.9   18.6
Pre-investment Studies
and Preparation of
Possible Third
Education Project        2.1        1.4      3.2    0.3        0.2     0.5    0.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST       359.7       45.4   405.1   52.0         6.7    58.7  100.0
5.12      The base cost estimates for the project institutions are based on
recent contracts concluded by state secretariats of education and on data
obtained from private enterprises. These estimates are expressed in September
1974 US dollars. The estimated average school construction cost ranges from
US$130 to US$260 equivalent per square meter of the gross floor area including
site development cost. These costs per square meter have been adjusted to
reflect the maximum use of local building materials and economical norms and
standards in the design and construction of the buildings. Nevertheless,
these costs and the estimated costs per student place are on the high side



- 18 -
relative to other Bank/IDA-financed projects in Latin America. The wide
range in cost is due to differences between the Project States in transpor-
tation costs and availability of local skilled labor and building materials.
However, the unit cost per student served will be economical, as the project
institutions will be used intensively on a multiple-shift basis (paras. 5.04,
5.05).   Added to the base cost estimates are contingency allowances for
(a) unforeseen factors equal to 10% of the base cost estimates; (b) expected
price increases of 14% for 1974, 11% for 1975, 7.5% in the subsequent three
years, which were estimated on the basis of general domestic inflation rates
adjusted for the expected devaluation in cruzeiros. As the costs of civil
works and equipment are expected to rise at the same pace as the general
domestic inflation rate, the same price increase factors are applied to both
categories of expenditures. The total price contingency amounts to 25% of
local and foreign cost items, including physical contingencies and all con-
tingencies amount to US$15.2 million or 35% of the base cost estimates (Annex 7).
5.13      Since most of the building materials, furniture and equipment to
be provided under the proposed project are locally produced, the foreign ex-
change component is low, estimated at US$6.7 million or 11% of the total
project cost. It has been calculated based on experience from the first
education project as follows: site works, building construction and profes-
sional services, 10%; furniture and equipment, 10%; and technical assistance,
27%.
5.14      The proposed Bank loan of US$23.5 million equivalent would finance
about 40% of the total project cost, estimated at US$58.7 million equivalent,
including all of the foreign exchange component and US$16.8 million of the
local expenditures. The Federal government and the State governments will
contribute 40% and 20% respectively to the financing of the proposed project;
assurances that state counterpart contributions will be forthcoming were
obtained from the Federal Government.
VI. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
6.01      Project Administration.  Subsidiary agreements between the Federal
Government and the Project States will be signed for the implementation of the
project. PRODEM, the federal agency responsible for coordinating and super-
vising the implementation of the first education project (Loan 755-BR), would
also be responsible for the proposed second project. PRODEM, has recently
been reorganized to implement all new projects financed through external
assistance. Implementation units responsible for specific project execution
would be able, under PRODEM's new structure, to borrow from a pool of resources
for such technical service as design work, civil works supervision and procure-
ment of furniture and equipment. A project unit within PRODEM would supervise
project implementation, coordinate activities with the ministries and states
involved in the Bank project. To fulfill these responsibilities, and to
ensure a more efficient liaison with the Bank, a full-time project manager,
an architect, and an educator have been appointed to serve full-time for the
second project in the headquarters office.



- 19 -
6.02      PRODEM would also establish regional offices in each project state
to assist in project implementation and supervision. Each regional office
would consist of a project architect and his assistant, both appointed by
PRODEM and serving full-time, and two state counterparts. PRODEM would also
prepare with the assistance of consultants, as necessary, a program for proj-
ect implementation including, among other things: (i) basic information on
educational standards; (ii) specifications for preparing designs, basic
construction standards and the building materials to be used; and (iii) unit
cost estimates for the project institutions. PRODEM would provide the states
with basic information on procedures for properly carrying out the project,
and would prepare the terms of reference and criteria for selection of con-
sultant architects acceptable to the Bank for preparation of the designs of
the project institutions in each state.
6.03      The salaries of the principal staff of the eight regional offices,
as well as those of the project director and his three assistants in PRODEM,
have been included in the project cost. Support staff, transport and other
facilities would be provided by PRODEM.
6.04      Sites.  Suitable sites for most of the project institutions have
already been selected. However, the Bank should ascertain that suitable
provisions are included in the subsidiary agreements between the Federal
Government and each Project State to ensure that each state will complete
the selection of the sites for the project institutions at least SiX months
before the scheduled commencement of detail design work.
6.05      Procurement.  Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment
would be awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines for procurement. HIowever, Brazil has a competitive
local construction industry capable of carrying out the project and foreign
contractors are unlikely to participate. An appropriate prequalification
list of contractors would be required in advance of bidding, to ensure quali-
fied bidders and efficient-work. Furniture and equipment would be grouped
to form sizeable bid packages for bulk purchasing. Items that cannot be
grouped into packages of at least US$5,000 would be procured in accordance
with the government's regular procurement procedures and would not exceed in
aggregate the equivalent of US$600,000 (corresponding to about 5% of the
total cost of furniture and equipment). Brazil has a well-developed furni-
ture and equipment manufacturing industry, and it is therefore unlikely that
many foreign firms would submit bids, except for some special equipment.
Domestic manufacturers (whose bids contain components manufactured in Brazil
equal to at least 50% of the value of the bid as defined in accordanice with
Brazilian Law) would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the c.i.f.
price or the prevailing tariff, whichever is lower. PRODEM would be respon-
sible for preparing and issuing tenders, evaluating bids, and awarding the
contracts in consultation with the Bank.
6.06      Maintenance and Operation.  The Federal Government provided assur-
ances that annual current expenditure state budgets for the project institu-
tions will include sufficient funds for their proper operation and mLaintenance.
The state secretariats of education would be responsible for the regular
inspection and repair of project school premises, furniture and equipment.



- 20 -
6.07       Disbursements.  The proposed loan of US$23.5 million would finance
40% of the estimated costs of civil works, project administration, technical
assistance, teacher training and pre-investment studies, of which US$6.7
million represents the foreign exchange component, the balance of US$16.8
million being local expenditures.  The above percentage would be adjusted as
necessary to spread disbursements over the implementation period of the
project.  Retroactive financing, not exceeding US$300,000, is recommended
for expenditures from July 1, 1974 in respect of professional services and
technical assistance costs. Undisbursed funds would be cancelled unless the
Bank agrees to use them to finance other expenses related to the project.
The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 8. The project would
be carried out in about 4-1/2 years and construction would be completed in
about 3 years (Annex 9).
6.08      Periodic Review of the Implementation of the Reform in the Project
States and of the Project. With a view to ensuring a realistic pace of imple-
mentation of the reform in the Project States, the Bank reached an agreement
with the government by which periodic reviews will be jointly undertaken with
the Bank at intervals of approximately one year, during which particular atten-
tion would be given to the questions concerning progress in: (a) the use of
the project school facilities by the catclhment population identified during
appraisal and, after school hours, by organizations such as MOBRAL and PIPMO
for adult literacy and skill training programs (paras. 5.04 and 5.05); (b)
the training of teachers and administrators for the project institutions
(paras. 5.06 and 5.07); (c) the implementation of the technical'assistance
programs (para. 5.08); and (d) the implementation of preinvestment studies
(paras. 5.09 and 5.10).
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreement has been reached with the Federal Government on the con-
tent of the subsidiary project agreements that it will sign with the Project
States to ensure that: (a) a student tracer mechanisms will be introduced in
each state for project secondary school graduates to obtain continuous feed-
back on their school preparation (para. 5.05); (b) the counterpart state con-
tribution of 20% of the project cost will be forthcoming (para. 5.14); (c) the
state governments will adopt appropriate measures for the administration and
implementation of the Project and its educational objectives (para. 6.01);
(d) sites for the project institutions will be selected before the scheduled
commencement of design work of each institution (para. 6.04); (e) sufficient
funds for the proper operation and maintenance of the project institutions
will be included in the annual current expenditure budgets of the states
(para. 6.06); and (f) periodic reviews will be undertaken with the States on
progress of the implementation of the project's educational objectives and of
the reform at large (para. 6.08).
7.02      Also, agreement has been reached with the Federal Government on:
(a) the availability of sufficient financial resources for the state
governments to implement the education reform (para. 4.07);



- 21 -
(b)  the use of project institutions after school hours by other
community groups and organizations (paras. 5.04 and 5.05);
(c) the submission to the Bank within six months of the sign:Lng
of the Loan Agreement of a comprehensive staff development
plan in respect of the project institutions (para. 5.07); and
(d) the basic scope and design of the studies to be included in
the proposed project (paras. 5.09 and 5.10).
7.03      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$23.5 million equivalent to the Federal Governament of
Brazil, repayable over a period of 30 years, including a grace period of
ten years.
October 29, 1974






APPENDIX I
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Education and Training System
Structure and the Education Reform
1.        The educational structure prevalent in the Project States consists
of a four-year primary course starting at age 7 with some schools offering a
terminal fifth and sixth year.  Lower secondary education termed "ginasio"
extends from grade five to grade eight and upper secondary or "colegio" from
grade nine to grade eleven. An educational reform of limited scope was en-
acted in 1968 providing for the introduction of lower secondary schools termed
"ginasio polyvalente" offering prevocational education at grades five through
eight. Implementation of this reform was supported by a USAID loan which fi-
nanced the construction of at least one polyvalente school in each state.  In
1971 a comprehensive education reform law was enacted integrating t:he four
year primary course with the four year ginasio course into an eight: year
first level education program to be followed by a three or four year diver-
sified secondary education program aimed at preparing students towards middle
level occupations as well as for higher education (Chart 1). Additional main
provisions of the reform are to:
(i) provide free and compulsory eight-year education, while
reducing the incidence of repeaters and dropout rates
through guidance and remedial teaching;
(ii) increase the flow of students from primary education through
ginasio (grades 5-8) by abolishing the ginasio entrance exam
(Chart 1);
(iii) consolidate the pre-vocational orientation at the ginasio
level (grades 5-8);
(iv) expand enrollments and reduce the incidence of over-aged
students through the establishment of part-time courses at
both the basic and secondary education levels (Chart 1); and
(v) improve quality of education through teacher training and
the provision of teaching/learning materials and equipment
including educational television (ETV).
2.        Automatic promotion, coupled with the goal of limiting first level
education to the 7 to 14 age group and second level education to tlaose under
21 years of age would improve the efficiency of the education system by reduc-
ing the number of overage students. For those that would be excluded from



APPENDIX I
Page 2
the regular courses during the transition period, part-time "Supletivo" courses
would be organized at both first and second educational levels.
Administration
3.        The main responsibility for formal education administration and
finance (excluding federal institutions) is in the hands of the states and
municipalities with the Federal Government assuming a coordinating and plan-
ning function and providing additional finance. The Federal Council of Edu-
cation established by law in 1961 is responsible for developing overall policy
both financial and educational, with the Ministry of Education and Culture
responsible for implementation. Each state has a State Council of Education
responsible for defining local policies and programs and a State Secretariat
of Education for their execution. While some technical assistance in educa-
tional planning is extended by the Federal Ministry to the secretariats in the
northern and north eastern states, the latter remain weak in important areas
as educational planning, curriculum development, education costing and budget-
ing and in relating education to the social and economic needs of the states.
The problem is compounded by high personnel turnover due to low salaries and
better opportunities for qualified staff in the southern states.
Basic Education (Grades 1-8)
4.        Enrollment in basic,education in Brazil increased from 12,585,190
in 1966 to 17,066,093 in 1971, an increase of 73% and representing 79% of the
6-14 age group (Annex 2). This relevant age enrollment is lower in the proj-
ect states, varying between 47% for Amazonas and 70% for Piaui. Thus, the
1971 Reform Law that established that this level of education be compulsory
and free in the public schools, has not been completely enforced, particularly
in the Project States. At ginasio level, grades 5-8, the problem of overage
students is even worse with 55% of the total enrollment in Brazil being 15
years or older. The nationwide dropout rate at this level is 44%. In com-
pliance with the 1968 Reform Law, prevocational education in home economics,
industrial arts, agriculture and commerce was introduced into the educational
systems of the states. USAID financed construction of experimental "poly-
valente schools" in four states and at least one such school was constructed
in the capital of each State. Many students however still continue to receive
only an academically oriented education.
5.        Most states have made some progress in the implementation of the
1971 Education Law by eliminating the entrance examination to grade 5 - where
practicable and providing facilities for vocational orientation in grades
5-8, either through the incorporation of existing "polyvalente schools" into
the first level system or the construction of nnew school complexes offering
facilities for the teaching of practical subjects. Several of the Project
States have under construction unified first level schools offering grades 1-
8 as required by the reform, but the bulk of the changes and expansion of the
traditional institutions particularly the ginasio level schools are yet to be
implemented.



APPENDIX I
Page 3
6.        Enrollment at the ginasio, level in Amazonas for example, increased
from 9,705 in 1966 to 23,066 in 1971, but most of the new students have been
accommodated in existing facilities utilized in two or three shifts. Maranhao,
the only state to introduce educational television, has increased ginasio
level enrollment in TV progrms from 1,304 in 1969 to 12,907 in 1973 with
retention rates of 97%. However, the program is limited to grades 5-8 in
the capital Sao Luis only and was introduced to increase education, opportunity
at minimum cost. Finally, in Sergipe, ginasio level enrollment doubled in
the period 1966-1971, but most of the ginasio schools lack workshops and
laboratory facilities for teaching pre-vocational subjects and sciences.
Secondary Education (grades 9-11)
7.        Enrollment in all types of secondary schools throughout Brazil in-
creased from 593,413 in 1966 to 1,400,000 in 1973, an annual increase of 13%
during the period. These figures include about two-thirds of overaged
students. In the Project States, enrollments increased from 42,782 in 1966
to 126,200 in 1973, an overall annual increase of 15%. The participation
rate, however, was a mere 10% of the age group, lower than the national
average. Girls constitute 57% of the enrollment in the Project States com-
pared with 53% for Brazil at large. The general academic secondary and
teacher training courses enroll about 80% of the total enrollment. Overall
dropout rate is about 34% for Brazil as a whole. About 40% of the present
enrollment in this level is in private schools. Although the govetrnment
provides a good number of fellowships for poor students who want to attend
private institutions, their required student fees, however, discriminate
against those who cannot get fellowships.
8.        About 25% of the total secondary school enrollments are in continer-
cial, technical and agricultural streams. A breakdown of these enrollments
in the project states is available for 1973 (Annex 3). Courses in the
technical and agricultural fields are offered solely in the federal financed,
and administered schools and are generally of four years' duration with
students spending the last year as trainees in an enterprise under a ?fSchool
Enterprises Integration Scheme." A wide variety of courses are of'fered by
the Federal Technical Schools in the mechanical, electrical and construction
fields and the curricula provide for more than 50% of the time to be spent
on specialized subjects and science. These schools are well-managed and
efficient. Dropout is relatively low. About 20% of the graduates enter
higher education institutions while the rest are easily placed in jobs in
various states. The Bank's first education project in Brazil is also assdst-
ing in the expansion of federal colleges in the project states: two agricul-
tural colleges in Para and Sergipe and a federal technical school in Para.
Teaching Staff
9.        Primary school teachers (grades 1-4) are characterized in all proj-
ect states by low salaries, lack of qualifications and part-time employment.



APPENDIX I
Page 4
Less than 20% of teachers employed by the municipal authorities in the proj-
ect states are qualified. Qualified teachers are graduates of training pro-
grams offered at the second level, grades 9-11. The teacher training course
is viewed by students as an easy route to the university. Thus teacher output
is greater than demand for teachers. In order to correct this situation, proj-
ect states are reducing the intake into these courses and are changing teacher
training institutions into ordinary second level schools. Also, in order to
attract and retain qualified teachers, the states are now drawing up new
statutes governing teacher salaries and benefits. The financial implications
of these statutes for the state budgets have not been assessed, though. Fur-
ther, the new proposals in preparation would affect only state teachers, while,
as stated earlier, the most acute problems exist in the municipalities.
10.       Ginasio (grades 5-8) and colegio (grades 9-11) teachers have been
trained in four year courses offered in the universities. However, most of
the emphasis in these programs has been on liberal arts and humanities and
very few teachers have been trained in science and mathematics. In 1971,
out of an estimated 20,000 science teachers in Brazil only half were quali-
fied. A similar situation exists in the Project States. To remedy this
situation USAID organized in various universities throughout the country,
including northern federal universities, training and upgrading programs
for present and future science staff consisting of the following:
(a) Short training courses - training of new personnel for first
level schools, grades 5-8 in 10 months (1,600 hrs.) full-time
courses. Between 1972 and 1974 about 480 finished these
courses.
(b)  Upgrading courses for existing staff of grades 5-8 (1,600 hours),
These courses were offered over a period of 20 months including
some vacation time.
(c) Upgrading courses of 100 hours' duration for existing science
teachers in grades 5-8. In the period November 1973 to February
1974 1,140 teachers were upgraded through this program.
(d) Upgrading courses of four weeks duration (160 hours) for existing
science teachers in second level schools (grades 9-11). In 1973,
a total of 750 teachers attended these courses.
11.       These programs started in 1972 and all the Project States have par-
ticipated. For the teaching of technical science CENAFOR, in collaboration
with USAID is organizing courses in applied physics to upgrade existing
teachers for the technical courses at the second level schools. This pro-
gram started in January 1974.
12.       Teachers of technological subjects in the Federal Technical Schools
are often engineers working full time and from local companies rendering part-
time teaching service. A continuation of this arrangement is highly desirable
as it ensures a relevance in the course content in the schools to industrial



APPENDIX I
Page 5
training needs. However, practical workshop courses are mostly taught by
skilled workers, few of whom have received adequate academic preparation.
This staff required upgrading, courses for this purpose are now being organ-
ized by CENAFOR.
Post-Secondary Technical Education
13.       In 1966 the Ministry of Education and Culture introduced into the
Federal Technical School in Rio de Janeiro, experimental three-year post-
secondary technical courses aimed at producing operational engineers (high
level technicians) with a practical orientation. Demand by industry for
the graduates of these programs was so high that the government decided to
expand the program to five other centers in Brazil and in 1971, a Bank loan
was made supporting this problem. This project is now well under way. How-
ever, none of the Operational Engineer Centers are located in the Plroject
States. Some experimentation is also being undertaken by offering post-
secondary technician training in selected universities. The resulit of these
programs are being evaluated.
Higher Education
14.       Enrollments in higher education throughout Brazil increased from
278,000 in 1968 to 476,000 in 1971 an increase of over 70%. They represented
6% of the 18-21 age group population of 7.8 million. In the Project States,
enrollments doubled during the same period reaching 21,880 students. This,
however, represents less than 2% of the relevant age group of the population
of 1.2 million. Emphasis is still placed on liberal arts and humanities and
only 17% of the enrollment is in technology and science courses. Preparatory
or pre-university courses are given in the universities throughout the coun-
try. Nearly 14,000 students were enrolled in 1971 in these courses in the
project states.
15.       Entrance to all higher education institutions requires not only the
satisfactory completion of second level education but also the passing of an
entrance examination termed "vestibular"' set by the respective faculty or
university. An effort is now under way to consolidate the various "vestibular"t
examinations of the different faculties and universities into a national one
servicing the whole country.
Non-Formal Training
16.       There are ten major organizations offering non-formal training pro-
grams in the fields of rural extension, community development, literacy edu-
cational technology, technical teachers and management training and vocational
training. Their annual budget is estimated at US$100 million. Some details
are presented below for the more important organizations which are also related
in various capacities with the objectives of the proposed project institutions.



APPENDIX I
Page 6
17.       Responsible for the organization of Brazil's literacy campaign is
MOBRAL (Movimento Brasileiro de Alfabetizacao), a foundation under the Minis-
try of Education and Culture which enjoys administrative and financial autonomy.
Reorganized in 1970, MOBRAL's financial resources derive basically from a per-
centage of the proceeds of the National Football Lottery. The organization
is managed by a central office and has state coordinating offices. Municipal
committees are responsible for thie organization and administration of programs.
These are responsible for recruitment and grouping of illiterates, finding
classroom space and appointing teachers. In 1971, there were about 18 million
illiterates in Brazil, about half of them living in the northern and northeast
region.  MIOBRAL offers three basic programs:
(a) the Functional Literacy Program enrolled about 4 million par-
ticipants and produced over 2 million literates in 1972 in
programs consisting of two hours of instruction daily for five
months;
(b) the Integrated Education Program which comprises four phases
of 240 hours each and is a follow-up activity aimed at the
newly literate to assist him/her develop permanent literacy;
and,
(c) the Community Development Program consisting of two months'
preparatory work for future enrollment in the Integrated
Education Progran.
18.       MOBRAL's goal is to reduce the illiteracy rate to less than 10%
by 1980.  Achievement of this ambitious target will depend on the availability
of sufficient teachers of adequate quality. Although brief pre-service train-
ing is given to teachers and about 100,000 of them have been trained in the
first two years of operation, a continuing shortage of teachers, coupled with
the lack of effectiveness of the follow-up programs in reaching target popula-
tion may require an extension of the target date. The high dropout rates
running as high as 50% of initial course enrollments, will also contribute
to that.
19.       Some details are presented below for other important organizations
offering non-formal training which are also related in various capacities
with the objectives of the proposed projects and the proposed project in-
stitutions. Industrial training is organized by SENAI (Servicio Nacional
de Aprendizagem Industrial) either in training centers or in enterprises.
Courses offered vary from management training to equipment operator train-
ing. The emphasis of the program is on the institutional training of ap-
prentices. Established in 1942, SENAI is directed by its National and Re-
gional Councils dominated by the National Confederation of Industry. It is
financed by a 1% tax on the payroll of industrial firms. In the project
states about 12,000 persons are trained annually in SENAI programs. Com-
mercial training is organized by SENAC (Servicio Nacional de Aprendizagem



APPENDIX I
Page 7
Comercial). This organization was established in 1946 by the National Con-
federation of Commerce. It is managed by National and Regional Administra-
tions, and is financed by a 1% tax on the payroll of commercial firms. SENAC
operates a network of training centers throughout the country and the project
states, offering commercial courses to both apprentices and adults in the proj-
ect states; annual output is about 8,000.
20.       Labor market studies establishing state training priorities, are
organized by PIPMO (Programa de Expansao e Melhoria de Ensino), a department
of the Directorate of Non-Formal Education in the Ministry of Education.
PIPMO identifies training programs and target trainee groups and undertakes
the organization of training programs through SENAI, SENAC or other public
or private organizations that have the requisite physical training facilities.
It acts as an agency for promoting urban and rural training programs and fills
the gap left by the other organizations in providing training opportunities
for employees of small-scale enterprises whether industrial, commercial or
agricultural. PIPMO organized courses are relatively short, and are arranged
to satisfy urgent local manpower needs. They are designed to facilitate rapid
absorption of the trainees into the labor force.  Training is arranged for
adolescents and adults for employment in any occupational field. Output from
the program has grown from 16,000 in 1964 to 146,000 in 1971 with an estimated
one-third of these in north - northeast Brazil. PIPMO is also planning to
organize specialized training at the first and second educational level for
students in both regular courses and part-time "Supletivo" courses.
21.       In an effort to provide adequate facilities for the training of
technical teachers, instructors and school management personnel employed in
the technical schools and training centers of the Ministry of Education, in
SENAI and SENAC, as well as of directors of training, training officers and
other personnel responsible for training activities in enterprises, the Na-
tional Center for Vocational Training (CENAFOR) was established in Sao Paulo
in 1969. CENAFOR is an autonomous agency governed by a Technical Administra-
tive Council consisting of 10 members as follows: - five representatives from
the Ministry of Education and Culture and one each from the Ministry, of Labor,
Ministry of Planning and Economic Coordination, State Government of Sao Paulo,
SENAI and SENAC. In addition to its training functions, CENAFOR is responsi-
ble for carrying out surveys, studies and research for the improvement of
vocational training and technical education. Seven regional centers have
also been established, two of these in the north-northeast located in Belem
and Rio Grande do Norte. A UNDP/ILO project has been supporting the streng-
thening and expansion of CENAFOR activities since 1972.



APPENDIX II
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND EDUATION PROJECT
The Education Financial System
1.        This appendix is intended to provide additional information on the
federal fund transfer mechanism for education/training. A detailed listing
of education finance by source and function is given in the table to the
appendix. A detailed analysis of financing of formal and non-formal educa-
tion in the Northeast States is given in the recent Bank economic report on
Brazil. 1/
2.        Since 1962, the Federal Government has depended mainly on the
National Education Fund to support state and local education expenditure.
Starting in 1967, however, this program was gradually phased out and was
replaced by three major revenue sharing funds: Education Salary Fund, Parti-
cipation Fund and Special Fund.
3.        The Education Salary Fund is a federal tax of 1.4% on the payroll
of public and private enterprises and is earmarked for exclusive use in
basic education. One half of the collected amount in each state, the state
quota, remains there. The other half, the federal quota, is redistributed
by the Federal Government according to a composite formula, which favors the
poorer, most populous and the least developed states in terms of education
attainments. The States can use the funds for either capital or recurrent
expenditure. Thus, there is a net transfer of resources through this fund
from the richer to the poorer states. In the Project States, the transferred
federal quota is larger than the state quota by about four times. This im-
plies that in these states about 80% of the transferred federal quota repre-
sents a net transfer of resources for education from the rest of Brazil.
In 1974, the Project States are to receive about 33% of the total federal
quota which accounts for about a quarter of the total federal transfer re-
venue that the eight states are expected to receive.
4.        In order to meet the increasing state expenditures associated with
the reform of basic education, the Ministry of Education had proposed that
the payroll tax rate be increased to 2.8%. This proposal is still under
discussion between ministries.
5.        The Participation Fund financed with federal income and sales taxes,
is the major revenue sharing fund in the country. This fund was established
to offset revenue losses of state and municipal governments which resulted
1/   The Economic and Social Development of Brazil, Vol. V, "Employment and
Education in the Northeast" (IBRD No.38-BR, March 12, 1973).



APPENDIX Il
Page 2
from the Tax Reform Law of 1966. One half of the Fund, which is called the
state quota, is allocated to the states and the other half, the municipal
quota, is allocated to the municipalities, both according to a composite for-
mula, which favors the largest, most populous, and poorest states. By law,
both the state and municipality, must spend at least 20% of their revenues
from this fund on education. Particularly in that case, 30% of the revenues
must be spent on capital expenditures for education.
6.        All the project states except one (the state of Maranhao) use
the Participation Fund revenues for education at higher rates than the law
requires. In fact, on the average, the rate is twice higher than the required
minimum.
7.        The Special Fund is a revenue sharing fund established specifically
for the development of the states of the north-northeast. The source and
distribution formula of this fund are similar to those of the Participation
Fund, but this fund is distributed only to the north-northeast states and
must be spent in its entirety on capital expenditures. Although the revenue
from this Fund is more or less the same as that of the Participation Fund
and can be used for any level of education, the project states have so far
used only a very small portion of it for education. However, with the in-
creasing local demand for the expansion of educational facilities, each state
may have to divert a greater portion of this fund to education.
8.        The three major revenue sharing funds support mainly formal educa-
tion. Non-formal education schemes are being financed by a variety of public
and private agencies through earmarked taxes, or other federal transfers.
The Ministry of Education collects revenues from the National Sports Lottery
and other sources and allocates them for adult literacy (MOBRAL), adult con-
tinuing education, tele-education, radio-education (Projeto Minerva), sports
education, and vocational training in all economic sectors (PIPMO). The
Ministry of Labor finances adult vocational training and a large numbetr of
scholarships in various fields. The Ministry of Agriculture, through its
state extension services (ANCAR) is involved in rather extensive trairning
schemes of adolescents and adults, especially in the areas of agriculture,
health and nutrition. The Ministry of the Interior, via its regional develop-
ment councils also expend money on all levels of education, but principally
on vocational training.
9.        The Federal Government's 1973 budgeted education expenditure of
about Cr. 2.9 billion was distributed by Ministry as follows: Cr. 2.11
billion or 72% of the total for the Ministry of Education; Cr. 0.4 billion
or 15% for the Ministry of Planning and Coordination; Cr. 0.2 billion or 7%
for the Ministry of Defense; Cr. 0.03 billion or 1% for the Ministries of
the Interior, Labor and Social Security and Transportation; and the balance
for other organizations.






... ...A...            AAA.AA    AAAAAAAAAAA-AAAAAAAAAAAAATAA                                                                     AAT           AAtAAtATAAAAATAAAAA                                                  TT
. .....T...
AAATLATAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA~AAAAAAAAtA                                   Ad...
.... .... . .... ... .                                                                                                                                T.T.7~~~~~~AAAAAATAAAAAAAAAAAAA
AAAAATAATA AAAIAAAAAAAAAAAAA         AtAAATAAAA~AAAATATAAAAAt                          AAAAAA                              .AAATAAAAAT.AA.........OTAIA
. ... ...... ... ..... .... ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     TATAAAAAA                                   ASAAA                         AAAAAA
. .. ...... .ATAAAA                                                   pAAAA                        AA             AAA
AAASAAA~~AAtAAAAAA .A~~ASAAAAdAA                 AATASAAAA           STASAAAAS                          AATA'AA AAAAAAA                AdA  AAA~U.-
AAAAAATAAA                                             SSAAAATA~~~~~~~~~~7-
... .. ..... ~   ~         AAAIAA              AA
'14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITAATA                                                                                         ATAAAAAA   AAA
1,AAATAAAAT"'ITA   AA
..AAAAAAAIA  AAAATAAATAATAAATAAAA AAAAASAATAAAAAAA  TA  AAAAAAAATI      ATA  AAAAAAtAATAAAAAtAAAT                AAATAATTA-A
. ... .... . ..AAAAAAAAAT.A.....TA
......                  ;=77~~~~~~A                   AAAAAAAAAAAAAATAAAA
....... ..                                                                                                        .........~AAATAAA  AtAASAA,
TAT ~~AAAAA SAT ptA ATSAA  A1TAT~~~~~    AAAAAAAAAAAAAA                               1-i-AAAT-



I



APPENDIX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance
1.        The implementation of the development strategy and of the proposed
project, calls for concerted efforts so that the recently introduc:ed education
reforms can be extended to meet the needs of the poorer states of the north/
northeast regions. Teaching staff for the proposed project school needs to
be trained and the staff of the state secretariats of education require ex-
tensive upgrading. For this purpose, the appraisal mission and the government
have agreed to include in the proposed project the cost of 20 man-years of
specialists' services (some 10 specialists, including 5 Brazilians) and 80
man-years of fellowships for overseas training. The total cost of this prog-
ram is estimated at US$1.4 million. This total includes some US$300,000 for
the organization of in-service training programs for local educators at the
Federal and State levels, and support expenditure (travel and per diem) for
the technical assistance specialists and materials for the training program.
It is expected that the specialists under this program will work in coordina-
tion with the UNDP/ILO/UNESCO human resource planning teams who are undertaking
an extensive national study of human resource development.  The technical as-
sistance program under this project will consist of the following specialists
and fellowships (numbers in parenthesis indicate man-years).
A.   Specialists' Services (20)
(i) Education Planning (7). An education planner, chief of
The group (3), a general educator/planner (2), and an
education economist/statistician (2). The group will be
under the direction of the National Planning Office in
the Ministry of Education. The chief of this group will
also coordinate the action of groups (ii), (iii), (iv),
(v) and (vi) that will be located in PRODEM;
(ii) Education Administration (3.0). A specialist in educa-
tion administration, overall management and supervision
(3.0). This specialist will assist the chief of group
in overall coordination of the technical assistance team
at PRODEM;
(iii) Curriculum Development (4). One or two specialists in
academic subjects (2.5) and one or two specialists in.
practical subjects (1.5). These specialists will be
located at PRODEM. Their main function would be to help
the states in planning the introduction of the new curricula;



APPENDIX III
Page 2
(iv) Teacher Training (3.0). Several short-term special-
ists in the teaching of industrial, commercial, home
economics and agricultural subjects. These would be
located at PRODEI and would help the project states to
develop in-service training programs for teachers of the
above subjects. They would also assist the curriculum
development group (3.0);
(v) Rural Education (2.0). A specialist in rural education
who would help the Project States in developing rural
education, and particularly in assessing the needs
(teachers, physical facilities, expenditures) for proper
implementation of the reform in the rural areas of these
states (2.0); and
(vi) School Building (1.0). An architect, specialist in
school buildings (1.0). This specialist, together with
groups (ii) - (v) will be under the direction of PRODEM,
but its main purpose will be to work closely with the
state secretariats of education.
B.   Fellowships for Graduate Studies Overseas (80)
The program will include about 10 man-years of fellowship
(6-18 months duration) in each one of the 8 project states
in the following related fields: education planning (2);
education administration (2); curriculum development (2);
teacher training (2); education economist (1) and school
architect (1).
2.        The planning office of MEC, with the assistance of the education
planner (para 4.10) would coordinate the entire operation financed by the
proposed project. The education planner would also assist the fellowship
committee in its recruitment and placement of the selected personnel. Special
emphasis would be given to the needs for the training of local personnel of
the project states.
3.        The specialists to be headquartered at PRODEM would be responsible
to the Project Unit Director and the specialist in education administration
would be responsible for their overall coordination and for administrative
related matters. Although the headquarters of this assistance group will be
in PRODEM in Rio de Janeiro, its main objectives would be to work closely
with the Project States secretaries of education.
4.        Thus, the curriculum and teacher training specialists will work
closely with university, federal and state education officials who are
already working on curriculum and teacher training. The architect would:
(i) assist PRODEM architects in overall architectural planning for the project
schools; and (ii) coordinate the work of the project states architects. The



APPENDIX III
Page 3
rural education specialist would help the project state officials, in charge
of rural education to identify the needs and priorities of this subsector.
The work of this specialist will serve as a basis for expanding the education
reform into the small urban communities and rural areas.
5.        About 60-80 local teachers, school administrators and architects
would each receive 6 to 18 months of training overseas at the graduate level
in the fields of education planning, curriculum development, teacher training,
education research and school construction. On return they will work, under
special contracts at the project secretariats of education and/or in the
project institutions. They will collaborate closely with the specialists in
planning and implementing the changes envisaged and in meeting the priority
needs of the education system in the north/northeast states. The proposed
schedule for implementing this technical assistance is offered in the attached
Table 1.
Pre-investment Studies
6.        Four interrelated studies to assess the implications of the imple-
mentation of the reform are included in the project. Because of this related-
ness, outputs from one study would be required as inputs by another; therefore,
a close coordination of certain study phases would be absolutely essential.
A brief summary of these studies is offered below:
(a)  a school facility and a school mapping survey, extending the
inventory exercise that has been undertaken in most states.
This survey would serve as a basic tool for long-term planning
of education development and short-term programming in each
state;
(b)  an assessment of the institutional, teacher training require-
ments to properly implement the reform in the north-northeast
states. This study would assess the qualifications of the
teaching force and the kind of teaching programs required to
train and upgrade the unqualified teachers. Also, the study
would assess the additional number of teachers required for
the enrollment expansion and the teaching training institutions
that would train these teachers;
(c) an assessment of the cost implications for implementing the
reform in the rural areas of the North-Northeast states. This
survey would assess the financial (capital and recurrent) re-
quirements for meeting the reform objectives and enrollment
targets in the rural areas of these states. Particularly, it
would evaluate the capacity of the municipal and state govern-
ments to meet these targets from expected local funds and
federal transfers; and
(d)  an assessment to achieve greater efficiency in the education
system, particularly, with reference to the overaged student:
groups in basic education.



APPENDIX III
Page 4
7.        Included in the pre-investment studies, is also an overall survey
to determine the requirements of the post-secondary technician program. This
is needed to formulate a development plan for this level of education in the
period 1975-85 and also to prepare a short-term program for the establishment
of appropriate and expanded facilities.



A]'PENDIX III
Table
BRAZIL II
Tentative Schedule for Implementation of Technical Assistance
1974          1975         1976          1977         1978        1979         To al
Quarter       Quarter      Quarter      Quarter       Quarter         rer
1  2  3 4    1  2  3 4    1  2  3 4   1  2 3  4   1234    2  3
A.  Specialists for:
(I)The Education Planning
Office HEC                                                                                                       (7.0)
ti) Iucation Planner                    x    x  x  x  x   x  x  x    x     x  x                                   3.0
(ii) General Educator                               x  x   x  x  x  x   x  s                                       2.)
(iii)  Education Economist                           x  x   x  x  x  x   x  x                                       2.0
(2)PRODEM_ Rio                                                                                                      (13.0)
(i) Education Administrator             x    x  x  x  x   x  x  x  x   x  x  x                                    3.0
(ii) Curriculum Development
Specialists                               x   x  x    x  x   x    x   x     x    xx xx  x   x               4.o
(iii) Teacher Training
Specialists                                   x  x   x  x  x  x   x  x  x  x   x  x                         3.0
(iv) Rural Education
Specialist                                    x  x   x  x  x  x   x  x                                      2.0
(v) School Architect                    x    x  x  x                                                              1.0
TOTAL                                                                                                20.0
Fcl  I oghjnn
About 16-20 Local Education
Planners,Economists and                                                                                          (20)
Architects
About 4-5 Staff Members                  x   x x  x  x         x x   x   Xxx  x   x  x xx    x x
of PRODEM                              x   xxx  x   xxx  x   x xxx   xxx  x   xx                                  (5)
About 30-35 Secondary School
Directors, Teachers and
Administrators                          x    x x x       x  x        xx     xx   xxx   x   x  x                  (35)
About 10-20 basic-education
Administrators, Teachers                x   x      x   x     x      xxx     x   xxx  x  x x            x         (20)
TOTAL                                                                                                 80
April 1974






IOI6ITAAAOTIIII                                          9611   119101          091001  It                AL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11 C  16..   11 1
Cz    IT                          11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         TA  
1110011  911109110~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,
A         1I                                       6tA                91           OA              6                    0              A
AT  1            AT            TT               6           Al              TO            OTT             1'.                  TA             TA                                                  IIAIA~I  .1-1 (101  'I,6
TA       t  T7T                                             9          A                A1            C'C               (6A                                6                                                 171LAA1
Al'  AO          T)          ITT              All~~~~~~~~~It                                                                                                        VIT    TI90M9
TLI  LA  06                             LA          Al             TAT!                                                             1 10              1101                               OL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l`  CIll IIIIII  .1Z190111                            T,A
I        T            AITI0                          IA
LI   LA   Al            0              AOt           10            tOT                                                                   A             JAb               OAt              LIII            6111 'A
069   6             06             60               OA        Alt                60                                                                LI             tOAt                              ALIT        191016IC1001T
IT 1                         T                               19         0                tJL                                                                                  TT.1                                         119
666  1  AL  01  OTt  60     All                                                               601                 TI?                             Toll           61999    A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ..   ..
TA  LA  TI  0                -T         TA                                                                                 IA              lAST~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
111   .6   091            0                00          TT               TI                                                                Al                                               6161             0111   '9~~~~~~~~~-Q  "
N  Tt      91            0~ ~~~        ~~~         ~  ~~     ~ LIT  A   t            1 16                                                    9                   6    0    6                11    -
OTT   0961   TI   0   011   6,   TAL                    1061                                  61                OTt                             TOTA            11099~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 11
6111                IC                91              00              10          A            CO                                                                    TI              001              JIT               110.1<.   91
.  ........                                   -7               A-.l..6 .L.T.                                                                                                                                                 1116ll~
AT      AT                It ~~I TI                        T           6               AlI                                                                               9TAITJT1t A11I






BRAZIL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Actual and Projected Enrollment in Basic Education (Primary: Grades 1-4, Cinasio: Grades 5-8)
1966. 1971 and 1976, 1980
ANNUAL GROST
ACTUAL                        PROJECTED -(in OOO's)             IN PERCEiTAGES
-1966           1971                    1976        1980               1966-71   1971-80
A. BRAZIL:
All States (Total)           (12,585,190)    (17,066,093)              (22,600)    (28,300)*             (6.3)    (5.8)
Primary (1-4)               10,695,391      13,623,368                17,300      21,200
Ginasio (5-8)                1,889,799       3,442,705                 5,300       7,100
B. PROJFCT STATES:
1 - Alagoas (Total)               (160,281)       (242,467)                 (320)        405               (8.6)    (5.8)
Primary                       143,705         208,996                   275         350
Girasio                        16,576          33,471                    45          55
2 - AmLzonas (Total)              (100,414)       (125,196)                 (170)       (215)              (4-5)    (6.2)
Primary                        90,709         102,132                   140         175
Girasio                         9,705          23,o66                    30          40
3 - Marenhao (Total)              (256,155)        (409,046)                (635)       (920)              (9-8)    (9-3)
Primary                       234,257         351,710                   550         790
Ginasio                        21,898          57,336                    85         130
4 - Para (Total)                  (294,522)        (392,570)                (530)        (665)             (5-9)    (6.1)
Primary                       259,126         327,462                   44         560
Ginasio                        35,396           65,108                   90         105
- Paraiba (Total)               (276,483)        (354,826)                (535)        (740)             (5.1)    (8.6)
Primary                       250,287         302,639                   455         6k0
Ginasio                        26,196           52,187                   80         100
6 - Piaui (Total)                 (165,534)        (281,178)                (455)        (670)            (11.2)   (20.2)
Primary                       147,272          248,915                  400         600
Ginasio                        18,262           32,263                   55          70
7 - Rio Grande Do Norte (Total)   (202,125)        (271,693)                (395)        (535)             (6.1)    (7.9)
PriLrBy                       184,128         238,116                   350         475
GOisio                         17,997           33,577                   45          60
8 - Sergipe (Total)               (104,362)        (158,051)                (215)        (275)             (8.1)    (6-3)
Primary                        91,619          136,455                  185         235
Ginasio                        12,743           21,596                   30          40
GRAND TOTAL (PROJECT STATES)        (1,559,876)      (2,235,029)              (3,255)      (4,425)              (7.5)    (7.8)
C. States not specified on
this table (Total)             (11,025,314)    (14,831,064)              (19,345)    (23,875)               (6.0)    (5-5)
* About 2,000,000 of this total will be atterding special
sappletive courses for overaged students.
SOURCE: Ministry of Education and Bank Staff Projections.
July 1974



ANNEX 3
BRAZ IL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Actual and Projected Enrollment in Secondary Education (Grades 9-11/12) in Brazil
1966, 1973 and 1980
PAsOJJTED         A1,iUAL GCiMWTH
ACTUAL                  (in4Os)*          IN PERCENTAGES
_1966            1973            1980          166-73    1973-80
A. BRiZIL (Totals All States)
Secondary Education (Grades 9-11/12)  (593,413)       (1,400,000)       (3,400.0)          13.0       8.0
General Secondary                      292,200         689,500          1,700.0
Industrial                              34,300           81,000           300.0
Agricultural                             5,800           12,000            30.0
Commercial                             129,000         306,000            700.0
Teacher Training                       132,113          311,500           670.0
B. PROJ1ECT STATES
Alagoas (Total)                         (5,581)         (15,000)           (45.0)         15.0       17.0
General                                 2,600            6,950            26.0
Industrial                                370            1,000             2.0
Agricultural                               30               50              1.0
Commercial                                670            1,800             4.0
TeacherTraining                         1,911            5,200            12.0
AMAZONAS (Total)                           (2,821)         (11,000)           (38.0)         22.0       19.4
General                                   925            3,672            12.0
Industrial                                350            1,190             4.0
Agricultural                               -                38             1.0
Commercial                                720            2,850            10.0
Teacher Training                          826            3,250            11.0
MANHAO (Total)                            (5,463)          (22,000)          (66.0)          22.0      17.0
General                                2,300             9,300            30.0
Industrial                               256             1,048             2.0
Agricultural                              37               152             4.0
Commercial                               820             3,300            10.0
Teacher Training                       2,050             8,200            20.0
PARIL (Total)                             (9,474)          (21,000)          (56.0)          12.0      15.0
General                                4,184             9,300            25.0
Industrial                               520             1,160             3.0
Agricultural                              57               127             0.3
Commercial                             2,160            4,800             13.0
Teacher Training                       2,553            5,613             14.7
PARAIBA (Total)                           (7,186)          (19,000)           (40.0)         15.0      11.0
General                                4,766            12,550            26.o
Industrial                               260               700             1.4
Ahricultural                             110               250             0.5
Commercial                               700             1,850             4.0
Teacher Training                       1,350             3,650             8.1
FIAUl (Total)                             (4,024)          (14,000)           (40.0)         20.0      16.0
General                                1,934            6,700             19.0
Industrial                               230              800              1.8
Agricultuia l                             40               140             O.9
Commercial                               640            2,240              7.0
Teacher Training                       1,180            4,120             11,3
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE                       (4,904)          (14,200)           (30.0)         16.0,    11.3
General                                2,570             7,450            16.0
Industrial                               288               830             1.5
Agricultural                              76               220             0.5
Commercial                               870             2,500             5.0
Teacher Training                       1,100             3,200             7.0
SERGIPE                                   (3,329)          (10,000)           (19.0)         17.0       9.7
General                                1,270            3,820              7.0
Industrial                               240               720             1 .3
Agricultural                             149               440             0.8
Commercial                               770             2,320             4.5
Teacher Training                         goo             2,700             5.4
GRAND TOTAL PROJECT STATES               (42,782)         (126,200)         (334.0)          16.0-     15.0
C. OrHER STATES NOT INCLUDED
ON1 THIS TABLE                      (550,631)       (1,273,800)       (3,066.0)
* About 200,000 overaged students will be enrolled in the suppletive courses.
SOURCE: Ministry of ducation and BELnk staff projections.
July 1974



BRAZIL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Public Education Expenditure in the Project States (1974)
(in Cr. 000's)
St&te         By Source (26                          State Education
Education    State    Federal                        Expenditure as    9 of State       % of Federal  % of Parti,'ipa-    % of Special
Expe qi_    Own       Tran-       By Category (X)  % of State Total Own Revenues    Transfer on    tion Fun Z on           Fund oM Edu-
tureJ        Revenue  fe:V      Recurrent Capital   Expenditure         on Education    Education       Education6/        catioN/
1.  Alagoas         56,020        65        35         99        1           16                16               18              45                 15
2. Amazonas         64,718        54        46         82       18           15                17               13              27                  0
3. Maranhao         84,607        48        52        n.a.     n.a.          11                11               12               8                  1
4. Para             91,804        42        58         66       31k/         17                15               18              52                  4
5. Paralba          61,928         53       47         75       25           16                 15              18              54                   1
6. Piaui            92,075        403/      603/       64-'     36-V         21                13               37              347"                 97/
7. R. G. Norte      69,847        41        59         66       3'L/         24                16               40              37                   0
8. Sergipe          43,416         22]/    78-3/       73/      273/         17                 9               25              59                  30
Eight-State
Average                    46        54                               17                14               23              40                   8
These budget estimates include all expenditures on education and culture but exclude Central Government's direct expenditures and municipal
expenditures in the States.
Includes Participation Fund (the state quota), Education Salary Fund (the federal quota), Special Fund, and other transfers.
/ 1973 data.
Includes capital transfers to Secondary Education Foundations.
The state quota.
1973 data.
1/1972 data.
July 1974



BRAZIL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Enrollments and Teacher Recuirements for the Project Institutions
BASIC EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS (Grades 1-8)                                     SECONDARY EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS (Grades 9-11)
Schools         Centers         Total       Total        Total                   Schools          Centers         Total   _,Toa            Total
No. of Enroll-  No. of Enroll-  Enroll-         Tota          School             No. of Enroll-  No. of  Enroll-  Enrotll         T             School
Units    ment    Units    ment      ment    Teachers l/ Administrators           Units    ment    Units    ment       ment    Teachers 2J  Administrators
Alagoas                            1      1,820      1      1,920    3,740       89              16                 3       3,600     2       3,840    7,440       224             32
Amazonas                           2       2,620                      2,620      90              14                 1       1,200     1       2,400    3,600       103             18
Maranhao                           1       1,600     1       3,000    4,600      110              18                3       3,360      1      1,920    5,280        183            24
Para                               2       3,260                      3,260     108              17                 1       1,440     1       2,1400    3,840      110             19
Paraiba                            I       1,600                      1,600      60               8                 3       3,720                       3,720      150            19
Piaui                              1       1,920                      1,920      75              10                 3       3,720     2       3,840    7,560       249             34
Rio Grande Do  Norte               2       3,200                      3,200     126               16                3       4,560      1      1,920    6,480       232             37
Sergipe                                              3      2,880    2,880        48               9                2       2,400      4      7,440    9,840       295             36
GRAND TOTAL                 10     16,020      5      7,800   23,820      706             108                19      24,000    12      23,760   47,760    1,546             219
1/ The pupil:teacher ratio for the basic schools is 30:1 and for
the centers about 60:1 (based on the number of Ptudents served).
2/ The pupil:teacher ratio for the second level schools is 24:1 and for
the centers about 40:1 (based on the number of students served).
July 1974



BRAZIL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Summarv of Estimated Costs
(In US dollars)
Exchange Rate: US$1.00 - Cr$6.90
Total
Student      Enrollment          Aria        Site                                             Professional   Project   Tech.Assist.    Total           Cruzeiros
S t a t e a               Places      (Multi Shifts)         m         Works    Building   Furniture   Equipment          Services       Admin.    Int. Train.   US Dollars    (000's)
1 AL        Alagoas                          3,990         11,180           22,300    318,014   2,649,391    379,898    1,368,696          207,783        sit,493      504,435       5,539,7-0   36,224,uOO
2 AM        Amazonas                         2,510          6,220           14,550    413,609   3,446,666    256,580         810,311       270,319         111,493      504,435      5,813,413   40,112,550
3 MA        Maranhao                         3,460          9,880           21,035    324,855   2,706,884    879,870          843,174      360,130         111,493      504,435      5,730,841   39,542,800
4 PA        Para                             2,950          7,100           16,100    354,333   2,951,681    264,869          842,274       231,435        111,493      504,435      5,260,520   36,297,590
5 PB        Paraiba                          2,660          5,320           14,770    215,985   1,799,899    240,913          772,536       141,101        111,493      504,435      3,786,362   26,125,900
6 PI        Piaui                            3,780          9,460           22,790    326,638   2,722,058    378,377    1,260,927           213,420        111,493      504,435      5,517,348   38,069,700
7 RN        Rio Grande do Norte              4,360          9,680           23,280    330,000   2,749,739    370,130    1,137,53G           215,623        111,493      504,435      5,418,956   37,390.800
8 SE        Sergipe                          4,080         12,720           23.010    338,493   2,820,579    385,493    1,516,982           221,116        111,493      504,435      5,898,591   40,700,280
Total                        27,790         71,580          157,835  2,621,927  21,846,897  3,156,130    8,552,436    1,860,927             891,944   4,035,480    42,965,741  296,463,620
Contingencies
Physical Increase                                                    262,000   2,185,000    316,000         855,000       186,000         89,000      403,000      4,296,000   29,642,400
Price    Increase                                                    682,000   5.680.000    821,000    2,223,000          279,000        214,000   1,089,000    10,988,000   75,817,200
Total Contingencies                                                     944,000   7,865,000  1,137,000    3,078,000          465,000        303,000   i,492,000       L5,264,000  1057,459, W0
Preparation of Possible
Third Education Project                                                                                                                                                    500,000     3,450,000
Grand Total                                                           3,565,927  29,711,897   4,293,130  11,630,436    2,325,927          1,194,944   5,527,480    58,749,741  405,373,220
Sept. 1974 prices
July 1974



BRAZIL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Contingency Allowances
(US$ 000)
Furniture  Equipment      Professional        Project           Technical
Site Works         Building       Furniture           Equipmelt         Services       Administration      Assistance         TOTAL
Local   Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign Local I Foreign
Physical Increase              10%       10%       10%    10%      10%      10%        10%    10%      10%       _         10%       -     10%      10%         10%
Price Increase                 24%       24%       24%    24%      23%      23%        24%    24%      14%                 22%       -     25%      25%        23%
Total Project Cost
Without Contingencies   2,360         262    19,662  2,185    2,841   316        7,697    855       1,861    _         892        _     2,946   1,090    42,967
Physical Increase              236        26      1,966    219       284    32        770      85        186    -           89       -       295      109      4,297
Price Increase                 614        68      5,112    568       710    79      2,001    222         279    -          214       -       795      294    10,956
Total Contingencies            850        94      7,078    787       994   111      2,771    307         465    -          303       -     1,090      403    15,253
Total Project Cost
(including contingencies) 3,210         356    26,740  2,972    3,835   427    L0,468  1,162          2,326    _       1,195              4,036   1,493    58,220
Preparation of Possible
Third Education Project                                                                                                                                        500
GRAND TOTAL
July 1974



BRAZIL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
FIRST YEAR     SECOND YEAR    THIRD YEAR      FOURTH YEAR      FIFTH YEAR
1  2 3  4      5  6  7  8      9 10 11 12     13 14 15 16      17 18 19 20
A. CIVIL WORKS
Acquisiticn and Survey of Sites          x  x  x
Selection/Appointment of Architects          x  x
Architects Briefs Preparation            x  x
Preliminary Drawings                            x      X C x  x
TWorking Drawings
Construction Bid Documents                            x  x  x  x     x  x
Tenders and Contract Awarding                               x  x     x  x  x
Construction                                                   x     x  x  x  x   x                   .  .
B. FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT
MASTER LISTS - BID DOCUMENTS                 x     x  x  x
Tenders and Contract Awarding                               x  x      x  x
Manufacturing-Reception-Installation                                        x  x    x  x  x  .        .  .  .       0
C.  PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                 x  x  x x    x  x  x  xx    x   x    x    x  x  x  x        x  x  x            on
D.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE               |      x  x t         x  x      x  x  x  x    x  x  x  x        x  x  x    C        C+
September 1974



ANNEX 9
BRAZIL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(U8' vuU S)
ACCUMULATED    UNDISBURSED
YEAR            SEMESTER        DISBURSEMENTS      DISBURSEMENTS     BALANCE
23.*5DO
1975               1                136                136           23,364
2               417                 553           22,947
1976               3              1,421              1,97h           21,526
4              3,559              5,533           17,967
1977               5              5,966             11,499           12,001
6              5,847             17,346            6,154
1978               7              3,555             20,901            2,599
8              1,669             22,570              930
1979               9                672             23,242              258
10                258             23,500
July 1974



BRAZIL
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
1973
BASIC EDUCATION                               SECONDARY EDUCATION                        HIGHER LEVEL EDUCATION
1/               (FIRST LEVEL EDUCATION)                        (SECOND LEVEL EDUCATIONI
GRADES   1       2     3      4         5      6      7      8             9      10    11                          12    13    14    15    16    17
I    Iii                      l ii                                       II                                                      II,  ll l l  
AGES      7     E      9      10        11    12    13    14              15    16    17                            18    19    20    21    22    23
LABOR FORCE
NORMAL
(TEACHER TRAINING)                   GINASIO LEVEL TEACHERS                                      _
-0-0                                             2~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TECHNICAL                 TECHNICAL COURSES                                          BS8
AGRICULTURAL                           (1-3 Ye=rs)
B
0
U-  PRIMARY EDUCATION                ~~~~~LOWER CYCLE                                                  ENGINEERtING,
J               PRIMARY EDUCATION                  (GINASIO)                     COMMERCIAL                         JOURNALISM,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION,                                        '
B:                                                                               TECHNICAL         _   L_           NURSING, NUTRITION,
.   GENERAL* 
f    ;                      ~~~~~~~~ACCOUNTING, ACTUARIAL&__
|  3  |   9    6 i   .        ~~~AGRONOMY,-
-             ,               ~~~~~~~~~DENTISTRy,                                          u
INTEGRATED COURSE                                  COLEGIO                          PHILOSOPHY. SCIENCE& LETTERS                                L
(FIRST LEVEL EDUCATION)  _        __         (SECOND LEVEL EDUCATION)                  (LICENCIADO-GENERAL                                -- q     ;;
SECON DARY LEVEL TEACHERS)
Z          |                                                                                          >   _         SOCIAL STUDIES & SERVICES, 
2                                                                                                                   E NG&IN EE RI)NG
cc                        SUPPLEMENTARY PART TIME COURSES                                                           LAW
O         2)                                              ---   ----                                                PHILOSOPHY
_L1;_o _r{L}{ }  
FINE ARTS 13-S YEAR COURSE)0
MEDICINE
KEY:
o  ENTRANCE EXAMINATION TO SECONDARY                                                                                                                                          os
EDUCATION, TO BE PHASED OUT                                                                        _
o MAJOR EXAMINATtONS                                                _ Z
*  UNIVERSITY ENTRANCE EXAMINATION                                          NON-FORMAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING. (MOBRAL, PIPMO, SENAC, CENAFOR. ETC.)
NOTES:                                                                                                                                                              L
AGE RELATIONSHIP APPLIES ONLY
WHEN STUDENTS ENTER PRIMARY
SCHOOL AT AGE 7 & DO NOT
REPEAT A CLASS.
2/ HAS NO RELATIONSHIP WITH
AGE GROUPS
PROGRAM TO BE PHASED OUT
World B=.k-86E4E4RI



BRAZI L
ADMINISTRATION OF EDUCATION 1974
S        M C ITJ  ECABINET|
I  . i    77I
L[GENERAL SECR ETARIAT] |     |GENERAL INSPECTORATE |              SECRETARIAT OF ADMIN-1
OF FINANCE                         ISTRATIVE SUPPORT
Department of    Department of    Department of    Department of    Department af    Department of    D         f     Department of
Fundamental       Secondary        University    Sports & Physical    Cultural      Complementary    Administration       Support
Education        Education         Affairs         Education         Affairs         Education
o_-_-_---  --- - -  --r--o-----X 1    ---1-
AUTONOMOUS FOUNDATIONS AND
GOVERNMENT ENTITIES
LEGEND:
CFE  =FEDERAL COUNCIL OF EDUCATION                                         DSI = DIVISION OF PUBLIC RELATIONS
CFC  -FEDERAL COUNCIL OF CULTURE                                           CJ  =LEGALCOUNCIL
CNMC = NATIONAL COMMISSION OF MORALS & CIVICS                              CNSS = NATIONAL COUNCIL OF SOCIAL SERVICES
CND -NATIONAL COUNCIL OF SPORTS
SOURCE: Ministry of Education, 1974
World Bank-8693(2R) t t)



BRAZIL
EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID
t971
GRADES  ENROL[MFNT  LEVEL    TOTAL   PFRCENT OF
AGE GROUP
16 jI7  33                                                                                   24    9
156  52                                                                                    34  is
1 4  65         HIGHER      472       6%                                                  42  23
13  95                                                                                    57   38
12 227                                                                                 18| 10
0I j         SECONDARY   1116        186%
BOYS                                                                              GIRLS
81546')23                                                                                    ~         7
GINASIO    4006       36%
5  771                                                          92,1                        1850
4 1745                                                           2                                                     2
2   22'10                                                                                                                     10
t l PRIMARY   13,055                126%
2 10                                                                  1,503                                                               l,0
2 3666~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-
I36064
3000)                        2000                        1000                          01n                                                      0030
000's
OVERAGED



BRAZIL
EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID
PROJECT STATES
1971
GRADFS  ENROLLMENT      LEVEL       TOTAL      PERCENT OF
{    }                                   AGE GROUP
5/6  2   |. 
4  4                                                                                                2  2
3  5               H IGHER      37           1.8%                                                   2  3
2  7                                                                                               3   4
29                                                                                           12     1 D
SECONDARY      88          10%                                                  13      15
BOYS                                                                                        GIRLS
_2  J                                                                                          4 [     |18R
4 57                                                                                          26 1g31
{3 -              GINASIO      332           22%
2 89   |40                                                                                                       1   | 0E49
1 123                                                                                60   [:[t 0[                  63
4I137                                                                                     9               6
000 's
E OVERAGED
WOrl dankR 135%78        C]



I BR D-1 1285
40                                                                    481                                                                     440 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&OCTOBER 1974
r4111/  z  /   X                                               BR AZ I L
6 RyX tISNBE[EM                                                                     SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(   ;   , A                        o   N   4    5                                          I G - 10                                                   -
a            *1,                                               St( /S l~   02G-139            AII3Ie
MANAUIS
<    I                             ,                                 V                        X          1t                 f                                    afr   --<<>10 ,D
,0O   ,   g  /   Ay  /  t.ri  A 10s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 'OIl  .
MPERATRIZ              T R  IImos3c,R                                              Z
'                                                    if         }                t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-1                              -1313-6 
I'Udz  Anls>rzemeGl or o re / M /J                                                         /         I              '                        ( ~2.
World Svet mJlSs .lalwle                                                     e                                                           r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S ALVADOR
0: 8 i, , i                                                                                                                                          -       ,        8 A    BASIC LEVEL SCHOOL S  GRADES 1aA
-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-4
tG 10                                                                                                                                                                                             GR ECOARSCOL    ADSVI
a'                                                                                                             a                                                                                    Q 'X\        COMMON FACILITIES CENTERS-GRADSES S-Il
PAVE12  ROADSE
~~~~~~~BRAZIL   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRC
Sol "!d A                    ,9vL  AII                                                                                                                                                                     UNJPAVED ROADS                      E
W,AMEPCA               -                                                                                                                                                                             I      SAIE 5 0 UNDARiE S
45a                                                                   -R - ;     = _ RIVERS
-  511  54a                          540                               44a                               40a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0OZ 3



