Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF FSP TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF057269 HU 
 
Global Environment Facility
 
Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement
 
(Geothermal Power Pilot Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
and 
 
MOL HUNGARIAN OIL AND GAS PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
 
Dated November 21, 2006  
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
GEF FSP TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF057269 HU 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND 
GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated November 21, 2006, entered into between 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVLOPMENT (“World 
Bank”), acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (“GEF”); 
and MOL HUNGARIAN OIL AND GAS PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY 
(“Recipient”). 
 
The World Bank and the Recipient hereby agree as follows: 
 
Article I 
 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
 
1.01. 
The “Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various 
Funds”, dated July 20, 2006 (“Standard Conditions”) attached in Section II of the 
Appendix to this Agreement constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in 
this Agreement.  
 
Article II 
 
The Project 
 
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).  To this end, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the 
Standard Conditions and those of the United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate Change. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
2
-
-
Article III 
 
The Grant 
 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to three 
million seven hundred twenty thousand United States Dollars (US$3,720,000) 
(“Grant”) to assist in financing the Project. 
 
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Article IV 
 
Additional Remedies 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension referred to in Section 4.02 (i) of the 
Standard Conditions consist of the following:   
 
(a) 
Ineligibility.  
IBRD or IDA has declared the Recipient ineligible to
 
be
awarded a contract financed by
 
IBRD or IDA. 
 
(b) 
The Government Resolution or the Articles of Association have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of the Recipient to carry out the Project 
or to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
Article V 
 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
5.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the World 
Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the conditions specified below 
have been satisfied: 
 
(a) 
The execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient 
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and 
corporate action. 
 
(b) 
The condition of the Recipient, as represented or warranted to the World 
Bank at the date of this Agreement, has undergone no material adverse 
change after such date. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall have paid to the Bank the non-refundable processing 
fee in United States Dollars in an amount equal to ten thousand United 
Page  5
3
-
-
States Dollars (US$10,000) and a premium in United States dollars in an 
amount equal to three percent (3%) of the Insurable Expenses, as such 
premium amount shall be converted into United States Dollars using the 
exchange rate quoted in paragraph 4, Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
5.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 5.01 (a), there shall be 
furnished to the World Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the World Bank 
of counsel acceptable to the World Bank showing, on behalf of the Recipient, that 
this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered 
on its behalf, and is legally binding upon it in accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
Except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, this Agreement 
shall enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank dispatches to the 
Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence required pursuant to Section 5.01 
(“Effective Date”).  If, before the Effective Date, any event has occurred which 
would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account if this Agreement had been effective, the 
World Bank may postpone the dispatch of the notice referred to in this Section 
until such event (or events) has (or have) ceased to exist.  
 
5.04. 
This Agreement and all obligations of the parties under it shall terminate if it has 
not entered into effect by the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, 
unless the World Bank, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes 
a
later date for the purpose of this Section.  The World Bank shall promptly notify 
the Recipient of such later date. 
 
Article VI 
 
Recipient’s Representative; Addresses 
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is the President for Exploration and Production of the Recipient. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Public Limited Company 
Október huszonharmadika u. 18. 
1117 Budapest 
Republic of Hungary 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(36-1) 464-1760 
 
Page  6
4
-
-
6.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 
and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at Budapest, Republic of Hungary, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the  
 
Global Environment Facility 
 
By /s/ Suman Mehra 
Authorized Representative 
 
MOL HUNGARIAN OIL AND GAS PUBLIC LIMITED 
 
COMPANY 
 
By /s/ Attila Holoda 
 
 
                
Authorized Representative 
 
By /s/ Tamas Tarnai 
 
      
 
       
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
5
-
-
Additional clause on MOL’s copy: 
 
Megállapítás Szervezet Dátum 
Név 
Aláírás 
Szakmailag rendben 
Geotermikus 
Pilot Projekt 
2006. 11.13 
Kujbus Attila 
 
Jogilag rendben 
Jog 
2006. 11.13 
Dr. Boronyai 
Orsolya 
 
Pénzügyileg rendben 
Kontrolling 
2006. 11.14 
 
 
Kockázatkezelés 2006. 
11.14  
 
Treasury 2006. 
11.14 
 
 
Számvitel 2006. 
11.14 
 
 
Adó 2006. 
11.14 
 
 
Page  8
6
-
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase the share of electricity from renewable 
energy sources in the Republic of Hungary
’s grid mix. 
 
The Project consists of the following: provision of a Geological Risk Insurance 
scheme to cover the short-term geological risk in connection with the drilling and testing 
expenses related to geothermal energy operations undertaken by the Consortium led by 
the Recipient. 
Page  9
7
-
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
MOL, the Operator of the Consortium 
 
The Recipient shall have exclusive responsibility for the carrying out the Project, 
being solely responsible for any action taken by any party to the Consortium which may 
affect the efficient implementation of the Project. 
 
B
.
Procedures for Claim Filing and
 
Terms and Conditions of the Geological 
Risk Insurance 
 
For the purposes of filing of a claim for compensation under the Geological Risk 
Insurance scheme under the Project, the Recipient shall submit to the World Bank a 
Verification Report before the Closing Date, which shall include the following 
information: (i) an assessment of geothermal parameters by an independent entity 
satisfactory to the World Bank; (ii) an audited report of the Insurable Expenses actually 
incurred prepared by an auditor acceptable to the World Bank; and (iii) a record of the 
Exploration Activities actually performed by the Recipient or its contractors. 
 
Failure by the Recipient to complete the envisaged Exploratory Activities or to 
submit the Verification Report satisfactory to the World Bank before the Closing Date 
shall result in the denial of the underlying claim and termination of this Agreement 
without any liability to the Recipient. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
Project Reports 
 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard 
Conditions on the basis of the information on the statements of Insurable Expenses.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to 
the World Bank not later than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such 
report. 
 
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
A. General 
 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of: (i) Article III of the Standard Conditions; (ii) this Section; and (iii) such 
Page  10
8
-
-
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as 
revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement 
pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures consisting of the Adjusted 
Compensation Amount as such Amount shall have been determined by the World Bank, 
and which shall exclude any expenditures for goods, works or services related to the 
carrying out of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Maximum Compensation Amount shall be determined on the basis of the 
estimated cost in Hungarian Forint (HUF) of the Insurable Expenses listed in Attachment 
1
hereto.  The maximum liability of the Bank shall not exceed in any event eighty-five 
percent (85%) of the estimated cost of the Insurable Expenses as converted into United 
States Dollars (“Maximum Compensation Amount”) at the exchange rate determined in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of this Section.  
 
3. 
The Maximum Compensation Amount shall be subject to adjustment during the 
claim filing process stipulated above in Part B of Section I on the basis of the Insurable 
Expenses actually spent and as reported in the Verification Report.  If the sum of the 
amount actually spent for each item under the Insurable Expenses does not exceed the 
Insurable Expenses as originally estimated, eighty-five percent (85%) of such actual sum 
shall become the Adjusted Maximum Compensation Amount as denominated in United 
States dollars at the exchange rate determined in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 4 of this Section.  For such purposes, Attachment 2 hereto defines the 
parameters of success, failure and partial failure, and the methodology to calculate the 
Adjusted Compensation Amount. 
 
4. 
The exchange rate applicable in calculating the Maximum Compensation 
Amount and the Adjusted Maximum Compensation Amount under this Agreement shall 
be 213.89 Hungarian Forints per 1 United States Dollar. 
 
5. 
If and to the extent the World Bank determines that a payment shall be made 
under the Project, such payment shall: (i) be denominated in United States Dollars; (ii) be 
made within thirty (30) days after the submission of Verification Report; and (iii) be 
credited to the bank account to be designated by the Recipient at the time of claim filing. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for Exploration Activities undertaken prior to the date of this Agreement; 
or 
 
(b) 
for any payment for Taxes levied by or in the territory of the Member 
Country in respect of the amounts to be paid hereunder. 
Page  11
9
-
-
2.
 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard Conditions is 
September 30, 2007.  The Bank may extend the Closing Date by notice to the Recipient 
by one (1) month upon payment by the Recipient of an extension fee amounting to ten 
thousand United States dollars (US$10,000). 
 
Section IV. 
Other Undertakings
The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
use all reasonable, due and usual care and skill in conducting the 
Exploration Activities; 
 
(b) 
comply with all laws and regulations applicable in undertaking and 
conducting the Exploration Activities; 
 
(c) 
take all measures necessary to carry out the Environmental Management 
Plan in a timely manner, ensuring adequate information on the implementation of said 
measures is suitably included in the Project Reports; 
 
(d) 
maintain the financial, technical and engineering records of the 
Exploration Activities; and 
 
(e) 
promptly notify the World Bank of any material changes in the 
Exploration Activities (including material physical damages) or the organizational and 
ownership arrangement of the Consortium. 
 
Page  12
10
-
-
Attachment 1 
 
Insurable Expenses 
 
1. Well Completion
No. Activity 
Cost 
(M 
HUF) 
1
Site preparations 
151.3 
2
Drilling, Well completion 
227.6 
3
Transportation of materials 
16.4 
4
Operation material 
22.5 
5
Rental costs 
7.8 
6
Cementing, pumping, compressing services 
15.3 
7
Services 82.6 
8
Well construction material 
53.8 
9
Supervision 16.4 
10 Technical 
insurance 
28 
11 Aciding 
and 
other 
61.1 
Total 682.8 
2. Surface Facilities
No. Subject 
Cost 
(M 
HUF) 
1
Well-area works 
4 
2
Pipeline (1300 m.) 
26 
3
Equipments, machinery, including Electrical 
Submersible Pump 
83 
4
Technological implementation 
11 
5
Control engineering 
11 
6
Electric supply 
9 
7
General construction 
4 
8
Health Safety and Environment 
1 
9
Investment services, including technical 
planning 
21 
Total 170 
3. Testing Process
No. Subject 
Cost 
(M 
HUF) 
1
Short term testing services 
18 
2
Long term testing services 
18 
3
Energy supply 
4 
Total 40 
Page  13
11
-
-
4. General and Administration
No. Subject 
Cost 
(M 
HUF) 
1
Salaries, wages 
8 
2
Services 35 
Total 43 
Insurable Expenses: 
(1. + 2. + 3. + 4.) HUF 935.8 million. 
 
Page  14
12
-
-
Attachment 2 
 
Parameters of Success/Failure and the GRI Payment
 
The following will be used as the geothermal parameters and threshold values to 
determine the success and failure of the Exploration Activities. 
 
Parameter: 
 
Geothermal water flow rate produced and reinjected measured at the production 
wellhead, as stated in the Verification Report. 
 
Threshold values: 
 
Exploration Activities are considered as total success, partial success, or total 
failure at the following threshold values.  
 
Total success
:
2,100
cubic meters per day or higher (
“Upper Threshold Value”). 
Total failure
:
1,200
cubic meters per day or lower (“Lower Threshold Value”). 
Partial success
:
Any values between the two thresholds above.  
 
GRI Payments: 
 
The World Bank shall pay the Adjusted Compensation Amount to the Recipient 
depending on the threshold values defined above.  
 
Total success
:
No amount shall be paid.  
Total failure
:
The Adjusted Maximum Compensation Amount shall be paid. 
Partial success
:
The Adjusted Compensation Amount payable under the GRI shall be 
calculated by multiplying the Adjusted Maximum Compensation 
Amount by the Ratio corresponding to the measured flowrate as in the 
table below.  
 
Flowrate 
(m3/day) 
Ratio 
1,201-1,300 94% 
1,301-1,400 83% 
1,401-1,500 72% 
1,501-1,600 61% 
1,601-1,700 50% 
1,701-1,800 39% 
1,801-1,900 28% 
1,901-2,000 17% 
2,001-2,099 6% 
Page  15
13
-
-
Determination of Parameter Value: 
 
The parameter values for the purpose of success/failure shall be determined 
based on the reservoir evaluation report to be prepared by an independent consulting firm 
which the World Bank shall have found satisfactory.  A certified copy of the report shall 
be submitted to the World Bank for review.   
 
Page  16
14
-
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Adjusted Compensation Amount” means the amount denominated in United 
States Dollars payable by the Bank out of the proceeds of the Grant to the 
Recipient under the Project as determined according to the methodology 
stipulated in Attachment 2 to Schedule 2 based on the Adjusted Maximum 
Compensation Amount. 
 
2. 
“Adjusted Maximum Compensation Amount” means the maximum amount 
denominated in United States Dollars payable by the Bank out of the proceeds of 
the Grant to the Recipient under the Project as adjusted based on the sum of the 
actually incurred expenditures for Insurable Expenses less any residual value of 
the equipment in the case of total failure and not exceeding the Maximum 
Compensation Amount. 
 
3. 
“Articles of Association” means the Articles of Association of the Recipient 
dated September 1, 2005, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Consortium” means, collectively, the Recipient, Enex Iceland and Vulcan Kft, 
the parties to the Joint Operating Agreement signed on March 6, 2006, stipulating 
the respective rights and obligations of such parties to the joint exploration, 
appraisal, development, operation and production of geothermal reserves covered 
under the Project. 
 
5. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means, collectively, the environmental 
license granted on June 24, 2005, in favor of the Recipient by the Hungarian 
West-Danubian Environmental, Natural Protection and Water Authority for a 
geothermal power plant to be established in the Iklódbördöce-Csömödér area, 
and the related Public Notice issued on May 4, 2005, by the same authority on 
the license application, as the same may be amended and updated from time to 
time pursuant to the applicable legislation and regulations.  
 
6. 
“Exploration Activities” means the testing and drilling activities to be carried out 
by the Recipient under the Project. 
 
7. 
“Geological Risk Insurance” and “GRI” mean the compensation scheme to be 
provided under the Project. 
 
8. 
“Government Resolution” means the Resolution of the Hungarian Government 
No. 3149/1991 (IV.11) on the basis of which the Recipient has been established 
as a publicly held company limited by shares, in accordance with the provisions 
of the Hungarian Act No. VI of 1988 as amended and replaced by the Hungarian 
Page  17
15
-
-
Act No. IV of 2006 through the transformation of the Hungarian Oil and Gas 
Corporation. 
 
9. 
“Fiscal Year’ means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of the 
Recipient’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year. 
 
10. 
“Insurable Expenses” means the reasonable costs of expenditures incurred by the 
Recipient for testing, drilling, and exploration activities under the Project and 
which include the cost and expenses for equipment, technologies, services, 
preparatory and labor cost for geothermal exploratory operations such as 
exploratory drilling of testing wells and production wells, well testing, and data 
collection and analysis, but excluding any taxes imposed thereon, which are 
itemized and valued in Attachment 1 to Schedule 2 and on the basis of which the 
Maximum Compensation Amount shall be calculated. 
 
11. 
“Maximum Compensation Amount” means an amount equal to eighty-five 
percent (85%) of the Insurable Expenses as initially estimated, converted into 
United States Dollars at the exchange rate determined in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 4 of Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
12. 
“Verification Report” means the claim verification report setting forth the 
Insurable Expenses which shall be prepared by the Recipient before the Closing 
Date for purposes of calculating the Adjusted Maximum Compensation Amount. 
 
Page  18
16
-
-
Section II. 
 
Standard Conditions  
 
for 
Grants 
made by 
the 
 
World Bank 
 
out of 
Various Funds 
 
Page  19
17
-
-
ARTICLE I 
 
Introductory Provisions 
 
Section 1.01. 
Application of Standard Conditions. 
 These Standard Conditions set forth 
certain terms and conditions generally applicable to grants made by IBRD or IDA out of 
various funds (other than IDA resources).  They apply to the extent specified in the Grant 
Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. 
Inconsistency
 
with Grant Agreement.
 
If any provision of the Grant 
Agreement is inconsistent with a provision of these Standard Conditions, the provision of 
the Grant Agreement shall govern. 
 
Section 1.03. 
Definitions.
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Grant Agreement, 
wherever capitalized terms are used in these Standard Conditions or in the Grant 
Agreement, they have the meanings ascribed to them in these Standard Conditions. 
 
Section 1.04. 
References; Headings.
 
References in these Standard Conditions to Articles 
and Sections are to the Articles and Sections of these Standard Conditions. Their 
headings are inserted in these Standard Conditions for reference only and shall not be 
taken into consideration in interpreting these Standard Conditions.  
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Project Execution
 
Section 2.01. 
Project Execution Generally.  
The Recipient shall ensure that:   
 
(a)  
the Project is carried out:  (i) with due diligence and efficiency; (ii) in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, technical, financial, economic, 
environmental and social standards and practices; and (iii) in accordance with the 
provisions of the Grant Agreement, including these Standard Conditions; and  
 
(b)  
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project 
are provided promptly as needed. 
 
Section 2.02. 
Insurance
.
The Recipient shall ensure that adequate provision is made for 
the insurance of any goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant, against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of the 
goods to the place of their use or installation. Any indemnity for such insurance shall be 
payable in a freely usable currency to replace or repair such goods. 
 
Section 2.03. 
Land Acquisition
.
The Recipient shall ensure that all action is taken to 
acquire as and when needed all land and rights to land that are required to carry out the 
Page  20
18
-
-
Project and shall promptly furnish to the World Bank, upon its request, evidence 
satisfactory to the World Bank that such land and rights are available for the Project. 
 
Section 2.04. 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
;
Maintenance of Facilities.  
The 
Recipient shall ensure that:   
 
(a)  
except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods, works and 
services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant are used exclusively for the purposes 
of the Project; and  
 
(b)  
all facilities relevant to the Project are at all times properly operated and 
maintained and all necessary repairs and renewals of such facilities are made promptly as 
needed. 
 
Section 2.05. 
Documents; Records.  
The Recipient shall ensure that:  
 
(a)  
all documents related to the Project are promptly furnished to the World 
Bank upon its request, in such detail as the World Bank shall reasonably request;  
 
(b)  
records are maintained adequate to record the progress of the Project 
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods, works and 
services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant and to disclose their use in the Project, 
and such records are furnished to the World Bank promptly upon its request;  
 
(c)  
all records evidencing expenditures under the Project are retained until at 
least:  (i) two years after the Closing Date; or (ii) if the World Bank requires audits of the 
Rec
ipient’s Financial Statements pursuant to Section 2.07 (b) below, the later of:  (A) one 
year after the World Bank has received the audited Financial Statements covering the 
period during which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made; and (B) two 
years after the Closing Date; and  
 
(d)  
the representatives of the World Bank are able to examine all records 
referred to above in paragraphs (b) and (c), and are provided all such information 
concerning such records as they may from time to time reasonably request.  
 
Section 2.06. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation.  
The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
ensure the maintenance of policies and procedures adequate to enable it 
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to 
the World Bank, the progress of the Project and the achievement of its objectives; and 
 
(b) 
if so required in accordance with the provisions of the Grant Agreement:  
 
(i)  
(A) ensure the preparation and delivery to the World Bank of 
one or more project reports (“Project Reports”), in form and 
Page  21
19
-
-
substance satisfactory to the World Bank, integrating the results 
of such monitoring and evaluation activities and setting out 
measures recommended by the Recipient to ensure the continued 
efficient and effective execution of the Project, and to achieve 
the Project’s objectives; each Project Report to cover the period 
specified in the Grant Agreement and to be furnished to the 
World Bank not later than the date specified for that purpose in 
the Grant Agreement; and (B) afford the World Bank a 
reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Recipient on 
such report, and thereafter implement such recommended 
measures, taking into account the World Bank’s views on the 
matter; and 
 
(ii) 
ensure the preparation and delivery to the World Bank, not later 
than the date specified for that purpose in the Grant Agreement, 
of one or more completion reports (“Completion Reports”):  (A) 
of such scope and in such detail as the World Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Project, the 
performance by the Recipient and the World Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Grant Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant; and (B) a plan 
designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project’s 
achievements. 
 
Section 2.07. 
Financial Management; Financial Statements; Audits.  
The Recipient shall 
ensure that:
 
(a) 
a financial management system is maintained and financial statements 
(“Financial Statements”) are prepared in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards acceptable to the World Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project; and 
 
(b) 
if so required in accordance with the provisions of the Grant Agreement:  
(i) the Financial Statements are periodically audited by independent auditors acceptable 
to the World Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable 
to the World Bank; and (ii) the Financial Statements, as so audited, are furnished to the 
World Bank not later than the date specified in the Grant Agreement for that purpose, 
together with such other information concerning the audited Financial Statements and 
such auditors, as the World Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 2.08. 
Cooperation and Consultation
.
The Recipient and the World Bank shall 
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Grant and the objectives of the Project 
will be accomplished, and to this end, throughout the implementation of the Project and 
for a period of ten years thereafter:   
 
Page  22
20
-
-
(a)  
from time to time, at the request of either of them, exchange views on the 
Project, the Grant, and the performance of their respective obligations under the Grant 
Agreement, and furnish to the other party all such information related to such matters as 
it shall reasonably request; and  
 
(b)  
promptly inform the other party of any condition which interferes with, 
or threatens to interfere with, such matters. 
 
Section 2.09. 
Visits. 
The Recipient shall, throughout the implementation of the Project 
and for a period of ten years thereafter:   
 
(a)  
if it is the Member Country, enable the representatives of the World 
Bank to visit any part of its territory for purposes related to the Grant;  
 
(b)  
if it is not the Member Country, take all measures required on its part to 
enable the World Bank to visit any part of the Member Country’s territory for purposes 
related to the Grant; and  
 
(c)  
enable the World Bank’s representatives:  (i) to visit any facilities and 
sites included in the Project; and (ii) to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant, and any documents relevant to the performance of its obligations under the 
Grant Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds 
 
Section 3.01. 
Grant Account; Withdrawals Generally; Currency of Withdrawals.
 
(a) 
The World Bank shall credit the amount of the Grant in the currency of 
denomination of the Grant to the Grant Account.  The Recipient may from time to time 
request withdrawals of amounts of the Grant from the Grant Account in accordance with 
the provisions of the Grant Agreement and of these Standard Conditions. 
 
(b) 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant from the Grant Account shall 
be made in the currency of denomination of the Grant.  The World Bank may, at the 
request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, and on such terms and conditions as the 
World Bank shall determine, purchase with such currency withdrawn from the Grant 
Account such other currencies as the Recipient shall reasonably request to meet payments 
for Eligible Expenditures.  Whenever it shall be necessary for the purpose of the Grant 
Agreement or these Standard Conditions to determine the value of one currency in terms 
of another, such value shall be as reasonably determined by the World Bank. 
 
Section 3.02. 
Funding Shortfall.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01, no 
withdrawals shall be made if, as a result of such withdrawal, the total amount of the Grant 
Page  23
21
-
-
withdrawn from the Grant Account would exceed the amount available to the World 
Bank from resources provided to it for purposes of the Grant. 
 
Section 3.03. 
Special Commitment by the World Bank.  
At the Recipient's request and on 
such terms and conditions as the Recipient and the World Bank shall agree, the World 
Bank may enter into special commitments in writing to pay amounts for Eligible 
Expenditures notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation of an amount of 
the Grant (“Special Commitment”).  
 
Section 3.04. 
Applications; Supporting Evidence.
 
(a) 
When the Recipient wishes to withdraw an amount from the Grant 
Account or to request the World Bank to enter into a Special Commitment, the Recipient 
shall deliver to the World Bank a written application for the purpose in such form and 
substance as the World Bank shall reasonably request (“Application”). 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall furnish to the World Bank:  (i) evidence satisfactory 
to the World Bank of the authority of the person or persons authorized to sign each 
Application and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person; and (ii) such 
documents and other evidence in support of each Application as the World Bank shall 
specify, whether before or after the World Bank has permitted any withdrawal requested 
in the Application (“Supporting Evidence”). 
 
(c) 
Each Application for an amount of the Grant, and its Supporting 
Evidence, must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the World Bank that the 
Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account, and that such 
amount will be used only for the purposes specified in the Grant Agreement.  
Applications shall be made promptly in relation to Eligible Expenditures. 
 
(d) 
The World Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from 
the Grant Account only to, or on the order of, the Recipient. 
 
Section 3.05. 
Designated Accounts.
 
(a) 
The Recipient may open and maintain one or more designated accounts 
into which the World Bank may, at the request of the Recipient, deposit amounts 
withdrawn from the Grant Account as advances for purposes of the Project (“Designated 
Accounts”).  All Designated Accounts shall be opened in a financial institution 
acceptable to the World Bank, and on terms and conditions acceptable to the World 
Bank.  
 
(b) 
Deposits into, and payments out of, any Designated Account shall be 
made in accordance with the Grant Agreement and these Standard Conditions and such 
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify from time to time by notice to the 
Recipient.  The World Bank may, in accordance with the Grant Agreement and such 
Page  24
22
-
-
instructions, cease making deposits into any such account upon notice to the Recipient.  
In such case, the World Bank shall notify the Recipient of the procedures to be used for 
subsequent withdrawals from the Grant Account. 
 
Section 3.06. 
Eligible Expenditures.  
The Recipient shall ensure that the proceeds of the 
Grant are used exclusively to finance expenditures which, except as otherwise provided 
in the Grant Agreement, satisfy the following requirements (“Eligible Expenditures”): 
 
(a) 
the payment is for the reasonable cost of goods, works or services 
required for the Project, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant and procured, all 
in accordance with the provisions of the Grant Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the payment is not prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
(c) 
the payment:  (i) is made on or after the date specified in the Grant 
Agreement for that purpose; and (ii) except as the World Bank may otherwise agree, is 
for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date.  
 
Section 3.07. 
Financing Taxes.   
 
(a) 
The Grant Agreement may specify that the proceeds of the Grant may 
not be withdrawn to pay for Taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Member Country 
on or in respect of Eligible Expenditures, or on their importation, manufacture, 
procurement or supply.  In such case, if the amount of any such Taxes decreases or 
increases, the World Bank may, by notice to the Recipient, adjust the percentage of such 
Eligible Expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant specified in the 
Grant Agreement, as required to ensure consistency with such limitation on withdrawals. 
 
(b) 
In the absence of such specification, the use of any proceeds of the Grant 
to pay for such Taxes is nevertheless subject to the World Bank’s policy of requiring 
economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its credits and grants.  To that end, 
if the World Bank at any time determines that the amount of any such Tax is excessive, 
or that such Tax is discriminatory or otherwise unreasonable, the World Bank may, by 
notice to the Recipient, adjust the percentage of such Eligible Expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant specified in the Grant Agreement, as required to ensure 
consistency with such policy of the World Bank. 
 
Section 3.08. 
Reallocation.  
If, in the World Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant 
allocated to a category of Eligible Expenditures under the Grant Agreement will be 
insufficient to finance the expenditures under such category, the World Bank may, by 
notice to the Recipient:   
 
Page  25
23
-
-
(a)  
reallocate to such category any other amount of the Grant which in the 
World Bank’s opinion is not needed for other Eligible Expenditures, to the extent 
required to meet the estimated shortfall; and  
 
(b)  
if such reallocation will not fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the 
percentage of Eligible Expenditures to be financed under such category, in order that 
further withdrawals for such expenditures may continue until all such expenditures have 
been made. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Cancellation; Suspension; Grant Refund 
 
Section 4.01. 
Cancellation by the Recipient.
 
The Recipient may, by notice to the World 
Bank, cancel any unwithdrawn amount of the Grant, except that the Recipient may not 
cancel any such amount that is subject to a Special Commitment. 
 
Section 4.02. 
Suspension by the World Bank.
 
The World Bank may, by notice to the 
Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account if any of the following events occurs and is continuing.  Such suspension shall 
continue until the World Bank has notified the Recipient that such right to make 
withdrawals has been restored. 
 
(a) 
Interference.  
If the Grant has been made to a Recipient which is not the 
Member Country, the Member Country has:  (i) taken or permitted to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with the execution of the Project or the performance by 
the Recipient of its obligations under the Grant Agreement; or (ii) failed to afford a 
reasonable opportunity for representatives of the World Bank to visit any part of its 
territory for purposes related to the Grant or the Project. 
 
(b) 
Performance Failure.  
The Recipient has failed to perform any 
obligation under the Grant Agreement.  
 
(c) 
Cross Suspension
.
IBRD or IDA has suspended in whole or in part the 
right of the Recipient (or of the Member Country, if the Recipient is not the Member 
Country) to make withdrawals under any agreement with IBRD or with IDA because of a 
failure by the Recipient (or by the Member Country) to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement or any other agreement with IBRD or IDA. 
 
(d) 
Extraordinary Situation.  
As a result of events which have occurred after 
the date of the Grant Agreement, an extraordinary situation has arisen which makes it 
improbable that the Project can be carried out or that the Recipient will be able to 
perform its obligations under the Grant Agreement.   
 
Page  26
24
-
-
(e)  
Misrepresentation. 
A
representation made by the Recipient in or 
pursuant to the Grant Agreement, or any representation or statement furnished by the 
Recipient and intended to be relied upon by the World Bank in making the Grant, was 
incorrect in any material respect.  
 
(f)  
Assignment of Obligations; Disposition of Assets. 
The Recipient (or any 
other entity responsible for implementing any part of the Project) has, without the consent 
of the World Bank:  (i) assigned or transferred, in whole or in part, any of its obligations 
arising under or entered into pursuant to the Grant Agreement; or (ii) sold, leased, 
transferred, assigned, or otherwise disposed of any property or assets financed wholly or 
in part out of the proceeds of the Grant; provided, however, that the provisions of this 
paragraph shall not apply with respect to transactions in the ordinary course of business 
which, in the opinion of the World Bank:  (A) do not materially and adversely affect the 
ability of the Recipient (or such other entity) to perform any of its obligations arising 
under or entered into pursuant to the Grant Agreement or to achieve the objectives of the 
Project; and (B) if the Grant has been made to a Recipient which is not the Member 
Country, do not materially and adversely affect the financial condition or operation of the 
Recipient (or such other entity). 
 
(g)  
Membership. 
The Member Country:  (i) has been suspended from 
membership in or ceased to be a member of IBRD or of IDA; or (ii) has ceased to be a 
member of the International Monetary Fund.  
 
(h) 
Condition of Recipient.  
If the Grant has been made to a Recipient which 
is not the Member Country: 
 
(i) 
Any action has been taken for the dissolution, disestablishment 
or suspension of operations of the Recipient (or of any other 
entity responsible for implementing any part of the Project). 
 
(ii)  
The Recipient (or any other entity responsible for implementing 
any part of the Project) has ceased to exist in the same legal form 
as that prevailing as of the date of the Grant Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
In the opinion of the World Bank, the legal character, ownership 
or control of the Recipient (or of any other entity responsible for 
implementing any part of the Project) has changed from that 
prevailing as of the date of the Grant Agreement so as to 
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Recipient (or 
such other entity) to perform any of its obligations arising under 
or entered into pursuant to the Grant Agreement, or to achieve 
the objectives of the Project. 
 
(i) 
Additional Event. 
Any other event specified in the Grant Agreement for 
the purposes of this Section has occurred (“Additional Event of Suspension”).  
Page  27
25
-
-
Section 4.03. 
Cancellation by the World Bank.  
The World Bank may, by notice to the 
Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals with respect to an 
unwithdrawn amount of the Grant, and cancel such amount, if any of the following events 
occurs with respect to such amount: 
 
(a) 
Suspension. 
The right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Grant Account has been suspended with respect to any amount of the Grant for a 
continuous period of thirty days. 
 
(b)  
Amounts not Required. 
The World Bank determines, after consultation 
with the Recipient, that an amount of the Grant will not be required to finance Eligible 
Expenditures. 
 
(c)  
Misprocurement;
 
Fraud and Corruption. 
The World Bank:  (i) 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, 
that (A) the procurement of such contract is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Grant Agreement; or (B) corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive 
practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient (or the Member Country, if 
the Recipient is not the Member Country, or other recipient of the Grant proceeds) during 
the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Recipient (or Member 
Country or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the World Bank to remedy the situation; and (ii) establishes the amount of 
expenditures under such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the Grant.  
 
(d) 
Closing Date. 
After the Closing Date, there remains an unwithdrawn 
amount of the Grant. 
 
Section 4.04. 
Amounts Subject to Special Commitment Unaffected
.
No cancellation or 
suspension by the World Bank shall apply to amounts subject to any Special 
Commitment, except as expressly provided in the Special Commitment. 
 
Section 4.05. 
Grant Refund. 
 
(a) 
If the World Bank determines that an amount of the Grant has been used 
in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of the Grant Agreement or these Standard 
Conditions, the Recipient shall, upon notice by the World Bank to the Recipient, 
promptly refund such amount to the World Bank. Such inconsistent use shall include, 
without limitation, use of such amount to: (i) make a payment for an expenditure that is 
not an Eligible Expenditure; or (ii) finance a contract during the procurement or 
execution of which corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in 
by representatives of the Recipient (or the Member Country, if the Recipient is not the 
Member Country, or other recipient of such amount of the Grant), without the Recipient 
Page  28
26
-
-
(or Member Country or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the World Bank to remedy the situation.  
 
(b) 
Except as the World Bank may otherwise determine, the World Bank 
shall cancel all amounts refunded pursuant to this Section.  
 
Section 4.06. 
Continued
 
Effectiveness.  
Notwithstanding any cancellation, suspension or 
refund under this Article, all the provisions of the Grant Agreement shall continue in full 
force and effect, except as specifically provided in these Standard Conditions.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Enforceability; Arbitration 
 
Section 5.01. 
Enforceability.  
 
The rights and obligations of the Recipient and the 
World Bank under the Grant Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance 
with their terms notwithstanding the law of any state or of any of its political subdivisions 
to the contrary.  Neither the Recipient nor the World Bank shall be entitled in any 
proceeding under this Article to assert any claim that any provision of these Standard 
Conditions or of the Grant Agreement is invalid or unenforceable because of any 
provision of the Articles of Agreement of IBRD or IDA, as the case may be.  
 
Section 5.02. 
Failure to Exercise Rights
.
No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, 
any right, power or remedy accruing to any party under the Grant Agreement upon any 
default shall impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver 
thereof or an acquiescence in such default. No action of such party in respect of any 
default, or any acquiescence by it in any default, shall affect or impair any right, power or 
remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.  
 
Section 5.03. 
Arbitration.  
Any controversy between the parties to the Grant Agreement 
and any claim by any such party against the other arising under the Grant Agreement 
which has not been settled by agreement of the parties shall be submitted to arbitration by 
an arbitral tribunal (“Arbitral Tribunal”) as hereinafter provided. 
 
(a)  
The parties to such arbitration shall be the World Bank on the one side 
and the Recipient on the other side.  
 
(b)  
The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as 
follows:  (i) one arbitrator shall be appointed by the World Bank; (ii) a second arbitrator 
shall be appointed by the Recipient; and (iii) the third arbitrator (“Umpire”) shall be 
appointed by agreement of the parties or, if they do not agree, by the President of the 
International Court of Justice or, failing appointment by said President, by the Secretary-
General of the United Nations. If either side fails to appoint an arbitrator, such arbitrator 
shall be appointed by the Umpire. In case any arbitrator appointed in accordance with this 
Section resigns, dies or becomes unable to act, a successor arbitrator shall be appointed in 
Page  29
27
-
-
the same manner as prescribed in this Section for the appointment of the original 
arbitrator and such successor shall have all the powers and duties of such original 
arbitrator. 
 
(c)  
An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this Section upon 
notice by the party instituting such proceeding to the other party. Such notice shall 
contain a statement setting forth the nature of the controversy or claim to be submitted to 
arbitration, the nature of the relief sought and the name of the arbitrator appointed by the 
party instituting such proceeding. Within thirty days after such notice, the other party 
shall notify to the party instituting the proceeding the name of the arbitrator appointed by 
such other party.  
 
(d)  
If, within sixty days after the notice instituting the arbitration proceeding, 
the parties have not agreed upon an Umpire, either party may request the appointment of 
an Umpire as provided in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 
(e)  
The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall be 
fixed by the Umpire. Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where and when it 
shall sit.  
 
(f) 
 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to its 
competence and shall, subject to the provisions of this Section and except as the parties 
shall otherwise agree, determine its procedure. All decisions of the Arbitral Tribunal shall 
be by majority vote.  
 
(g) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to the parties a fair hearing and shall 
render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by default. An award signed by 
a
majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award of the Arbitral Tribunal. A 
signed counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each party. Any such award 
rendered in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall be final and binding upon 
the parties to the Grant Agreement. Each party shall abide by and comply with any such 
award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in accordance with the provisions of this Section.  
 
(h)  
The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the arbitrators and 
such other persons as are required for the conduct of the arbitration proceedings. If the 
parties do not agree on such amount before the Arbitral Tribunal convenes, the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall fix such amount as shall be reasonable under the circumstances. Each party 
shall defray its own expenses in the arbitration proceedings. The costs of the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall be divided between and borne equally by the parties. Any question 
concerning the division of the costs of the Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure for payment 
of such costs shall be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.  
 
(i)  
The provisions for arbitration set forth in this Section shall be in lieu of 
any other procedure for the settlement of controversies between the parties to the Grant 
Page  30
28
-
-
Agreement or of any claim by any such party against the other such party arising under 
the Grant Agreement.  
 
(j)  
If, within thirty days after counterparts of the award have been delivered 
to the parties, the award has not been complied with, any party may:  (i) enter judgment 
upon, or institute a proceeding to enforce, the award in any court of competent 
jurisdiction against any other party; (ii) enforce such judgment by execution; or (iii) 
pursue any other appropriate remedy against such other party for the enforcement of the 
award and the provisions of the Grant Agreement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the 
Recipient is the Member Country, this Section shall not authorize any entry of judgment 
or enforcement of the award against the Recipient except as such procedure may be 
available otherwise than by reason of the provisions of this Section. 
 
(k)  
Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding under 
this Section or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award rendered pursuant 
to this Section may be made in the manner provided in Section 7.01. The parties to the 
Grant Agreement waive any and all other requirements for the service of any such notice 
or process. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effectiveness; Termination  
 
Section 6.01. 
Effectiveness.
 Unless otherwise specified in the Grant Agreement, the Grant 
Agreement shall become effective on the date as of which it has been executed by all 
parties to the Grant Agreement. 
 
Section 6.02. 
Termination.  
The Grant Agreement and all obligations of the parties under 
it shall forthwith terminate when all such obligations have been fully performed. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Miscellaneous 
 
Section 7.01. 
Notices and Requests.  
Any notice (or request) pursuant to the Grant 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice (or request) shall be deemed to have been 
duly given (or made) when it has been delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile 
(or, if permitted under the Grant Agreement, by other electronic means) to the party to 
which such notice (or request) is directed (“Addressee”), at the address specified in the 
Grant Agreement for the purpose (or at such other address as the Addressee shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request) (“Address”). 
Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  
 
Section 7.02. 
Action on Behalf of the Recipient.  
The representative designated by the 
Recipient in the Grant Agreement, for the purpose of this Section (or any person 
Page  31
29
-
-
authorized in writing by such representative for the purpose) (“Recipient’s 
Representative”), may take any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to the 
Grant Agreement, and execute any documents required or permitted to be executed 
pursuant to the Grant Agreement on behalf of the Recipient. 
 
Section 7.03. 
Evidence of Authority
.
The Recipient shall furnish to the World Bank:  
(a) sufficient evidence of the authority of the Recipient’s Representative; and (b) the 
authenticated specimen signature of such representative.  
 
Section 7.04. 
Execution in Counterparts.
 
The Grant Agreement may be executed in 
several counterparts, each of which shall be an original. 
 
Section 7.05. 
Disclosure.
 
The World Bank may make the Grant Agreement and any 
information related to the Grant Agreement publicly available in accordance with its 
policy on disclosure of information, in effect at the time of such disclosure. 
Page  32
30
-
-
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions
 
1. 
“Additional Event of Suspension” means any event of suspension specified in the 
Grant Agreement for the purpose of Section 4.02 (i). 
 
2. 
“Address” means the address of the Addressee referred to in Section 7.01, to 
which notices and requests pursuant to the Grant Agreement are to be directed. 
 
3. 
“Addressee” means the party to which notices and requests are to be directed for 
the purpose of Section 7.01. 
 
4. 
“Application” means an application made by the Recipient pursuant to Section 
3.04 for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant from the Grant Account or to 
request the World Bank to enter into a Special Commitment with respect to an 
amount of the Grant.  
 
5. 
“Arbitral Tribunal” means the arbitral tribunal established pursuant to Section 
5.03. 
 
6. 
“Closing Date" means the date specified in the Grant Agreement (or such later 
date as the World Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient) after which the 
World Bank may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient 
to withdraw from the Grant Account.  
 
7. 
“Completion Report” means each report to be prepared and furnished to the 
World Bank pursuant to Section 2.06 (b) (ii). 
 
8. 
“Designated Account” means each account referred to in Section 3.05 into which 
the Bank may deposit amounts withdrawn from the Grant Account as advances 
for purposes of the Project. 
 
9. 
“Dollar”, “$” and “USD” each means the lawful currency of the United States of 
America. 
 
10. 
“Eligible Expenditure” means an expenditure the payment for which meets the 
requirements of Section 3.06 and which is consequently eligible for financing out 
of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
11. 
“Financial Statements” means the financial statements to be maintained for the 
Project in accordance with Section 2.07. 
 
12. 
“Grant” means the grant provided for in the Grant Agreement. 
 
Page  33
31
-
-
13. 
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the World Bank in its books in 
the name of the Recipient to which the Grant is credited in accordance with 
Section 3.01 (a).  
 
14. 
“Grant Agreement” means the grant agreement between the Recipient and the 
World Bank providing for the Grant, as such agreement may be amended from 
time to time.  “Grant Agreement” includes these Standard Conditions as applied 
to the Grant Agreement, and all appendices, schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Grant Agreement.  
 
15. 
“IBRD” means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. 
 
16. 
“IDA” means the International Development Association. 
 
17. 
“Member Country” means the member of the World Bank in whose territory the 
Project is carried out or any of such member’s political or administrative 
subdivisions.  If the Grant is extended by the World Bank to such member as a 
party to the Grant Agreement, the term “Member Country” and “Recipient” refer 
to the same entity   
 
18. 
“Project” means the project described in the Grant Agreement, for which the 
Grant is made, as the description of such project may be amended from time to 
time by agreement between the Recipient and the World Bank. 
 
19. 
“Project Report” means each report on the Project to be prepared and furnished 
to the World Bank for the purpose of Section 2.06 (b) (i). 
 
20. 
“Recipient” means the party to the Grant Agreement to which the Grant is made. 
 
21. 
“Recipient’s Representative” means the representative referred to in Section 7.02 
designated by the Recipient in the Grant Agreement or authorized in writing by 
such representative for the purpose of such Section. 
 
22. 
“Special Commitment” means any special commitment entered into or to be 
entered into by the World Bank pursuant to Section 3.03. 
 
23. 
“Supporting Evidence” means the evidence and documents to be furnished to the 
World Bank in accordance with Section 3.04 (b) in connection with an 
Application. 
 
24. 
“Taxes” includes imposts, levies, fees and duties of any nature, whether in effect 
at the date of the Grant Agreement or imposed after that date. 
 
25. 
“Umpire” means the third arbitrator appointed pursuant to Section 5.03 (b). 
 
Page  34
32
-
-
26. 
“World Bank” means:  (a) IBRD if the Grant is made or administered by IBRD; 
(b) IDA if the Grant is made or administered by IDA; and (c) collectively, IBRD 
and IDA if the Grant is made or administered by both IBRD and IDA. 
 
