Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  06/01/2006 
Report No.:  AC2007
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Europe and Central Asia 
Project ID:  P075046 
Project Name:  GEOFUND 1 
Task Team Leader:  Helmut Schreiber 
GEF Focal Area: Climate change 
Global Supplemental ID:  
Estimated Appraisal Date: May 24, 2006 
Estimated Board Date: August 10, 2006 
Managing Unit:  ECSIE 
Lending Instrument:  Adaptable Program 
Loan 
Sector:  District heating and energy efficiency services (50%);Renewable energy (50%) 
Theme:  Climate change (P);Pollution management and environmental health (P);Access 
to urban services and housing (P);Vulnerability assessment and monitoring (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
4.31 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: F - Financial Intermediary Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project objective of the GeoFund is to systematically promote the use of geothermal 
energy in the ECA region through assistance in barrier removal. The most important 
barriers include (i) knowledge and information barriers; (ii) institutional, policy, legal, 
and regulatory barriers, and (iii) financial barriers.  
 
Hungary GeoFund Subproject. The project development objective is to increase the 
share of renewable electricity in the country's grid mix.  
 
IGA GeoFund Subproject. The International Geothermal Association (IGA) will 
implement a first set of regional activities to address barriers that retard the use of RER, 
particularly the use of geothermal energy.   
 
3. Project Description 
The project will be an umbrella for many geothermal subprojects in participating ECA 
countries and will involve the provision of Technical Assistance, Direct Investment 
Funding and Geological Risk Insurance.  
 
Page  2
A
full-size GEF grant of US$25 million constitutes the core financing of the program. 
This grant is to be provided under (1) a technical assistance window for barrier removal, 
capacity building, and project preparation/implementation in the amount of US$7 
million; (2) a geological risk insurance window to help mitigate geological/geothermal 
resource risks in the amount of US$10 million; (3) an investment funding window which 
could provide low cost loans, contingent grants and outright grants in the amount of 
US$8 million.  
 
Hungary GeoFund subproject. The project will consist of the re-completion of three 
shut-in, hydrocarbon wells and the drilling of one new well in order to develop a 
geothermal production facility consisting of two doublets. The geothermal reservoir and 
the proposed wells will most likely be appropriate for a binary cycle type power plant 
because of the expected temperature (i.e., 130?C to 150?C) and yield (app. 8,000 m3/day 
at maximum) of the geothermal fluids. The project developer anticipates that the project 
will generate from 1.6 to 3 megawatts of electricity.  
 
The project will include well completion or reconstruction into geothermal production 
and injection wells, new well drilling, pipelines between wells and the power plant, 
injection pumps, the power plant, and connection to the grid. All of the geothermal fluids 
will be injected into the reservoir to guarantee the renewable nature of the energy source.  
 
IGA GeoFund subproject. IGA will be responsible for implementing the regional TA 
component of the GeoFund. Region wide activities include inter alia reviews and 
assessment of geothermal resources, modes of occurrence, training of local experts, 
transfer of "know-how" through establishing a roster of international geothermal experts, 
international studies, support to organization of conferences and workshops, 
dissemination of knowledge.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The proposed GeoFund program, envisioned as a regionwide and multi-country facility, 
will follow a programmatic approach of a horizontal APL. The Pilot Phase considers 
seven countries.  
 
Hungary GeoFund subproject. The planned project site is north of the village of 
Iklodbordoce, in the county of Zala, in Southwest Hungary. Here three existing 
hydrocarbon exploration wells are located and a fourth, production well will be drilled. 
The planned power plant will be connected to the regional system of E. ON EDASZ. The 
project site is located on the clay mining property of DEALET TRANS Freigt Company. 
The wider area is under agricultural cultivation, with no environmental conservation area, 
Natural Park, drinking water base or hydro geological protection area nearby.  
 
IGA GeoFund subproject. The IGA TA activities will be implemented throughout the 
ECA region.   
 
Page  3
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The environmental screening category of the GeoFund Program is FI. Subprojects will 
have to follow the environmental safeguards and will require each subproject to comply 
with the World Bank's or IFC's safeguard policies. Each subproject will be individually 
assigned safeguard and environmental screening categories. All subprojects are expected 
to trigger at least the Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01) safeguard policy.  
 
The Environmental Chapter of the Operational Manual spells out the environmental 
screening and impact assessment procedures to be followed for each subproject funded 
under the GeoFund. The HU-subproject is the only GeoFund operation in Hungary. Since 
no intermediary is involved and no further subprojects will be financed by the GeoFund 
in Hungary, the safeguard requirements for a standard one time category B project are 
sufficient to ensure environmental and social due diligence.  
 
Hungary GeoFund subproject:  
 
The main risks ex ante for environmental damage and impacts were as follows:  
 
-
Risk of damaging soil and road surfaces during construction works;  
 
-
Temporary change of local karst water level around well  
 
-
Risk of intrusion of geothermal water into the surface or deeper layers of the ground 
during well drilling;  
 
-
Limited CO2 and steam emissions;  
 
-
Noise generated around the well side;  
 
-
Production of sludge.  
 
These risks were minimized through appropriate mitigation measures as per EMP of 
2006. Disposal of all hazardous and non-hazardous waste and sludge is performed by the 
Page  4
project developer routinely in accordance with the relevant regulations. The treatment of 
hazardous wastes is regulated in Hungary by the 98/2001 (VI. 15) Government decree 
and by the 16/2001 (VII. 18) decree of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. 
Hungary is a signatory to the Basel Convention on Hazardous Wastes since 1990.  
 
Of all the expected environmental impacts, only the layer temperature change that 
occurs during production due to the re-injection of cooled geothermal fluid is of 
significance. This layer temperature change, however, is not expected to lead to decrease 
in the temperature of the reservoir during the 25 years lifetime of the project.  
 
IGA GeoFund subproject  
 
The regional TA activities will have no adverse environmental impacts. Therefore, 
beyond screening, no further EA action is required.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Development of geothermal energy has a minimal environmental impact. Potential 
environmental issues related to geothermal activities are air and water pollution, along 
with the safe disposal of hazardous waste, siting, and land subsidence, impact on surface 
as well as noise generation during project implementation and operations. These 
environmental impacts are typically limited and can be handled by appropriate 
management actions. Thus the projects are typically classified as Category B projects 
under World Bank guidelines, although category A projects cannot be excluded.  
 
Hungary GeoFund subproject. Environmental impacts during construction will be 
mitigated according to the EMP. Further projects activities are not anticipated in the 
project area that could lead to any potential indirect and/or long-term impacts.  
 
IGA GeoFund subproject. IGA will provide regional TA for capacity building, 
knowledge transfer, and for the support of the implementation of legislations and 
regulations. The outcome will be studies, workshops and training courses that do not lead 
to indirect or long-term impacts.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
N/A   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Risks are minimized through appropriate mitigation measures as per the Environmental 
chapter of the Operational Manual and EMP.  
 
Hungary GeoFund subproject. Safeguards-related obligations are governed by the 
20/2001. (II.14.) Government Decree in Hungary. Adherence to the provisions of this 
decree is the pre-condition to obtaining the environmental license which, in turn, is a pre-
Page  5
condition to obtaining the construction license. The project has been assigned 
environmental category B by the licensing authority (which corresponds to the Bank's EA 
category B.) The primary responsibility of the project sponsor is the preparation of an 
EIA. An EMP has been prepared as part of the EA process. Consultation with the 
relevant authorities and public disclosure and consultation are the responsibility of the 
licensing authority. This has been duly completed and the environmental license has been 
issued.  
 
The project sponsor, MOL Oil and Gas Company, has previously implemented a large 
number of projects, most of them much larger in size and in potential environmental 
impacts than this one. The company has a solid track record of environmental 
performance. In addition, the project will be implemented by a consortium with another 
two internationally recognized firms specialized in energy (AES Corporation) and 
geothermal technology (Enex Iceland). These two companies bring in further 
implementation capacity with international exposure.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Social safeguards concerns are to be addressed through public consultation, invitation of 
representatives of appropriate groups of people to participate in the development and 
approval of the EMP.  
 
Hungary GeoFund subproject. Disclosure procedures, as an integral element of the 
safeguard process, are described in the Government's decree mentioned above. The 
disclosure package consists of (i) the application of the project sponsor for the 
environmental license; (ii) the Environmental Impact Assessment (including short 
summary); and (iii) the Public Notice. The Public Notice contains (i) the short description 
of the project; (ii) information on the accessibility of the application of the project 
sponsor and that of the Environmental Impact Assessment; and (iii) information 
regarding the procedure for making written comments on the application and on the EIA.  
 
The disclosure package is sent by the licensing authority to the affected municipalities. 
The neighbor municipalities will be informed of the application for the environmental 
license and will receive a summary of the EIA. Within ten days, the neighbor 
municipalities confirm their affectedness, in which case the licensing authority forwards 
to them the full disclosure package.  
 
Within five days of receipt of the documents, the public notice is disclosed in the 
affected localities (including those that confirmed their affectedness) at the municipality 
buildings and elsewhere in town as per local practice, for 30 days. Comments by the 
municipality and by the public are forwarded to the licensing authority within five days 
of the end of the disclosure period. These comments as well as those received directly by 
the licensing authority are forwarded to the applicant of the environmental license.  
 
In case of this project, disclosure has taken place in accordance with the Decree. The 
disclosure package has been sent to the affected municipalities of Iklodbordoce and 
Page  6
Csomoder. The municipalities of Hernyek, Paka, Kerkateskand, Szecsisziget and 
Tormafolde have been contacted to confirm their affectedness; none, however, requested 
to be considered as affected municipality. No comments from the affected municipalities 
or the population were received during the disclosure period.  
 
IGA GeoFund subproject. This component involves only regional Technical Assistance 
that is not involved in any project preparation activities. Products and outcomes of this 
subproject will be workshops, conferences and studies, and will be available to the 
geothermal community.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
03/23/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
03/09/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
05/10/2006 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Cultural Property, the 
respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Page  7
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Helmut Schreiber 
04/06/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Heike Lingertat 
04/06/2006 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Ronald N. Hoffer 
05/31/2006 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Peter D. Thomson 
 
Comments:   
