Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2019 
Project Name 
GEOFUND 1 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
District heating and energy efficiency services (50%); Renewable energy 
(50%) 
Project ID 
P075046 
GEF Focal Area 
Climate change 
Borrower(s) 
 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[
]
C
[x ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
May 10, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
July 24, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
September 05, 2006 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
All countries of the Eastern Europe and Central Asia region lag behind current European Union (EU) 
member states in regards to the use and the development of renewable energy resources (RER). 
Significant barriers impede the increased utilization of renewable energy and, more specifically, 
geothermal energy (GE) in these countries. There are three major barriers hindering the development of 
RER, and two more that are specific to the development of GE. The major barriers that retard the 
increased utilization of RER in ECA countries include: 
ƒ
The lack of expertise and know-how about RER among energy sector decision makers at 
government-, industry-
 and local consulting services’ levels; 
ƒ
Energy market issues, including distorted energy policies (e.g., high subsidies for fossil fuels, 
energy tariffs not covering costs, lack of synchronization between various environmental support 
programs and the very frequent crowding out of potential supports by excessive national 
subsidies), inadequate and non-transparent legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks, leading 
to uncertainties in the heat and power industry and to a bias in favor of fossil fuels; and 
ƒ
High transaction costs due to the typically small size of RER projects compared to the large 
fossil-fuel-based projects. 
In addition to the barriers impeding the development of RER, there are technology barriers particular to 
developing projects based on geothermal energy: 
ƒ
High up-front costs relative to conventional heat/power generation technologies (due to the need 
to identify the geothermal deposits and drill the high cost production/re-injection wells), and  
ƒ
The associated geological risks of not finding sufficient resources during exploration or 
premature resource depletion during operation. 
The barriers associated with the management of geological risks appear to be among the most difficult 
ones to tackle. Geological risks can be summarized as follows: 
ƒ
Exploration risks
:
Dry well or insufficiently productive reservoir; lower than expected yield of 
the aquifer; lower than predicted temperature of geothermal fluid; lower than expected geo-
Page  2
physical/geo-chemical parameters of geothermal fluid (i.e. high Total Dissolved Substances 
(TDS), too much captive CO
2
). 
ƒ
Operating risks
:
Re-injection risks due to insufficient or quickly deteriorating long-term ability of 
the reservoir rocks to absorb the returned geothermal fluid due to gradual non-reversible 
clogging; thermal draw down caused by thermal breakthrough; critical corrosion or scaling of the 
walls steel casing endanger their strength or dramatically increase the pressure losses. 
While investors and financiers are willing to take conventional economic/financial and technological 
risks, the special knowledge that pertains to the assessment and handling of geological risks is often 
beyond the experience and capacity of both potential energy investors and lenders which reduces their 
willingness to undertake or participate in geothermal projects. 
The above issues relating to the technological investment hurdles are common to all ECA countries (see 
Annex 1). Financial barriers show a less even picture across the region as these are related to the 
availability of public and private equity finance, the performance of the banking system, the general 
investment climate, and economic development in a given country. Financial barriers tend to be less 
significant in the western parts of the ECA region, i.e., in the countries that have recently joined the EU or 
are designated EU accession countries, but can be prohibitive in Former Soviet Union (FSU) countries. 
Legislative support to the development of RER in the ECA region has been growing and reached different 
levels in different countries. The strongest support is found in Turkey. Some of the countries that recently 
joined the EU exhibit various degrees of support for RER, following the recommendations of the EU. 
Non-EU countries for the most part do not have any favorable rules and regulation towards RER in place: 
In 
Turkey
 electricity production from RER is e
ncouraged. The “Turkish Electricity Market Law” 
contains two regulations pertaining to the promotion of the use of RE. The Turkish Electricity 
Transmission Company and/or distribution companies are required to give priority to generating 
facilities based on renewables.  
A
number of indirect incentives exist in 
Hungary
 and other Central European Countries to promote 
the use of RER, including lower import duties on equipment and lower taxes or tax holidays; there is 
also substantial legislative support of RE in these countries. 
Armenia
 adopted a legal framework supportive to the development of RER. Armenian law 
guarantees purchase of RE and provides payment assurance. The regulatory commission has set 
attractive tariffs (USc 4.5/kWh for small run-off the river hydropower and USc 7.0/kWh for wind and 
biomass plants) for 15 years. As a result, over 30 project developers have been granted construction 
licenses for RE projects recently. A number of barriers and constraints, however, still impede large 
scale private investments in RE projects (lack of long-term financing, unfamiliar risk profile of RE 
developers, lack of reliable information, etc.). 
The main provisions of the 
Russian
 Energy Strategy place relatively little emphasis on environmental 
issues. Only a short section focuses on the development of technologies and the technical means for 
the long-term development of energy resources. A Federal Law on RER has not been adopted yet.  
Ukraine
 has introduced some incentives for wind energy development in its legislation but there is no 
special support to geothermal energy. 
Most of the potential client countries of the GeoFund Program do not have a policy framework in place 
that transparently supports renewable/geothermal energies. The role of the GeoFund Program is to assist 
participating countries’ legislative and regulatory bodies to increase the use of GE by developing and 
implementing appropriate legislative frameworks as well as to provide financial support to geothermal 
project implementation. 
The sector issues noted above, in particular the financing barriers to RE, along with the Governments’ 
credible commitment to address them, provide a compelling case for a GEF-supported contingent finance 
Page  3
operation in the ECA region for building a sustained market-based capacity to develop and finance 
geothermal projects on commercial terms under the proposed GeoFund. 
In principle, all ECA countries are eligible for participation in the Program, provided that the country:  
ƒ
Is eligible to receive GEF co-financing,
1
and  
ƒ
Has submitted an endorsement of the GeoFund concept with a written indication of its wish 
to participate in it.  
Countries that wish to participate will submit an endorsement of the concept of the Program and a request 
for support to the Bank/GEF. So far, Armenia, Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, Ukraine, Tajikistan, Romania, 
and Turkey have provided written endorsements, while, Georgia and Russia have indicated that they 
would like to participate in the Program.  
All recipient countries of the projects proposed for the Pilot Phase have submitted National 
Communications to the UNFCCC, in all of which the importance of increased renewable/geothermal 
energy utilization as a key measure within the energy sector to mitigate global climate change is 
highlighted. This is also reflected in respective sector development plans of most of the concerned 
countries. 
2. 
Objectives 
The Program objective of the GeoFund is to systematically promote the use of geothermal energy in the 
ECA region through assistance in barrier removal. The most important barriers include (i) knowledge and 
information barriers; (ii) institutional, policy, legal and regulatory barriers, and (iii) financial barriers. In 
pursuing the above objective, the Project will: 
ƒ
Provide technical assistance for capacity building, methodological, informational, and 
institutional support, that will lead to changes in the current unfavorable investment and incentive 
conditions and create an enabling environment in participating ECA countries that fosters the 
development of geothermal energy utilization for heating and power generation applications; 
(barriers (i)-(ii)); 
ƒ
Increase financing availability through extending geological risk insurance to mitigate the 
geological risks (barrier (i)) which would help facilitate commercial lending to geothermal 
projects through leveraging private finance, and through providing grants through the DIF 
window  (barrier(iii)). 
The increase of geothermal energy use through the development and implementation of a number of 
financially viable projects throughout the ECA region will help to accelerate the use of RE, build private 
confidence in investing into this resource, and exemplify towards the regulatory bodies at national and 
local government level the feasibility and sustainability of geothermal energy use.  
Parallel national and local objectives are to: 
ƒ
Change the current unfavorable investment and incentive conditions and create an enabling 
environment to foster the development of GE utilization for heating and power generation 
applications;  
ƒ
Promote an indigenous, sustainable, and clean energy resource; and  
Foster reduction of local and regional pollution from district heating systems and combined heat and 
power plants. 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
1
Eligibility to receive GEF co-financing is tied to ratification of the United Nations Framework Convention 
on Climate Change. 
Page  4
The rationale for Bank involvement is as follows:   
a. 
The Bank in its capacity as one of the three Implementing Agencies of the GEF has 
experience, knowledge, and responsibility in implementing projects of GEF operational programs 
(see Annex 2). The proposed GeoFund complements and builds on the efforts to promote the 
adoption of RE by removing barriers and reducing implementation cost.  
b. 
The Bank has a comparative advantage in managing complex, multi-country and regional 
programs, especially in: 
·
Analytical and operational work that draws on the Ba
nk’s cross-country 
experience;  
·
Ensuring that policy reforms are consistent; and in 
·
Using the specific expertise of the International Finance Corporation 
(IFC) to promote private sector investments. 
c. 
The Bank has played a major role in developing and fostering global partnerships among 
other development and multilateral financial institutions. 
d. 
Furthermore, the concept and objectives of the Program support the Bank’s strategy to assist 
its client countries in the sustainable development of their energy resources. More specifically, 
this initiative builds upon the World Bank strategy for increasing the use of geothermal energy in 
ECA as described in the Bank Strategy Paper “Fire without Smoke” endorsed by the Bank’s 
regional management in October 2002. 
 
4. Description
 
The GeoFund Program will be an umbrella facility for multiple numbers of geothermal subprojects in 
participating ECA countries and will involve the provision of Technical Assistance, Direct Investment 
Funding and Geological Risk Insurance.  
Initial allocations for each window will be indicative. In response to the experience during 
implementation and the shifting market conditions, the allocations of funds among the three windows 
could be adjusted. Combination of three windows to co-finance one project could also be possible. 
Component 1:  Technical Assistance Window (US$7 million):
 
The Technical Assistance (TA) component of the GeoFund will address information and capacity barriers 
that retard the use of RER and geothermal energy. Assistance will be provided for: 
a. 
Region-wide and country specific capacity building to improve understanding of kinds of 
barriers and their means of mitigation,  
b. 
Region-wide and country specific policy reviews concerning energy demand and use and 
amendments to legislation favorable to geothermal energy, and  
c. 
Project preparation and implementation 
The GeoFund Coordination Team (GCT) will work with participating governments, NGOs, international 
organizations, and project developers to identify most relevant constraints, determine their resolution 
queue and devise means to implement improved policies, legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks. 
The TA window will also help to improve geothermal databases and help disseminate knowledge and 
know-how regarding geothermal energy. Not least it will assist in identifying, preparing and 
implementing geothermal projects. This may include co-financing of (pre-) feasibility work, financial due 
diligence and business planning. The amount of the TA window is proposed to be US$7 million, to be 
Page  5
potentially supplemented by TA funding from multilateral and bilateral donors, as well as local 
counterpart funding. 
Further information is contained in Annex 18  
Component 2: Direct Investment Funding Window (US$8 million): 
Direct Investment funding (DIF) supports project developers through providing low-cost loans and 
contingent/direct grants.  
Grant funds may be used solely to defray a portion of the direct investment costs associated with 
geothermal drilling of production and reinjection wells and post drilling project implementation. The 
GeoFund will give priority to providing grant funding for exploration drilling and well testing expense in 
order to maximize the risk coverage offered to Project Developers at that critical juncture of project 
development.  After a positive drilling result, further project direct investment costs may be considered 
for grant funding to the extent that the Project Developer is able to argue persuasively that further support 
is critical to enhance project economics sufficiently to allow the project to proceed to implementation.  
For support of up-front investment cost and risk for exploration and drilling phase, GRI would be a 
preferred instrument from the GEF resource efficiency point of view. However, in lower income countries 
where geothermal energy reservoirs have not been much exploited and the reliable geological data are not 
available, it would be more appropriate to use a grant facility to support experimental geothermal projects 
through the DIF window.  In addition, in capital scarce lower income countries, capacity of the project 
sponsors to mobilize its own resource and local public and private capital for up-front investment tends to 
be more constrained than in middle income countries. Broadly, DIF would be deployed under resource-
constrained situation while GRI is deployed under risk-constrained situation.  The conditions to be met 
for DIF deployment are stipulated in more concrete terms in the GeoFund Operational Manual.  
The total amount for the investment funding window will be US$8 million.  
 
Component 3: Geological Risk Insurance Window (US$10 million): 
The Geological Risk Insurance (GRI) component helps to mitigate the geological risks associated with 
geothermal energy exploration and operation.  The GRI is designed to cover part of the drilling and 
exploration cost or operational cost in the event of less than expected level of geothermal energy found in 
the wells or higher than expected deterioration rate of geothermal energy coming out of the well overtime.  
The GRI will insure project developers/investors/lenders against such geological risks which are generally 
considered one of the key investment barriers for geothermal energy investment. GeoFund could issue 
both short-term exploration geological risk insurance (EXGRI) or long-term operational geological risk 
insurance (OPGRI). It is envisaged, however, that EXGRI will dominate during the Pilot Phase. OPGRI 
will be developed during the implementation period by learning through the experience of EXGRI and the 
new product development in the market, and, if warranted, may be used in the Main Phase.  The GRI 
window is proposed to be endowed with US$10.0 million. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY 
25 
 Total 
25 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Parallel co-financing and donor funding at the subproject level is expected from multilateral and bilateral 
donors, as well as from local sources (e.g. local government contributions, local environmental funds). 
Page  6
The financing of individual subprojects will vary, the details of which are not available at this point, but 
potential international agencies contributing to the financing of subprojects may include the International 
Finance Corporation (IFC), the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), the 
European Investment Bank (EIB), and other IFIs and international organizations. Some of the projects in 
the Pilot Phase are financed together with other national and regional institutions, for example in Russia 
with United Energy Systems of Russia (RAO UES) and with the regional administration of Krasnodar. 
Additional bilateral and multilateral support at the Program level could come from some countries that 
already confirmed their interest in being a partner to the GeoFund. They include Austria, Denmark, 
France, Germany, and Iceland as well as the European Union.  
The GeoFund will be established as a program conduit at the World Bank to be fully funded by the GEF’s 
initial contribution of $25 million and with participation of other donors and contributors as co-financiers 
at the subproject level. The co-financiers would include project developers and investors, commercial 
lenders, public sector, sponsors and donors. The GeoFund is conceived as a region-wide program across 
the ECA countries, and would seek to become a true regional scheme as it will be implemented over time. 
The GeoFund Program will be implemented in two phases with an interim review due before launch of 
the second phase. 
Organizational structure
The GeoFund will be launched for operation in the later part of 2006 starting with subprojects in the 
countries listed in Table 2
above.  During the Pilot Phase, as shown in the institutional arrangement 
(Chart 2
), the GeoFund is expected to operate through several host government recipients, recipient 
organizations (e.g. IGA) and through IFC and possibly other organizations as executing agency. The 
World Bank will enter into a Grant Agreement (GA) with each recipient and into a Memorandum of 
Agreement (MoA) with IFC as executing agency.  
Depending on the specific needs of subprojects, the GeoFund will provide a combination of products 
available under the GeoFund’s three windows to the recipients. IGA as recipient will implement a first set 
of regional TA activities. IFC as executing agency of the World Bank will implement TA, DIF, and GRI 
for certain subprojects which involve private project clients or sub-sovereign clients. Other executing 
agencies and partner institutions could participate in the GeoFund as the program develops. 
Institutional arrangements of the GeoFund could evolve during its implementation period in response to 
market demand if a feasible legal structure becomes available to support a new arrangement. It is 
envisaged if it becomes feasible for the GeoFund to operate as a region-wide fund without a country-by-
country setup, the GeoFund will adopt such new framework with due care to policy, legal and regulatory 
compliance.  
PMUs in line ministries and agencies and also PMUs with clients directly will be the principal 
implementers of all country-based operations, financed by the World Bank. They will be hosted at 
government ministries or agencies. The GeoFund will allocate the specific amount of TA, DIF and GRI 
facilities to the relevant PMU.  
The International Finance Cooperation (IFC) as Executing Agency of the GeoFund Program 
IFC’s participation will strengthen the GCT’s capacity in terms of the identification of private/sub-
sovereign sector clients and the commercial due diligence of the project applications.  
IFC could identify and develop subprojects, and propose them for GCT consideration in accordance with 
the Memorandum of Agreement (MoA). GCT may recommend IFC for execution of those subprojects 
which GCT considers more appropriate to be handled by IFC than through the host government 
recipients.  
In addition to the MoA, the working arrangement between the Bank and IFC for the GeoFund operations 
will be also governed by the “Arrangement for the Administration and Management of Funds from the 
Page  7
Global Environment Facility (GEF) to be Made Available by the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development Acting as and Implementing Agency of the GEF to the International Finance 
Corporation” dated May 31, 1996 (the Arrangement).  Pursuant to the Arrangement, those subprojects 
which will be assigned to IFC will be administered in accordance with its rules and procedures in terms of 
the financial management, procurement, safeguards, etc.  IFC has executed many GEF-supported projects 
under the Arrangement, and its capacity as Executing Agency for the GeoFund operations is considered 
satisfactory in all respects.  
 
The International Geothermal Association (IGA) 
IGA as recipient will be primarily responsible for the execution of region-wide TA activities under the 
capacity building component. Reasons for the cooperation with IGA are its profound knowledge about the 
specific characteristics of geothermal energy and its worldwide operations. It has more than 2000 
members in 65 countries, a special consultative status with the Economic and Social Council of the 
United Nations, and is a Partner of the European Union for the Campaign for Take Off (CTO) Renewable 
Energy. Even so it has no extensive experience in project implementation it was found to be the only 
available organization capable of working on a regional basis. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The GeoFund is designed to demonstrate how financing modalities, such as contingent financing, 
incremental risk financing, and the development of public-private partnerships can help develop 
geothermal resources for replication throughout the ECA Region. Replication of individual projects will 
result from the sharing of information, from the lessons of demonstration projects, and most importantly, 
through lowering of barriers in participating countries. 
Replication of geothermal projects is expected because: 
a) 
The capitalization on selective project types; 
b) 
Removal of barriers towards use of RER/geothermal energy should expand in participating 
client countries;  
c) 
Knowledge should improve as the data base on the potential of geothermal energy expands in 
a
participating country; and 
d) 
The understanding of geothermal technology, project preparation and implementation 
advances. 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
All countries of the ECA region have made considerable progress in unbundling the energy market, 
setting up regulatory bodies, and cutting back subsidies, but lag behind the EU member states in regard to 
the development and use of renewable energy. 
In recent years several renewable energy (RE) and energy efficiency (EE) projects have been 
implemented by the World Bank and other international donors such as the 
Romania EE Project, 
the
 
Bulgaria EE Project,
 the
 Podhale Geothermal District Heating and Environmental Project, 
the
 Klaipeda 
Geothermal Demonstration Project
,
the
 Turkey Renewable Energy Project, 
and the
 Caribbean Renewable 
Energy Development Programme
.
Experience shows that relatively high transaction costs associated with 
RE project development and financing, the unfamiliar risk profiles of energy users, and the lack of 
collateral value of RE project equipment result in very cautious bank lending practices toward smaller 
clients. In addition, domestic financial institutions often lack relevant experience, expertise, and capacity 
with regard to project finance and lack an understanding of RE business potential and how to assess RE 
Page  8
project risk. These financial barriers will be addressed through the creation of a revolving risk insurance 
scheme based on the experiences of the Romania and Bulgaria EE projects. The GeoFund will provide a 
strategic mix of risk insurance, investment and TA instruments to move beyond individual projects to a 
more systematic approach towards geothermal energy within the ECA Region. 
During the last 10 years, the Bank and GEF have been involved in the preparation of a number and in the 
implementation of a few geothermal DH operations: Lithuania (Klaipeda); Poland (Podhale, Mszczonow, 
Skiernewiece, Stargard, Kolo). In some countries, these projects have been integrated well with the 
mainstream of the Bank’s policy dialogue with its clients, and may have contributed to the removal of 
some barriers in the use of RER. Commonly these small and scattered projects, however, were not able to 
contribute to the removal of major barriers to RER development. In fact, project managers had to fight for 
support from the governments rather than being able to influence policy. 
The Bank and GEF have recognized that a systematic approach in the support of developing strategies for 
RER in general, and for GE in particular, is essential. Mechanisms need to be developed to systematically 
support the identification, preparation, and implementation of GE projects. This is even more important 
when considering the typically high up-front costs and risks of geothermal energy projects, since drilling 
costs can be excessive and the nature of the deposit and the reservoir might differ from expectations of 
exploration results. Also no broad generalization of production costs is possible because of the great 
variability of technical and economic parameters involved in the implementation of geothermal projects.  
The proposed region wide facility will provide risk insurance and investment to project developers that 
otherwise would refrain from investing in this energy source. Streamlined procedures for the risk 
insurance scheme and successful project implementation is expected to convince the private insurance 
market, developers, the public, and decision makers of the viability of geothermal energy. 
Since an accelerated and wider use of geothermal resources is mainly linked to policy, legal and 
regulatory conditions and to inherent constraints of the geothermal energy utilization, a region wide fund 
provides a mechanism to adequately address these issues.  
The Bank is and has been involved in many DH projects throughout the ECA region, supporting them 
with loans and/or GEF grants. Important lessons have been learned from managing these projects, as well 
as from dedicated DH sector studies. The results of these studies and lessons learned are summarized in 
ESMAP Report 234/00 of August 2000 by Anke Meyer and Wolfgang Mostert, and entitled “Increasing 
Efficiency of Heating Systems in Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union”, as well as by 
World Bank Technical Paper No.493 on “District Energy Trends, Issues and Opportunities” by Carolyn 
Gochenour (March 2001).  
The key messages of these reports are: 
ƒ
Modernized DH systems, managed in a business-like fashion, and located in densely populated 
areas (high concentration of heat loads), are well placed to provide efficient DH at highly 
competitive prices. 
ƒ
In EU accession countries in Central Europe, DH systems are prevalent in most cities, 
commercialization of DH utilities has largely taken place, and many systems have been 
modernized. Successful commercialization of DH utilities will be a prerequisite for GeoFund 
support in these countries. Here geothermal heat utilization is an excellent energy substitute for 
coal or oil-fired or even gas-fired heat generation. 
ƒ
DH systems are natural monopolies but have to compete against decentralized boiler systems or 
even gas-based individual household heating. Required assessments will take into account 
possible scenarios in which geothermal heat could reduce the competitiveness of DH. The 
GeoFund would not get involved under such circumstances because resulting switches to 
individual household heating could lead to increases in GHG emissions.  
Page  9
ƒ
In CIS countries, DH systems are still today mostly old, decrepit and technically obsolete, and 
operated under tariff systems, which often do not cover costs. Rehabilitation would require large 
outlays of funds, which might not be available easily. Here, policy change and improved 
corporate governance will be instrumental to improve the situation and to help attract private 
investors. Also, cities will have to move from price-based subsidies to socially based subsidies in 
order to help make systems financially viable. 
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) 
[ x] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[
x]
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[x ] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
The environmental screening category will be FI. Subprojects will have to follow the social/ 
environmental safeguards and will require each subproject to comply with the World Bank’s or IFC’s 
safeguard policies. Each subproject will be individually assigned environmental screening categories. 
Most subprojects are expected to trigger the Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01) safeguard 
policy.  
Safeguard policy compliance assessment of subprojects will involve an environmental assessment of the 
proposed project with all its implications. This assessment will review the project sponsor’s capacity to 
implement the safeguard policies recommendations and, if the capacity is insufficient, propose measures 
to bring this capacity to the required level. Thus, for every subproject an Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet 
(ISDS) will be prepared by the project sponsor and will be reviewed in the Bank. 
Responsibility for the proper execution of subprojects will be with the Bank or delegated to project 
developers or IFC, depending on the alternative chosen. The Bank requires that each proposed subproject 
is screened and ensures that recipients carry out an appropriate Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) 
for each subproject. Before approving a subproject, the Bank will verify that the subproject meets the 
environmental requirements of appropriate national and local authorities and is consistent with the 
safeguard policies of the Bank. 
 
10. 
List of Factual Technical Documents 
n/a 
 
11. Contact 
point 
Contact: Helmut Schreiber 
Title: Lead Environmental Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-6910 
Fax:  
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  10
Email: Hschreiber@worldbank.org 
 
12. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
