Page  1
GeoFund Program
 
Environmental Framework  
 
January 23, 2006 
 
E1283 
Page  2
-
2
-
Contents 
1.
 
Background.............................................................................................................................3
 
2.
 
Project Classification..............................................................................................................3
 
3.
 
Types of Subprojects to be Supported ....................................................................................3
 
4.
 
Types of Subprojects to be Exluded........................................................................................3
 
5.
 
Environmental Assessment of Subprojects.............................................................................3
 
5.1.
 
Screening and Assessment..................................................................................................4
 
5.2.
 
Environmental Review and Approval Process ...................................................................6
 
5.3.
 
Supervision and Monitoring...............................................................................................8
 
Annex 1: Potential Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures of Geothermal Projects......9
 
Annex 2: The EIA Policies of the European Union.......................................................................16
 
Annex 3: Geothermal Energy and EIA Policies of Selected Countries.........................................19
 
Annex 4: Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet Form.........................................................................37
 
Annex 5: Environmental Management Plan..................................................................................40
 
Annex 6: EIA Report Outline for Category A Projects.................................................................43
 
Annex 7: Best Practice EMP .........................................................................................................46
 
Page  3
-
3
-
1. Background 
The objective of the GeoFund Program is to systematically promote the use of 
geothermal energy in the ECA region through assistance in barrier removal and thus to 
reduce the global emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG). To this end, a GEF grant will be 
made available, from which technical assistance and investments will be made in 
geothermal projects. The portfolio of subprojects to be supported under the Program will 
be developed by the GeoFund Coordination Team (GCT). This Environmental Chapter of 
the Project’s Operations Manual (OM) describes the process whereby it will be ensured 
that any negative environmental impacts or risks associated with the implementation of 
GeoFund projects will be minimized and properly handled. 
2. Project Classification 
The overall GeoFund Program has been assigned the World Bank Environmental 
Category FI, which stands for Financial Intermediary. In an FI project, specific 
subprojects are identified during implementation. The responsibility for environmental 
and social due diligence with respect to the supported project lies with the financial 
intermediary. 
3.  Types of Subprojects to be Supported 
The GeoFund is expected to invest mainly in low enthalpy projects such as heating of 
individual housing, of greenhouses, of wood drying chambers, spas and other 
balneological facilities (up to 20%) and in medium enthalpy projects, such as fuel 
substitution in existing district heating facilities (well over 60%). Just up to 20 % of the 
total portfolio is expected to be medium to high enthalpy electricity generating projects. 
4.  Types of Subprojects to be Exluded 
The GeoFund will not finance subprojects that will involve involuntarily resettlement. 
5.  Environmental Assessment of Subprojects 
The majority of projects financed by the GeoFund Program will be standard standalone 
projects where responsibilities including oversight of safeguards are vested with the Task 
Manager and the Regional Safeguard Coordinator (RSC). Some projects might be 
implemented by a FI. In these cases an annex to this Manual describing the institutional 
arrangements and processes to be followed by the respective FI will be prepared. 
All subprojects are carried out in an environmentally and socially responsible manner, in 
accordance with the legal and regulatory framework in place in the respective country 
and the provisions of the OM and applicable policies of the Bank. 
 
In many ECA countries the environmental assessment legislations are essentially aligned 
with the comparable EU directives.
1
Provisions of the EU EIA Directive are compatible with those under the World Bank’s 
OP 4.01 and in some aspects, e.g. EA related requirements, actually exceed the 
1
Environmental Impact Assessment Systems in Europe and Central Asia Countries, 2002, 
ECSSD
 
Page  4
-
4
-
requirements of OP 4.01. EU Directives and Regulations have binding and mandatory 
power.  
Therefore, compliance with the EA policies and procedures of these countries will be, in 
most cases, a necessary and sufficient condition for the Bank’s endorsement of financing 
of subprojects in these countries from the GeoFund. 
 
Furthermore, projects to be financed by the GeoFund are expected to be environmentally 
beneficial, reducing emissions and greenhouse gases.  
 
The Bank’s role is: (i) to advise the Applicant through the EIA process and ensure that 
the quality of the EIA reports and related outputs is consistent with the requirements of 
OP 4.01 and (ii) to ensure that the EIA effectively feeds into project preparation and 
implementation. 
5.1. SCREENING AND ASSESSMENT 
The extent and type of environmental assessment required by the World Bank is a 
function of the project's environmental impact and hence, its environmental screening 
category.  
The World Bank undertakes environmental screening of each proposed subproject to 
determine the appropriate extent and type of environmental assessment. The World Bank 
classifies projects into one of three categories (A, B and C), depending on the type, 
location, sensitivity, and scale of the project and the nature and magnitude of its potential 
environmental impacts. 
Category 
A
When the Sub-project is likely to have significant adverse environmental 
impacts that are sensitive, diverse or unprecedented. These impacts may affect 
an area broader than the sites or facilities subject to physical works. 
Environmental assessment for Category A sub-project examines the sub-
project’s potential negative and positive environmental impacts, compares 
them with those of feasible alternatives (including the without sub-project 
situation), and recommends any measures needed to prevent, minimize, 
mitigate or compensate for adverse impacts and improve environmental 
performance. For a Category A sub-project, the sub-project sponsor is 
responsible for preparing a report, normally an environmental assessment. 
Category 
B
When the sub-project’s adverse environmental impacts on human populations 
or
environmentally important areas (including wetlands, forests, grasslands, 
and other natural habitats) are less adverse than those of Category A sub-
projects. Impacts are site – specific; few, if any, of the impacts are irreversible; 
and in most cases, mitigation measures can be designed more readily than for 
Category A sub-projects. The scope of environmental assessment for a 
Category B sub-project may vary from sub-project to sub-project, but it is 
narrower than that of a Category A sub-project. It examines the sub-project’s 
potential negative and positive environmental impacts and recommends any 
measures needed to prevent, minimize, mitigate, or compensate for adverse 
impacts and improve environmental performance. 
Category 
C
If the sub-project is likely to have minimal or no adverse environmental 
impacts. Beyond screening, no further environmental assessment action is 
required for a Category C sub-project. 
Page  5
-
5
-
An EA is a process whose breadth, depth and type of analysis depend on the nature, 
scale, and potential environmental impact of the proposed project. The EA evaluates a 
project’s potential environmental risks and impacts in its area of influence; identifies 
ways of improving project planning, design and implementation by preventing, 
minimizing, mitigating, or compensating for adverse environmental impacts and 
enhancing positive impacts, including throughout the project implementation. The World 
Bank will favor preventative measures over mitigation or compensatory measures, 
whenever feasible. 
An EA takes into account the natural environment (air, water and land), human health 
and safety, and project-related social (involuntary resettlement, indigenous peoples, and 
cultural property), trans-boundary, and global environmental aspects. The EA considers 
natural and social aspects in any integrated way: It also takes the following aspects into 
account:  
(i) 
The variations in subproject and country conditions;  
(ii) 
The findings of country environmental studies 
(iii) 
National environmental actions plans and the country’s overall policy framework  
 
and national legislation and licensing and permitting requirements; 
(iv) 
The subproject’s sponsor’s capabilities related to the environment and social 
aspects; and its history of good compliance with national and local laws including those 
on environment and public consultation and notification
 
and  
(v) 
Obligations of the country under international environmental treaties and 
agreements relevant to the sub-project.  
Sub-projects that would contravene such country obligations as identified during the 
environmental assessment will not be provided support under the GeoFund.  
The Applicant/beneficiary is responsible for carrying out the EA unless the applicant is a 
lender or minority partner in the sub-project, i.e. less than 50 percent and non-controlling 
interest in the sub-project. If a lender or minority partner, the Applicant will be required 
to provide the World Bank with a copy of the sub-project sponsor’s EA of the sub-
project, and supplemental information as deemed necessary by the World Bank in 
determining the investment is environmentally and socially sound and sustainable. 
Subprojects which, for environmental screening purposes, are classified as Category A 
under 
OP
/
BP
4.01, 
Environmental Assessment
,
each identified participating FI or the 
responsible project entity provides the Bank, before the beginning of formal project 
appraisal, with an assessment of the institutional mechanisms or framework in place for 
conducting the EAs for such Category A subprojects. After these assessments have been 
officially received by the Bank, and before the Bank begins formal project appraisal, the 
assessments are publicly available.  EA reports for such Category A subprojects are 
publicly available after they have been officially received by the Bank. 
As part of the Project Concept Note (PCN), an Applicant would submit to the GCT a 
completed Environmental Screening Form. The Environmental Screening Form asks 
certain basic questions designed to provide sufficient information to the World Bank to 
determine (i) in which World Bank screening category the subproject would fit and, 
therefore, (ii) additional information, if any, that will be required to satisfy World Bank 
Page  6
-
6
-
safeguards requirements. After a completed Environmental Screening Form is received 
and reviewed by the World Bank, the World Bank will make a determination as to the 
EA category in which the subproject falls
2
.
If the Applicant appears otherwise eligible for GeoFund support, the GCT will send to 
the Applicant a notice of the World Bank environmental category in which the subproject 
falls and an indication from the World Bank of precisely what additional information or 
procedures will be needed to fulfill the World Bank environmental requirements. 
 
In order to estimate the social impact of subprojects and to ensure that the relevant World 
Bank Operational Policies are properly applied when and where necessary, the Appraisal 
Package will include a Social Assessment Form to provide information about the factors 
that determine whether or not Social Safeguard Policies will apply to the investment. The 
World Bank will screen the subproject on the basis of the Social Assessment Form to see 
if any Social Safeguards Policies may be applicable. 
 
After reviewing the data, the GCT will prepare a brief draft report stating the conclusions 
of the Social Assessment screening. If the GCT concludes that no Social Safeguard 
Policies apply to the investment and that there are no likely negative social impacts of the 
investment, the report will recommend that no further action be taken. If the GCT 
concludes that one or more of the Social Safeguard policies will apply to the investment, 
the report will describe the relevant triggers and identify the steps that the Applicant must 
take to comply with the policy or policies as outlined below. All screening reports will be 
submitted to the World Bank RSC for review and approval on a no objection basis.  
5.2. ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCESS 
A
completed Appraisal package comprises all of the results of the EA procedures in order 
to permit a full environmental review. If the World Bank determines that the Appraisal 
package is not complete because the environmental procedures have not been completed, 
or because after further review it is discovered that the information provided earlier for 
the screening procedures was incorrect or misleading and that further information is 
required, the Appraisal package will be deemed incomplete and the Task Manager will 
promptly notify the Applicant of the deficiencies. 
 
No GeoFund support will be provided until (i) the Applicant has presented the Task 
Manager with a certified copy of the positive conclusion of the relevant national authority 
or - as the case may be - the World Bank determines that no further environmental review 
is required, and (ii) the World Bank has reviewed and cleared the environmental 
documentation and issued its formal no objection. 
 
Consultation and Disclosure Requirements:
 In addition to the environmental 
documentation requirements described above, World Bank Operational Policy 4.01 
2
The GCT, on the basis of the received Environmental Screening Form, prepares a draft ISDS and  forwards them to the RSC. Upon 
receipt of these documents[0], the RSC will undertake a detailed review of the EA and other safeguards-related information and 
provisionally classifies the subproject into the relevant environmental category. The RSC will delegate responsibility for further 
safeguards compliance and clearance for subprojects in environmental categories B and C to the TTL and Sector Manager.
 
Page  7
-
7
-
(paragraphs 15 and 16) stipulate that the following consultation and disclosure 
requirements be utilized for all Category A and B subprojects:  
 
·
For all Category A and B subprojects, during the EA process, the Applicant shall 
consult groups affected by the subproject and local NGOs about the subproject
’s 
environmental aspects and take their views into account. The Applicant shall 
initiate such consultations as early as possible. For Category A subprojects, the 
Applicant shall consult these groups at least twice: (a) shortly after environmental 
screening and before the terms of reference for the EA are finalized; and (b) once 
a
draft EA report is prepared. In addition, the Applicant shall consult with such 
groups throughout project implementation as necessary to address EA-related 
issues that affect them.  
·
For meaningful consultations, the Applicant shall apply the following disclosure 
requirements: 
o
the Applicant shall provide relevant material in English and/or the local 
language (as appropriate) in a timely manner prior to consultation; 
o
for a Category A subprojects, the Applicant shall provide to the public: 
ƒ
for the initial consultation - a summary of the proposed 
subproject’s objectives, description, and potential impacts; and 
ƒ
for consultation after the draft EA report is prepared - a detailed 
summary of the EA's conclusions; and 
o
the Applicant shall make the draft EA report available at a public place 
accessible to groups affected by the subproject and local NGOs.  
In those cases where an environmental assessment has been completed prior to GeoFund 
involvement, or the subproject is already approved and permitted in accordance with host 
country environmental laws and regulations, the RSC (on the basis of the Task Manager’s 
evaluation and recommendation) will ascertain whether public consultation and 
disclosure have been adequate with respect to World Bank and national requirements. 
 
In cases where the Applicant is not a majority partner in the subproject, i.e., it has less 
than a 50 percent and non-controlling interest in the subproject, the Task Manager will 
request the Applicant to provide information on appropriate steps taken by the subproject 
sponsor to achieve meaningful local consultation and disclosure. 
 
If a subproject sponsor for a Category A project objects to the GeoFund’s release of 
environmental information through the World Bank Info-Shop, no provision by the 
GeoFund will be approved. Disclosure policies of the World Bank will be applied as part 
of the GeoFund’s approval process. 
 
If and only if Social Safeguard policies apply, the Applicant will be required to prepare a 
mitigation plan accord to the OM of the World Bank. 
 
Page  8
-
8
-
In addition to the documentation requirements outlined above, all Applicants, irrespective 
of screening category, will be required to warrant, as of the signing of the agreement on 
GeoFund support, that all health, safety and environmental permits required to be in 
effect under national laws and regulations at the start of the subproject have been or will 
have been obtained and in effect at the time of the start of the subproject. 
5.3. SUPERVISION AND MONITORING 
All subprojects will be subject to annual supervision and monitoring to ensure that they 
comply with national and Bank safeguards requirements. 
 
Compliance will be verified by the Task Manager through requested monitoring reports, 
site visits, or other measures as necessary in addition to warranties and representations. 
Failure by the Applicant to respond to these requests or to abide by such laws, 
regulations, or specific requirements may entitle the GeoFund to terminate support or to 
deny payment of a claim if the non-compliance is not corrected within a period set forth 
in the respective legal agreement. 
 
·
For Category A
subprojects, the Bank will monitor compliance with commitments 
made in the EMP. Specifically, for each year that the agreement is in effect, 
Applicants would be required to submit to the Bank an annual monitoring report 
presenting monitoring data to indicate whether the subproject complies with the 
commitments specified in the EMP. If an annual monitoring report indicates non-
compliance with the EMP, reasons for non-compliance shall be presented. As 
appropriate, the Applicant will be expected to present a clear, detailed, and time-
bound action plan to achieve compliance to the World Bank and to obtain its 
approval. If the annual monitoring report shows a substantial and consistent 
record of non-compliance the Bank will have the right to terminate support or to 
deny payment of a claim.  
·
For Category B
subprojects, if and when an EMP is required (as determined on a 
case by case basis), the Bank will monitor compliance with these commitments as 
for Category A subprojects outlined above.  
·
For Category C
subprojects, no EMP and thus no EMP monitoring will be 
required.  
In addition to the specific monitoring requirements outlined above, all Applicants will be 
required to submit an annual letter to the World Bank in which the Applicant warrants 
that all the health, safety and environmental permits required at that time for continued 
operation of the subproject have been or will have been obtained. 
 
Page  9
-
9
-
Annex 1: Potential Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures of 
Geothermal Projects
 
The degree to which geothermal development affects the environment is, in most cases, 
proportional to the scale of such development. For example, the environmental impacts 
associated with low enthalpy projects with direct use are often minimal. Those associated 
with high enthalpy projects for large-scale electrical generation may be very large. 
The GeoFund is expected to invest mainly in low enthalpy projects such as heating of 
individual housing, of greenhouses, of wood drying chambers, spas and other 
balneological facilities (up to 20%) and in medium enthalpy projects, such as fuel 
substitution in existing district heating facilities (well over 60%). Only up to 20 % of the 
total portfolio is expected to be medium to high enthalpy electricity generating projects. 
The direct use projects are often designed as closed-loop systems where the low- or 
medium-temperature geothermal fluids are circulated through a heat exchanger or heat 
pump (or flow naturally around down hole heat exchangers). Improperly installed wells 
of open loop systems can be a path for surface water run-off that carries pesticides, 
fertilizers, organic materials and other contaminants into underlying aquifers. In addition, 
aquifers can be depleted if the water is not re-injected. Antifreeze fluids circulated 
through closed-loop systems generally pose little to no environmental hazard. 
Geothermal Heat Pumps minimize ozone layer destruction by using factory-sealed 
refrigeration systems that will seldom or never have to be recharged with an ozone safe 
refrigerant such as potassium acetate.   
Mile-or-more-deep wells can be drilled into underground reservoirs to tap steam and very 
hot water that drive turbines that drive electricity generators. Three types of power plants 
are operating today:  
·
Dry steam plants, which directly use geothermal steam to turn turbines;  
·
Flash steam plants, which pull deep, high-pressure hot water into lower-pressure 
tanks and use the resulting flashed steam to drive turbines; and  
·
Binary-cycle plants, which pass moderately hot geothermal water by a secondary 
fluid with a much lower boiling point than water. This causes the secondary fluid 
to flash to vapor, which then drives the turbines. 
Environmental issues occurring during drilling are the main environmental concerns 
during project implementation. During operations, most potential environmental issues 
are avoided if a closed loop system with a heat exchanger and a secondary heat circuit are 
applied. 
Construction 
The first perceptible effect on the environment is that of drilling, whether the boreholes 
are shallow to measure the geothermal gradient in the pre-feasibility exploration phase, or 
exploratory/production/re-injection wells. Installation of a drilling rig and all the 
Page  10
-
10 -
accessory equipment entails the construction of access roads and a drilling pad. These 
operations will modify the surface morphology of the area and could damage local plants 
and wildlife. Using advanced directional or slant drilling minimizes that impact. Several 
wells can be drilled from one pad, so less land is needed for access roads and fluid 
piping. 
Inaccuracies in understanding the local hydrogeology (in particular the relationship 
between freshwater and geothermal horizons), and poor drilling practices can lead to 
pollution of underground drinking water aquifers. Blowouts can pollute surface water; 
blowout preventers should be installed when drilling geothermal wells where high 
temperatures and pressures are anticipated. During drilling or flow tests undesirable gases 
may be discharged into the atmosphere. Generally groundwater pollution can be 
prevented if the wastewater is disposed of by re-injection, and this approach is usually 
employed because the water can then potentially be reused once it has been reheated by 
the earth. It is critical that waste waters be re-injected in a way that ensures groundwater 
aquifers are not polluted; including ensuring well casings do not have leaks. The EIA 
plan should be developed early in the project and should address the removal and 
disposal of production facilities in an environmentally sensitive manner, the restoration of 
the site, and provisions for any ongoing maintenance issues. Where possible, progressive 
restoration should be implemented. The key production and control practices that will 
lead to compliance with emissions requirements can be summarized as follows: 
·
Maximize the use of freshwater gel
–based mud systems; 
·
Dispose of drilling mud in a manner that minimizes the impact on the 
environment, reuse invert (diesel-based) mud; 
·
Reuse drilling-mud pond decant water; 
·
Encourage the reuse of produced water for steam generation when steam is used 
to stimulate reservoir production; 
·
Minimize gas flaring; 
·
Scrub sour gases. 
The impact on the environment caused by drilling mostly ends once the geothermal wells 
are completed. 
Installation of the pipelines that will transport the geothermal fluids and construction of 
the utilization plants will also affect animal and plant life and the surface morphology. 
The scenic view will be modified.  
Operation 
Environmental problems also arise during plant operation. Geothermal fluids (steam or 
hot water) usually contain gases such as carbon dioxide (CO2), hydrogen sulphide (H2S), 
ammonia (NH3), methane (CH4), and trace amounts of other gases, as well as dissolved 
substances whose concentrations usually increase with temperature. For example, sodium 
chloride (NaCl), boron (B), arsenic (As) and mercury (Hg) are a source of pollution if 
Page  11
-
11 -
discharged into the environment. Some geothermal fluids, such as those utilized for 
district heating in Iceland, are freshwaters, but this is an exception to the rule. The 
wastewaters from geothermal plants also have a higher temperature than the environment 
and therefore constitute a potential thermal pollutant.  
Air pollution may become a problem when generating electricity in geothermal power 
plants. However, for the same output of electricity, carbon dioxide emissions from 
geothermal power plants range anywhere from zero to only a fraction of emissions from 
fossil-burning power plants, depending on the technology used. Binary geothermal power 
plants do not allow a steam phase to separate, so carbon dioxide and the other gases 
remain in solution and are re-injected into the reservoir, resulting in no atmospheric 
emissions. Hydrogen sulfide can reach moderate concentrations in the steam produced 
from some geothermal fields. This gas presents a pollution problem because it is easily 
detected by humans. Adequate technology to remove H2S should not allow more than 
14mg/m³ Hydrogen Sulfide. Some of this sulfur might be contaminated with vanadium 
(the catalyst) and must be washed before disposal. 
The incineration process burns the gas removed from the steam to convert H2S to CO2. 
The maximum Sulfur Dioxide level is 5mg/m³. Ammonia occurs in small quantities in 
many geothermal systems; but, in flashed-steam geothermal power plants, the ammonia 
is oxidized to nitrogen and water as it passes into the atmosphere.  
Discharge of wastewaters is also a potential source of chemical pollution. Spent 
geothermal fluids with high concentrations of chemicals such as boron, fluoride or 
arsenic should be treated, re-injected into the reservoir, or both.  
The compositions and concentrations of geothermal waters depend on the rock type of 
the reservoir, the temperature, and the pressure. Systems in sedimentary rocks seem to 
have higher concentrations than those in volcanic or granitic rocks. Careful control of 
fluid conditions and residence time is needed to prevent precipitation of Silica in surface 
equipment. Silica precipitation is delayed in the flow stream until the water reaches a 
crystallizer or settling pond. There the silica is allowed to settle from the water, and the 
water is then pumped to an injection well. It is necessary to inject the geothermal water 
back into the reservoir to maintain the pressure and flow rate at the producing wells. 
Precipitated silica is removed from the water so that the solid material does not clog the 
injection well or reservoir. The most soluble of the other species in solution remain in 
solution and are injected. Other species, which have precipitated, are washed from the 
silica and injected with the wash water. The removed silica requires disposal, but 
research is underway to find a commercial use for the silica produced.  
Heavy metals in the discharge are allowed up to natural background levels or may 
contain concentrations up to the following target guidelines or up to respective national 
standards, whichever is lower: 
Page  12
-
12 -
Only the lower-temperature geothermal waters that are of drinking-water quality should 
be allowed to flow into surface waters. All other geothermal applications require that the 
cooled water be injected back into the reservoir. To protect potable ground waters in 
shallow aquifers, both the production and injection wells are lined with steel casing pipe 
and cemented to the surrounding rock. This type of well completion prevents the loss of 
geothermal water to any freshwater aquifers and confines the injection to the geothermal 
reservoir.  
Water injection in the hotter geothermal systems does not require any pump pressure at 
the surface, since the cold injection water drops under the influence of gravity into the 
less dense, hot water of the reservoir. Cooler geothermal systems or those with rocks of 
lower permeability will require some pump pressure to inject the water into the reservoir. 
The effluent should result in a temperature increase of not more than three degrees 
Celsius.  
The noise associated with operating geothermal plants could be a problem where the 
plant in question generates electricity. During the production phase there is a higher 
pitched noise of steam traveling through pipelines and the occasional vent discharge. 
These are normally acceptable. At the power plant the main noise pollution comes from 
the cooling tower fans, the steam ejector, and the turbine 'hum'. The noise generated in 
direct heat applications is usually negligible. Noise abatement measures should achieve 
either the following levels or a maximum increase in background levels of 3 dB (A) or 
the respective national standards, whichever is lower: 
Page  13
-
13 -
The potential impacts of large-scale geothermal development are summarized in the table 
below. 
Potential Impact
 
Potential Effect
 
Mitigation/Remediation 
measures
 
Land requirement
 
·
Vegetation loss  
·
Soil erosion  
·
Landslides  
·
Land ownership 
issues 
 
·
Single drill pads 
–
several wells  
·
Re-vegetation 
programs  
·
Adequate land 
compensation 
 
Water-take from 
streams/waterways 
for drilling 
purposes
 
·
Impact on local 
watershed  
·
Damming and 
diverting local 
streams 
 
·
Take from streams 
with high flow rates  
·
Coincide drilling with 
rainy season not dry 
season  
·
Build temporary 
reservoirs  
·
Liaise with local 
farmers to take their 
usage into account 
 
Water-take from 
reservoir
 
·
Loss of natural 
features 
·
Increase in 
steaming ground  
·
Hydrothermal 
eruptions  
·
Avoid water-take from 
outflows  
·
Avoid areas where 
propensity for 
hydrothermal eruptions 
(which occur naturally 
Page  14
-
14 -
·
Lowering of 
water table  
·
Increase in steam 
zone  
·
Subsidence  
·
Saline intrusion 
 
also)  
·
Careful sustainable 
management of 
resource, balancing 
recharge with take 
 
Waste (brine & 
condensate) 
disposal into 
streams/ waterways
 
·
Biological effects  
·
Chemical effects  
·
Thermal effects 
 
·
Effluent treatment and 
removal of undesirable 
constituents  
·
Re-inject all waste 
fluids  
·
Cascaded uses of waste 
fluids e.g. Fish farms, 
pools 
 
·
Dilution of brine to 
acceptable levels prior 
to disposal
 
Re-injection
 
·
Cooling of 
reservoir  
·
Induced 
seismicity  
·
Scaling 
 
·
Careful planning of re-
injection wells outside 
main reservoir  
·
Monitor flow patterns 
before re-injection e.g. 
Tracer tests  
·
Anti-scale treatment of 
fluids 
 
Drilling effluent 
disposal into 
streams/waterways
 
·
Biological effects  
·
Chemical effects 
 
·
Contain in soakage 
ponds or in barrels for 
removal 
 
·
Dilution to acceptable 
levels
 
Air emissions
 
·
Biological effects  
·
Chemical effects  
·
Localized slight 
heating of 
atmosphere  
·
Localized 
fogging 
·
Effluent treatment and 
removal of undesirable 
constituents  
·
Minimize emissions by 
scrubbing H2S and 
treating other NCGs 
(Non 
Condensable
Page  15
-
15 -
fogging 
 
Gases) 
 
Noise pollution
 
·
Disturbance to 
animals and 
humans  
·
Impaired hearing 
 
·
Muffling of noise e.g. 
silencers 
 
Page  16
-
16 -
 Annex 2: The EIA Policies of the European Union
3
The EIA is a key instrument of EU environmental policy. The EU directive on 
environment first came out in 1985 (Directive 85/337/EEC) and was subsequently 
revised in 1997. Article 2 of the directive states, “Member states shall adopt all measures 
necessary to ensure that, before consent is given, projects likely to have significant 
effects on the environment by virtue, inter alia, of their nature, size or location are made 
subject to a requirement for development consent and an assessment with regard to their 
effects.” Article 8 states further, “The results of consultations and information gathered 
pursuant to the [EIA procedure] must be taken into consideration in the development 
consent procedure.” These requirements are elaborated further in the EIA systems 
introduced in each member state. In addition to the directives, the EC has published three 
documents reflecting current EU legislation and the current state of good practice. These 
cover screening, scoping, and review of environmental impact statements. 
The figure below outlines the EA process for the EU: 
KEY STAGES
 
NOTES
Project 
Preparation 
The developer prepares the proposals for the project 
Notification to 
Responsible 
Authority (CA) 
In some member states (MS) the developer is required to 
notify the CA in advance of the application for 
development consent. The developer may also do this 
voluntarily and informally. 
Screening 
The CA makes a decision on whether EIA is required. 
This may happen when the CA receives notification of 
the intention to make a development consent application, 
or the developer may make an application for a screening 
opinion. The screening decision must be recorded and 
made public. 
Scoping 
The directive provides that developers may request a 
scoping opinion from the CA. The scoping opinion will 
identify the matters to be covered in the environmental 
information. It may also cover other aspects of the EIA 
process. In preparing the opinion the CA must consult 
the environmental authorities. In some MS, scoping is 
mandatory. 
Environmental 
Studies 
The developer carries out studies to collect and prepare 
the environmental information required by Article 5 of 
the directive. 
Submission of 
Environmental 
The developer submits the environmental information to 
the CA together with the application for development 
3
Prepared on the basis of the report “Environmental Impact Assessment 
Systems in Europe and Central Asia Countries, 2002, ECSSD”. 
 
Page  17
-
17 -
Information to 
Responsible 
Authority  
consent. If an application for an Annex I or II project is 
made without environmental information, the CA must 
screen the project to determine whether EIA is required. 
In most MS, the environmental information is presented 
in the form of an environmental impact statement (EIS). 
Review of 
Adequacy of the 
Environmental 
Information 
In some MS, there is a formal requirement for 
independent review of the adequacy of the environmental 
information before it is considered by the CA. In other 
MS, the CA is responsible for determining whether the 
information is adequate. The guidance is designed to 
assist at this stage. The developer may be required to 
provide further information if the submitted information 
is deemed to be inadequate. 
Consultation with 
Statutory 
Environmental 
Authorities, Other 
Interested Parties 
and the Public 
The environmental information must be made available 
to authorities with environmental responsibilities and to 
other interested organizations and the general public for 
review. They must be given an opportunity to comment 
on the project and its environmental effects before a 
decision is made on development consent. If 
transboundary effects are likely to be significant, other 
affected MS must be consulted (Articles 6 and 7). 
Consideration of 
the Environmental 
Information by the 
Responsible 
Authority before 
making 
Development 
Consent Decision 
The environmental information and the results of 
consultations must be considered by the CA in reaching 
its decision on the application for development consent 
(Article 8). 
Announcement of 
Decision 
The decision must be made available to the public 
including the reasons for it and a description of the 
measures that will be required to mitigate adverse 
environmental effects (Article 9). 
Post-Decision 
Monitoring of 
Project 
There may be a requirement to monitor the effects of the 
project once consent for it is granted. 
The highlighted steps must be followed in all member states under EU 
Directives 85/337/EC and 97/11/EC. Scoping is not mandatory under the 
directives, but member states must establish a voluntary procedure by which 
developers can request a scoping opinion from the CA if they wish. The steps 
that are not highlighted form part of good practice in EIA and have been 
formalized in some member states but not in all. Consultations with 
environmental authorities and other interested parties may be required 
during some of these additional steps in some member states. 
Page  18
-
18 -
 
Provisions of the EU EI
A
Directive are compatible with those under the World Bank’s 
OP 4.01 and in some aspects, e.g. EA related requirements, actually exceed the 
requirements of OP 4.01. EU Directives and Regulations have binding and mandatory 
power. 
 
Page  19
-
19 -
Annex 3: Geothermal Energy and EIA Policies of 
Selected Countries 
This annex provides an example for review of key laws, regulations, emission standards, 
clearance procedures and institutional capacity to oversee environmental compliance of 
subprojects in the leading countries.  
Czech Republic 
Regulation of activities related to the exploration and exploitation of geothermal waters 
in the Czech Republic is split among the Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of 
Environment and Ministry of Industry and Trade. It is governed by a legislative 
framework based on the following structure of acts, decrees, regulations and bills. 
A. Water Management 
Act No. 20/2004 on the Amendment of the Act No. 254/2001 and of the Act No. 
239/2000. Other related acts: E.g. Act No. 17/1992 Coll. on the Environment as amended 
by the Act No. 123/1998 Coll., Act No. 114/1992 Coll. on the Nature and Landscape 
Protection as later amended, Act No. 344/1992 Coll. on the Agricultural Land Fund 
Protection as later amended. 
Act No. 254/2001 
–
The Water Act 
The purpose of the Act is to a) protect surface water and groundwater, determine 
conditions for economical utilization of water resources,  and to preserve and improve the 
quality of surface water and groundwater; b) regulate legal provisions regarding surface 
water and groundwater, relationships of private persons and legal entities to utilize 
surface water and ground water as well as property rights to the land and constructions 
that are related to the occurrence of the water concerned. Permit to utilize surface water 
and groundwater enacts the principal instrument of the Water Act.  
The Use of Water 
Any person using surface water and ground water is obliged to protect these waters and 
to ensure their economical and efficient utilization to the conditions of this Act, and is 
further obliged to prevent deterioration of the energy-generating potential of these waters 
and to protect the violation of other public interests protected by specific legal regulations 
as mention above. Any person using surface water and ground water for manufacturing 
purposes must, for the sake of compliance with obligations under above par., carry out 
such improvements of the technology of production as are necessary to ensure effective 
use of water resources, taking account of best available technology. When constructing 
structures or reconstructing them or changing the purpose of their use, depending on the 
character and purpose of such constructions, the builders must also provide water supply, 
and drainage, treatment or other disposal of waste water pursuant to this Act. The 
building control authority must not issue a building permit or a decision permitting a 
structure already under construction or a decision permitting changes to a structure before 
its completion or a building inspection certificate or a decision permitting a change in the 
use of a building, unless the above conditions are met. 
Permission for Use of Surface Water and Groundwater  
Page  20
-
20 -
The permission for the use of surface water and groundwater is required for: 
a) 
groundwater in the following instances: 
-
for groundwater withdrawal 
-
for groundwater accumulation 
-
for withdrawal of groundwater for the purpose of decreasing its level 
-
for artificial replenishment of groundwater resources by using its level 
-
for other use 
b) 
the discharge of waste water into surface water and groundwater 
c) 
the withdrawal surface water and ground water and their subsequent return for the purpose of using 
heat energy 
d) 
the withdrawal of polluted groundwater for the purpose of reducing its pollution and its subsequent 
discharge into this groundwater or into surface water 
Permission for the use of water is issued to private persons or legal entities based on their 
application. Permission for water use is not required for pumping tests in hydrological 
research or the yield tests of groundwater resources, lasting less than 5 days, provided 
that the water withdrawal over this period of time does not exceed 1 l/s. 
Permission for water use is issued for a limited duration. The permit shall state the 
purpose, its scope, obligations and if applicable, conditions under which the permission is 
being issued. An expert statement by a qualified person is the basis for a permission for 
groundwater use.  In case of using a permit for the withdrawal of surface water and 
ground water, which is subject to a fee, and which is for a period in excess of 1 year, the 
water authority will, at the same time, stipulate the permitted annual quantity of 
withdrawal. 
Permission for the use of water energy must not be issued for a period of less than 25 
years. Permission for certain activities is required for geological activities affecting plots 
of land in flood plain areas or affecting the protected zones of water resources. 
 
Fee Rates for the Calculation of Payments for Actually Withdrawn Quantity of 
Groundwater 
Purpose of use of the withdrawn water 
Rate in CZK/m
ffi
Drinking water supply 
2.00 
Other uses 
3.00 
Decree No. 391/2004 of the Ministry of Agricultural on Requirements for the Registry of 
the Quality of Surface Water and Ground Water and on the Way of Processing, 
Maintaining and the Handing on of these Data into the Database of the Public 
Administration.  
The Decree determines, inter alia, the scope of statistical data to be reported to the 
registry regarding off takes of ground and underground water, discharge of waste and 
mining water and ground water accumulated in water reservoirs;  protected areas of 
natural water accumulation; resources of ground and underground water that are utilized 
or to be utilized. 
Decree No. 432/2001 on the Application and Documentation and on the Pertinence of 
Permits, Approvals and on the Statements of the Water Authority (responsible body: 
Ministry of Agricultural). 
Page  21
-
21 -
Decree No. 471/2001 on the Technical and Safeguard Supervision of the Water Works  
(responsible body: Ministry of Agricultural). 
Decree No. 590/2002 on the Technical Requirements for the Water Works (responsible 
body: Ministry of Agricultural). 
 
B. The Environment 
1. Act 100/2001 Coll., on Environmental Impact Assessment and as amends some related 
acts (the Act on Environmental Impact Assessment entered into force by January 1st, 
2002) 
–
fully transposes Council Directive 85/337/EEC on the assessment of the effects 
of certain public and private projects on the environment, as amended by Council 
Directive 97/11/EC. 
2. Regulation 457/2001 Coll., on the Authorization and Other Questions Related to EIA 
As regards of both Acts, the final statement regarding the assessment of impact on the 
environment  was not and is not binding for the ensuing procedures (under special 
regulations such as Water Act, Territorial Planning and Building Act or Civil Aviation 
Act), but shall  be taken into consideration just as any other documents. The responsible 
authority is the Ministry of Environment (including 9 branch offices). 
Public Participation 
The public, meaning anyone, can submit a written opinion on any document published 
during the EIA procedure. The responsible authority must then take these opinions into 
account when issuing its final statement. An open public hearing is held on both the 
documentation and the expert opinion unless there has been no negative responses from 
the public and bodies concerned.  
Under certain conditions, non-governmental organizations and affected municipalities are 
granted access to ensuing procedures where a final consent to go on with the project is 
issued (under special regulations such as Water Act, Territorial Planning and 
Construction Act or Civil Aviation Act). 
Act No. 82/2004 on the Prevention of Serious Breakdowns 
Government Decree No. 452/2004 on the Determination of the Means for Appraisal of 
Safeguards Program on the Prevention of Serious Breakdowns and Safeguards Reports, 
Content of Annual Monitoring Plan and Procedures for the Implementation of 
Monitoring (responsibility: Ministry of Environment and Czech Inspectorate of the 
Environment) 
 
C. Planning 
Act No. 473/2004 that amends the acts: i) Act No. 50/1976 on the Territorial Planning 
and Construction Rules (the Building Act); ii) Act No. 76/2002 on the Integrated 
Prevention and on the Abatement of Pollution, on the Integrated Register of Pollution; iii) 
Act No. 40/2004 on the Public Procurement. 
The territorial planning deals with the methodical and complex utilization of the territory, 
determines principals for its organization and materially and timely coordinates 
constructions and other activities having impact on the development of the territory. The 
Page  22
-
22 -
territorial planning makes prerequisites for safeguards permanent harmonization of all 
naturalistic, civilization and cultural values at the territory, in particular with regard to the 
environment and protection of soil, water and air. 
 
D. Geology 
Act No. 315/2001 on the Geological Works 
The Act amends the following pertinent acts still being in force: 62/1988 on the 
Geological Works, 543/1991 on the Geological Works, 542/1991 on the Geological 
Works, 541/1991 on the Protection and Utilization of Mineral Resources. 
Act No. 44/1988 on the Protection and Utilization of Mineral Sources. 
Act No. 61/1988 on the Mining, Explosives and State Administration of Mining Industry  
Decree No. 369/2004 on the License Policy for Expert Eligibility to Design, Implement 
and Evaluate Geological Works  (responsible body: Ministry of Environment) 
Decree No. 368/2004 on the Tally of Geological Works (responsible body: Ministry of 
Environment) 
Decree No. 104/1988 on the Rational Exploitation of Sole Deposits and on the 
Permission and Adumbrate of Mining Activity and on the Adumbrate of Activities 
Implemented Through the Mining Way  (responsible body: Czech Mining Inspectorate) 
Decree No. 435/1992 on the Mining and Surveyorship During Mining Activity and Some 
other Activities Implemented Through the Mining Way   (responsible body: Czech 
Mining Inspectorate) 
 
E. Balneology 
Act No. 164/2001 on the Natural Therapeutic Resources, Resources of the Natural 
Mineral Water, Natural Therapeutic Spas and Spa Locations. 
The Act determines conditions for identification, protection, utilization and further 
development of natural therapeutic resources, resources of natural mineral water for 
dietetical purposes, natural therapeutical spas and spa resources. 
 
F. Energy 
Act No. 406/2004 on the Economical Utilization of Energy 
The Act determines rights and obligations of private businesses and legal entities 
regarding energy treatment, in particular electricity and heat including gas and other 
fuels. The rules shall contribute to the economical use of natural resources and to the 
protection of the environment, to the building-up economical use of energy, competition, 
safety energy supply and to the sustainable development of the society. 
Act No. 458/2000 on the Conditions for Enterprise and on the State Administration in the 
Energy Sector. 
Page  23
-
23 -
Government Decree No. 195/2001 on the Determination and Detailed Content of the 
Territorial Energy Concepts. 
Government Decree No. 63/2002 on the Rules for Providing Subsidies from the State 
Budget to Support Economical Utilization of Energy and to Support the Utilization of 
Renewable Resources. 
Decree No. 425/2004 of the Ministry of Industry and Trade that amends Decree No. 
213/2001 on the Energy Audit. 
Decree No. 12/2003 of the Energy Regulatory Office on the rules for organization of the 
electricity market and principals  for the price quoting under the activity of the market 
operator. 
Decree No. 5/2004 of the Energy Regulatory Office on the Purchase Prices. 
Purchase Prices from Renewable Sources 
Item 
Minimum  purchase price of 
electricity supplied to the 
grid 
MWh/CZK 
Small hydro plants  
1 550 
Wind plants commissioned after January 1, 2004 
2 700 
Wind plants commissioned before January 1, 2004 
3 000 
Bio-mass combustion plants 
2 500 
Combined combustion of bio-mass and fossil fuels  
2 000 
Bio-gas combustion plants commissioned after January 1, 
2004  
2
400
Bio-gas combustion plants commissioned before January 
1, 2004 
2
500
Geothermal energy 
3 000 
Solar energy 
6 000 
Note: The usual practice of ERO is to quote the purchase prices of electricity annually.  
 
G. Pollution 
Act No. 86/2002 on the Protection of Air 
Decree No. 356/2002 on the List of Pollutants, Generic Emission Limits and the Way 
How to Hand on Reports  
 
H. Related Legislation 
Act No. 13/1997 on the Surface Communications 
Act No. 289/1995 on the Forests 
Act No. 258/2000 on the Protection of Public Health 
 
I. Bills 
Page  24
-
24 -
Bill on the Support of Heat and Power Generation from the Renewable Resources. 
Bill on the Conditions for the Emission Trading of Greenhouse Gases. 
According to the Water Act the exploitation of energy potential of groundwater is 
considered as the utilization of water and therefore for any activity/project a permission 
of the Water Authority is required. The Act also requires that the used water shall be 
returned to the same water deposit at the site it was withdrawn. The withdrawn of water 
in this way is free of charge. In case that the geothermal project is located in the vicinity 
of water reservoirs, protected landscape and or protected area of the natural water 
production or groundwater deposits a permit of the Water Authority or other 
commissioned Authority is needed. 
 
Hungary 
A. Legislative Framework 
 
Regulation of activities related to the exploration and exploitation of geothermal waters 
in Hungary is split among the mining, environmental and water management authorities 
and is governed by a legislative framework based on the following structure of acts and 
decrees: 
 
1. XLVIII/1993. Mining Act 
 
ƒ
203/1998 (VIII. 23) Government Decree on the execution of the Mining Act 
ƒ
118/2003 (VIII. 8) Government Decree on calculating the specific value of 
massive mineral resources and geothermal energy 
 
2. LIII/1995. Environment Act 
 
ƒ
219/2004. (VII. 21.) Government Decree on the protection of ground waters 
ƒ
20/2001 (II. 14) Government Decree on environmental impact assessment 
ƒ
193/2001 (X. 19) Government Decree on the detailed provisions of the common 
authorization procedure of environment usage 
 
3. LXXXIX/2003. Environment Charge Act 
 
4. LVII/1995. Water Management Act 
 
ƒ
18/1996 (VI. 13) Environment Ministry Decree on the process of water right 
licensing 
ƒ
43/1999 (XII. 26) Environment Ministry Decree on the calculation of allowance 
paid for water reserves 
ƒ
Appendix 14 of the Budget Act Nr. CXVI/2003: Allowance paid for water 
reserves 
ƒ
33/2000 (III. 27) Government Decree on activities concerning the quality of 
ground waters 
Page  25
-
25 -
ƒ
10/2000 (VI.2.) Inter-ministerial Decree on standards for the protection of 
subsurface waters and soil matter 
ƒ
72/1996 (V. 22) Government Decree on exercising the sphere of water 
management authority 
 
As geothermal exploration in Hungary is regarded as mining activity, the primary 
responsible authority to oversee such operations is the Hungarian Mining Authority. The 
water authority is also involved, in particular, through the issuing of water production 
licenses. The fundamental rules of water protection, and within that the protection of 
ground waters, are governed by the Environment Act. Responsible authorities responsible 
for executing the Act are those at the regional level. The 1997. amendment of the Mining 
Act stipulates that production of geothermal energy can be exercised by holders of a 
water right license and without damage to water bases. 
 
Ownership Issues 
Ground waters are owned by the State, according to the Water Management Act. 
Geothermal wells for the exploitation of geothermal reservoirs will be owned by the 
entity who finances the drilling and secures the right according to relevant regulation. 
The corresponding surface land may be owned by another party, with the well operator 
exercising access rights. Protection of the water base under exploitation is the 
responsibility 
–
to the degree of exploitation – of the license holder. 
 
Water Right Licensing 
All activities related to the off take of ground waters require the operator to hold a 
relevant license 
(18/1996 (VI. 13) Environment Ministry Decree on the process of water 
right licensing and 72/1996 (V. 22) Government Decree on exercising the sphere of water 
management authority)
.
Prior to planning and construction a conceptual water right 
license
may be obtained for securing the water base concerned. Once all requirements 
met the water right license proper
would be issued, which is a pre-condition to beginning 
construction. The facility may begin production once the operation water right license
has 
been obtained. This phase of permitting elaborates on conditions of operation, rights and 
responsibilities, self-monitoring, validity of the license, etc. 
 
Royalty 
Operators of geothermal facilities are required to pay royalties on the geothermal water 
(43/1999 (XII. 26) Environment Ministry Decree on the calculation of allowance paid for 
water reserves)
 and on the geothermal energy content of the geothermal water 
(118/2003 
(VIII. 8) Government Decree on calculating the specific value of massive mineral 
resources and geothermal energy)
.
The allowance paid for water usage is a product of 
1.90 Ft/m3 (2002) and a factor on the basis of the quality of the water, the usage and the 
region, as shown in the table below: 
 
usage 
Water base 
balneological 
public 
economic 
other 
medical  
5,0 
5,0 
10,0 
Page  26
-
26 -
Geothermal (>= 30 °C) 
1,0 
1,0 
3,0 
7,5 
The base price of 1.90 Ft/m3 is regularly updated by the relevant Budget Act. This 
obligation is, however, waived if the geothermal water is re-injected. 
 
Obligation to pay royalty for the geothermal energy content of the geothermal water is 
mandated by the Mining Act. The operator of the facility is obliged to pay a royalty of 
2% of the value of the produced geothermal energy. In order to promote efficiency, 
however, the royalty is waived for operators that utilize more than 50% of the geothermal 
energy content of the produced geothermal water. 
 
In addition, the 
203/1998 (VIII. 23) Government Decree on the execution of the Mining 
Act
 stipulates that the operator is exempt from the royalty if the produced geothermal 
water is utilized in a cascading arrangement, i.e. for both energy purposes and for either 
medical, balneological or water supply purposes. 
 
Environmental licensing / Environmental Impact Assessment 
The 
20/2001 (II. 14) Government Decree on environmental impact assessment
 lists the 
activities that are environmental license/EIA obliged and classifies them into category A, 
for which detailed EIA is required and category B, for which a preliminary EIA may 
suffice, upon discretion of the regional environmental authority. Activities associated 
with geothermal energy development are, according to the Decree, classified as follows: 
 
Category A:
ƒ
Off take of ground waters: above 5 million m
3
/year 
ƒ
Re-injection: above 3 million m
3
/year 
 
Category B:
ƒ
Construction of geothermal power plants: above 20 MWe 
ƒ
Construction of geothermal power plants: all capacities, if constructed on mineral-
,
medical- or drinking water base or in protected natural areas 
ƒ
Off take of ground waters (unless category A): 
o
Thermal karsts: above 1000 m
3
/day 
o
Karsts and other: above 5000 m
3
/day 
o
Other: above 2000 m
3
/day 
ƒ
Deep drilling: deeper than 650 m (if not part of categories A or B) on protected 
water base or in protected natural areas 
ƒ
Re-injection: (unless category A) 
 
Miscellaneous 
The 
193/2001 (X. 19) Government Decree on the detailed provisions of the common 
authorization procedure of environment usage
 is a measure that is harmonized with the 
Page  27
-
27 -
relevant EU IPPC directive. It stipulates that activities that involve significant 
environment impacts are obliged to hold/obtain environmental usage license. New 
operations are expected to apply the best available technology and ongoing activities are 
expected to comply with the same criteria by 10/31/2007. 
 
According to the 
LXXXIX/2003. Environment Charge Act
,
the emitter of pollutants to 
ambient air, surface waters and soil is obliged to pay an environment load fee. The 
amount of the pollution charge for used water released to surface waters is calculated on 
the basis of the amount of the used water, the composition and representation of 
pollutants and the specific surface water (classes A to C, depending on the level of 
protection) to which the used water has been released. 
 
Relevant energy regulation 
 
1. CX/2001. Electricity Act 
 
ƒ
180/2002 Government Decree on the execution of the Electricity Act 
ƒ
56/2002 Decree of the Ministry of Economy on the purchase obligation of 
renewable electricity (updated as 93/2004) 
 
2. XVIII/1998. District Heating Act 
 
ƒ
1/1999 Government Decree on the execution of the District Heating Act 
 
The 
CX/2001. Electricity Act
 orders that the purchase of renewable electricity shall not be 
denied, provided that the facility’s installed capacity is greater than 0,1 MW, the 
technical conditions of uptake are met and the price does not exceed the respective price 
as set by the relevant decree. The 
56/2002
 
Decree of the Ministry of Economy on the 
purchase obligation of renewable electricity (updated as 93/2004)
 further elaborates on 
the regulations of purchasing renewable electricity and sets the preferential prices as 
follows: 
 
Summer Winter HUF/kWh 
Peak 
Day 
Evening 
07-13 h 
17-20 h 
08-14 h 
18-21 h
 
27,50
 
Low 
Morning 
Day 
Night 
05-07 h 
13-17 h 
20-02 h
 
06-08 h 
14-18 h 
21-03 h
 
15,80
 
Deep  02-05 
h
 
03-06 h
 
8,44
 
The tariff for district heat is set by the DH plant, but the DH plant observes the relevant 
act that sets a tariff ceiling. The 
XVIII/1998. District Heating Act
 stipulates that the tariff 
shall a) promote safe and lowest cost heat and efficient use of capacities and b) include 
reserves for the costs of reserve capacities and for the expenses of eventual 
decommissioning and environmental remediation (for geothermal resources, in 
particular). 
 
B. The Environmental Impact Assessment Process 
Page  28
-
28 -
 
The 
20/2001 (II. 14) Government Decree on environmental impact assessment
 describes 
the purpose of the environmental impact assessment process, regulates its procedures and 
provides guidance to the classification of activities according to their environmental 
impacts. Further, it stipulates measures for the due treatment of activities and provisions 
to mitigate expected environmental impacts, in accordance with relevant EU regulation. 
 
Under the Decree all license obliged activities are classified into either category A 
(activities that, due to their significant environmental impacts can be issued 
environmental license only following the preparation of a detailed EIA) or category B 
(activities where it is the discretion of the regional environmental authority (REA) to 
decide whether a detailed EIA is required). 
 
Project developers of license obliged activities shall submit an application for 
environmental license to the REA with a preliminary EIA (category B) or a detailed EIA 
(category A) attached to the application. REA forwards the application package to the 
relevant municipality for an evaluation of local relevance. If warranted, a public notice in 
accordance with local publication practices will be exhibited for a period of 30 days in 
the municipality. The notice informs the public about the activity and its location, about 
access to the application and the EIA document and about the possibility to comment in 
writing on the activity. Comments received by the municipality or REA will be 
forwarded to the project developer. 
 
Appraisal of the EIA is done by REA, with the involvement of relevant other authorities, 
as deemed necessary. On the basis of this appraisal REA either issues the environmental 
license (categories A and B) or may decide to request the project developer to prepare a 
detailed EIA (category B). 
 
C. Institutional Arrangements 
 
Enactment and execution of legislation relevant to the development of geothermal 
resources in Hungary involves the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of 
Economy, Regional Environmental Authorities, the Hungarian Energy Office, the Mining 
Bureau of Hungary and the National Water Directorate. 
 
Environment and Water Management 
 
Environment and water management related legislation is enacted by the Parliament, the 
Government and the Minister of Environment and Water. Principal responsibility for the 
execution of this legislation is with the Regional Environmental Authorities and the 
National Water Directorate whose sphere of activities include: 
 
ƒ
Execution of legislation 
ƒ
Issuance of licenses 
ƒ
Monitoring 
ƒ
Sanctioning 
ƒ
Collection of environmental charges 
 
Page  29
-
29 -
Mining and Energy 
 
Mining and energy related legislation is enacted by the Parliament, the Government and 
the Minister of Economy. Principal responsibility for the execution of this legislation is 
with the Mining Bureau of Hungary and the Hungarian Energy Office whose sphere of 
activities include: 
 
ƒ
Issuance of licenses 
ƒ
Supervision and analysis of relevant legislation 
ƒ
Preparation of new regulation 
ƒ
Tariff scheme preparation and application 
ƒ
Monitoring and Supervision 
ƒ
Sanctioning 
ƒ
Consumer protection 
 
Russian Federation 
The authority in regulating the activities related to surveying and developing the deposits of geothermal 
waters in the Russian Federation lies with the Federal and regional state bodies of power and the local self-
governance authorities. That sphere of activities is regulated by the Federal and regional laws and other 
regulatory acts by the Federal and regional state authorities (the Federal Law of December 31, 2005, No 
199-
FZ “On Amending Certain Acts of Legislation of the Russian Federation in Conjunction with 
Perfecting the Delimitation of Authorities”). 
 
A. Legislation in the area of using the geothermal resources 
 
The Law «On Mining» (21.02.1992, No 2395-1): 
The Law regulates the relations emerging in conjunction with the geological studies, use and protection of 
the Earth entrails in the Russian Federation, its continental shelf, and also in relation with the use of wastes 
generated in the course of mining and of the processing industry activities related to it, of peat, sapropels 
and other special mineral resources, including underground waters, brines and brine mixes from salt lakes 
and sea bays. It contains the legal and economic foundations for the comprehensive rational use and 
protection of the Earth entrails, provides for the protection of interests of both the state of the Russian 
Federation and its citizens, and also of the rights of mineral resource users. It sets forth the limitations for 
the use of the Earth entrails, the order of granting mining rights of various types and nature (such as 
geological studies, surveying and mining various minerals and extractables, burying the wastes, etc.). The 
Law prescribes the order of receiving mining licenses and their content, the order of allotting the Earth 
entrails for mining various prevailing minerals and extractables. It specifies the rights and responsibilities 
of the mining entities, regulations on the rational use and protection of the Earth entrails, on the safe 
execution of various jobs related to exploiting the Earth entrails, prescribes the requirements on developing 
the minerals and extractables deposit sites. In case of expiration of the license validity term or of an ahead-
of-schedule termination of the mining operations the respective mining enterprises and mining sites are 
subject to liquidation or conservation. 
 
The «Water Code of the Russian Federation» (16.11.1995, No 167-FZ): 
The Code regulates the relations in the area of use and protection of water bodies in order to: provide and 
secure the citizens’ right to clean water and favorable water environment; support the optimal conditions of 
water use; maintain the quality of both the surface and underground waters in a state that meets the 
respective sanitary and environmental regulations; protect water bodies from pollution, clogging and 
exhaustion; prevent or neutralize the hazardous effects of water pollution, an also protect the biological 
diversity of water ecosystems.  
The Code is applicable to all the subjects of economical activities within the Russian Federation. 
Page  30
-
30 -
In accordance with the Water Code (its Articles 82, 90 and 109), the limitations on the use of water bodies 
i
nclude setting forth the following: 
water use limits (in both water consumption and water allottment); these present the maximum 
permissible volumes of extracted water resources and/or of sewage waters of the regulation quality released 
that are prescribed for a given water user for a given term; 
Regulations with respect to the use and protection of water bodies prescribed by the Water Code that are 
prescribed for and apply to the enterprise construction stage and that have to be followed by the same 
enterprise during the stage of its commissioning as well.  
While commissioning industrial sites one has also to account for their effect upon the water bodies and the 
overall natural environment (Article 105). 
The basic principle of regulating water use, rehabilitating and protecting water bodies via economic 
measures consists in making water use payable. What is taxable, is the very use of water bodies with the 
help of various constructions, technical means or facilities. It includes water used to satisfy the needs of the 
hydraulic power industry, both that spent in producing hydroelectric power, when no water resources are 
diverted, water channeled for technological and other needs, as well as water shed through. 
 
The routines for setting, accounting and invoicing payments related to the use of water bodies and the 
topmost limits of such payments are prescribed by the legislation of the Russian Federation. 
 
The Law 
“On the Natural Therapeutic Resources, Therapeutic and Recreational Localities and 
Health Resorts”
 (27.01.1995 No 26-FZ) 
The Law regulates the relations in the area of studies, use, development and protection of the natural 
therapeutic resources, therapeutic and recreational localities and health resorts in the Russian Federation, 
defines the authority of the state and local self-governance powers  
 
The Law «On the Industrial Safety of Hazardous Industrial Facilities» (
1997, No 30-FZ) 
The Law prescribes the legal, economical and social basics of safe operation of hazardous industrial 
facilities and aims to prevent accidents at hazardous industrial facilities and to maintain the organizations 
operating such hazardous industrial facilities fit and ready to localize the consequences of such accidents 
and neutralize them. The Law is applicable to the subjects of economical activities in mining industry, 
since these are included on the list of hazardous industrial facilities. 
 
The 
“Regulation on the Order of Licensing the Use of the Earth’s Entrails”. 
approved by the 
Resolution of the Supreme Soviet of the Russian Federation of 15.05.1992, No 3314-1, amended by the 
Resolution of the Government of the Russian Federation of 17.06.2004, No 293. 
 
The 
“Instruction on applying the "Regulation on the Order of Licensing the Use of the Earth’s 
Entrails"
 to mining areas released for mining underground waters as well as other minerals and 
extractables rated as therapeutic
”. The Instruction is approved by the RosComNedr (the RF State 
Committee on the Earth’s Entrails) on 14.04.1994. 
 
The 
“Rules on Developing and Protecting the Deposits of Mineral Waters and Therapeutic Muds”. 
Resolution by the Federal Mining and Industrial Supervision Service of Russia of 06.06.2003, No 72. 
 
The 
“Rules for Protection of the Earth’s Entrails”.
 Resolution of the Mining and Industrial Supervision 
Service of Russia of 06.06.2003, No 71. 
 
The 
“Rules for Protection of the Earth’s Entrails when Processing Mineral Raw Materials”.
 
Resolution of the Mining and Industrial Supervision Service of Russia of 06.06.2003, No 70. 
 
“
On the Order of Taxation of Underground Waters Mining”. 
(Letter by the Ministry of Natural 
Resources of Russia of 06.-3.2002, No AK-25/967.) 
 
«On Allotting Land Sites for Use in Mining Underground Waters»
 (Letter by the RosComNedr (the RF 
State Committee on the Earth’s Entrails) of 29.02.1996, NoBYa-32/530) 
 
The Regulation on the Federal Mining and Industrial Supervision in Russia
 (the Resolution by the 
Government of the Russian Federation of 03.12.2001, No 841.) 
Page  31
-
31 -
 
The Resolution on Licensing Separate Types of Activities Related to Geological Studies and the Use 
of the Earth’s Entrails
 (as edited in the Resolutions by the RF Government of 03.10.2002, No 731) and 
others. 
 
Licensing the Use 
of the Earth’s Entrails  
 
The licensing of use of the Earth’s entrails is regulated by the Law «On Mining», the Water Code and the 
Law «On Licensing Separate Types of Activities…». 
 
In accordance with the latest amendments (of 02.07.2005, No 80-FZ and of 31.12.2005, No 200-FZ) to the 
Law «On Licensing Separate Types of Activities…» and the Law «On Mining» (of 22.08.2004, No 122-
FZ) allotting the Earth’s entrails for use, including mining of the underground waters is formalized by a 
special state permit in the form of a license that includes a registration form of a prescribed format with the 
State Emblem of the Russian Federation as well as textual, graphic and other annexes, all of them 
constituting integral parts of the license and defining the principal conditions of using the Earth’s entrails. 
 
The License on the Use of the Earth’s Entrails
is a document that certifies the right of its owner to 
exploit, for a pre-
set term, a land site with its Earth’s entrails within the prescribed limits, in agreement 
with the task specified, provided the owner adheres to certain prerequisites to that operation that were 
agreed upon in advance. An agreement may be started between the respective duly authorized state 
authorities and the user on the use of the Earth’s entrails, such that it sets forth the conditions of exploiting 
that site, as well as the committments of both parties with respect to honoring that agreement. A 
prerequisite for issuing the license to use the Earth’s entrails is an agreement on the part of the respective 
land resources managing body or the land owner to allot the respective land site for the stated puposes of 
use of the Earth’s entrails. The allotment of land site within its final borders and the formalization of the 
land rights of the owner on the use of the Earth’s entrails follow the routine envisaged by land legislation 
and only come into force after the project design of the future activities in using the Earth’s entrails is duly 
approved. 
 
In case the Federal laws provide that certain types of activities related to the use of the Earth’s entrails need 
separate permits (licenses), the owners of the respective land sites have to secure such permits (licenses) to 
conduct the respective activities and enter 
agreements
 with the entities holding the rights to such activities 
related to the use of the Earth’s entrails. 
 
The 
License on water use
is a document that confirms the right of its owner to use water bodies. Rights of 
use on water bodies are obtained on the basis of a license on water use and the agreement on use of the 
water body that has to be started in accordance with the Water Code (Article 46 of the Water Code). 
 
When issuing the use of the Earth’s entrails licenses on the extraction of underground waters, as well as on 
mining other minerals and extractables rated therapeutic, the RosComNedr (the RF State Committee on the 
Earth’s Entrails) and its local departments charged with such licensing have to adhere to the resepective 
Federal laws and laws and other regulatory acts by the subjects of the Russian Federation in the area of 
environmental protection and rational use of the natural resources that are adopted in pursuit thereof. 
 
The use of the Earth’s entrails license on the extraction of underground waters is necessary in the following 
cases: 
·
To extract the underground waters and to mine minerals and extractables 
rated therapeutic with the aim of their ensuing use; 
·
To extract the thermal underground waters (including that at the steam 
hydrothermal sites) to supply heat and hot water and generate electric power; 
·
To extract the industrial underground waters (the so-called hydromineral resources) to 
further recover valuable components from them; 
·
To extract the mineral therapeutic underground waters and to mine
 
minerals and 
extractables rated therapeutic for their further balneal applications; 
Page  32
-
32 -
·
To extract the underground waters rated potable, mineral-therapeutic, table and table-
therapeutic and to mine minerals and extractables rated therapeutic for their packing and further 
marketing, etc. 
 
T
he decision to grant a license is adopted jointly by the body nominated for the cause by the respective 
subject of the Russian Federation and the RosComNedr or its local department. When allotting the mining 
sites for extraction of underground waters and minerals and extractables rated therapeutic the distribution 
of licensing targets between the RosComNedr and its local departments follows the splitting routine 
described below: 
·
RosComNedr licenses all those water bodies operating which affects the 
hydrogeological and environmental conditions for two or more subjects of the 
Federation; the deposits of potable underground waters used to supply water to 
cities with a population in excess of 1 mln; the deposits of mineral therapeutic 
waters, as well as minerals and extractables rated therapeutic that serve as their 
natural resource bases for the health resorts of all-Russian importance; the 
deposits of industrial waters (hydromineral raw materials), as well as bodies 
planned or contemplated for future use by the enterprises with foreign capital 
invested or those with foreign legal entities acting as their participants; 
·
Local departments of the RosComNedr license all the bodies that fall within their 
area of authority. 
 
The license providing the right to use the E
arth’s entrails for the purpose of extracting the underground 
waters and mining minerals and extractables rated therapeutic may be issued to develop the deposit either 
as a whole or a part thereof. In the second case while developing the deposit its various owners of the 
respective rights should follow a technological scheme mutually agreed upon within a prescribed routine 
that ensures a rational use of the underground waters and their protection from pollution and depletion. 
 
Requirements on the license content 
 
License to 
use the Earth’s entrails
License for water use
the data on the user
 of the Earth’s entrails; 
the data on the purpose of the activities related to 
the use of the Earth’s entrails; 
specification of the spatial borders of site allotted 
for the use of the Earth’s entrails; 
specification of the borders of land site or water 
body allotted for the activities related to the use of 
the Earth’s entrails; 
license term and the date of commencing on-site 
activities; 
the requirements on the payments charged for using 
the Earth’s entrails, land sites and aquatoria; for the 
mutually agreed level of extraction of minerals, and 
for the property rights on the minerals mined; 
the agreement on the property right to geological 
information retrieved in the course of using the 
Earth’s entrails; 
the conditions for meeting requirements on 
protecting the Earth’s entrails and the environment, 
and on the safety of the activities; 
project terms and procedures to prepare the 
mining sites for closure or conservation and 
for land site rehabilitation 
information on water body; 
information on water user; 
information on water consumers; 
indication of means and goals of use of the water 
body; 
specification of spatial borders (coordinates) of the 
water body or its part allotted for use, and the 
location(s) of water draw-off (discharge) point(s), as 
the need may be; 
information on the limits of water use; 
information on the commitments of water owner 
with respect to the water consumers; 
license term of validity; 
regulations on the rational use and the 
protection of water bodies and the natural 
environment  
Page  33
-
33 -
B. Legislation in the area of environmental protection  
 
«On the Protection of the Natural Environment» (of January 10, 2002, No 7-FZ): 
T
he Law defines the legal foundations for the state policies in the area of protecting the environment, 
maintaining a favorable natural environment, the biological diversity and the natural resources that aim to 
meet the needs of the current and the future generations, for law enforcement in the area of environmental 
protection and environmental safety. It regulates the relations in the area of environmental protection that 
originate in the course of such economic and other activities within the territory of the Russian Federation, 
plus its continental shelf and the zone of its exclusive economic interests that affect the environment. 
 
«On the Environmental Expertise» (of 23.11.1995, No 174-FZ): 
The Law regulates the relations in the area of environmental expertise and targets at realizing the 
constitutional rights of the citizens of the Russian Federation for a favorable environment by way of 
preventing the negative effects of economic and other activities on the natural environment. The Law 
prohibits implementing any item of the state environmental expertise (SEE) (that is, pursuing any economic 
or other activities that affect the state of the environment) without a positive resolution by the SEE. 
 
«On the Specially Protected Natural Areas» (of 14.03.1995 No33-FZ) 
The Law regulates the relations in the area of organizing protection and use of the specially protected 
natural areas that aim to protect the unique and typical natural complexes and sites, the remarkable natural 
formations, targets in both the plant and the animal kingdoms, their gene pool, to study the natural 
processes in the biosphere and control changes in its state, to promote environmental education of the 
population. The 
Specially protected natural areas
 are those land sites and water bodies and air space above 
them where specific natural complexes and targets may be found that feature particular value in the areas of 
nature protection, science, culture, aesthetic perception, recreation and healthcare. These are fully or 
partially exempt from economic use and have a special protection status established for them by the 
decisions of the state authorities. 
 
«On the Protection of Atmospheric Air» (of 04.05.1999, No 96-FZ); 
The Law sets forth the legal foundations and principles for the protection of atmospheric air and aims at 
realizing the constitutional rights of the citizens of the Russian Federation for a favorable environment and 
for authentic information on its state. 
 
«On the Industrial Wastes and Consumptional Residues» (of 24.06.1998, No 89-FZ); 
The Law sets forth the legal foundations for handling the industrial wastes and consumptional residues and 
aims at preventing detrimental effects of such industrial wastes and consumptional residues on the human 
health and the natural environment, as well as at involving these wastes into the economic turnover as an 
additional source of raw materials. Also the Law specifies various regulations in the area of handling 
wastes, their accounting and reporting and introduces the state cadastre of such wastes. The Law is 
applicable to all the subjects of economic activities in the Russian Federation.  
 
«On the Animal Kingdom» (of 24.04.1995 No 52-FZ) 
The Law regulates the relations in the area of protecting and exploiting the animals, and also in the area of 
protecting and rehabilitating the natural animal habitats so as to maintain their biological diversity, provide 
for a sustainable use of all the components of the animal kingdom, maintain the conditions for their stable 
existence, for the protection of the gene pool of wild animal species and also for the protection of the 
animal kingdom as an intrinsic element of the natural environment. 
 
«On the Sanitary and Epidemiological Safety of the Population» (of 30.03.1999, No 52-FZ) 
The Law regulates the relations originating in the area of maintaining the sanitary and epidemiological 
safety of the population which is considered to be one of the principal prerequisites for realizing the 
constitutional right of the citizens of the Russian Federation for healthcare and a favorable environment. 
 
«On the Protection of Population and Country Territories Against the Emergency Situations of the Natural 
and Technogentic Origin» (of 21.12.1994, No 68-FZ) 
The Law sets forth the organizational and legal regulations in the area of protecting the citizens of the 
Russian Federation, foreign citizens and persons of no citizenship present in the Russian Federation, all the 
Page  34
-
34 -
land, water, air space within the limits of the Russian Federation or a part thereof, sites of industrial and 
s
ocial value, as well as the natural environment against emergency situations of the natural or technogentic 
origin. An emergency situation is a situation formed within a given area in the result of an accident, a 
hazardous natural phenomenon, a catastrophe, a natural or other disaster, that may cause or has caused 
casualties, losses in human health or in the state of the natural environment, considerable material losses 
and perturbations in human activities and living conditions. 
 
“On Approving the Procedure to Define the Charges for Polluting the Natural Environment, Dumping 
Wastes and Causing Other Detrimental Effects and the Topmost Limit Threrof”. The Resolution by the RF 
Government of 28.08.1992, No 632 (as edited on 12.02.2003) 
 
Charging for the use of the environment and compensating for the damage to it are the basic founding 
principles used to protect the environment in the course of economic and other activities. 
Types of payment for various negative environmental effects are prescribed by the Federal laws.  
Among such negative environmental effects are the following: 
·
Emitting pollutants or other hazardous substances into the atmospheric air; 
·
Spilling pollutants, other hazardous substances and microorganisms to the surface and 
underground water bodies and water shedding ranges; 
·
Polluting the Earth’s entrails and soils; 
·
Dumping industrial wastes and consumption residues; 
·
Polluting the environment with noise, heat, electromagnetic and ionizing radiation and emissions 
of other physical nature; 
·
Other types of negative environmental effects. 
 
The routines for calculating and invoicing the charges for negative environmental effects are set forth by 
the legislation of the Russian Federation 
 
The legislative acts listed above as well as the provisions of Article 42 of the RF Constitution lay the 
foundations of the environmental state policies of the Russian Federation. These laws form the institutional 
mechanisms, administrative and economical instruments that make it possible provide to enforce the 
environmental regulations and requirements among all the users of the natural resources (all the subjects of 
economic activities) that operate within the territory of the Russian Federation. 
 
C. The Environmental Impact Estimate 
 
The Environmental Impact Estimate
 (EIA) is a process aimed at enforcing the environmental provisions 
and requirements while drafting decisions on various economic issues. It is regulated by the laws «On the 
Protection of the Natural Environment», «On Environmental Expertise» and the «Regulations on EIA in the 
Russian Federation» (of May 16, 2000, No372).  
 
The aim of conducting EIA consists in preventing or mitigating the effect of such activities on the 
environment and the social, economic and other entailing consequences. The EIA is executed for every 
contemplated economic or other undertaking that envisages an environmental expertise in accordance with 
the Federal Law of 23.11.95, No 174-FZ "On Environmental Expertise", such an expertise specified in 
substantiating documents for such an undertaking. The EIA is conducted by the customer ordering such 
documents. 
 
The EIA results are documented in the materials on estimating the environmental effects; these constitute a 
part of the substantiating documentation that is submitted for environmental expertise and also of the 
documents used in the process of decision making on such activities. While conducting the EIA the 
Customer is obliged to consider alternative approaches to achieving the aims of the contemplated 
economical and other activities. In case of large scale projects conducting the EIA may entail public 
hearings. 
 
The process of drafting the project and project documentation consists of the following stages: 
·
The investment concept 
Page  35
-
35 -
·
Declaration on the investment intentions 
·
Technical prerequisites for implementing the designed activities 
·
Investment grounds (EIA starts at this stage) 
·
Feasibility study/ capital construction design (a separate part on the 
“Protection of the Environment” appears in it)
 
The State Environmental Expertise (SEE) consists in ascertaining that the planned economical and other 
activities correspond to the environmental regulations and in assessing whether it is permissible to 
implement the given project if judged by the results of its environmental expertise, namely: whether it is 
possible to prevent the expected detrimental effects of these activities on the natural environment and the 
ensuing social, economical and other consequences of implementing the project that constitutes the target 
of the environmental expertise. Expertise procedures are regulat
ed by the Law «On Environmental 
Expertise», and th Law "On the Protection of the Natural Environment". The authority in the area of SEE 
belongs to the Federal bodies (for the projects of the Federal level) and to the regional state authorities (for 
the projects of the regional level). 
 
The targets of SEE, both at the Federal and regional levels include practically all the strategic documents 
(programs and plans), as well as pre-design and design documents. A positive conclusion by the State 
Environmental Expertise is one of the obligatory prerequisites for financing and implementing any project 
that falls under review by the State Environmental Expertise. Such a positive conclusion by the State 
Environmental Expertise is legally valid within its term of validity prescribed by the Federal executive 
body (duly authorized to execute environmental expertise) that runs that particular expertise. 
 
D. Securing Permits to Affect the Environment  
 
In order to prevent the negative environmental effect of economical and other activities certain limits are 
preset of such permissible effects on the environment for both the legal entities and physical persons – the 
users of natural resources: 
·
Standard limits on the permissible emissions and overflow of substances and 
microorganisms; 
·
Standard limits on generating industrial wastes and on material consumption and limits on 
storing them; 
·
Standard limits on the permissible physical effects and their levels (the amount of heat, the 
levels of noise, vibration, ionizing radiation, electromagnetic fields strength and other 
physical effects); 
·
Standard limits on the permissible level of extraction of various components from the 
natural environment; 
·
Standard limits on the permissible anthropogenic forcing of the environment; 
·
Standard limits on other permissible environmental effects caused in the 
course of economical and other activities. 
 
In dependence of the level of damage caused to the environment that resulted from exceeding the 
prescribed permissible standard limits of environmental effects the subjects of economical and other 
activities are held accountable in accordance with the acting legislation. 
 
Limited emissions and overflows to the environment that remain within the prescribed standard limits for 
either the substances or microorganisms are authorized on the basis of special permits issued by the 
executive authorities that do state management in the area of environmental protection. 
 
In case the acting standard limits to the permissible environmental effects cannot be met, special emission 
and overflow limits may be prescribed and exclusive permits issued that remain valid only for the period 
needed to implement some special measures to better protect the environment, introduce the state-of-the-art 
technologies and/or implement other environmental protection designs. 
Page  36
-
36 -
Sanctions envisaged for violating the regulations on such permits are set forth in the legislation treating the 
i
ssues of environmental protection and also in the Criminal Code and the Administrative Offences Code of 
the RF.  
 
E. Territory Planning 
 
Territory planning in the Russian Federation is conducted on the basis of the Urban Code (29.12.2004) and 
the Land Code of the RF. 
 
Territory planning consists in planning the development of separate areas and includes specifying various 
functional zones, zones for positioning future objects of capital construction for either the state or 
municipal needs, zones of certain special conditions of their future use. 
 
Territory planning provides the prerequisites needed to harmonically combine and sustain all the 
environmental, civilization and cultural values within a given area, in particular those related to the state of 
the environment, the protection of soils, water resources and atmospheric air. 
 
Page  37
-
37 -
Annex 4: Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet Form 
 
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet 
Section I 
–
Basic Information 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 
A. Basic Project Data 
(from PDS) 
I.A.1. Project Statistics 
COUNTRY:  
PROJECT ID: 
PROJECT:  
TTL: 
APPRAISAL DATE: 
IBRD AMOUNT ($m): 
BOARD DATE: 
IDA AMOUNT ($m): 
MANAGING UNIT: 
SECTOR: 
LENDING INSTRUMENTS: 
STATUS: 
I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS)  
 
I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS)  
 
I.A.4. Project Location: 
(Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social characteristics of 
the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical natural habitats, or 
any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
 
B1. Check Environmental Classification A [ ], B [ }, C [ ], FI [ ], TBD [ ] 
Comments:  
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered 
(from PDS) 
Click on Policy name for brief summary of objectives, triggers and requirements 
Click on Policy reference number for full policy
 
I.C1. Table on applicability 
Yes 
No 
TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)
*
[
]
[
]
[
]
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)  
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Section II – Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management  
II.D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
.
Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not 
available, describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
 
II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts. 
 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the 
parties' claims on the disputed areas
 
Page  38
-
38 -
II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or 
due to multiple project component.  
 
II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the 
project area. 
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required) 
 
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues 
 
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on 
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
 
E. Safeguards Classification
 (select one).
 
Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. 
Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the 
provisions of that policy apply.
 
[
]
S
1
.
–
Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and 
institutional risks in management of one or more safeguard areas  
[
]
S
2
.
–
One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their 
impact and are technically and institutionally manageable 
[
]
S
3
.
–
No safeguard issues 
[
]
S
F
–
Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven 
development or similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic 
approach to address safeguard issues.  
F. Disclosure Requirements Expected Date Actual Date 
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:  
Date of receipt by the Bank 
…/…/… …/…/… 
or N/A 
Date of “in-country” disclosure 
…/…/… …/…/… 
or N/A 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
…/…/… …/…/… 
or N/A 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
 …/…/… 
…/…/… 
or 
N/A 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
…/…/… …/…/… 
or N/A 
Date of “in-country” disclosure 
…/…/… …/…/…  
or N/A 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
…/…/… …/…/…  
or N/A 
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:  
Date of receipt by the Bank 
…/…/… …/…/…  
or N/A 
Date of “in-country” disclosure 
…/…/… …/…/…  
or N/A 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
…/…/… …/…/…  
or N/A 
Pest Management Plan:  
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
…/…/… …/…/…  
or N/A 
Date of “in-country” disclosure 
…/…/… …/…/…  
or N/A 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
…/…/… …/…/…  
or N/A 
Dam Safety Management Plan:  
  
Date of receipt by the Bank 
…/…/… …/…/…  
or N/A 
Date of “in-country” disclosure 
…/…/… …/…/…  
or N/A 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
…/…/… …/…/…  
or N/A 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain 
why. 
 
Page  39
-
39 -
Signed and submitted by:  
Task Team Leader: 
Name  
 
Date 
Project Safeguards Specialist 1: 
Name  
 
Date: 
Project Safeguards Specialist 2: 
Name  
 
Date: 
Project Safeguards Specialist 3: 
Name  
 
Date: 
Approved by: 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator 
Name  
 
Date  
Comments 
Sector Manager 
Name  
 
Date  
Comments 
N/A Not Available 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims 
on the disputed areas (this disclaimer appears only for projects triggering OP/BP 8.60) 
Page  40
-
40 -
Annex 5: Environmental Management Plan 
 
Annex C to OP 4.01 - Environmental Management Plan
These policies were prepared for use by World Bank staff and are not necessarily a 
complete treatment of the subject.
 
OP 4.01 - Annex C 
January, 
1999
1. A project's environmental management plan (EMP) consists of the set of mitigation, monitoring, 
and institutional measures to be taken during implementation and operation to eliminate adverse 
environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels. The plan also 
includes the actions needed to implement these measures.
1
Management plans are essential 
elements of EA reports for Category A projects; for many Category B projects, the EA may result 
in a management plan only. To prepare a management plan, the borrower and its EA design 
team (a) identify the set of responses to potentially adverse impacts; (b) determine requirements 
for ensuring that those responses are made effectively and in a timely manner; and (c) describe 
the means for meeting those requirements.
2
More specifically, the EMP includes the following 
components.
 
Mitigation
 
2. The EMP identifies feasible and cost-effective measures that may reduce potentially significant 
adverse environmental impacts to acceptable levels. The plan includes compensatory measures 
if mitigation measures are not feasible, cost-effective, or sufficient. Specifically, the EMP
 
(a) identifies and summarizes all anticipated significant adverse 
environmental impacts (including those involving indigenous people or 
involuntary resettlement);
 
(b) describes--with technical details--each mitigation measure, including 
the type of impact to which it relates and the conditions under which it is 
required (e.g., continuously or in the event of contingencies), together with 
designs, equipment descriptions, and operating procedures, as 
appropriate;
 
(c) estimates any potential environmental impacts of these measures; and
 
(d) provides linkage with any other mitigation plans (e.g., for involuntary 
resettlement, indigenous peoples, or cultural property) required for the 
project.
 
Monitoring
 
3. Environmental monitoring during project implementation provides information about key 
environmental aspects of the project, particularly the environmental impacts of the project and the 
effectiveness of mitigation measures. Such information enables the borrower and the Bank to 
evaluate the success of mitigation as part of project supervision, and allows corrective action to 
be taken when needed. Therefore, the EMP identifies monitoring objectives and specifies the 
type of monitoring, with linkages to the impacts assessed in the EA report and the mitigation 
measures described in the EMP. Specifically, the monitoring section of the EMP provides 
 
(a) a specific description, and technical details, of monitoring measures, including 
the parameters to be measured, methods to be used, sampling locations, 
Page  41
-
41 -
frequency of measurements, detection limits (where appropriate), and definition 
of thresholds that will signal the need for corrective actions; and 
 
(b) monitoring and reporting procedures to (i) ensure early detection of conditions 
that necessitate particular mitigation measures, and (ii) furnish information on the 
progress and results of mitigation.
 
Capacity Development and Training
 
4. To support timely and effective implementation of environmental project 
components and mitigation measures, the EMP draws on the EA's assessment 
of the existence, role, and capability of environmental units on site or at the 
agency and ministry level.
3
If necessary, the EMP recommends the 
establishment or expansion of such units, and the training of staff, to allow 
implementation of EA recommendations. Specifically, the EMP provides a 
specific description of institutional arrangements--who is responsible for carrying 
out the mitigatory and monitoring measures (e.g., for operation, supervision, 
enforcement, monitoring of implementation, remedial action, financing, reporting, 
and staff training). To strengthen environmental management capability in the 
agencies responsible for implementation, most EMPs cover one or more of the 
following additional topics: (a) technical assistance programs, (b) procurement of 
equipment and supplies, and (c) organizational changes.
 
Implementation Schedule and Cost Estimates
 
5. For all three aspects (mitigation, monitoring, and capacity development), the 
EMP provides (a) an implementation schedule for measures that must be carried 
out as part of the project, showing phasing and coordination with overall project 
implementation plans; and (b) the capital and recurrent cost estimates and 
sources of funds for implementing the EMP. These figures are also integrated 
into the total project cost tables.
 
Integration of EMP with Project
 
6. The borrower's decision to proceed with a project, and the Bank's decision to 
support it, are predicated in part on the expectation that the EMP will be 
executed effectively. Consequently, the Bank expects the plan to be specific in its 
description of the individual mitigation and monitoring measures and its 
assignment of institutional responsibilities, and it must be integrated into the 
project's overall planning, design, budget, and implementation. Such integration 
is achieved by establishing the EMP within the project so that the plan will 
receive funding and supervision along with the other components.
 
____________
 
1. 
The management plan is 
sometimes known as an "action 
plan." The EMP may be presented 
as two or three separate plans 
covering mitigation, monitoring, and 
institutional aspects, depending on 
borrowing country requirements. 
2. 
For projects involving rehabilitation, 
upgrading, expansion, or 
Page  42
-
42 -
privatization of existing facilities, 
remediation of existing 
environmental problems may be 
more important than mitigation and 
monitoring of expected impacts. For 
such projects, the management 
plan focuses on cost-effective 
measures to remediate and 
manage these problems. 
3. For projects having significant 
environmental implications, it is 
particularly important that there be 
in the implementing ministry or 
agency an in-house environmental 
unit with adequate budget and 
professional staffing strong in 
expertise relevant to the project (for 
projects involving dams and 
reservoirs, see 
BP 4.01, Annex 
B
). 
 
Page  43
-
43 -
Annex 6: EIA Report Outline for Category A Projects 
 
Annex B to OP 4.01 - Content of an Environmental 
Assessment Report for a Category A Project
 
These policies were prepared for use by World Bank staff and are not necessarily a 
complete treatment of the subject.
 
OP 4.01- Annex B 
January, 
1999
1. An environmental assessment (EA) report for a Category A project
1
focuses on the significant 
environmental issues of a project. The report's scope and level of detail should be commensurate 
with the project's potential impacts. The report submitted to the Bank is prepared in English, 
French, or Spanish, and the executive summary in English.
 
2. The EA report should include the following items (not necessarily in the order 
shown):
 
(a) 
Executive summary
.
Concisely discusses significant findings and 
recommended actions.
 
(b) 
Policy, legal, and administrative framework
.
Discusses the policy, 
legal, and administrative framework within which the EA is carried out. 
Explains the environmental requirements of any co-financiers. Identifies 
relevant international environmental agreements to which the country is a 
party.
 
(c) 
Project description
.
Concisely describes the proposed project and its 
geographic, ecological, social, and temporal context, including any offsite 
investments that may be required (e.g., dedicated pipelines, access roads, 
power plants, water supply, housing, and raw material and product 
storage facilities). Indicates the need for any resettlement plan or 
indigenous peoples development plan
2
(see also subpara. (h)(v) below). 
Normally includes a map showing the project site and the project's area of 
influence.
 
(d) 
Baseline data
.
Assesses the dimensions of the study area and 
describes relevant physical, biological, and socioeconomic conditions, 
including any changes anticipated before the project commences. Also 
takes into account current and proposed development activities within the 
project area but not directly connected to the project. Data should be 
relevant to decisions about project location, design, operation, or 
mitigatory measures. The section indicates the accuracy, reliability, and 
sources of the data.
 
(e) 
Environmental impacts
.
Predicts and assesses the project's likely 
positive and negative impacts, in quantitative terms to the extent possible. 
Identifies mitigation measures and any residual negative impacts that 
cannot be mitigated. Explores opportunities for environmental 
enhancement. Identifies and estimates the extent and quality of available 
data, key data gaps, and uncertainties associated with predictions, and 
specifies topics that do not require further attention.
 
Page  44
-
44 -
(f) 
Analysis of alternatives
.
3
Systematically compares feasible alternatives 
to the proposed project site, technology, design, and operation--including 
the "without project" situation--in terms of their potential environmental 
impacts; the feasibility of mitigating these impacts; their capital and 
recurrent costs; their suitability under local conditions; and their 
institutional, training, and monitoring requirements. For each of the 
alternatives, quantifies the environmental impacts to the extent possible, 
and attaches economic values where feasible. States the basis for 
selecting the particular project design proposed and justifies 
recommended emission levels and approaches to pollution prevention and 
abatement.
 
(g) 
Environmental management plan (EMP)
.
Covers mitigation measures, 
monitoring, and institutional strengthening; see outline in
 
OP 4.01, Annex 
C
.
(h) 
Appendixes
 
(i) List of EA report preparers--individuals and organizations.
 
(ii) References--written materials both published and unpublished, 
used in study preparation.
 
(iii) Record of interagency and consultation meetings, including 
consultations for obtaining the informed views of the affected 
people and local nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). The 
record specifies any means other than consultations (e.g., surveys) 
that were used to obtain the views of affected groups and local 
NGOs.
 
(iv) Tables presenting the relevant data referred to or summarized 
in the main text.
 
(v) List of associated reports (e.g., resettlement plan or indigenous 
peoples development plan).
 
____________
 
1. 
The EA report for a Category A 
project is normally an environmental impact assessment, with elements of other instruments 
included as appropriate. Any report for a Category A operation uses the components described in 
this annex, but Category A sectoral and regional EA require a different perspective and emphasis 
among the components. The Environment Sector Board can provide detailed guidance on the 
focus and components of the various EA instruments. 
2. 
See OP/BP 4.12, Involuntary 
Resettlement (forthcoming), and 
OD 4.20
,
Indigenous Peoples. 
3. 
Environmental implications of broad 
development options for a sector (e.g., alternative ways of meeting projected electric power 
demand) are best analyzed in least-cost planning or sectoral EA. Environmental implications of 
broad development options for a region (e.g., alternative strategies for improving standards of living 
an a rural area) are best addressed through a regional development plan or a regional EA. EIA is 
normally best suited to the analysis of alternatives within a given project concept (e.g., a 
Page  45
-
45 -
geothermal power plant, or a project aimed at meeting local energy demand), including detailed 
site, technology, design, and operational alternatives. 
 
Page  46
-
46 -
Annex 7: Best Practice EMP 
 
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP) 
Stargard Geothermal District Heat Project  
 
Stargard, June 2002 
 
Version updated: June 20, 2005 
 
This is an updated version of the mitigation and monitoring plans agreed with the client 
in June 2002 and updated in June 2005.  
 
Stipulations for the construction period were verified, stipulations for project operations 
are applied since the project start-up in March 2005. 
Page  47
-
47 -
Table of Content 
 
A. Introduction 
4 
B. Potential 
Environmental 
Impacts 
5 
C. Environmental 
Permits 
6 
D. Mitigation 
Plan 
7 
E. Monitoring Plan 
12 
F. Schedule 
15 
G. Institutional Arrangements 
16 
H.  Consultation with Local NGOs and Project-Affected Groups 
21 
 
List of Annexes 
 
Annex 1: 
Geothermal Water Analysis 
 
 
 
 
 
          
17 
Annex 2: 
Emission Reductions after Completion of the Geothermal Project 
 
          
21 
Annex 3: 
Map 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
22 
 
Page  48
-
48 -
L
ist of Abbreviations 
 
m
g
Micrograms (10
-6
 Gram) 
°C Degree 
Celsius 
CO Carbon 
Monoxide 
CO
2
Carbon Dioxide 
dB Decibel 
DH District 
Heating 
EMP 
Environmental Management Plan 
GJ Gigajoule 
(10
9
Joule) 
GS 
Przedsi
biorstwo Us ug Ciep owniczych Geotermia STARGARD Sp. z o.o. (The 
Stargard Geothermal Company Ltd.) 
km Kilometer 
(10
3
Meter) 
m² Square 
Meter 
mbar Millibar 
(10
-
3
bar)   1 bar = 10
5
Pascal = 10
5
Newton per Square Meter 
mg Milligrams 
(10
-3
 Gram) 
mval/dm
3
Milligram Equivalent
 
Weight per liter 
n.a. not 
applicable 
Nm³ 
Standard cubic meter of gas (0 °C, 1013.25 mbar) 
NO Nitrogen 
Monoxide 
NO
2
Nitrogen Dioxide 
NO
x
Nitrogen Oxides 
PCF  
Prototype Carbon Fund 
PEC 
Przedsi
biorstwo Energetyki Cieplnej Sp. z o.o. (The Local District Heating Company 
Ltd.) 
PLN Polish 
Zloty 
PM Particulate 
Matter 
PM10 
Particulate matter, maximum aerodynamic diameter of 10 Micrometer 
SO
2
Sulphur Dioxide 
TSP 
Total Suspended Particulates 
WB 
The World Bank 
 
Page  49
-
49 -
A. Introduction 
 
The Project development objective is the reduction in the emissions of carbon dioxide through 
displacement of coal-fired district heat with renewable heat produced from geothermal energy. 
The key performance indicators are the amount of geothermal heat produced by the project and the 
emission reductions that the PCF purchases, which will be verified and certified by independent parties.  
Stargard Szczeci
ski has a well
-developed district heating system that supplies more than 60% of the heat 
demands of the City. The total heat supply is from an efficient coal-fired heat-only-boiler plant with a total 
installed capacity of about 116 MWt. The annual peak demand for the district heat system is 85 MWt and 
annual heat demands ex plant are 800 to 850 TJ. Heat demands have been reduced by about 25% in the last 
seven years due primarily to efficiency improvements on the supply and demand side. During the last few 
years heat demand has stabilized however. 
Heat distribution is through a 49 km network that includes about 362 substations. Both space heating and 
potable hot water are supplied. Heating of households and industrial consumers, not connected to the 
district heating system, is supplied by individual boilers and stoves fired primarily by coal. Less than 10 
percent of the total heat demand in Stargard is met by gas or oil-fired systems. 
The proposed Project provides for a geothermal base-load heating plant with an installed capacity of about 
14 MWt. The Project consists of two components: (a) the “underground plant” consisting of a new 
geothermal doublet (production well and directional re-injection well, drilled to a depth of up to 2700 m) 
which will be located close to the existing coal fired DH-plant; and (b) the “above-ground plant” and 
connections, comprising a plant building which houses heat exchangers, electrical equipment and 
installations, process equipment and controls, as well as internal piping; and the connection to the existing 
district heating (DH) network of Stargard. A new administrative building is also included in the scope. 
Private investors from Poland and Denmark have formed a limited liability company in 1999 to exploit this 
deposit and to replace a substantial portion of coal-generated heat by clean geothermal energy. The new 
company, Geotermia Stargard (GS) has concluded a long term agreement between GS and the local DH 
Company PEC in 2002. This was amended and updated on November 30, 2004 and provides for a sales 
price for geothermal heat (estimated at 310 TJ/a) of PLN13.98/GJ (2005-terms; equivalent to US$ 
4.66/GJ), which is highly competitive. The geothermal heat will displace about 36% of the heat now 
provided from coal-fired heat only boilers. CO2 emissions will be reduced accordingly. The life of the 
geothermal well is estimated to be at least 25 years.  
The Environmental Management Plan is based on O.P 4.01 of the World Bank where it is stated as “ An 
instrument that details (a) the measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of a project to 
eliminate or off set adverse environmental impacts or to reduce them to acceptable levels; and (b) the 
actions needed to implement these measures. 
B. Potential Environmental Impacts 
 
The Project will promote the mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to 
global climate change through the generation and sale of high-quality validated ERs. At 
the national level, the project will contribute to improved air quality by substituting clean 
energy production from a renewable energy resource for fossil-based heat generation. 
Local environmental impacts are believed to be minimal. There are some disruptions 
from project construction although the geothermal well already exists. An impermeable 
reservoir has been constructed at the drilling site and is being used for gathering 
geothermal waters during testing of the well. Drilling mud has been handled expertly for 
re-circulation and according to environmental standards. Noise will be limited as pumps 
have been incorporated into the geothermal loop or contained in sound-proofed housing. 
The local environment and local residents of Stargard will benefit from reduced coal use 
Page  50
-
50 -
and the reduced emissions of related pollutants. The project is proposed to be 
environmental assessment category B and safeguards screening category S2. 
 
The main risks ex ante for environmental damage and impacts were as follows: 
 
·
Risk of damaging soil and road surfaces during construction works; 
·
Risk of intrusion of geothermal water into the surface or deeper layers of the 
ground during well drilling; 
·
Risk of contamination of ground water during well drilling; 
·
Risk of damaging impact on the surface of the liquid waste generated by the 
process of washing out the cuttings during drilling; 
·
Risk of de-stabilization of geological formations caused by well drilling; 
·
Risk of causing damage to environmentally sensitive areas on the ground; 
 
These risks were minimized through appropriate mitigation measures as per EMP of 
2002, prepared in close cooperation between the Geotermia Stargard Staff and a visiting 
World Bank team, and updated in June 2004. Construction is now complete (except for 
the surface re-injection pump) and the system has started operations on March 29, 2005. 
 
There are several identified environmental impacts during the operation phase: 
 
·
Impact on the Ina river of geothermal water discharged from the reservoir;  
·
Potential impact on the ground water of geothermal water stored in the reservoir 
as a result of unexpected leakage; 
·
Noise generated in the surface plant around the DH pumps. 
 
These impacts are minimized through agreed measures as follows: 
 
·
Discharged brines will be diluted with cleaned municipal sewage waters; 
·
Ground water contamination to be monitored to allow timely counter measures; 
·
Noise abatement below 70 dB will be sufficient in the industrial area location.  
·
The updated EMP (June 2005) reflects additional requirements for operations of 
the plant (discharge permit limits the amount of geothermal brine to no more than 
172 m³/d, and obligates GS to dilute brine with cleaned sewage from municipality 
treatment plan). 
 
C. Environmental Permits 
 
·
Environmental Impact Assessment, August 2001. This was done prior to construction 
and prior to the water permit. After issuance of the water permit no new EA or EIA 
was required. 
·
Construction permit 
·
Well drilling permits 
·
No permit for air emissions necessary 
·
Noise level check through inspection (noise of the pumps and compressors has been 
muffled through appropriate measures as insulation, coverage in buildings, etc.  
Page  51
-
51 -
·
Water permit (Water decision No. OS.DM.6220-22-4/02 dated 16.10.2002)  
The updated EMP (June 2005) reflects additional requirements for operations of the 
plant. A discharge permit limits the amount of geothermal brine to no more than 
172m³/d, and obligates GS to dilute brine with cleaned sewage from municipality 
treatment plan. The discharge of the plant goes to the municipal treatment plant and is 
diluted with the waste water at the ratio of 1 part brine and 3.5 parts waste water. No 
other limits are set. The quantitative limit was set in regards to the low flow of the 
nearby river. 
·
Limits on the chloride/total solids content and temperature: The dilution of the settled 
water with treated waste water is designed to meet the standards of effluents into the 
river (see page 29 of the EIA). Quantities and mineral content are measured at the 
time of releasing settled waters, as standards are set (less than 35 ppm of chlorides 
and sulphites). The temperature is in line with ambient temperature as the waters have 
settled for a long period of time. The basin is emptied about once or twice per year. In 
the meantime the water the overflow or effluent from filter cleaning sits in the basin 
and is diluted by rain water in the first place.  
·
No critical natural habitats effected by the discharge 
·
The location is a huge industrial side, no residential quarters within 500 m 
 
Page  52
-
5
2
-
D
.
M
I
T
I
G
A
T
I
O
N
P
L
A
N
C
o
s
t
I
n
s
t
i
t
u
t
i
o
n
a
l
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
C
o
m
m
e
n
t
s
(
e
.
g
.
s
e
c
o
n
d
a
r
y
i
m
p
a
c
t
s
)
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
e
d
a
c
c
o
r
d
i
n
g
t
o
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
i
t
e
m
I
s
s
u
e
I
D
P
h
a
s
e
I
s
s
u
e
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
n
g
M
e
a
s
u
r
e
I
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
I
n
s
t
a
l
l
O
p
e
r
a
t
e
1
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
·
S
o
l
i
d
a
n
d
l
i
q
u
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
s
g
e
n
e
r
a
t
e
d
d
u
r
i
n
g
w
e
l
l
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
a
r
e
a
p
p
r
o
x
i
m
a
t
e
l
y
1
3
1
m
³
a
n
d
9
6
0
m
3
r
e
s
p
e
c
t
i
v
e
l
y
p
e
r
k
i
l
o
m
e
t
e
r
o
f
w
e
l
l
d
e
p
t
h
.
T
h
e
t
o
t
a
l
a
m
o
u
n
t
o
f
s
o
l
i
d
a
n
d
l
i
q
u
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
s
i
s
5
4
7
6
m
3
.
·
T
h
e
i
m
p
a
c
t
o
n
t
h
e
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
o
f
t
h
e
l
i
q
u
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
g
e
n
e
r
a
t
e
d
b
y
t
h
e
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
o
f
w
a
s
h
i
n
g
o
u
t
t
h
e
c
u
t
t
i
n
g
s
d
u
r
i
n
g
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
.
·
T
h
e
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
o
r
d
e
p
o
s
i
t
e
d
o
f
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
w
a
s
t
e
i
n
a
n
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
l
y
s
a
f
e
m
a
n
n
e
r
o
n
M
P
G
K
(
m
u
n
i
c
i
p
a
l
i
t
y
o
w
n
e
d
e
n
t
i
t
y
)
d
u
m
p
i
n
g
g
r
o
u
n
d
.
S
o
l
i
d
a
n
d
l
i
q
u
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
s
a
r
e
u
s
e
d
t
o
r
e
c
l
a
i
m
t
h
e
g
r
o
u
n
d
·
I
n
o
r
d
e
r
t
o
m
i
n
i
m
i
z
e
t
h
e
i
m
p
a
c
t
o
f
t
h
e
l
i
q
u
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
o
n
t
h
e
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
,
i
t
w
a
s
c
o
l
l
e
c
t
e
d
i
n
r
e
u
s
a
b
l
e
s
t
e
e
l
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
l
o
c
a
t
e
d
n
e
a
r
t
h
e
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
r
i
g
.
A
f
t
e
r
c
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
,
t
h
e
l
i
q
u
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
w
a
s
u
s
e
d
t
o
g
e
t
h
e
r
w
i
t
h
t
h
e
s
o
l
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
t
o
r
e
c
l
a
i
m
t
h
e
g
r
o
u
n
d
i
n
m
u
n
i
c
i
p
a
l
i
t
y
d
u
m
p
i
n
g
s
i
t
e
a
n
d
a
p
l
o
t
i
n
K
l
u
c
z
e
w
o
S
u
g
e
r
P
r
o
d
u
c
i
n
g
C
o
m
p
a
n
y
.
T
h
e
s
t
e
e
l
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
w
h
e
n
e
m
p
t
i
e
d
w
a
s
t
a
k
e
n
a
w
a
y
b
y
t
h
e
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
o
r
a
n
d
r
e
u
s
e
d
i
n
o
t
h
e
r
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
s
.
I
t
w
a
s
i
n
c
l
u
d
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
l
u
m
p
s
u
m
a
n
d
i
t
w
a
s
t
h
e
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
o
r
’
s
p
r
o
b
l
e
m
h
o
w
t
o
p
r
o
p
e
r
l
y
u
t
i
l
i
z
e
t
h
e
w
a
s
t
e
s
a
n
d
h
o
w
m
u
c
h
i
t
w
i
l
l
c
o
s
t
.
T
h
e
s
e
l
e
c
t
e
d
t
u
r
n
k
e
y
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
o
r
f
o
r
w
e
l
l
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
w
o
r
k
s
o
n
a
c
c
o
u
n
t
o
f
s
t
a
t
e
a
n
d
l
o
c
a
l
r
e
g
u
l
a
t
i
o
n
s
G
e
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
a
n
d
M
i
n
i
n
g
L
a
w
–
D
z
.
U
.
1
9
9
4
.
2
7
.
9
6
W
a
t
e
r
L
a
w
–
D
z
.
U
.
2
0
0
1
.
1
1
5
.
1
2
2
9
T
h
e
r
e
i
s
o
n
e
v
e
r
t
i
c
a
l
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
w
e
l
l
w
i
t
h
a
t
o
t
a
l
d
e
p
t
h
(
l
e
n
g
t
h
)
o
f
2
6
7
2
m
a
n
d
o
n
e
d
i
r
e
c
t
i
o
n
a
l
i
n
j
e
c
t
i
o
n
w
e
l
l
w
i
t
h
a
t
o
t
a
l
d
e
p
t
h
o
f
a
p
p
.
2
6
0
0
m
a
n
d
a
l
e
n
g
t
h
o
f
3
0
8
0
m
.
A
c
c
o
r
d
i
n
g
t
o
t
h
e
P
o
l
i
s
h
G
e
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
a
n
d
M
i
n
i
n
g
L
a
w
t
h
e
l
i
q
u
i
d
a
n
d
s
o
l
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
s
i
n
q
u
e
s
t
i
o
n
d
o
n
o
t
h
a
v
e
t
o
b
e
d
e
t
o
x
e
d
t
a
k
i
n
g
i
n
t
o
a
c
c
o
u
n
t
t
h
e
i
r
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
c
o
m
p
o
s
i
t
i
o
n
.
3
6
2
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
·
R
i
s
k
o
f
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
d
u
r
i
n
g
w
e
l
l
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
(
t
h
e
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
s
u
i
t
a
b
l
e
f
o
r
d
r
i
n
k
i
n
g
i
s
l
o
c
a
t
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
u
p
p
e
r
s
u
b
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
h
o
r
i
z
o
n
s
–
m
o
s
t
l
y
,
n
o
t
m
o
r
e
t
h
a
n
3
0
m
e
t
e
r
s
d
e
e
p
)
.
·
C
a
r
b
o
n
s
t
e
e
l
c
a
s
i
n
g
s
(
p
i
p
e
s
)
g
r
o
u
t
e
d
i
n
t
o
t
h
e
r
o
c
k
s
e
p
a
r
a
t
e
t
h
e
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
t
o
o
l
a
n
d
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
f
l
u
i
d
s
f
r
o
m
t
h
e
s
u
b
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
;
t
h
e
s
t
e
e
l
c
a
s
i
n
g
s
o
f
s
m
a
l
l
e
r
d
i
a
m
e
t
e
r
a
r
e
i
n
s
e
r
t
e
d
i
n
t
o
c
a
s
i
n
g
s
o
f
l
a
r
g
e
d
i
a
m
e
t
e
r
–
s
t
a
r
t
i
n
g
w
i
t
h
a
1
3
 
-
i
n
c
h
c
a
s
i
n
g
f
o
r
t
h
e
f
i
r
s
t
4
1
0
m
u
n
d
e
r
g
r
o
u
n
d
a
n
d
e
n
d
i
n
g
w
i
t
h
a
9
 
-
i
n
c
h
p
i
p
e
i
n
s
e
r
t
e
d
d
i
r
e
c
t
l
y
i
n
t
o
t
h
e
g
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
r
e
s
e
r
v
o
i
r
a
t
a
d
e
p
t
h
o
f
2
6
7
2
m
.
E
a
c
h
n
e
w
c
a
s
i
n
g
i
s
f
i
r
m
l
y
g
r
o
u
t
e
d
i
n
t
o
t
h
e
p
r
e
v
i
o
u
s
o
n
e
,
e
x
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
d
i
r
e
c
t
c
o
n
t
a
c
t
o
f
t
h
e
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
t
o
o
l
o
r
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
w
i
t
h
t
h
e
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
.
T
h
e
s
e
c
o
n
d
w
e
l
l
(
G
T
2
)
w
a
s
d
r
i
l
l
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
s
a
m
e
m
a
n
n
e
r
I
t
w
a
s
i
n
c
l
u
d
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
p
r
i
c
e
a
n
d
i
t
w
a
s
t
h
e
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
o
r
’
s
t
a
s
k
t
o
t
a
k
e
s
u
i
t
a
b
l
e
p
r
e
c
a
u
t
i
o
n
s
t
o
m
i
n
i
m
i
z
e
t
h
e
r
i
s
k
a
n
d
t
h
e
c
o
s
t
i
t
s
e
l
f
–
i
f
a
n
y
.
T
h
e
s
e
l
e
c
t
e
d
t
u
r
n
k
e
y
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
o
r
f
o
r
w
e
l
l
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
N
o
n
e
Page  53
-
5
3
-
C
o
s
t
I
n
s
t
i
t
u
t
i
o
n
a
l
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
C
o
m
m
e
n
t
s
(
e
.
g
.
s
e
c
o
n
d
a
r
y
i
m
p
a
c
t
s
)
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
e
d
a
c
c
o
r
d
i
n
g
t
o
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
i
t
e
m
I
s
s
u
e
I
D
P
h
a
s
e
I
s
s
u
e
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
n
g
M
e
a
s
u
r
e
I
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
I
n
s
t
a
l
l
O
p
e
r
a
t
e
3
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
·
R
i
s
k
o
f
i
n
t
r
u
s
i
o
n
o
f
g
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
w
a
t
e
r
o
n
t
o
t
h
e
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
d
u
r
i
n
g
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
.
n
.
a
.
n
.
a
.
n
.
a
.
n
.
a
.
n
.
a
.
T
h
i
s
r
i
s
k
i
s
n
e
x
t
t
o
n
o
n
e
b
e
c
a
u
s
e
t
h
e
h
y
d
r
o
s
t
a
t
i
c
p
r
e
s
s
u
r
e
i
n
t
h
e
g
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
r
e
s
e
r
v
o
i
r
i
s
n
o
t
s
u
f
f
i
c
i
e
n
t
t
o
c
r
e
a
t
e
a
n
a
r
t
e
s
i
a
n
e
f
f
e
c
t
.
T
h
e
g
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
w
a
t
e
r
l
e
v
e
l
i
s
s
t
a
b
l
e
a
t
a
b
o
u
t
2
0
m
b
e
l
o
w
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
.
N
o
n
e
4
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
·
I
n
t
e
r
r
u
p
t
i
o
n
o
f
t
r
a
f
f
i
c
d
u
r
i
n
g
p
i
p
e
l
i
n
e
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
T
h
e
t
i
m
e
p
e
r
i
o
d
a
n
d
t
h
e
w
a
y
o
f
r
o
a
d
o
c
c
u
p
a
t
i
o
n
f
o
r
p
i
p
e
l
i
n
e
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
w
o
r
k
s
w
a
s
a
g
r
e
e
d
w
i
t
h
t
h
e
l
o
c
a
l
a
u
t
h
o
r
i
t
i
e
s
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
t
h
e
b
i
n
d
i
n
g
r
e
g
u
l
a
t
i
o
n
s
i
n
S
t
a
r
g
a
r
d
.
I
t
w
a
s
i
n
c
l
u
d
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
p
r
i
c
e
.
T
h
e
s
e
l
e
c
t
e
d
t
u
r
n
k
e
y
c
o
n
t
a
c
t
o
r
N
o
n
e
5
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
·
D
a
m
a
g
i
n
g
o
f
s
o
i
l
a
n
d
r
o
a
d
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
s
d
u
r
i
n
g
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
w
o
r
k
s
f
o
r
p
i
p
e
l
i
n
e
s
a
n
d
h
e
a
t
i
n
g
p
l
a
n
t
s
.
P
e
r
m
a
n
e
n
t
m
e
c
h
a
n
i
c
a
l
s
o
i
l
d
e
g
r
a
d
a
t
i
o
n
w
i
l
l
a
f
f
e
c
t
a
n
a
p
p
r
o
x
i
m
a
t
e
l
y
3
-
m
e
t
e
r
w
i
d
e
s
t
r
i
p
o
f
l
a
n
d
c
o
r
r
e
s
p
o
n
d
i
n
g
t
o
t
h
e
a
r
e
a
e
x
c
a
v
a
t
e
d
f
o
r
l
a
y
i
n
g
t
h
e
p
i
p
e
l
i
n
e
s
.
T
h
i
s
3
-
m
e
t
e
r
s
t
r
i
p
,
t
o
g
e
t
h
e
r
w
i
t
h
t
h
e
b
r
o
a
d
e
r
a
r
e
a
u
s
e
d
f
o
r
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
a
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
w
a
s
u
n
d
e
r
g
o
i
n
g
r
e
c
l
a
m
a
t
i
o
n
(
s
o
i
l
r
e
h
a
b
i
l
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
)
t
o
b
r
i
n
g
i
t
a
s
c
l
o
s
e
t
o
t
h
e
f
o
r
m
e
r
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
o
f
u
s
e
a
s
p
o
s
s
i
b
l
e
.
T
h
e
p
i
p
e
l
i
n
e
l
a
y
o
u
t
m
a
i
n
l
y
f
o
l
l
o
w
e
d
e
x
i
s
t
i
n
g
s
t
r
e
e
t
s
,
w
h
i
c
h
r
e
d
u
c
e
d
t
h
e
r
i
s
k
o
f
l
a
n
d
-
u
s
e
c
h
a
n
g
e
s
.
I
n
c
l
u
d
e
d
i
n
t
u
r
n
k
e
y
p
i
p
e
l
i
n
e
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
c
o
s
t
T
h
e
s
e
l
e
c
t
e
d
t
u
r
n
k
e
y
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
o
r
f
o
r
p
i
p
e
l
i
n
e
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
T
h
e
g
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
p
i
p
e
l
i
n
e
b
e
t
w
e
e
n
t
h
e
t
w
o
w
e
l
l
s
h
a
s
a
l
e
n
g
t
h
o
f
5
0
m
.
T
h
e
D
H
p
r
e
-
i
n
s
u
l
a
t
e
d
p
i
p
e
l
i
n
e
(
2
x
D
N
3
5
0
)
c
o
n
n
e
c
t
i
n
g
G
S
a
n
d
P
E
C
h
a
s
a
l
e
n
g
t
h
o
f
2
0
0
m
.
T
h
e
b
r
i
n
e
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
p
i
p
e
l
i
n
e
t
o
t
h
e
I
n
a
r
i
v
e
r
(
f
9
0
P
E
)
h
a
s
a
l
e
n
g
t
h
o
f
3
9
7
0
m
.
4
9
1
0
6
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
·
D
a
m
a
g
i
n
g
o
r
r
e
m
o
v
a
l
o
f
t
r
e
e
s
c
a
u
s
e
d
b
y
p
i
p
e
l
a
y
i
n
g
a
n
d
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
b
u
i
l
d
i
n
g
s
B
e
f
o
r
e
s
t
a
r
t
o
f
a
l
l
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
w
o
r
k
s
a
v
i
s
u
a
l
s
u
r
v
e
y
o
f
t
h
e
a
f
f
e
c
t
e
d
a
r
e
a
h
a
d
t
o
b
e
d
o
n
e
t
o
g
e
t
h
e
r
w
i
t
h
l
o
c
a
l
a
u
t
h
o
r
i
t
i
e
s
.
A
d
m
i
n
i
s
t
r
a
t
i
o
n
d
e
c
i
s
i
o
n
w
a
s
t
a
k
e
n
t
o
r
e
m
o
v
e
s
i
x
t
r
e
e
s
.
1
6
0
0
P
L
N
.
T
h
e
s
e
l
e
c
t
e
d
t
u
r
n
k
e
y
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
o
r
9
Page  54
-
5
4
-
C
o
s
t
I
n
s
t
i
t
u
t
i
o
n
a
l
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
C
o
m
m
e
n
t
s
(
e
.
g
.
s
e
c
o
n
d
a
r
y
i
m
p
a
c
t
s
)
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
e
d
a
c
c
o
r
d
i
n
g
t
o
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
i
t
e
m
I
s
s
u
e
I
D
P
h
a
s
e
I
s
s
u
e
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
n
g
M
e
a
s
u
r
e
I
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
I
n
s
t
a
l
l
O
p
e
r
a
t
e
7
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
·
R
i
s
k
o
f
d
e
-
s
t
a
b
i
l
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
g
e
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
f
o
r
m
a
t
i
o
n
s
c
a
u
s
e
d
b
y
w
e
l
l
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
·
R
i
s
k
o
f
c
a
u
s
i
n
g
d
a
m
a
g
e
t
o
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
l
y
s
e
n
s
i
t
i
v
e
a
r
e
a
s
o
n
t
h
e
g
r
o
u
n
d
·
T
o
m
i
n
i
m
i
z
e
t
h
i
s
r
i
s
k
,
t
h
e
t
y
p
e
o
f
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
m
u
d
w
a
s
p
r
e
c
i
s
e
l
y
s
e
l
e
c
t
e
d
t
o
e
a
c
h
w
e
l
l
i
n
t
e
r
v
a
l
d
r
i
l
l
e
d
.
T
h
i
s
a
v
o
i
d
e
d
t
h
e
c
r
e
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
l
a
r
g
e
c
a
v
e
r
n
s
,
w
h
i
c
h
a
r
e
r
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
l
e
f
o
r
d
e
s
t
a
b
i
l
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
g
e
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
f
o
r
m
a
t
i
o
n
s
.
·
T
h
e
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
r
i
g
w
a
s
p
l
a
c
e
d
i
n
s
u
c
h
a
s
i
t
e
w
h
e
r
e
t
h
e
r
e
a
r
e
n
o
r
e
s
i
d
e
n
t
i
a
l
b
u
i
l
d
i
n
g
s
w
i
t
h
i
n
a
r
a
d
i
u
s
o
f
6
0
m
(
d
a
m
a
g
e
e
f
f
e
c
t
s
a
r
e
t
h
e
r
e
b
y
m
i
n
i
m
i
z
e
d
i
n
c
a
s
e
t
h
e
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
r
i
g
f
a
l
l
s
o
v
e
r
–
s
t
i
p
u
l
a
t
i
o
n
c
o
m
e
s
f
r
o
m
t
h
e
M
i
n
i
n
g
a
n
d
G
e
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
L
a
w
)
.
T
h
e
f
i
r
s
t
w
e
l
l
w
a
s
d
r
i
l
l
e
d
1
0
0
%
v
e
r
t
i
c
a
l
l
y
.
T
h
e
s
e
c
o
n
d
w
e
l
l
w
a
s
s
i
t
u
a
t
e
d
1
1
m
f
r
o
m
t
h
e
f
i
r
s
t
o
n
e
a
n
d
d
r
i
l
l
e
d
t
o
a
d
e
p
t
h
o
f
4
0
0
m
v
e
r
t
i
c
a
l
l
y
a
n
d
t
h
e
n
w
a
s
d
e
v
i
a
t
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
N
o
r
t
h
d
i
r
e
c
t
i
o
n
w
h
e
r
e
t
h
e
r
e
a
r
e
n
o
s
e
n
s
i
t
i
v
e
a
r
e
a
s
(
i
n
b
u
i
l
t
a
r
e
a
s
-
m
e
a
d
o
w
s
)
.
N
o
c
o
s
t
s
a
r
e
i
n
v
o
l
v
e
d
T
h
e
s
e
l
e
c
t
e
d
t
u
r
n
k
e
y
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
o
r
N
o
n
e
8
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
·
S
o
l
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
a
c
c
u
m
u
l
a
t
i
o
n
(
w
a
s
t
e
n
o
t
d
i
r
e
c
t
l
y
r
e
l
a
t
e
d
t
o
t
h
e
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
)
.
T
h
e
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
s
t
h
e
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
o
r
t
o
-
S
t
o
r
e
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
n
t
s
i
n
t
a
n
k
s
a
n
d
d
i
s
p
o
s
e
o
f
t
h
e
m
i
n
a
M
P
G
K
(
m
u
n
i
c
i
p
a
l
i
t
y
c
o
m
p
a
n
y
)
d
u
m
p
i
n
L
e
c
z
y
c
a
-
D
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
s
o
l
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
(
t
r
a
s
h
,
d
e
b
r
i
s
,
o
r
g
a
n
i
c
r
e
f
u
s
e
,
s
c
r
a
p
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
,
e
t
c
.
)
a
c
c
o
r
d
i
n
g
t
o
m
u
n
i
c
i
p
a
l
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
I
t
w
a
s
i
n
c
l
u
d
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
p
r
i
c
e
.
T
h
e
s
e
l
e
c
t
e
d
t
u
r
n
k
e
y
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
o
r
6
9
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
·
R
i
s
k
o
f
a
c
c
i
d
e
n
t
a
l
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
o
f
w
a
t
e
r
s
d
u
r
i
n
g
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
t
e
s
t
s
o
f
w
e
l
l
s
.
T
h
e
r
i
s
k
i
s
r
a
t
h
e
r
i
n
s
i
g
n
i
f
i
c
a
n
t
d
u
e
t
o
t
h
e
f
a
c
t
t
h
a
t
t
h
e
w
a
t
e
r
l
e
v
e
l
i
n
t
h
e
w
e
l
l
i
s
b
e
l
o
w
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
.
I
n
t
h
e
e
v
e
n
t
o
f
a
n
y
u
n
e
x
p
e
c
t
e
d
w
a
t
e
r
l
e
a
k
a
g
e
s
f
r
o
m
t
h
e
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
,
t
h
e
s
u
b
m
e
r
s
i
b
l
e
p
u
m
p
w
i
l
l
i
m
m
e
d
i
a
t
e
l
y
b
e
s
t
o
p
p
e
d
,
t
h
u
s
p
r
e
v
e
n
t
i
n
g
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
t
h
e
s
u
r
r
o
u
n
d
i
n
g
a
r
e
a
.
P
u
m
p
w
i
l
l
b
e
s
t
o
p
p
e
d
a
u
t
o
m
a
t
i
c
a
l
l
y
Page  55
-
5
5
-
C
o
s
t
I
n
s
t
i
t
u
t
i
o
n
a
l
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
C
o
m
m
e
n
t
s
(
e
.
g
.
s
e
c
o
n
d
a
r
y
i
m
p
a
c
t
s
)
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
e
d
a
c
c
o
r
d
i
n
g
t
o
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
i
t
e
m
I
s
s
u
e
I
D
P
h
a
s
e
I
s
s
u
e
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
n
g
M
e
a
s
u
r
e
I
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
I
n
s
t
a
l
l
O
p
e
r
a
t
e
1
0
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
·
R
i
s
k
o
f
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
o
f
g
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
w
a
t
e
r
s
t
o
t
h
e
r
i
v
e
r
a
r
i
s
i
n
g
f
r
o
m
t
e
s
t
i
n
g
o
f
n
e
w
w
e
l
l
s
a
n
d
d
u
r
i
n
g
t
h
e
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
t
i
m
e
.
G
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
w
a
t
e
r
s
h
a
v
e
a
m
i
n
e
r
a
l
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
1
2
7
g
/
l
.
T
h
e
c
o
n
t
e
n
t
o
f
c
h
l
o
r
i
d
e
s
a
n
d
s
u
l
p
h
a
t
e
s
i
s
7
0
g
/
l
.
·
A
g
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
w
a
t
e
r
s
t
o
r
a
g
e
b
a
s
i
n
w
i
t
h
a
c
a
p
a
c
i
t
y
o
f
4
0
0
0
m
3
l
i
n
e
d
w
i
t
h
i
m
p
e
r
m
e
a
b
l
e
g
e
o
-
m
e
m
b
r
a
n
e
i
s
l
o
c
a
t
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
v
i
c
i
n
i
t
y
o
f
t
h
e
w
e
l
l
s
.
T
h
e
b
a
s
i
n
i
s
u
s
e
d
t
o
s
t
o
r
e
t
e
s
t
g
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
w
a
t
e
r
s
,
a
s
w
e
l
l
a
s
g
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
s
w
h
e
n
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
f
i
l
t
e
r
s
.
·
T
h
e
c
o
o
l
e
d
w
a
t
e
r
s
w
i
l
l
s
u
b
s
e
q
u
e
n
t
l
y
b
e
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
d
t
o
t
h
e
I
n
a
r
i
v
e
r
.
G
S
w
a
s
p
e
r
m
i
t
t
e
d
b
y
c
o
u
n
t
y
a
u
t
h
o
r
i
t
y
(
W
a
t
e
r
d
e
c
i
s
i
o
n
N
o
.
O
S
.
D
M
.
6
2
2
0
-
2
2
-
4
/
0
2
d
a
t
e
d
1
6
.
1
0
.
2
0
0
2
)
t
o
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
t
h
e
s
e
w
a
g
e
i
n
t
h
e
f
o
r
m
o
f
s
a
l
t
y
w
a
s
t
e
g
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
w
a
t
e
r
s
i
n
t
o
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
w
a
t
e
r
s
d
u
r
i
n
g
w
e
l
l
t
e
s
t
i
n
g
a
n
d
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
t
i
m
e
.
I
t
a
l
l
o
w
s
t
o
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
n
o
t
m
o
r
e
t
h
a
n
1
7
2
m
³
/
d
,
a
n
d
o
b
l
i
g
a
t
e
s
G
S
t
o
d
i
l
u
t
e
b
r
i
n
e
w
i
t
h
c
l
e
a
n
e
d
s
e
w
a
g
e
f
r
o
m
m
u
n
i
c
i
p
a
l
i
t
y
t
r
e
a
t
m
e
n
t
p
l
a
n
.
·
P
L
N
2
0
0
,
0
0
0
.
0
0
T
h
e
s
e
l
e
c
t
e
d
t
u
r
n
k
e
y
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
o
r
G
S
’
s
m
a
i
n
t
e
n
a
n
c
e
s
t
a
f
f
T
h
e
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
p
u
m
p
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
s
t
h
e
b
r
i
n
e
w
i
t
h
f
l
o
w
r
a
t
e
s
b
e
t
w
e
e
n
m
i
n
.
a
n
d
m
a
x
.
v
a
l
u
e
s
o
f
5
a
n
d
2
0
m
3
/
h
r
e
s
p
e
c
t
i
v
e
l
y
,
a
c
c
o
r
d
i
n
g
t
o
t
h
e
a
c
t
u
a
l
r
i
v
e
r
f
l
o
w
.
W
i
t
h
i
n
t
h
e
s
e
f
l
o
w
r
a
t
e
l
i
m
i
t
s
a
l
l
n
o
r
m
s
f
o
r
f
i
r
s
t
c
l
a
s
s
r
i
v
e
r
s
w
i
l
l
b
e
f
u
l
f
i
l
l
e
d
.
T
h
e
f
i
r
s
t
b
a
t
c
h
o
f
a
r
o
u
n
d
3
0
0
0
m
³
f
r
o
m
t
e
s
t
t
i
m
e
w
a
s
p
u
m
p
e
d
t
o
t
h
e
r
i
v
e
r
,
s
e
c
o
n
d
o
n
e
a
l
s
o
f
r
o
m
t
e
s
t
t
i
m
e
w
a
s
d
i
l
u
t
e
d
w
i
t
h
s
e
w
a
g
e
f
r
o
m
m
u
n
i
c
i
p
a
l
i
t
y
t
r
e
a
t
m
e
n
t
p
l
a
n
.
T
h
e
b
r
i
n
e
w
i
l
l
b
e
d
i
l
u
t
e
d
w
i
t
h
c
l
e
a
n
e
d
s
e
w
a
g
e
a
u
t
o
m
a
t
i
c
a
l
l
y
.
1
2
1
3
1
4
1
1
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
·
N
o
i
s
e
a
n
d
d
u
s
t
f
r
o
m
t
h
e
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
s
i
t
e
s
N
o
m
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
i
s
n
e
e
d
e
d
(
s
e
e
c
o
m
m
e
n
t
)
T
h
e
s
e
l
e
c
t
e
d
t
u
r
n
k
e
y
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
o
r
N
o
i
s
e
a
n
d
d
u
s
t
w
e
r
e
g
e
n
e
r
a
t
e
d
b
y
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
t
h
e
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
r
i
g
a
n
d
w
e
l
d
i
n
g
m
a
c
h
i
n
e
s
,
b
u
t
d
i
d
n
o
t
e
x
c
e
e
d
a
l
i
m
i
t
o
f
7
0
d
B
w
i
t
h
i
n
a
r
a
d
i
u
s
o
f
1
5
m
.
T
h
e
g
e
n
e
r
a
t
e
d
n
o
i
s
e
w
a
s
n
o
t
b
u
r
d
e
n
s
o
m
e
t
o
t
h
e
s
u
r
r
o
u
n
d
i
n
g
s
a
s
t
h
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
i
s
i
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
e
d
i
n
a
n
i
n
d
u
s
t
r
i
a
l
a
r
e
a
.
N
o
n
e
Page  56
-
5
6
-
C
o
s
t
I
n
s
t
i
t
u
t
i
o
n
a
l
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
C
o
m
m
e
n
t
s
(
e
.
g
.
s
e
c
o
n
d
a
r
y
i
m
p
a
c
t
s
)
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
e
d
a
c
c
o
r
d
i
n
g
t
o
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
i
t
e
m
I
s
s
u
e
I
D
P
h
a
s
e
I
s
s
u
e
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
n
g
M
e
a
s
u
r
e
I
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
I
n
s
t
a
l
l
O
p
e
r
a
t
e
1
2
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
·
R
i
s
k
o
f
i
n
t
r
u
s
i
o
n
o
f
g
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
w
a
t
e
r
o
n
t
o
t
h
e
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
d
u
r
i
n
g
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
s
a
r
e
s
u
l
t
o
f
a
n
u
n
e
x
p
e
c
t
e
d
l
e
a
k
a
g
e
f
r
o
m
t
h
e
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
.
·
T
h
e
r
i
s
k
i
s
r
a
t
h
e
r
i
n
s
i
g
n
i
f
i
c
a
n
t
d
u
e
t
o
t
h
e
f
a
c
t
t
h
a
t
t
h
e
w
a
t
e
r
l
e
v
e
l
i
n
t
h
e
w
e
l
l
i
s
b
e
l
o
w
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
.
T
h
e
s
u
b
m
e
r
s
i
b
l
e
p
u
m
p
w
i
l
l
i
m
m
e
d
i
a
t
e
l
y
b
e
s
t
o
p
p
e
d
,
t
h
u
s
p
r
e
v
e
n
t
i
n
g
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
t
h
e
s
u
r
r
o
u
n
d
i
n
g
a
r
e
a
.
A
l
e
a
k
a
g
e
D
e
t
e
c
t
i
o
n
S
y
s
t
e
m
w
i
l
l
b
e
u
s
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
p
r
e
-
i
n
s
u
l
a
t
e
d
g
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
p
i
p
e
l
i
n
e
c
o
n
n
e
c
t
i
n
g
t
h
e
w
e
l
l
s
w
i
t
h
t
h
e
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
p
l
a
n
t
,
w
h
i
c
h
w
i
l
l
d
e
t
e
c
t
a
p
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
f
a
i
l
u
r
e
i
n
a
d
v
a
n
c
e
.
T
h
e
c
o
s
t
o
f
a
L
e
a
k
a
g
e
D
e
t
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
y
s
t
e
m
(
a
b
o
u
t
P
L
N
1
0
0
,
0
0
0
)
w
i
l
l
b
e
c
o
v
e
r
e
d
b
y
G
S
f
r
o
m
c
a
s
h
g
e
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
o
r
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
f
u
n
d
s
.
G
S
’
s
m
a
i
n
t
e
n
a
n
c
e
s
t
a
f
f
i
s
r
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
l
e
f
o
r
a
n
e
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
s
h
u
t
d
o
w
n
.
N
o
n
e
1
3
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
·
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
o
n
s
o
i
l
a
n
d
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
a
q
u
i
f
e
r
s
f
r
o
m
p
o
s
s
i
b
l
e
p
i
p
e
l
i
n
e
l
e
a
k
a
g
e
s
·
A
t
y
p
i
c
a
l
L
e
a
k
a
g
e
D
e
t
e
c
t
i
o
n
S
y
s
t
e
m
w
i
l
l
b
e
a
p
p
l
i
e
d
t
o
t
h
e
D
H
p
i
p
e
l
i
n
e
s
l
a
i
d
b
e
t
w
e
e
n
G
S
a
n
d
P
E
C
.
T
h
i
s
s
y
s
t
e
m
i
s
i
n
c
o
r
p
o
r
a
t
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
o
v
e
r
h
a
u
l
p
l
a
n
t
c
o
n
t
r
o
l
s
y
s
t
e
m
,
w
h
i
c
h
w
i
l
l
a
u
t
o
m
a
t
i
c
a
l
l
y
c
l
o
s
e
r
e
m
o
t
e
l
y
c
o
n
t
r
o
l
l
e
d
s
h
u
t
-
o
f
f
v
a
l
v
e
s
i
n
c
a
s
e
a
n
y
l
e
a
k
a
g
e
s
o
c
c
u
r
.
S
e
e
a
b
o
v
e
G
S
N
o
n
e
1
4
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
·
R
i
s
k
o
f
e
x
c
e
e
d
i
n
g
o
f
a
d
m
i
s
s
i
b
l
e
l
e
v
e
l
s
o
f
n
o
i
s
e
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
d
u
r
i
n
g
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
T
h
e
n
o
i
s
e
i
s
g
e
n
e
r
a
t
e
d
m
a
i
n
l
y
b
y
t
h
e
D
H
c
i
r
c
u
l
a
t
i
n
g
p
u
m
p
s
w
i
t
h
a
n
o
i
s
e
l
e
v
e
l
o
f
a
b
o
u
t
6
0
d
B
a
r
o
u
n
d
t
h
e
p
u
m
p
s
.
T
h
e
g
e
n
e
r
a
t
e
d
n
o
i
s
e
w
i
l
l
n
o
t
b
e
b
u
r
d
e
n
s
o
m
e
t
o
t
h
e
s
u
r
r
o
u
n
d
i
n
g
s
.
A
s
t
h
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
i
s
i
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
e
d
i
n
a
n
i
n
d
u
s
t
r
i
a
l
a
r
e
a
,
n
o
i
s
e
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
s
a
r
e
a
c
c
e
p
t
a
b
l
e
b
e
l
o
w
a
n
a
g
r
e
e
d
l
e
v
e
l
o
f
7
0
d
B
1
1
1
5
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
·
R
i
s
k
o
f
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
o
n
w
a
t
e
r
c
i
r
c
u
l
a
t
i
n
g
i
n
d
i
s
t
r
i
c
t
h
e
a
t
i
n
g
s
y
s
t
e
m
a
s
a
r
e
s
u
l
t
o
f
u
n
e
x
p
e
c
t
e
d
l
e
a
k
a
g
e
s
i
n
t
h
e
h
e
a
t
e
x
c
h
a
n
g
e
r
L
e
a
k
a
g
e
D
e
t
e
c
t
i
o
n
S
y
s
t
e
m
w
i
l
l
b
e
a
p
p
l
i
e
d
t
o
h
e
a
t
e
x
c
h
a
n
g
e
r
Page  57
-
5
7
-
E
.
M
O
N
I
T
O
R
I
N
G
P
L
A
N
C
o
s
t
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
I
t
e
m
I
D
P
h
a
s
e
W
h
a
t
p
a
r
a
m
e
t
e
r
i
s
t
o
b
e
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
e
d
?
U
n
i
t
o
f
t
h
e
p
a
r
a
m
e
t
e
r
A
v
e
r
a
g
i
n
g
p
e
r
i
o
d
w
h
e
r
e
a
p
p
l
i
c
a
b
l
e
W
h
e
r
e
i
s
t
h
e
p
a
r
a
m
e
t
e
r
t
o
b
e
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
e
d
?
H
o
w
i
s
t
h
e
p
a
r
a
m
e
t
e
r
t
o
b
e
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
e
d
/
t
y
p
e
o
f
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
?
W
h
e
n
i
s
t
h
e
p
a
r
a
m
e
t
e
r
t
o
b
e
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
e
d
-
f
r
e
q
u
e
n
c
y
o
f
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
m
e
n
t
o
r
c
o
n
t
i
n
u
o
u
s
?
W
h
y
I
s
t
h
e
p
a
r
a
m
e
t
e
r
t
o
b
e
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
e
d
(
o
p
t
i
o
n
a
l
)
?
I
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
I
n
s
t
a
l
l
O
p
e
r
a
t
e
R
e
l
a
t
e
d
w
i
t
h
m
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
i
s
s
u
e
1
B
a
s
e
l
i
n
e
C
o
a
l
s
t
o
c
k
p
i
l
e
a
t
t
h
e
b
e
g
i
n
n
i
n
g
a
n
d
e
n
d
o
f
t
h
e
y
e
a
r
p
l
u
s
c
o
a
l
d
e
l
i
v
e
r
y
d
a
t
a
t
o
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
a
n
d
c
h
e
c
k
t
h
e
t
o
t
a
l
c
o
a
l
c
o
n
s
u
m
p
t
i
o
n
o
f
t
h
e
d
i
s
t
r
i
c
t
h
e
a
t
i
n
g
b
o
i
l
e
r
s
.
T
o
n
/
y
e
a
r
O
n
t
h
e
b
a
s
i
s
o
f
“
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
P
l
a
n
”
d
e
f
i
n
e
d
i
n
p
u
r
c
h
a
s
e
a
g
r
e
e
m
e
n
t
O
n
c
e
a
y
e
a
r
T
o
d
e
m
o
n
s
t
r
a
t
e
t
h
e
r
e
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
i
n
c
o
a
l
c
o
n
s
u
m
p
t
i
o
n
d
u
e
t
o
i
n
t
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
g
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
h
e
a
t
u
n
d
e
r
t
h
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
I
n
c
l
u
d
e
d
i
n
P
E
C
O
&
M
C
o
s
t
s
.
P
E
C
2
B
a
s
e
l
i
n
e
P
o
l
l
u
t
a
n
t
s
(
C
O
2
,
C
O
,
S
O
2
,
N
O
2
,
D
u
s
t
,
S
o
o
t
,
B
e
n
z
o
p
y
r
e
n
e
)
T
o
n
/
y
e
a
r
O
n
e
c
a
l
e
n
d
a
r
y
e
a
r
n
.
a
.
C
a
l
c
u
l
a
t
e
d
o
n
t
h
e
b
a
s
i
s
o
f
c
o
a
l
c
o
n
s
u
m
p
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
c
o
e
f
f
i
c
i
e
n
t
s
p
u
b
l
i
s
h
e
d
b
y
t
h
e
M
i
n
i
s
t
r
y
o
f
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
O
n
c
e
a
y
e
a
r
·
T
o
d
e
m
o
n
s
t
r
a
t
e
t
h
e
r
e
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
i
n
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
s
o
v
e
r
t
i
m
e
a
s
t
h
e
o
l
d
b
o
i
l
e
r
s
a
r
e
r
e
t
i
r
e
d
(
o
r
u
s
e
d
l
e
s
s
)
d
u
e
t
o
i
n
t
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
g
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
h
e
a
t
u
n
d
e
r
t
h
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
.
·
E
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
d
a
t
a
i
s
a
l
s
o
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
b
y
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
a
u
t
h
o
r
i
t
i
e
s
t
o
c
a
l
c
u
l
a
t
e
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
f
e
e
s
.
I
n
c
l
u
d
e
d
i
n
P
E
C
O
&
M
C
o
s
t
s
.
G
S
3
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
.
A
m
o
u
n
t
o
f
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
c
u
t
t
i
n
g
s
d
i
s
p
o
s
e
d
o
f
T
o
n
s
n
.
a
.
E
n
t
i
r
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
a
r
e
a
C
a
p
a
c
i
t
y
a
n
d
n
u
m
b
e
r
o
f
l
o
r
r
i
e
s
O
n
c
e
d
u
r
i
n
g
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
w
o
r
k
s
n
.
a
.
I
n
c
l
u
d
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
w
i
t
h
t
h
e
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
c
o
m
p
a
n
y
n
.
a
.
”
N
a
f
t
g
a
z
”
W
o
l
o
m
i
n
n
.
a
.
1
4
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
.
A
r
e
a
o
f
l
a
n
d
a
f
f
e
c
t
e
d
b
y
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
/
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
w
o
r
k
s
m
²
n
.
a
.
E
n
t
i
r
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
a
r
e
a
V
i
s
u
a
l
e
x
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
o
n
c
e
a
f
t
e
r
w
o
r
k
s
c
o
m
p
l
e
t
i
o
n
n
.
a
.
I
n
c
l
u
d
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
w
i
t
h
t
h
e
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
c
o
m
p
a
n
y
n
.
a
.
”
N
a
f
t
g
a
z
”
W
o
l
o
m
i
n
n
.
a
.
5
6
5
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
.
A
r
e
a
o
f
l
a
n
d
r
e
c
l
a
i
m
e
d
m
²
n
.
a
.
E
n
t
i
r
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
a
r
e
a
V
i
s
u
a
l
e
x
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
o
n
c
e
a
f
t
e
r
w
o
r
k
s
c
o
m
p
l
e
t
i
o
n
n
.
a
.
I
n
c
l
u
d
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
t
u
r
n
k
e
y
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
c
o
s
t
s
n
.
a
.
T
u
r
n
k
e
y
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
o
r
s
n
.
a
.
Page  58
-
5
8
-
C
o
s
t
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
I
t
e
m
I
D
P
h
a
s
e
W
h
a
t
p
a
r
a
m
e
t
e
r
i
s
t
o
b
e
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
e
d
?
U
n
i
t
o
f
t
h
e
p
a
r
a
m
e
t
e
r
A
v
e
r
a
g
i
n
g
p
e
r
i
o
d
w
h
e
r
e
a
p
p
l
i
c
a
b
l
e
W
h
e
r
e
i
s
t
h
e
p
a
r
a
m
e
t
e
r
t
o
b
e
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
e
d
?
H
o
w
i
s
t
h
e
p
a
r
a
m
e
t
e
r
t
o
b
e
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
e
d
/
t
y
p
e
o
f
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
?
W
h
e
n
i
s
t
h
e
p
a
r
a
m
e
t
e
r
t
o
b
e
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
e
d
-
f
r
e
q
u
e
n
c
y
o
f
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
m
e
n
t
o
r
c
o
n
t
i
n
u
o
u
s
?
W
h
y
I
s
t
h
e
p
a
r
a
m
e
t
e
r
t
o
b
e
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
e
d
(
o
p
t
i
o
n
a
l
)
?
I
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
I
n
s
t
a
l
l
O
p
e
r
a
t
e
R
e
l
a
t
e
d
w
i
t
h
m
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
i
s
s
u
e
6
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
.
Q
u
a
n
t
i
t
y
(
b
y
t
y
p
e
)
a
n
d
h
a
n
d
l
i
n
g
o
f
d
i
s
p
o
s
e
d
s
o
l
i
d
a
n
d
l
i
q
u
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
s
(
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
w
a
s
t
e
s
a
r
i
s
i
n
g
f
r
o
m
w
e
l
l
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
)
T
o
n
s
/
y
e
a
r
n
.
a
.
E
n
t
i
r
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
a
r
e
a
Q
u
a
l
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
q
u
a
n
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
a
c
c
o
r
d
i
n
g
t
o
P
o
l
i
s
h
w
a
s
t
e
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
s
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
s
o
n
t
h
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
r
e
c
e
i
p
t
s
O
n
c
e
a
f
t
e
r
w
o
r
k
s
c
o
m
p
l
e
t
i
o
n
n
.
a
.
I
n
c
l
u
d
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
w
i
t
h
t
h
e
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
c
o
m
p
a
n
y
n
.
a
.
T
u
r
n
k
e
y
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
o
r
s
n
.
a
.
1
8
7
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
.
G
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
w
a
t
e
r
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
a
n
a
l
y
s
i
s
-
e
n
c
l
o
s
e
d
n
.
a
.
S
a
m
p
l
i
n
g
t
i
m
e
W
e
l
l
h
e
a
d
T
h
e
a
m
o
u
n
t
o
f
e
a
c
h
e
l
e
m
e
n
t
o
r
c
o
m
p
o
u
n
d
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
g
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
w
a
t
e
r
i
s
d
e
t
e
r
m
i
n
e
d
a
c
c
o
r
d
i
n
g
t
o
t
h
e
P
o
l
i
s
h
S
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
s
w
h
i
c
h
p
r
e
c
i
s
e
l
y
d
e
s
c
r
i
b
e
m
e
t
h
o
d
s
,
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
,
t
h
e
t
y
p
e
a
n
d
q
u
a
n
t
i
t
y
o
f
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
r
e
a
g
e
n
t
s
t
o
b
e
u
s
e
d
.
W
h
e
n
p
u
m
p
i
n
g
T
o
a
s
s
e
s
s
g
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
w
a
t
e
r
m
i
n
e
r
a
l
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
c
o
r
r
o
s
i
o
n
p
r
o
p
e
r
t
i
e
s
I
n
c
l
u
d
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
t
u
r
n
k
e
y
g
e
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
a
s
s
i
s
t
a
n
c
e
c
o
s
t
s
n
.
a
.
T
u
r
n
k
e
y
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
o
r
s
n
.
a
.
8
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
.
G
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
w
a
t
e
r
c
u
r
i
n
g
p
r
o
p
e
r
t
i
e
s
–
e
n
c
l
o
s
e
d
n
.
a
.
S
a
m
p
l
i
n
g
t
i
m
e
W
e
l
l
h
e
a
d
T
h
e
a
m
o
u
n
t
o
f
e
a
c
h
e
l
e
m
e
n
t
o
r
c
o
m
p
o
u
n
d
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
g
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
w
a
t
e
r
i
s
d
e
t
e
r
m
i
n
e
d
a
c
c
o
r
d
i
n
g
t
o
t
h
e
P
o
l
i
s
h
S
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
s
w
h
i
c
h
p
r
e
c
i
s
e
l
y
d
e
s
c
r
i
b
e
m
e
t
h
o
d
s
,
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
a
n
d
t
h
e
t
y
p
e
a
n
d
q
u
a
n
t
i
t
y
o
f
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
r
e
a
g
e
n
t
s
t
o
b
e
u
s
e
d
.
W
h
e
n
p
u
m
p
i
n
g
T
o
a
s
s
e
s
s
g
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
w
a
t
e
r
c
u
r
i
n
g
p
r
o
p
e
r
t
i
e
s
I
n
c
l
u
d
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
t
u
r
n
k
e
y
g
e
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
a
s
s
i
s
t
a
n
c
e
c
o
s
t
s
n
.
a
.
G
S
n
.
a
.
9
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
.
A
r
e
a
o
f
l
a
n
d
a
f
f
e
c
t
e
d
b
y
l
a
y
i
n
g
p
i
p
e
l
i
n
e
s
m
²
n
.
a
.
E
n
t
i
r
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
a
r
e
a
V
i
s
u
a
l
e
x
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
V
i
s
u
a
l
e
x
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
o
n
c
e
a
f
t
e
r
w
o
r
k
s
c
o
m
p
l
e
t
i
o
n
n
.
a
.
I
n
c
l
u
d
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
t
u
r
n
k
e
y
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
c
o
s
t
s
n
.
a
.
T
u
r
n
k
e
y
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
o
r
s
n
.
a
.
5
Page  59
-
5
9
-
C
o
s
t
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
I
t
e
m
I
D
P
h
a
s
e
W
h
a
t
p
a
r
a
m
e
t
e
r
i
s
t
o
b
e
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
e
d
?
U
n
i
t
o
f
t
h
e
p
a
r
a
m
e
t
e
r
A
v
e
r
a
g
i
n
g
p
e
r
i
o
d
w
h
e
r
e
a
p
p
l
i
c
a
b
l
e
W
h
e
r
e
i
s
t
h
e
p
a
r
a
m
e
t
e
r
t
o
b
e
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
e
d
?
H
o
w
i
s
t
h
e
p
a
r
a
m
e
t
e
r
t
o
b
e
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
e
d
/
t
y
p
e
o
f
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
?
W
h
e
n
i
s
t
h
e
p
a
r
a
m
e
t
e
r
t
o
b
e
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
e
d
-
f
r
e
q
u
e
n
c
y
o
f
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
m
e
n
t
o
r
c
o
n
t
i
n
u
o
u
s
?
W
h
y
I
s
t
h
e
p
a
r
a
m
e
t
e
r
t
o
b
e
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
e
d
(
o
p
t
i
o
n
a
l
)
?
I
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
I
n
s
t
a
l
l
O
p
e
r
a
t
e
R
e
l
a
t
e
d
w
i
t
h
m
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
i
s
s
u
e
1
0
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
.
A
r
e
a
o
f
l
a
n
d
r
e
c
l
a
i
m
e
d
w
h
i
c
h
h
a
s
b
e
e
n
a
f
f
e
c
t
e
d
b
y
l
a
y
i
n
g
p
i
p
e
l
i
n
e
s
m
²
n
.
a
.
E
n
t
i
r
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
a
r
e
a
V
i
s
u
a
l
e
x
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
V
i
s
u
a
l
e
x
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
O
n
c
e
a
f
t
e
r
w
o
r
k
s
c
o
m
p
l
e
t
i
o
n
n
.
a
.
I
n
c
l
u
d
e
d
i
n
t
u
r
n
k
e
y
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
c
o
s
t
s
n
.
a
.
T
u
r
n
k
e
y
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
o
r
s
n
.
a
.
5
1
1
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
N
o
i
s
e
l
e
v
e
l
g
e
n
e
r
a
t
e
d
d
B
n
.
a
.
I
n
t
h
e
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
p
l
a
n
t
a
r
o
u
n
d
t
h
e
D
H
p
u
m
p
s
O
n
c
e
d
u
r
i
n
g
t
h
e
c
o
m
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
i
n
g
o
f
t
h
e
p
l
a
n
t
T
o
c
o
m
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
t
h
e
p
l
a
n
t
a
n
d
o
b
t
a
i
n
a
n
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
p
e
r
m
i
t
n
.
a
.
I
n
c
l
u
d
e
d
i
n
i
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
G
S
c
o
s
t
s
n
.
a
.
S
A
N
E
P
I
D
(
P
o
l
i
s
h
S
a
n
i
t
a
r
y
I
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
O
f
f
i
c
e
)
1
4
1
2
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
C
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
a
n
a
l
y
s
i
s
o
f
G
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
w
a
t
e
r
n
.
a
.
n
.
a
.
W
a
t
e
r
f
r
o
m
t
h
e
b
a
s
i
n
B
e
f
o
r
e
b
a
s
i
n
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
i
n
g
T
o
a
s
s
e
s
s
g
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
w
a
t
e
r
i
m
p
a
c
t
t
o
r
i
v
e
r
w
a
t
e
r
,
a
n
d
t
o
f
u
l
f
i
l
l
t
h
e
w
a
t
e
r
p
e
r
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
o
b
l
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
G
S
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
c
o
s
t
G
S
1
3
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
C
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
a
n
a
l
y
s
i
s
o
f
R
i
v
e
r
I
n
a
w
a
t
e
r
.
n
.
a
.
n
.
a
.
U
p
a
n
d
d
o
w
n
o
f
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
i
n
g
p
l
a
c
e
E
v
e
r
y
t
i
m
e
w
h
e
n
b
a
s
i
n
w
i
l
l
b
e
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
d
T
o
c
o
n
f
i
r
m
t
h
a
t
f
l
o
r
a
a
n
d
f
a
u
n
a
o
f
t
h
e
r
i
v
e
r
w
e
r
e
n
o
t
d
a
m
a
g
e
d
,
a
n
d
t
o
f
u
l
f
i
l
l
t
h
e
w
a
t
e
r
p
e
r
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
o
b
l
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
G
S
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
c
o
s
t
G
S
1
4
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
A
m
o
u
n
t
o
f
g
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
w
a
t
e
r
m
³
n
.
a
.
O
n
t
h
e
b
r
i
n
e
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
l
i
n
e
E
l
e
c
t
r
o
m
a
g
n
e
t
i
c
f
l
o
w
m
e
t
e
r
E
v
e
r
y
t
i
m
e
w
h
e
n
b
a
s
i
n
w
i
l
l
b
e
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
d
T
o
c
o
n
f
i
r
m
t
h
a
t
f
l
o
r
a
a
n
d
f
a
u
n
a
o
f
t
h
e
r
i
v
e
r
w
e
r
e
n
o
t
d
a
m
a
g
e
d
,
a
n
d
t
o
f
u
l
f
i
l
l
t
h
e
w
a
t
e
r
p
e
r
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
o
b
l
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
G
S
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
c
o
s
t
G
S
Page  60
-
6
0
-
F
.
S
C
H
E
D
U
L
E
S
c
h
e
d
u
l
e
f
o
r
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
r
e
l
a
t
e
d
a
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
(
u
p
d
a
t
e
d
J
u
n
e
2
0
0
5
)
Q
u
a
r
t
e
r
1
s
t
2
n
d
3
r
d
4
t
h
1
s
t
2
n
d
3
r
d
4
t
h
1
s
t
2
n
d
3
r
d
4
t
h
1
s
t
2
n
d
3
r
Y
E
A
R
2
0
0
2
2
0
0
3
2
0
0
4
2
0
0
5
T
e
s
t
i
n
g
a
n
d
S
t
a
r
t
-
u
p
o
f
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
A
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
P
r
e
p
a
r
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
s
i
t
e
s
(
i
m
p
e
r
m
e
a
b
l
e
l
i
n
e
r
e
t
c
.
)
D
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
s
o
l
i
d
a
n
d
l
i
q
u
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
s
a
r
i
s
i
n
g
f
r
o
m
w
e
l
l
d
r
i
l
l
i
n
g
a
n
d
f
i
l
t
e
r
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
I
n
f
o
r
m
a
t
i
o
n
t
o
l
o
c
a
l
a
u
t
h
o
r
i
t
i
e
s
b
e
c
a
u
s
e
o
f
t
r
a
f
f
i
c
i
n
f
l
u
e
n
c
e
s
o
f
p
i
p
e
l
i
n
e
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
D
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
s
o
i
l
a
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
b
y
s
o
l
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
I
n
s
t
a
l
l
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
a
L
e
a
k
a
g
e
D
e
t
e
c
t
i
o
n
S
y
s
t
e
m
f
o
r
D
H
c
o
n
n
e
c
t
i
o
n
t
o
P
E
C
I
n
s
t
a
l
l
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
a
L
e
a
k
a
g
e
D
e
t
e
c
t
i
o
n
S
y
s
t
e
m
u
n
d
e
r
t
h
e
b
a
s
i
n
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
A
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
M
e
a
s
u
r
i
n
g
o
f
g
e
o
t
h
e
r
m
a
l
w
a
t
e
r
c
o
m
p
o
s
i
t
i
o
n
M
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
o
f
a
m
b
i
e
n
t
a
i
r
q
u
a
l
i
t
y
i
n
S
t
a
r
g
a
r
d
S
z
c
z
e
c
i
s
k
i
Page  61
61
G. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS 
The President of GEOTERMIA Stargard Sp. zoo. (GP) is personally responsible for 
taking care of environmental issues during construction and operation periods. The 
President of GP has nominated in early 2005 a qualified employee who will be 
responsible for day-to-day collection of environmental data. The employee is trained in 
the environmental requirements of the Plant operations in conformity with Polish 
Environmental Law. 
H. CONSULTATION WITH LOCAL NGOs AND PROJECT-AFFECTED 
GROUPS 
Regarding public consultation, representatives of relevant groups of people have been 
invited to participate in both administration procedures: for “water permission” according 
to the Polish Water Law, and “construction permission” according to the Polish 
Construction Law. Especially those local residents potentially affected by the project in 
any significant way have been invited. There was no interest, however. Therefore a 
public meeting was not held. Construction is now completed, consultations at this stage 
of the project are deemed to be unnecessary. For better familiarization of local residents 
with the project and its major benefits, a meeting will be organized prior to the 
construction of the planned “Geothermal Business Development and Dissemination 
Center”. All representatives of appropriate local groups will be invited personally.  
 
