                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR00001516



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (TF-57268 TF-57269)



                                        ON A

                   GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$810,000

            TO THE INTERNATIONAL GEOTHERMAL ASSOCIATION

                              AND US$3.72 MILLION

              TO THE HUNGARIAN OIL AND GAS COMPANY, PLC

         IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE US$25.0 MILLION

       GEOTHERMAL ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (GEOFUND)

                         IN EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

                                    June 30, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
Central Europe and the Baltic Countries Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective November 21, 2006)
             (HUF rate fixed in GEF Trust Fund Agreement)

                Currency Unit = Hungarian Forint (HUF)
                       US$ 1.00 = 213.89 HUF

                           FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1- December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL     Adaptable Program Loan
ARGEO   African Rift Geothermal Development Program
BB      Bank budget
CEGE    Central European Geothermal Energy Production
CO2     Carbon dioxide
CIS     Commonwealth of Independent States
DH      District Heating
DIF     Direct Investment Facility
ECA     Europe and Central Asia
EE      Energy efficiency
EU      European Union
GAF     GeoFund Advisory Group
GCT     GeoFund Coordination Team
GEF     Global Environment Facility
GEO     Global Environment Objective
GeoE    Geothermal Energy
GHG     Greenhouse gas
GRI     Geological Risk Insurance
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IFC     International Finance Corporation
IFR     Interim Financial Report
IGA     International Geothermal Association
MOL     MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Public Limited Company
NGO     Nongovernmental Organization
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
RE      Renewable Energy
RER     Renewable Energy Resources
STE     GeoFund Group of Scientific and Technical Experts
TA      Technical Assistance
UNFCC   United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
      Vice President:   Philippe H. Le Houerou
   Country Director:    Peter C. Harrold
     Sector Manager:    Ranjit Lamech
Project Team Leader:    Kyoichi Shimazaki
   ICR Team Leader      Kyoichi Shimazaki
 
                  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
      GEOTHERMAL ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (GEOFUND)



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 16
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 17
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 18
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 22
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 23
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 25
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 26
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 27
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 37
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 38
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Geothermal Energy
                        Europe and Central
Country:                                        Project Name:             Development Program
                        Asia
                                                                          (GeoFund): 1st tranche
Project ID:             P075046                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-57268,TF-57269
ICR Date:               06/30/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
Original Total
                        USD 4.5M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 4.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 4.0M
Environmental Category: F                       Global Focal Area: C
Implementing Agencies:
 International Geothermal Association
 MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Company
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/25/2002     Effectiveness:                               02/02/2007
Appraisal:            08/25/2006     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             11/14/2006     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   12/30/2008        12/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome              Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:           Satisfactory        Government:                    Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                                Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                                Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry        Moderately
                           No
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):                  Unsatisfactory
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                          No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      6                     6
District heating and energy efficiency services                        6                     6
Renewable energy                                                      88                    88


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                        40                    40
Environmental policies and institutions                               20                    20
Pollution management and environmental health                         20                    20
Regulation and competition policy                                     20                    20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:           Philippe H. Le Houerou                Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:         Peter C. Harrold                      Elisabetta Capannelli
Sector Manager:           Ranjit J. Lamech                      Charles M. Feinstein
Project Team Leader:      Kyoichi Shimazaki                     Helmut Schreiber
ICR Team Leader:          Kyoichi Shimazaki
ICR Primary Author:       Peggy Janice Masterson




                                                  ii
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The overall GeoFund Program's global objective is to reduce emissions of greenhouse
gases (GHGs) in the interest of climate change mitigation through a systematic and
streamlined implementation of geothermal projects.

  The objective of the Program is to systematically promote the use of geothermal energy
in the Europe and Central Asia region by removing barriers to the development of
renewable energy. The PDO was monitored as the GEO throughout implementation of
APL1.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications
GEO was not revised.

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally          Actual Value
                                              Values (from       Revised           Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval         Target          Completion or
                                               documents)        Values           Target Years
                 Preparation and implementation of geothermal energy projects in participating
Indicator 1 :
                 ECA countries over the lifetime of the Program.
                                           8 subprojects by
                                           the end of the
                                           overall GeoFund
Value                                      Program. 2                         2 subprojects by the
(quantitative or 0                         subprojects                        closing date of the
Qualitative)                               approved under                     first phase
                                           APL1 for
                                           completion by
                                           December 2008.
Date achieved 11/14/2006                   12/31/2014                         12/30/2009
Comments
                 100% of the APL1 target was achieved, i.e. 2 subprojects by the closing date.
(incl. %
                 This represents 25% of the entire GeoFund program achieved after 3 years.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                           Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                               Revised
                                             approval                         Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                            documents)                        Target Years
                Geothermal technology inherent barriers (IB # technology and scientific barriers)
Indicator 1 :
                removed.
Value           No coordinated          1. Geothermal data                 1.Geothermal data


                                               iii
(quantitative or mechanism for               base 2. Two                       base developed 2.
Qualitative)     knowledge exchange and      international                     Two international
                 geothermal project          summer schools                    summer schools
                 development                 on geothermal                     (2007 & 2008).
                                             development 3.                    3.Roster of
                                             Roster of                         international
                                             international                     geothermal
                                             geothermal                        experts. 4. Creation
                                             experts 4. Creation               and maintenance of
                                             and maintenance                   GeoFund website.
                                             of GeoFund
                                             website
Date achieved 02/02/2007                     12/30/2008                          12/30/2009
Comments
                 More than these 4 outputs were delivered (see details in Annex 2 Outputs by
(incl. %
                 Component). 100% achieved
achievement)
                 External barriers (EB # institutional, policy, legal and regulatory barriers)
Indicator 2 :
                 removed.
                                                                                 Country assessment
                                            Priority list of
                                                                                 of barriers to
Value                                       barriers and
                                                                                 geothermal use for
(quantitative or 0                          program of barrier
                                                                                 power production in
Qualitative)                                removal by
                                                                                 Hungary study
                                            country (1)
                                                                                 completed.
Date achieved 01/08/2007                    12/30/2008                           12/30/2009
Comments         100% achieved. Additional outputs were delivered, including Road mapping to
(incl. %         remove barriers and review and economic assessment of geothermal resources in
achievement) CIS countries (See Annex 2)
Indicator 3 : Investment risk and financial barriers (IB and EB) removed.
                                            1 geological risk
                                                                                 1 geological risk
Value                                       insurance issued
                                                                                 insurance issued
(quantitative or 0                          (GRI)
                                                                                 (GRI) by the end of
Qualitative)                                by the end of
                                                                                 APL1
                                            APL1
Date achieved 01/08/2007                    12/30/2008                           12/30/2009
Comments
                 100% of GRI for APL 1 delivered.
(incl. %
                 (33.3% of GRI for the overall GeoFund Program delivered by 12/31/2009)
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              GEO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     06/28/2007            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.08
  2     06/19/2008            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     3.56
  3     06/30/2009            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     3.98



                                                 iv
H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                            v
 
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
The first phase (APL1) of the Geothermal Energy Development Program (GeoFund) in
the Europe and Central Asia Region included two GEF subprojects: (a) a grant of
US$810,000 to the International Geothermal Association (IGA) for Regional Technical
Assistance (TA) activities and (b) a Geological Risk Insurance (GRI) Grant of US$3.72
million to MOL, Hungary.

Regional Context. Many countries of the Europe and Central Asia Region (ECA) lag
behind the original European Union 15 (EU15) countries in the use and development of
renewable energy resources (RER). Significant barriers impede the increased utilization
of renewable energy and, more specifically, geothermal energy (GeoE) in these countries,
including expertise, know-how, energy market issues and high transaction cost because
of the typically small size of RER projects. In addition to these, two technology barriers
in particular are specific to developing geothermal deposits, namely the high up-front
costs to identify the geothermal deposits and drill the high cost wells, and the associated
geological risks of not finding sufficient resources during exploration or premature
resource depletion during operation. Geological risks appear to be among the most
difficult to tackle. Special knowledge pertaining to the assessment and handling of
geological risks is often beyond the experience and capacity of both potential energy
investors and lenders, which reduces their willingness to undertake or participate in
geothermal projects. Most potential client countries of the ECA GeoFund program do
not yet have a policy and legislative framework in place to support geothermal energy.

Hungary. Hungary is well known as a country of favorable conditions in terms of
geothermal resources since most measured geothermal gradients are higher than the
worldwide average. According to the results of numerous published geothermal
assessments, Hungary has the largest underground thermal water reserves and geothermal
energy potential of low and medium enthalpy in Europe. The measured geothermal
resource temperatures in Hungary range from 10 C to 254 C. While the utilization of
geothermal energy in Hungary is significant, on a worldwide average it remains relatively
low compared to the resource base. This is largely due to the typical barriers as learned
from numerous lessons through Bank involvement in geothermal projects: high upfront
investment requirements and geological risks associated with drilling.

The value added of the Bank's assistance for the Hungary MOL Geothermal Power Pilot
Project is the covering of the geological risk associated with drilling. Without this
guarantee, which is unique on the market, the profitability of the project was not
attractive enough for the project developer to undertake the project. Neither conventional
type lending, nor straight grants suit the needs of this kind of operation. While loans
were available from various commercial sources and were part of the financing package,
they did not improve the risk-adjusted IRR. Straight grants on a scale that would push
the project above the hurdle rate were not justifiable for private investors.




                                            1
Hungary targets to increase the share of renewable energy to 5-6 percent from the present
level of 3.4 percent by 2010, in addition to pursuing European Union priorities such as
security of supply, energy efficiency, economic efficiency, serving national interests, and
environmental protection. The project directly contributed to these objectives as it aimed
to increase the share of renewable electricity in the country's grid mix.

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators
The program development objective of the overall GeoFund Program is to systematically
promote the use of geothermal energy in the Europe and Central Asia region by removing
barriers to the development of renewable energy. The most important barriers include:
(i) knowledge and information barriers; (ii) institutional, policy, legal and regulatory
barriers, and (iii) financial barriers.

The GeoFund Program's global environment objective is to reduce emissions of
greenhouse gases (GHGs) in the interest of climate change mitigation by systematic and
streamlined implementation of geothermal projects.

During implementation of the first phase (APL1) the program development objective was
monitored as the global environment objective, as it was more applicable to APL1.

This ICR reviews the two GEF subprojects financed as the first phase (APL1) (total
US$4.0 million disbursed for two subprojects) of the GeoFund Program and not the entire
GeoFund Program, which has not yet closed. The second phase of the GeoFund Program
is still ongoing (APL2 for Armenia, US$1.5 million TA), and the overall GeoFund
Program will be evaluated at the conclusion of APL2. US$10 million was allocated
from the US$25 million GeoFund Program to IFC for geothermal development projects
involving the private sector in Turkey. The remaining US$9.5 million will be returned to
GEF, as no additional GEF subprojects are envisaged under the GeoFund Program
implemented by the Bank because the GEF administrative budget has been exhausted.

The objective of the GEF subproject with the International Geothermal Association
(IGA) was derived from the Program's overall goal: to promote the use of geothermal
energy in the ECA region through assistance in the removal of its barriers. This was to
be achieved through the implementation of a capacity building component and a policy
development component. Key indicators were:
     Competitiveness of geothermal energy in client countries increases on a country
        by country basis;
     Better understanding of the technical and economic potential of geothermal
        energy in a number of participating ECA countries through case studies and
        training;
     Geothermal data bases and international summer school in a number of countries;
        and
     Roster of international Geothermal Experts.




                                            2
The project development objective of the subproject with the Hungarian Oil and Gas
Public Limited Company (MOL) was to increase the share of electricity from renewable
energy sources in the Republic of Hungary's grid mix.

1.3 Revised GEO
Not Applicable

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
In the Regional Technical Assistance subproject, the beneficiaries were the International
Geothermal Association (IGA) and the decision makers, market participants and project
developers in participating ECA countries, who attended workshops and received
information and dissemination materials on geothermal energy development.

For the MOL Geothermal Power Pilot Project Contingent Geological Risk Insurance
subproject, the beneficiary was MOL, Hungarian Oil and Gas Company, PLc, the project
developer.

1.5 Original Components
The overall GeoFund Program was designed as an umbrella facility for geothermal
subprojects in participating ECA countries and involved the provision of: (i) technical
assistance to address knowledge gaps and capacity barriers that retarded the use of RER
and geothermal energy, and to support project preparation and implementation (US$7
million); (ii), direct investment funding to support developers through low-cost loans,
grants or contingent grants (US$8 million); and (iii) a Geological Risk Insurance (GRI)
window to help mitigate the geological risks associated with geothermal exploration and
operation (US$10 million). The GeoFund program was to be implemented in a series of
individual subprojects processed as horizontal APLs over a period of eight years. To
assure high quality and achievement of the defined project goals as well as to provide
support in a flexible manner, the Program was to be implemented on a project by project
basis.

APL Triggers. Two sets of triggers applied under the horizontal APL: policy triggers,
which determined the eligibility of an individual country to receive Bank assistance under
the APL program, and project triggers which determined when an individual investment
was eligible to receive Bank funds.

Policy triggers were:
     Proven country commitment by GEF focal point endorsement of the GeoFund
        Program;
     Established country program on RE development (or program was in the process
        of being established).
Project triggers were:
     Proven commitment of the project sponsor by co-financing in a ratio of
        approximately of 1:5.
     Proven project readiness by a sound screening package as described in
        "Subproject processing overview" on page 49 of the PAD.



                                            3
      Project eligibility criteria were met as described in Annex 4.G of the PAD.
      Individual project triggers as established at the respective Quality Enhancement
      Review meeting (e.g. regulatory framework and procedures in the country).

The first phase of the GeoFund Program included two GEF subprojects: (a) a grant of
US$810,000 to IGA for Regional Technical Assistance (TA) activities and (b) a
Geological Risk Insurance (GRI) Grant of US$3.72 million to MOL, Hungary.

   A. Regional Technical Assistance Subproject Implemented by IGA was based on
      a work program prepared jointly by IGA and the Bank's GeoFund Coordination
      Team (GCT).

Capacity Building Component: The capacity building component included:

      Review and assessment of geothermal resources, modes of occurrence, and
      methods of utilization;
      Training of local experts in the preparation and implementation of geothermal
      energy projects;
      Transfer of know-how through the establishment of a roster of international
      geothermal experts and implementation of targeted international studies;
      Support to the organization and execution of conferences and workshops;
      Dissemination of information through support to knowledge resource centers
      creation and publications.

Policy Development Component: The policy development component consisted of
three subcomponents:

   (a) Country policy support activities including review of energy sector policies and
       legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks as well as energy tariff systems in
       ECA countries to identify key barriers towards the use of renewable energy
       resources;
            Support of Governments' policy reforms and framework improvements,
               including taxation in favor of geothermal energy development;
            Development of national geothermal programs and action plans;
            Creation of domestic financial mechanisms for support of geothermal
               energy projects;
            Creation of and secretariat support to the GeoFund Advisory Forum
               (GAF) consisting of experts from the ECA countries;
            Creation of, and secretariat support to the GeoFund Group Scientific and
               Technical Experts (STE).
   (b) Demonstration projects (of which only component (a) was to be implemented by
       IGA).
   (c) Management and administration component to support the contracting of an
       implementation specialist to manage the funds of the subproject.




                                           4
   B. Geological Risk Insurance for the Hungary MOL Geothermal Power Pilot
      Project.
      The financing instrument was a grant which would be disbursed if the risks
      insured under the Geological Risk Insurance (GRI) window of the GeoFund
      Program occurred. Disbursement of the grant was contingent on geological
      parameters not reaching the expected values as stipulated in the Grant Agreement.
      The GeoFund Program subproject consisted of the provision of Geological Risk
      Insurance (GRI) to cover the short-term geological risk associated with the
      drilling and testing activities to support the development of a geothermal power
      pilot project to be undertaken by the consortium led by MOL. The project site
      was north of the village of Iklodbordoce, in the county of Zala, in southwest
      Hungary, with three existing hydrocarbon exploration wells. A fourth production
      well was to be drilled there. The planned power plant was to have been connected
      to the regional system of North Transdanubian Electric Service Company. Total
      estimated project costs were HUF 3.9 billion (US$18.6 million), which were to be
      financed by MOL. The geothermal power pilot project supported by GRI
      included well completion or reconstruction into geothermal production and
      injection wells, new well drilling, pipelines between the wells and the power plant,
      injection pumps, the power plant and connection to the grid. All of the
      geothermal fluids were to be injected into the reservoir to guarantee the renewable
      nature of the energy source.

       The GeoFund subproject provided Geological Risk Insurance (GRI) for a test
       operation for about nine months on a doublet converted from two existing
       hydrocarbon wells. The test operation consisted of production and re-injection to
       establish long-term hydrological conditions. The project developer was to
       proceed to the implementation phase on the basis of the evaluation of the results
       of the test operation phase.

1.6 Revised Components
The components were not formally revised. Under the Geological Risk Insurance
subproject, the results of the exploration and testing activities indicated that the two wells
would not produce adequate geothermal flow rates for any geothermal-based operation.
This was verified in the technical report produced by MOL, and further verified by a
team of independent experts hired by the Bank, and the expenses for the payment claim
were verified by an international auditing firm.

1.7 Other significant changes
About twenty-three potential subprojects (expected to result in about 7-8 actual
subprojects by the end of the overall GeoFund Program in 2014) were initially identified
for financing, and two of these were approved for funding under the first phase APL: (a)
a grant of US$810,000 to IGA for the regional TA activities and (b) a GRI Grant of
US$3.72 million to MOL, Hungary. Development of a pipeline of subprojects took
longer than initially expected.

Prior to design of the GeoFund Program, the Bank team prepared a strategy note to
identify the potential for geothermal development in ECA. During preparation there


                                              5
were long negotiations and revisions to the GeoFund technical and administrative design
due to the GEF secreatariat preference to use financial instruments such as guarantees
and loans, which would have tilted the GeoFund towards the high-income graduating
countries. There were also high transaction costs associated with using the GeoFund as a
pilot for a regional geothermal program and having the Bank team identify, market,
solicit, prepare and review proposals for possible GeoFund subprojects. All of the above
resulted in administrative budget costs that were higher than for the typical GEF project
(total lending costs of about US$549,970 and supervision costs of about US$412,140).
The GEF administrative budget for the overall GeoFund program was depleted after three
years of implementation, and no additional subprojects could be financed due to the lack
of administrative funds to identify, prepare and supervise new subprojects.

Implementation arrangements for the subprojects worked as planned during appraisal,
with the two Recipients implementing the subprojects, and the GeoFund Coordination
team providing oversight. The GeoFund Advisory Forum (GAF) did not materialize, as
there were only two subprojects in APL1. The GeoFund Group of Scientific and
Technical Experts (STE) was an expert community based on a roster of geological,
technical environmental, financial, economic and legal experts and was responsible for
carrying out technical, environmental and financial due diligence related activities. It
provided geological risk assessment of the GRI subproject. It was not a permanent body,
but was on call on an as needed basis.

The ECA wide study on assessment of barriers to Geothermal Energy Use was eliminated,
as it could not be completed within the project period. The demonstration projects did
not materialize.

Under the Geological Risk Insurance Subproject, the results of the drilling and testing
activities indicated that the two wells would not produce adequate geothermal flow rates
for any geothermal-based operation. This was verified in the technical report produced
by MOL, and further verified by independent experts hired by the Bank. Eligible
financial expenses were verified by an international auditing firm. After verification in
accordance with the Grant Agreement, a payment of US$3,305,577.63 was made to MOL
on December 17, 2007. The remaining unwithdrawn amount of US$414,422.37 was
cancelled, and the MOL Grant Account was closed in 2007.

The closing date for the regional technical assistance subproject was extended from
December 30, 2008 to December 30, 2009, to allow for completion of two of the regional
technical assistance activities. The undisbursed balance of US$110,608.07 was cancelled
on April 30, 2010.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Project Preparation. An extremely long period of project preparation (58 months from
concept to Board) reflects the difficulties within the Bank and GEF to process innovative
projects such as this one. The GeoFund Program was the first GEF region-wide program



                                            6
for geothermal development, and as such carried high transaction costs. The project
team faced many internal constraints to develop a regional program and eventually settled
on a horizontal APL format, to be directly implemented by the Bank and through IFC due
to the absence of a suitable agency to administer a region-wide program. The Bank did
not have experience with regional geothermal projects, but to the extent possible, lessons
from previous geothermal projects for district heating (Poland Podhale and Stargard and
Lithuania Klaipeda) and from other regional projects such as the Africa Stockpile
Programme were incorporated into the project design. General lessons learned from other
renewable energy projects and energy efficiency projects such as the Romania Energy
Efficiency Project, the Bulgaria Energy Efficiency Project, the Turkey Renewable Energy
Project and the Caribbean Renewable Energy Development Programme were taken into
account in designing the GeoFund Program. Financial barriers were addressed through
the creation of a revolving risk insurance scheme based on the experiences of the
Romania and Bulgaria EE projects. The GeoFund was to provide a strategic mix of risk
insurance, investment and TA instruments to move beyond individual projects to a more
systematic approach towards geothermal energy within the ECA Region.

Design. The GeoFund Program aimed to facilitate the creation of an enabling business
and regulatory environment in ECA countries so that the development of geothermal
energy would become attractive to investors. The GeoFund program was set up as a
region-wide and a multi-country facility financed by a GEF grant, using an approach
similar to horizontal APLs. The first two subprojects comprised the first phase of the
APL. Under the Program, the Bank took on the identification/preparation/supervision of
subprojects through the Geothermal Coordination Team (GCT), and IFC was the
executing agency for the program of subprojects that were more appropriate for private
sector investments. The program's design focused on:

    (i) TA to address knowledge gaps and capacity barriers that retard the use of RER
         and geothermal energy, and to support project preparation and implementation;
    (ii) direct investment funding (DIF) to support developers through low-cost loans,
         grants or contingent grants, and
    (iii) a Geological Risk Insurance (GRI) window to help mitigate the geological risks
         associated with geothermal exploration and operation, which is the most difficult
         barrier to tackle. The two subprojects in the first phase APL involved TA and
         GRI. The design of the GRI component was innovative.

During preparation, three alternatives were considered and rejected:
          a commercial administrative agent as grant recipient;
          creation of a dedicated new trust fund at the Bank for GeoFund; and
          creation of a GEF sub-account, which would not have worked for GRI
             insurance or DIF loans.
The option finally chosen was to work on a country by country GEF grant scheme.

Quality at Entry. The Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA8) rated quality at entry of the
overall GeoFund Program as moderately unsatisfactory citing (i) the complex structure of
the program, (ii) long preparation period, (iii) possible resource constraint on the risk


                                            7
insurance component and (iv) limited progress in bringing subprojects to closure. At the
time, it was the view of the task team that the GeoFund was not particularly complex and
had only one executing agency, IFC; that the long preparation period was not due to the
Geological Risk Insurance component but rather to the difficulty to find a suitable
project/program design acceptable to both GEF and Bank policies; and that the
Geological Risk Insurance component was a pilot program designed to play a catalytic
role to remove barriers, and that the criteria could be tightened or funds could be
reallocated from one of the other windows if it appeared to be in danger of depletion.
The ICR rates the quality at entry as moderately satisfactory since the rating is based on
an evaluation of the quality at entry of APL1, not of the entire GeoFund program.

The two subprojects in the first APL were well prepared and ready for implementation.
Retroactive financing was used to finance some early consultancies under the region-
wide Technical Assistance subproject. Priority activities for IGA's work program were
agreed well in advance and included in its Letter of Agreement. The Grant Agreement
with MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Company, Plc, the subproject developer, was
extremely detailed and specified the key parameters for payment of all or part of the GRI,
and the parameters in the Grant Agreement were used as the basis for calculating the GRI
compensation.

Risk Assessment.

Region-wide TA Subproject. The PAD indicated that the critical risks that applied to
the overall GeoFund applied to the ECA Regional TA Subproject implemented by IGA,
although these risks (legislative risks, subproject development risks and GeoFund risks)
did not seem applicable to this subproject. The overall risk rating with mitigation was
moderate. In hindsight, the risk of delays in implementation of TA contracts should have
been identified and assessed due to IGA's initial inexperience with Bank procurement
and financial management procedures.

GRI for MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas PLc. A separate risk assessment was done for
the MOL Geothermal Power Plant Pilot Subproject. The overall risk rating with
mitigation was negligible. Risks identified were: policy risk (renewable electricity price
volatility, traditional (non-geological) investment risk, and geological risk (rated
moderate). The geological risk was to be mitigated by careful pre-investment activities
such as geological, hydrogeological, geochemical and geophysical surveys and studies.
As evidenced by its completion report, MOL exercised due diligence in implementing the
mitigation measures. In retrospect, this risk was underestimated, as it materialized
despite the mitigation measures.

2.2 Implementation
There was no restructuring, and the project was never at risk.

As designed, the subprojects were implemented by the Recipients, while the Bank as
implementing agency for the GeoFund Program was responsible for identifying,
marketing, soliciting, preparing, reviewing and approving additional subprojects as well
as the standard supervision oversight. The GeoFund Coordination Team (GCT) met


                                             8
quarterly and as needed to provide overall strategy, direction and processing. In the early
stage of the APL, a considerable amount of time and resources was spent to develop
additional subprojects, which, due to circumstances beyond the control of the GCT
(graduation of new EU countries, rapid escalation of the cost of geothermal drilling and
equipment, and the financial crisis, which made investors even more risk adverse) failed
to materialize. After 19 promising potential subprojects were proposed during the
Istanbul Geothermal Workshop in February 2009, there were no remaining resources in
the administrative budget for identification, preparation and supervision of additional
subprojects.

Through third party financing, IGA obtained about US$1,180,000 in cofinancing for the
GeoFund technical assistance activities.

The GRI insured up to 85 percent of the eligible drilling expenses incurred by MOL, and
MOL financed the remaining 15 percent of eligible drilling expenses. In addition, MOL
also financed all of the pre-drilling expenses (geological surveys, prefeasibility studies,
etc, staff salaries, as well as the post drilling expenses to return the land to its pre-drilling
state), which are estimated at about US$2-3 million. It also paid up-front to the GeoFund
a processing fee of US$10,000 and a 3 percent fee on the insured amount (US$131,254).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The results framework in Annex 3 of the PAD referred to the overall GeoFund Program,
which is still under implementation. Eight geothermal energy subprojects in participating
ECA countries were envisaged over the lifetime of the GeoFund Program, and two
subprojects were approved under APL1. The arrangements for results monitoring table
gave target values for the first phase of the GeoFund APL (2006-2008) and for the
subsequent phase (s).

Each of the two GEF subprojects in APL1 had its own M&E design and the respective
Recipients (IGA and MOL) were responsible for monitoring and reporting on progress.
IGA used the following key indicators: number of training events completed, number of
case studies completed, and completion of TA assignments relating to enabling
framework and information dissemination. MOL's Technical Department monitored the
exploration and testing activities and reported to the Bank through quarterly progress
reports on the testing and drilling exploration activities and the estimated costs and
expenses for each itemized activity to determine the expenses to be covered by the GRI,
as specified in the Grant Agreement. After MOL indicated that the two wells would not
produce adequate geothermal flow rates for any geothermal-based operation, it prepared
its own completion report which reported on all the parameters required in the Grant
Agreement. Independent experts hired by the Bank performed a final verification of the
exploration and testing activities. An independent auditor audited MOL's eligible
financial expenses. Based on a review of MOL's completion report, the verification
report and auditor's report and a supervision mission, the amount of compensation under
the Geological Risk Insurance component was determined and paid in accordance with
the Grant Agreement.




                                               9
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguard Compliance: In accordance with the overall GeoFund Program, each
subproject had its own environmental rating. The ECA regional TA subproject was
classified as environmental category "C" as there were no investment operations in this
subproject. The MOL Geothermal Power Pilot Project received an environmental
screening category of "B". Given the small scale nature of the project, potential adverse
environmental impacts were limited, site specific and reversible. MOL completed the EA
disclosure process in accordance with national/EU requirements and obtained the
environmental license. MOL also financed the costs related to surface restoration on the
drilling field after the closure of the wells, in accordance with local regulations for post
well closure actions; these expenses could not be covered by the GRI, because they were
not specified in the original budget table in the Grant Agreement.

Fiduciary Compliance: IGA, as the Recipient of the Regional TA subproject, was
responsible for financial management arrangements and procurement in accordance with
Bank guidelines for the region-wide technical assistance subproject. A financial
improvement action plan was agreed with IGA prior to effectiveness. The May 2009 FM
supervision mission rated financial management as moderately unsatisfactory due to
internal control deficiencies and recommended improvements, which IGA implemented.
An off-site review of the FM arrangements was conducted in November 2009 to follow-
up on implementation of the action plan required to bring the FM to satisfactory levels.
The required actions included: proper application of the invoice acceptance procedures
which were stipulated in the manual but not followed by IGA, preparation of proper
reconciliation of the received advance to the Designated Account, sending out the
withdrawal applications to document payments for expenditures from the Designated
Account and agreeing with the auditor the audit period which should include all final
transactions. The off-site review demonstrated that the action plan had been completed
satisfactorily. A review of sample transactions found that IGA was now following the
required procedures with regard to the acceptance of deliverables and invoices and had
performed final reconciliation of the project records with the World Bank disbursement
records and provided applications documenting all expenditures. The audit contract was
amended to cover all project expenditures until the end of the project, and the audit report
was to be issued by January 31, 2010 at the latest. The FMS review concluded that the
financial management arrangements for the project had improved and the rating was
upgraded to moderately satisfactory after the completion of the action plan. The FMS
indicated that the FM rating could be further upgraded to satisfactory after the review of
the final audit report. The final audit for the IGA Technical Assistance was received in
January 2010 and gave an unqualified opinion, and the auditor's Management Letter
indicated that it did not find any internal control issues. The final audit was reviewed by
the FMS and found to be acceptable. Fiduciary compliance was not a factor in the MOL
GRI Subproject (see Section 1.5 B).


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
IGA. The International Geothermal Association is a scientific, educational and cultural
organization established to operate worldwide, with more than 3000 members in 65
countries. Its objective is to encourage research, development and utilization of


                                            10
geothermal resources worldwide through the compilation, publication and dissemination
of scientific and technical data and information, both within the community of
geothermal specialists and between geothermal specialists and the general public.
Although GEF funding for the ECA regional geothermal program has ceased, the studies
developed under the subproject and the roster of geothermal experts will continue to be
maintained and shared with members from ECA countries and from other countries.
Based on the experience gained in working with the Bank under the ECA GeoFund
regional technical assistance component, IGA has been selected as a Recipient Agency of
the African Rift Geothermal Development Program (ARGEO), currently under
preparation. IGA has created a new company in Germany and opened a branch in East
Africa to facilitate implementation of the proposed program.

MOL The MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Company will continue to operate and remains
committed to geothermal energy development in Hungary and abroad despite the
unsuccessful outcome of its first exploration. In 2008 it formed a joint venture, Central
European Geothermal Energy Production (CEGE), with other sponsors to develop
geothermal power in Hungary and in the region.

IFC. IFC received seven potential proposals for geothermal subprojects in Turkey as a
result of the Geothermal Workshop held in Istanbul in February 2009. IFC submitted a
subproject proposal for GEF Chief Executive Officer (CEO) endorsement in early
CY2010, which was subsequently approved in April 2010. This subproject is expected to
support GRI requests from Turkey's private sector and from one municipality over the
next few years.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The GeoFund program and the two subprojects under APL1 were highly relevant to
global priorities and were part of the ECA region's strategy ("Fire without Smoke") to
increase the use of geothermal energy in ECA through facilitating the creation of an
enabling business and regulatory environment in ECA countries so that the development
of geothermal energy would become attractive to investors. The removal of barriers to
renewable energy development continues to be part of the current ECA Energy Strategy
to reduce the impact of energy consumption on the environment by increasing reliance on
clean/renewable fuel sources and improving energy efficiency ("Lights Out"). The
objectives and design were closely aligned with GEF objectives as well. The APL1
Project Development Objective was clear.

The subprojects in APL1 were implemented as originally designed and contributed to
meeting the PDO to systematically promote the use of geothermal energy in the Europe
and Central Asia region by removing barriers to the development of renewable energy.

Regional TA subproject, implemented by IGA. The capacity building subcomponent
was successfully completed, with all major tasks accomplished, including: development
of materials for a course on geothermal feasibility studies, international workshops on



                                           11
mineral co-production in geothermal development, two international summer schools on
geothermal development and case studies of 7 European geothermal projects. A
workshop on Geological Risk Insurance was held. Under the policy development
subcomponent, a "Study on Country Assessment of Barriers to Geothermal Energy Use
for Power Production in Hungary" was completed as a precondition to design appropriate
instruments to remove barriers toward geothermal energy development in Hungary.
Road mapping of best ways to remove barriers to geothermal development was
completed and disseminated at a successful workshop. IGA also established a GeoFund
website, a data base of publications and conferences on geothermal development and a
roster of international geothermal experts.

GeoFund Subproject for Hungary MOL Geothermal Power Pilot.                         After
unsuccessful drilling and testing, the GeoFund paid US$3.3 million to MOL to cover the
eligible drilling and testing expenses. The Geological Risk Insurance worked as designed
when the drilling was unsuccessful and played a key role in reducing the risk of drilling
for the first geothermal pilot power plant in Hungary.

3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives
The GeoFund Program global environment objective was to reduce greenhouse gas
(carbon dioxide) emissions in the interest of climate change mitigation through the
systematic and streamlined implementation of geothermal projects. Throughout project
implementation the PDO was monitored as the GEO, as evidenced by the ISRs. Neither
of the two subprojects (region-wide technical assistance and provision of Geological Risk
Insurance) directly contributed to a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. The PDO of
the Hungary MOL Geothermal Power Pilot Project was to increase the share of
renewable electricity in Hungary's grid mix. Had the MOL drilling and exploration
resulted in a new geothermal power plant, greenhouse gas emissions would have been
reduced, and the share of renewable energy in Hungary's grid mix would have been
increased.. Nonetheless, the geological risk insurance component worked as envisaged in
the case of unsuccessful drilling, so the subproject performed as intended. Because of the
high upfront costs and risks in geothermal project development, the provision of
Geological Risk Insurance played a key role in reducing the risk of the pilot power
project. MOL has assured the Bank of its continued commitment to geothermal
development, and is exploring two additional geothermal projects, which, if successful,
may result in future reductions of greenhouse gas emissions. The technical assistance
component provided training, workshops, publications, a roster of experts, roadmaps to
remove barriers to geothermal development, and 7 case studies of European geothermal
projects. The Geothermal Workshop in Istanbul resulted in 19 prospective subprojects for
geothermal development. The regional TA subproject achieved its project development
objective, to systematically promote the use of geothermal energy in the Europe and
Central Asia region by removing barriers to the development of renewable energy,
although it had no direct impact on reducing greenhouse gas emissions.

3.3 Efficiency
The IGA subproject provided TA and therefore does not lend itself to typical economic
and financial analysis. Through third party financing, IGA obtained about US$1.1
million to leverage the funds provided by GEF. Because of its worldwide expertise in


                                           12
geothermal development, it was able to hire consultants with the appropriate expertise. It
is a non-profit organization and operated with a very small staff to manage the regional
technical assistance activities; its administrative and management expenses over the three
year project were only US$67,604. The MOL subproject resulted in a payment of
Geological Risk Insurance as a result of unsuccessful drilling, so no economic analysis
was done at the ICR stage. The financial and economic analysis done at appraisal was
based on the successful development of a geothermal power plant, which did not occur.
The GRI provided to MOL met the incremental cost criteria, as it was used to finance the
development of the first geothermal power plant pilot project in Hungary, which would
not have occurred without the GEF funding. Experience gained by MOL in this initial
exploration is expected to be replicated in other explorations. MOL brought its own
funds to the table, and had the drilling resulted in a favorable result, had obtained
financing for the construction of the geothermal power plant.

The APL1 completed the planned activities and met or exceeded the expected outcome in
terms of achievement of the Project Development Objective, according to schedule and
as cost-effective as initially planned.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
Both the overall GeoFund Program and the two subprojects in APL1 continue to be
extremely relevant to the current ECA Energy Strategy and the focus on reducing the
impact of energy consumption on the environment; however, the GEOs were set at the
GeoFund Program level and as such, their attainment is overly ambitious for the first
phase of the APL. The two subprojects met the PDO to promote the use of geothermal
energy in the ECA region through assistance in the removal of barriers. It is important to
note that during the implementation of these two subprojects, the achievement of
objectives (including GEOs) was measured solely against the attainment of the project's
PDO.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Not applicable

(b)Institutional Change/Strengthening
The IGA subproject was instrumental in building the capacity of local experts in the
preparation and implementation of geothermal energy projects, in the transfer of know-
how through the establishment of a roster of international geothermal experts, and in the
dissemination of information about geothermal development. Experts from ECA
countries were trained in IGA workshops. As a result of the workshop in Istanbul,
Turkey, about 19 potential proposals for geothermal development were submitted to the
Bank for review. Of these 7 were referred to IFC as they involved the private sector in
Turkey. IGA received initial training in Washington in Bank procurement, disbursement
and financial management procedures and gradually gained expertise in Bank
procurement and fiduciary management procedures, as evidenced by the request from
ARGEO for IGA to be a Recipient for its geothermal development program.


                                               13
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

Positive:
Close coordination between the ECA GeoFund Coordination Team and the ARGEO team
resulted in beneficial synergies between the two regional geothermal development
programs (coordination of project application requirements and evaluation criteria, joint
supervision missions, set-up of a joint group of Scientific and Technical Experts, and
joint efforts to raise co-financing for both geothermal programs). Experience with the
ECA GeoFund Program has been replicated in the ARGEO Program preparation, saving
time and resources and eliminating the need to reinvent the wheel. The lessons learned
during the negotiations of the payment of the GRI with MOL have improved the clarity
of the technical parameters in the Grant Agreement and this experience has been
transferred to the ARGEO Program.

Negative:
The depletion of the GEF administrative budget forced the GCT to decline to finance any
of the 19 subproject proposals received from the Istanbul workshop, except for the 7
candidate subprojects in Turkey, which have been transferred to IFC execution. It is
unfortunate to drop the new proposals despite their high quality and the strong interest
from prospective developers.

Due to the prolonged global financial crisis, the private sector risk insurance market for
geothermal development has not expanded as expected at the time of the launching of the
GeoFund Program, which limited the opportunity for leveraging GEF resources with the
private risk insurance market.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not Applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible to Low

Prospects are good for sustainable project development outcomes for the two subprojects
financed under APL1. Region-wide technical assistance activities under the IGA
subproject have largely been implemented and the 2009 Geothermal Workshop organized
by IGA in Istanbul, Turkey resulted in 19 subproject applications for support from the
GeoFund. IGA indicated in its completion report that it recognizes the importance of
maintaining the data bases and information resources developed under the project.

The GeoFund mitigated the geological risk of a geothermal drilling for the first pilot
project to produce electricity from geothermal development in Hungary, which MOL, the
Hungarian Oil and Gas Company, would not have undertaken without the GRI. MOL
has stated to the Bank that it remains committed to geothermal energy development in
Hungary and elsewhere in the region, despite the unsuccessful outcome of the first
exploration. It has already identified two new geothermal fields to be developed as the
second round of exploration. In 2008, it formed a specialized company for geothermal


                                           14
development (Central European Geothermal Energy Production); thus; it is expected that
the objective of increasing the share of renewable electricity in Hungary's electric grid
will eventually be achieved.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of APL1 was
satisfactory. Prior to designing the project, the Bank team prepared a strategy note to identify
the potential for geothermal development in the ECA region. The Bank team designed an
innovative regional program to systematically promote the use of geothermal energy by removing
barriers to the development of renewable energy. Staffing (which included senior technical
specialists) and funding were more than adequate during the lending phase. The contingent
financing mechanism devised for the Geological Risk Insurance was innovative. The team
proposed a horizontal APL for the region-wide GEF program, due to the absence of any other
suitable instrument in the Bank's toolkit. The team displayed adequate knowledge of variations
in country conditions. The Bank team actively marketed the concept and solicited proposals for
future subprojects. In several cases, considerable preparation work up to the PAD stage was done
only to have the host government or project developer suddenly withdraw. The Bank team
developed processing steps for future subprojects and criteria for assessing the eligibility and
soundness of future subprojects. The team developed very clear guidance for the evaluation and
review of the GRI payments, which worked well when the GRI was called.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The GeoFund Coordination Team (GCT) was responsible for overall strategy, direction
and processing, and met on a regular basis to discuss overall management, promotion and
marketing of the GeoFund program, identification, preparation and development of new
subproject applications, internal processing and appraisal of subprojects, instructions of
administrative actions for project implementation, and supervision of subprojects. At the
beginning of the project, the GCT provided IGA with training in Washington on Bank
procurement, disbursement and financial management procedures, since IGA was
initially unfamiliar with Bank procurement and financial management procedures. There
was continuity in the members of the GCT throughout the project. Fiduciary aspects
were supervised regularly and action plans developed and monitored when needed.
During the negotiations with MOL on payment of the GRI, the GCT hired external
experts to review the outcome of MOL's exploration and verify their payment claim.
Perhaps the GCT should have held a workshop, similar to the one held in Istanbul in
early 2009 at the beginning of the project, so that promising subproject proposals were
available from project start-up. When it became apparent that the GEF administrative
budget resources were insufficient to support new subprojects, the GCT was unable to
obtain management support for BB funds or for additional GEF resources. ISRs were
produced once a year, which was the Bank minimum requirement at the time. Sector


                                                   15
management commented on the three ISRs, and in the final ISR requested the team to
prepare a suitable aide memoire and ISR and an approach plan for responding to the
project proposals from the Istanbul workshop; these comments do not seem to have been
followed up.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Based on the above explanations, the overall rating is moderately satisfactory, as per the
ICR guidelines that the overall rating will be equal to the lower of the two ratings.

5.2 Recipient
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Not applicable

(b) Recipient Agency Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The rating for both Recipient agencies is Satisfactory. IGA, the recipient responsible for
the ECA Region-wide Technical Assistance subproject implemented the subproject
successfully, albeit with some initial delays due to unfamiliarity with Bank procurement
and financial management procedures. Although the FMS review in May 2009 (see
Section 2.4) rated financial management as moderately unsatisfactory due to internal
control deficiencies, a subsequent off-site FMS review found that IGA had completed the
actions required in the action plan, and that the rating should be upgraded to moderately
satisfactory, with an upgrade to satisfactory after receipt of an acceptable final audit
report. The final audit (received in January 2010) gave an unqualified opinion and the
Management Letter indicated that there were no internal control issues. There were no
procurement issues during the project. IGA submitted a completion report which detailed
the technical assistance activities under the project.

MOL completed its exploration and drilling with sound technical and financial due
diligence and provided the periodic reporting required by the Grant Agreement. Its
completion report on the exploration and drilling was extensive and satisfied the
requirements of the Grant Agreement.          The report was reviewed by a reputable
international expert hired by the Bank, MOL's eligible financial expenses were reviewed
by an international auditor, and the Bank agreed to pay the geological risk insurance in
accordance with the parameters set out in the Grant Agreement.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Recipient Performance
Rating: Based on the above, the rating for overall Recipient performance is Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
     Geothermal development is a risky business, with only about a 30 percent success
       rate. Given the risk adverse nature of investors and of Bank management, a
       renewable energy project with a certain portion of the grant designated for



                                            16
        geothermal development might have resulted in a more robust pipeline of
        subprojects and have been more successful in meeting the GEO.
        Given that pipeline development is critical to the success of a regional program, it
        should be pursued as early as possible during project preparation.
        Close cooperation between regions on similar innovative geothermal development
        programs resulted in synergy and efficiencies in terms of knowledge and product
        innovation.
        Sector specific region-wide programs like the GeoFund Program, solely supported
        by GEF resources, tend to lack country unit ownership and linkages to country-
        based programs.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The ICR team agrees with the completion reports provided by the two Recipients.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable

(c)Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Not applicable




                                            17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                           Actual/Latest
                                     Appraisal Estimate                        Percentage of
          Components                                       Estimate (USD
                                      (USD millions)                            Appraisal
                                                              millions)
 Provision of a Geological Risk
Insurance (GRI) to cover the
                                             18.60
short-term geological risk                                           6.30            34
                                             (3.72)
associated with the drilling and
testing activities /1
 ECA region wide technical
                                              0.81                   1.70           210
assistance /2


            Total Baseline Cost               19.41                  8.00            41
Physical Contingencies                        0.00                   0.00
Price Contingencies                           0.00                   0.00
             Total Project Costs             19.41                   8.00            41
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)            0.00                   0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.00                   0.00
      Total Financing Required                4.53                   8.00           177

/1 US$18.6 envisaged at appraisal was intended for construction of the geothermal pilot
power plant, in the event of successful drilling. The risk insurance of US3.72 million is
shown in parentheses as it was contingent on the drilling results.
/2 Actual includes US$1 million in third party cofinancing obtained by IGA.

(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                           Type of       Estimate        Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing       (USD            (USD       Appraisal
                                                         millions)       millions)
Recipient (MOL)                                        18.60          3.00          .00
Recipient (IGA)                                         0.00          1.00
Global Environment Facility (GEF)                       4.53          4.00          88
1/ US$18.6 million from the Recipient MOL included financing for the construction of
the power plant, if the drilling were successful.




                                                18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Both subprojects of the APL 1 were instrumental in reaching the PDO to systematically
promote the use of geothermal energy in the Europe and Central Asia Region by
removing barriers to the development of renewable energy.

   I. Regional Technical Assistance Implemented by IGA (US$0.70 million
        disbursed)
  A. Capacity Building Component
      Dissemination material for course on geothermal feasibility studies and
        project implementation (presentations, papers, CD, and a financial computer
        model) were made available to the public. Dissemination of information
        about geothermal energy is a precondition for speeding up the development of
        geothermal resources.
      Targeted international studies and workshops on mineral co-production in
        geothermal development. The consultant conducted an extensive review of
        literature related to state of the art research on the extraction of minerals from
        geothermal brines. The final product was a CD with a collection of papers
        presented at the geothermal brines conferences in Kamchatka in 2005 and
        Arizona in 2006, in English and in Russian. The papers have been made
        available through the IGA Geothermal Conference Database on the web.
        Information about the technical benefits of mineral extraction or co-
        production of minerals from geothermal brines had not previously been
        readily available. The CDs provide a comprehensive summary of the state of
        the art as well as the available literature on the subject.
      Roster of international geothermal experts. The consultant developed a
        comprehensive roster of internationally recognized geothermal experts that
        may be drawn upon by the GeoFund eligible countries and others. The expert
        roster is a good start for seeking geothermal experts.
      International Geothermal Workshop. The consultant organized a successful
        workshop in Istanbul, Turkey (February 16-20, 2009) in cooperation with the
        International Summer School. Energy officials and business developers
        discussed different aspects of geothermal development in the GeoFund region.
        Comprehensive proceedings including all presentations were filed. Proposal
        for 19 future geothermal subprojects were received.
      Publications on geothermal energy, including maintenance of the GeoFund
        web site. A website was developed for dissemination of information about the
        GeoFund program. It can be accessed by the GeoFund countries to receive
        information on the GeoFund and available financial help to companies or
        municipalities to develop geothermal resources.
      Series of case studies for seven European geothermal projects, covering power
        generation, combined heat and power, district heating, geothermal heat pumps,
        and agricultural applications. This is an important contribution to the
        dissemination of information about geothermal applications.



                                           19
B. Policy Development Component
  Identify barriers for geothermal development and provide advisory services to
    ministries in priority countries. (This activity was eliminated as it could not be
    completed within the project period.)
  Country assessment of barriers to geothermal energy use for power production in
    Hungary. The consultant reviewed the geothermal deposits in Hungary, analyzed
    existing data and established a data base of geothermal resources in the country.
  Road mapping session of the best ways to remove barriers to geothermal
    development. The consultant organized a successful workshop in Moscow
    September 22-23, 2008. Among the topics discussed were risk mitigation, barrier
    removal, financing and provision of technical assistance. The report includes the
    main conclusions and recommendations and is useful for planning future steps in
    geothermal development in the region.
  Assistance in evaluation of project proposals for the second phase of GeoFund.
    This activity involved the preparation of a Project Proposal Document to be used
    as a template for private and public project applicants to apply for funding to the
    GeoFund, taking into account the various assistance windows of the GeoFund and
    the different application options. Three geothermal experts were hired to evaluate
    proposals received by the Bank for the new GeoFund subprojects. The output
    was a scoring sheet for each proposal and a write up of the strengths and
    weaknesses (see Attachment).
  Workshop on Geological Risk Insurance. The consultant organized a workshop
    on geological risk insurance in November 2008 in Germany in conjunction with
    the German Geothermal Conference. Comprehensive proceedings with all papers
    presented at the workshop were published.

II. Geological Risk Insurance for the Hungary MOL Geothermal Power Pilot
       Project
The subproject consisted of the provision of a Geological Risk Insurance (GRI) to
cover the short-term geological risk associated with the drilling and testing activities
to support the development of a geothermal power pilot project to be undertaken by
the consortium led by MOL. The results of the drilling and testing activities indicated
that the two wells would not produce adequate geothermal flow rates for any
geothermal-based operation. This was verified in the technical report produced by
MOL and confirmed by an independent geothermal expert hired by the Bank. The
GRI of US$3.3 million was paid to MOL.




                                        20
                                                                                                                                                                   Annex 2 Attachment
                                         Potential Geothermal Subprojects Proposed Following Workshop in Istanbul
                                                                      (July 1, 2009)
                                                                                                Total      Requested
Funding                                                                         Developer                                Average
           Country                          Project Name                                       budget       funding                Ranking                         Comments
 Type                                                                             Type                                    Score
                                                                                                USD           USD

                                                                                                                                             Recommended for funding after completion of
  RMI     Turkey       Hateks Geothermal Investment in Manisa/Salihli Region       Private     1,958,400    1,370,880     72.0     1    **
                                                                                                                                             exploration
  RMI     Turkey       Geothermal Power Project Kula - phase 1                     Private     5,125,194    4,356,415     68.7     2    **   Recommended for funding
  RMI     Turkey       Kizildere Geothermal Power Plant Project                    Private     3,373,293    2,867,299     79.2     3    *    Interesting project, might be considered for funding
  RMI     Turkey       BT-1 WELL in Balcova-Narlidere Geothermal Field             Private     1,153,729       980,669    72.7     4    *    Conditional funding might be recommended
  RMI     Turkey       Sindirgi Geothermal Project                                 Private     7,120,000    5,696,000     45.1     5         Not recommended


  TA      Turkey       Alasehir Geothermal Survey and Drilling                     Private     2,029,717       250,000    75.5     1    **   Strongly recommended for funding
                                                                                                                                             Strongly recommended for funding: exploration
  TA      Turkey       Hateks Geothermal Exploration Salihli Region                Private     2,500,000    1,000,000     70.7     2    **
                                                                                                                                             completion mandatory prior to RMI see above

  RMI     Tajikistan Panax Kentor Tajikistan Geothermal Project                    Private     5,473,500    4,652,475     63.6     1    **   Strongly recommended for funding/post exploration
          Kyrgyz
  RMI                Panax Kentor Inylcheck Geothermal Project                     Private     5,279,000    4,487,150     61.9     2    *    Highly recommended for funding/post exploration
          Republic

  TA      Serbia       Development of a new field in Vojvodina Province          Provincial    1,720,000    1,290,000     63.5     1    **   Strongly recommended for funded
                                                                                                                                             Strongly recommended, TA request must be
  TA      Croatia      Geocroatia                                                  Private     6,900,000    5,520,000     54.2     2    *    completed only for one site containing detailed plan
                                                                                                                                             and budget
                                                                                                                                             Recommended, TA request must be completed only
  TA      Serbia       Geoserbia                                                   Private    11,500,000    9,200,000     52.8     3    *
                                                                                                                                             for one site containing detailed plan and budget
                                                                                                                                             Recommended, revised detailed proposal requested
  TA      Romania      Georomania                                                  Private     6,900,000    5,520,000      NA      4    *
                                                                                                                                             only for one site containing detailed plan and budget

  TA      Russia       Pauzhetsky GeoPP: Binary Unit                           State Company 150,000-200,000                       1    #1
  TA      Russia       Pauzhetska-Kambalno-Koshelevsky                             Private    2,500,000                            2    #2
                                                                                                                                             Recommend request for proposals in the listed order of
  TA      Russia       Mutnovsky GeoPP: Secondary Steam Unit                   State Company 1,000,000-3,200,000                   3    #3
                                                                                                                                                                  ranking
  TA      Russia       Paratunsky                                                  Private    2,300,000                            4    #4
  TA      Russia       Mutnovsky GeoPP-II                                      State Company 2,500,000-4,000,000                   5    #5
  TA      Russia       Roadmap                                                     Private      320,000                            6         Project to be considered under a broader IGA TA


  **      first order priority project
   *      second order priority project




                                                                                                21
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)
Not Applicable




                                    22
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                              Responsibility/
            Names                              Title                 Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
Charles Feinstein                         Sector Manager            ECSSD
Helmut Schreiber                         Task Team Leader           ECSSD
Emilia Battaglini                     GEF Regional Coordinator        ECSSD
Kyoichi Shimazaki                       Lead Financial Officer         IEF
Claudia Pardinas-Ocana                        Sr. Counsel             LEGEC
Ron Hoffer                          Lead Environmental Specialist     ECSSD
Heike Lingertat                               Consultant              ECSSD
Gyorgy Lazi                                   Consultant              ECSSD
Larisa Marquez                            Program Assistant           ECSSD
Karina Mostipan                       Sr. Procurement Specialist      ECSPS
Siew Chai Ting                   Lead Financial Management Specialist ECSPS
Andrina Ambrose-Gardiner                    Finance Officer           LOAG1
Supervision/ICR
Helmut Schreiber                        Task Team Leader           COCPO
Heike Lingertat                             Consultant
Karina Mostipan                    Senior Procurement Specialist   ECSC2
                                                                              Lead Financial
Kyoichi Shimazaki                        Task Team Leader           ECSS5
                                                                                 Officer
Iwona Warzecha                    Sr Financial Management Specia   ECSC3


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
       Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                                7.31                     64.43
  FY03                                                0.00                     21.17
  FY04                                                0.00                     10.13
  FY05                                                1.27                     16.18
  FY06                                               33.64                    313.35
  FY07                                               14.26                    124.71
  FY08                                                                          0.00
                                Total:               56.48                    549.97
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                 0.00                     0.00
  FY03                                                 0.00                     0.00
  FY04                                                 0.00                     0.00
  FY05                                                 0.00                     0.00



                                                23
FY06                  0.00     0.00
FY07                 13.88   123.52
FY08                 11.10    98.11
Fy09                 19.96   109.68
FY10                 14.34    80.83
       Total:        59.28   412.14




                24
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
Not applicable




                                      25
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
Not applicable




                                   26
Annex 7. Recipient's ICR


   I.   International Geothermal Association

   Implementation Completion Report on ECA Regional Technical Assistance

               INTERNATIONAL GEOTHERMAL ASSOCIATION


                                                NGO in special consultative status with the
                                                Economic and Social Council of the United
                                                Nations and Partner of the European Union for
                                                the Renewable Energies


                                                             Reykjavk 28 June 2010


Mr. Kyoichi Shimazaki
Lead Financial Officer
Sustainable Development Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
The World Bank


            IGA  WB Contract. GEF Grant MSP Trust Fund No. TF057268
A grant agreement between IGA and the World Bank about implementation of a TA
program under GeoFund was signed on 28 November 2006 (GEF MSP Trust Fund No.
TF057268, Regional Technical Assistance as part of the Geothermal Energy
Development Program ). The next two months were used to prepare the implementation
of the program in accordance with the Banks requirements. Having fulfilled the
requirements the agreement became effective on 7 February 2007. The end of the grant
agreement period was 31 December 2008, but two of the projects (1.4 and 2.4) were
extended by one year. One project (2.1) was cancelled from the work program.
The work program includes two main components, (A) Capacity Building and (B) Policy
development. The Secretariat established a separate US$ bank account in Iceland to
handle the GeoFund money. It was originally within the bank SPRON, which was taken
over by the bank Kaupthing during the grant period. Samorka (the company hosting the
IGA Secretariat) provided the services of an accountant that made the payments based on
invoices approved by the Manager of the IGA-GeoFund.
The accounting firm completed auditing of the IGA-GeoFund funds in January 2010.
They concluded that the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of their financial
position of the IGA-GeoFund program in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles in Iceland applied on a consistent basis. The audit report has been accepted by
the World Bank.


                                           27
Iwona Warzecha from the World Bank office in Poland visited Samorka/IGA twice
during the contract period for a regular financial management review. The first visit was
made on 13 June 2007 and the second one on 12 May 2009. The supervision reports from
both visits have been cleared by the World Bank.
IGA is very satisfied with the cooperation with the World Bank on implementing the
projects in the GeoFund region. All projects included in the work program have been
completed successfully except one project that was cancelled.
Discussions between IGA and the World Bank about a new contract within the ARGeo
program in Africa are ongoing. In January 2010 the partners came to an agreement about
a draft work program within the TA (Technical Assistance) part of the program as well as
a draft budget. The agreement will formally be between the World Bank and the newly
established company IGA Service GmbH, which is 100% owned by IGA. Due to delays
in preparations for the planned exploration drilling in Djibuti the IGA-WB contract is still
pending. Based on the experience from the IGA-GeoFund program the IGA is very
interested in taking on the responsibility of implementing the planned TA ARGeo
program. The resources within the organization and the management structure within the
IGA Service company should secure a successful completion of this important task in
Africa.
Below is a short description of the main activities within the IGA-GeoFund program as
well as evaluation of the outcome of the individual projects implemented.


1.1    Dissemination material for course on geothermal feasibility studies and
project implementation TU
Budget: US$ 50,900.
A large part of the budget was used to pay five consultants for preparing short course
material in form of presentations and papers. Additional papers from the WGC2010 in
Turkey were collected and the material put on a CD for distribution. The topics cover
reservoir engineering requirements, economic factors, tools for the analysis of geothermal
project economics etc. In addition an open version of the RELCOST financial computer
model was delivered and made available for the public.
Dissemination of information about geothermal energy is a precondition for speeding up
the development of geothermal resources. Therefore, it is of great importance to have the
education material developed under this project available in the future.


1.2   Targeted international studies and workshops on mineral co-production in
geothermal development
Budget: US$ 100,000.
The consultant conducted an extensive review of literature related to state of art research
on the extraction of minerals from geothermal brines. The final product was delivered to
IGA in form of a CD. It contains mainly a collection of papers presented at the
geothermal brines conferences in Kamchatka in 2005 and Arizona in 2006, both in the


                                            28
English and Russian languages. The papers have been made available through the IGA
Geothermal Conference Database on the web. A presentation of the results was given at
the GRC meeting in October 2008.
Until now, information about technical benefits of mineral extraction or co-production of
minerals from geothermal brines has not been not been readily available. The consultants
have provided a comprehensive summary of the state of the art as well as the available
literature on the subject.


1.3    Roster of International Geothermal Experts
Budget: US$ 30,000.
The consultant developed a comprehensive roster of internationally recognized
geothermal experts that may be drawn upon by the GeoFund eligible countries as well as
the World Bank. The roster contains individuals with expertise and extensive experience
in all aspects of geothermal exploration, drilling, engineering, construction, operation and
maintenance, environmental analyses, contracting and financing.
A great deal of expertise and experience needs to be established in order to facilitate the
development of geothermal resources in the GeoFund eligible countries. The expert roster,
including geothermal experts from all over the world, is a good start for seeking such
expertise. Its important to keep it up to date in the future.


1.4    International Geothermal Workshop 2008
Budget: US$ 120,000.
The consultant organized a workshop in Istanbul, Turkey, 16-20 February 2009 in
collaboration with Equity International and the International Summer School (ISS). The
workshop was very successful and well attended. Energy officials and business people
discussed different aspects of geothermal development in the GeoFund region. The
potential for future development and financing opportunities were described by experts in
the field. The organizers submitted comprehensive proceedings including all
presentations from the workshop.


1.5 Publications on GeoE, including maintenance of the GeoFund web site
Budget: US$ 40,000.
The aim was to support the GeoFund Project by developing a website for dissemination
of information about the GeoFund program. The website can be accessed by the GeoFund
countries to receive information on the GeoFund and available financial help to
companies or municipalities to develop geothermal resources. The design of the website
is based on a similar website that had been developed earlier for the ARGeo program. It
is made by professional web designers and is user friendly with all the main
functionalities that are required of such systems. However, the material available on the
website could be more extensive.



                                            29
1.6    Series of case studies of projects that have been developed
Budget: US$ 50,000.
The consultant prepared case studies for seven European geothermal projects. They cover
power generation, combined heat and power, district heating, geothermal heat pumps and
agricultural applications. The product fulfils the requirements described in the TOR and
gives a comprehensive summary of the selected projects. Its an important contribution to
the dissemination of information about present applications in the area.


2.1 Identify barriers for geothermal development and provide advisory services to
ministries in priority countries
Budget: US$ 100,000; project cancelled from the work program.
This project was cancelled from the work program. To complete the project it would have
been necessary to extend it by one year, which was not in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the World Bank.


2.2 Road mapping session for best ways to remove barriers to geothermal
development
Budget: US$ 50,000.
The consultant organized a successful workshop in Moscow 22-23 September 2008.
About 15 people attended, thereof 3 IGA Board members. Fruitful discussions about the
cooperation between IGA and the World Bank took place and the results were presented
to the IGA BoD. Among the topics discussed were risk mitigation, barrier removal,
financing and provision of technical assistance. The report from the workshop organizers
includes the main conclusions and recommendations from the participants and is useful
for planning future steps in the geothermal development in the region.


2.3 Country assessment of barriers to GeoE use for power production in Hungary
Budget: US$ 110,000.
The consultant reviewed the geothermal deposits in Hungary, analyzed existing data and
established a data base of geothermal energy resources in the country. The work was
finished already before the IGA-GeoFund grant was made effective. Therefore, IGAs
role was mainly to receive and accept a final report from the consultant and make the
grant payment to him.


2.4 Assistance in evaluation of project proposals for second phase of GeoFund
Budget: US$ 30,000.
This project was divided in two parts:


                                           30
(1)    Preparation of a Project Proposal Document (PPD) to be used as a template for
       private and public project applicants to apply for funding to the GeoFund, taking
       into account the various assistance windows of the GeoFund and the different
       applications options.
This document was used in connection with the GeoFund project proposals under item
(2) below.
(2)    A group of three geothermal experts were hired as consultants to evaluate
       proposals that the WB received for new GeoFund projects. The output was a
       scoring sheet for each proposal and a write up of the strengths and weakness of
       those proposals assigned.
Both project components were completed successfully. The evaluation team submitted
detailed evaluation sheets with recommendations for support to selected projects.


2.5 Workshop on Geological Risk Insurance (GRI)
Budget: US$ 50,000.
The consultant organized a workshop on geological risk insurance on 11-12 November
2008 in Karlsruhe, Germany, in conjunction with the German Geothermal Conference
11-13 November. The workshop was a great success and the organizers submitted
comprehensive proceedings with all papers presented at the workshop.


As mentioned earlier IGA believes that the projects within the IGA-GeoFund work
program have been implemented successfully. The deliverables submitted by the
consultants have in general been in accordance with the TOR that was the basis for each
individual project.
I would like to thank the World Bank for a successful cooperation with IGA on this
important part of the GeoFund program. We look forward to continued cooperation
between the partners and hope that the planned activities within the ARGeo program will
be realized soon.


Sincerely,




rni Ragnarsson
Executive Director
International Geothermal Association
IGA-GeoFund Manager




                                          31
   II.    MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Company, PLc

               Thermal water production and re-injection test in Ortahza
                      Implementation Completion Report (ICR)

ICR completed for reviewing the experience and learning lessons from the GeoFund
supported MOL geothermal project, Ortahza Hungary Europe, 2007.

(+) Abstract

Ortahza Pilot project aimed to utilize abandoned HC wells in complete geothermal
system (production and re-injection). MOL geologist selected Or-Ny-3 and Or-Ny-5
wells from more than 60 potential ones. However temperature reached satisfactory level
(146 oC), the reliable flow rate (678 m3/d) was significantly lower than expected (app.
2000-2500 m3/d). Due to low flow rate, the generally low permeability and the limited
extension of the reservoir project had to be unsuccessfully closed.

(i) Assessment of the test's objective, design, and implementation experience

Or-Ny-5 well is located in the vicinity of Ortahza in the Zala County, SW-Hungary.
This exploratory well was drilled in August 1991, with total depth 2930 m (MD). 8 "
hole drilled to 2930 m, and cased with 7" casing shoe at 2892 m. A total of 38 m interval
was open. The upper part of the Miocene consists of limestone and mainly volcanic. The
lower part 13 meters is Triassic homogeneous limestone. The target formation was
Triassic limestone. Based on logs caves were observed throughout limestone between
2917-2918.5 m, and 2923-2932 m. High mud losses were encountered through both
section, ~1036 m3 (upper section was closed by cement plug). The openhole depth
interval of 2892 to 2932 m was tested.
The hydrodynamic tests of geothermal energy-producing wells provide qualified basic
data for planning. Oil industry experience has shown that ,,heat mining" by production
and injection wells may economically be performed from fractured  karstified
carbonates. The decisive part of the realization costs of the whole system is related with
the production and re-injection wells, the costs of which  on return  depend on the
reservoir parameters and, especially, on the well-reservoir contact.
Achieving reliable base data hydrodynamic tests have to do with the wells and the tested
intervals of the formation.
At first short term hydrodynamic well tests (Isochronal production, injectivity and fall-off
test) have to be executed individually. The short hydrodynamic test has been designed to
accomplish the well test objectives in an operationally safe, low cost effectively, and
environmentally responsible.
Depending on the results of the short tests, generally long term test and measurements
could be performed in a second phase by pipe-line connection between the two wells.
The long test is able to answer the existence of the hydraulic connection and the
possibility of the thermal breakthrough effect. It can also clear and make more precise the
values obtained from the short tests.




                                            32
The main objectives of the short testing program were
       To measure initial reservoir pressure and temperature.
       To determine productivity and flow capacity.
       To determine the physical characteristics of the produced water (quality,
          chemical composition, gas content, solids/dissolved, salt content, etc.).
       To determine well completion parameters.
       To make a decision on performing the formation treatment.
       To determine the presence and nature of any heterogeneity with in the test
          radius.
       To collect representative fluid samples for PVT analysis.
       Finally, based on the successful evaluation a decision whether to continue the
          concept of the project or need some rethinking.

Isochronal production test program
        Static bottomhole pressure/temperature measurement, for 4 hours.
        First drawdown period (choke size 4 mm, depth 1004 m), for 8 hours. Opened
           well, N2 injection at rate 10 m3/minute.
        First Build-up period, for 8 hours.
        During shut-in, wireline team done the necessary operation according the
           given plane, plugged 1004 m, and inserted choke of 4 mm at depth 1503 m.
        Second drawdown period, for 8 hours. Opened well, N2 injection at rate
           10m3/minute.
        Second shut-in period, for: 8 hours. During this time, wireline operation.
           Increased choke size to 6 mm at depth 1503 m.
        Third drawdown period, for 8 hours Open well, N2 injection at rate
           20 m3/minute.
        Third build-up period, for 8 hours. Wireline operation. Increased choke size to
           8 mm at depth 1503 m.
        Final drawdown period, for 8 hours. N2 injection at rate 30 m3/min.
        Final build-up period, for 12 hours.

Injectivity and Falloff test program
After the isochronal test, the cooled down produced water was injected back from pit into
well in the following sequence.
         First rate: 600 liter/minute. Period: 4 hours.
         Second rate: 1000 liter/minute. Period: 4 hours.
         Third rate: 1300 liter/minute. Period: 4 hours.
         Fourth rate: 1600 liter/minute. Period: 7 hours.
         Stopped injection falloff test. Period: 15 hours.
         Or-Ny-5 well test analysis

For the reason of unsatisfactory results of short term hydraulic tests, the long term test
with connected wells was not executed.




                                           33
(ii) Assessment of the outcome of the test against the agreed objectives
The next table illustrates the summary of outcome data recorded during the isochronal
test.




The interpretation results are summarized in the next table.




Following is the summary of data recorded during the water injection test.




The following can be concluding. Comparing the results of production test and of
injectivity test both provide almost the same results. The results show that the p are very
similar (p= 5.0, 7.0, 8.7, 10.4 MPa respectively) to what we got from production test.
The productivity/injectivity indexes can be determined with 110-148 m3/day/MPa values
which are under the limit of the demands of geothermal wells.




                                            34
It is evident from these results that the tested formation has low permeability. Due to this
fact reservoir stimulation was executed by acidizing manner.
[Stimulation job
Below is a brief overview of sequence of operations carried out during stimulation job.
 Cleaner acidizing with coiled tubing 3100-3050 m:
 5 m3 15% HCl sweet water, A261 inhibitor, A201 inhibitor efficiency increaser
 32% HCl, L062 NTA complex affix, J507 friction adjuster, F103 tenzid
 Pumped to formation, 3 m3 15% HCl with 200 liter/minute 19.0 MPa
 Matrix acidizing, 10 m3 15% HCl with 1600 liter/minute 7.2-6.3 MPa
 20 m3 7.5% SDA with 1600 liter/minute 4.4-2.3 MPa
 30 m3 15% HCl with 1600 liter/minute 2.4-1.0-2.7 MPa
 25 m3 7.5% SDA with 1600 liter/minute 2.7-0.8 MPa
 40 m3 15% HCl with 1700 liter/minute 2.2-4.3 MPa]
Post acid draw-down well test conclusions
From the results of the models so far used, it can be conclude that, a model representing a
radial composite has shown a close match with the actual data. The interpretation results
for this case are summarized in the next table.




The results show that the effective permeability surrounding the well highly increased
and the total skin reduced due to the stimulation job. Therefore, the enhanced well
productivity is due to permeability rather than skin.

Injectivity and Falloff test Evaluation

Following is the summary of data recorded during the water injection test.




                                            35
All periods were not long enough (not stabilized) to get any reservoir estimation but there
were good only for checking the pressure losses, and injectivity indexes (PI).
Pre stimulation job the maximum PI was only 148 m3/d/MPa. Owing to very successful
stimulation PI increased up to 2623 m3/d/MPa in the vicinity of the well. Unfortunately
the extension of the reservoir was seemed to be limited.
The well was then abandoned due to the unsatisfactory thermal water flow rate the
generally low permeability and the limited extension of the reservoir.

Since the results of the short hydraulic test of Or-Ny-5 well were unfavourable the whole
pilot project was stopped.

(iii) Evaluation of recipient's own performance during the preparation and
implementation of the operation, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be
helpful in the future

Lessons learned: HC wells were drilled with an aim to avoid water thus probability to
found a well pair with satisfactory geothermal production potential for power generation
purposes is low. MOL and CEGE (see below) are continuing investigation to utilize
abandoned individual HC wells. According to company experts, in fissured reservoirs old
wells may be valuable part of geothermal system as re-injection wells if positioning of
new production well is smart. In addition provided geological information of old wells
can significantly reduces exploration costs and development risks.
District heating requires lower flow rates compared to requirement of power generation.
Old HC wells may supply surrounding area if heat market exist, however due to high
pipeline costs area applicable for supply is limited.

(iv) Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, any co-financiers, or of other partners
during the preparation and implementation of the operation, including the effectiveness of
their relationships, with special emphasis on lessons learned

Geothermal project development is facing with high upfront costs and risks basically run
oil industry costs and risks with significantly lower returns. Innovative financing
structure, especially risk reduction is inevitable to take off the industry. GeoFund played
key role to reduce risk of Ortahza Pilot.

(v) Description of the arrangements for successful geothermal project execution
Founding CEGE and current structure.

Based on work experience of Ortahza Pilot project ENEX (Iceland), Green Rock Energy
(Australia) and MOL (Hungary) founded CEGE  Central European Geothermal Energy
 in 2008 with geothermal power generation purposes. Due to financial crisis ENEX sold
its stake to GRE and MOL. CEGE is currently a 50-50 percent owned joint venture
company. Its mission is to become a market leader in Central Eastern Europe in utilizing
geothermal energy in electric power plants and for direct heat supply.




                                            36
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable




                                    37
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document on a Global Environment Facility Grant in the Amount of
US$810,000 to the International Geothermal Association and US$3.72 million to the
Hungarian Oil and Gas Company, PLc in Support of the First Phase of the US$25.0
Million Geothermal Energy Development Program (GeoFund) in Europe and Central
Asia, October 24, 2006, Report No. 37317-ECA.

Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement between International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development Acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global
Environment Facility and MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Public Limited Company, dated
November 21, 2006.

Letter of Agreement for GEF MSP Trust Fund No. TF057268 (Regional Technical
Assistance as part of the Geothermal Energy Development Program) between IBRD,
acting as Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) and the
International Geothermal Association (IGA), dated November 14, 2008.

Memorandum of Agreement between IBRD as Implementing Agency of the GEF and
IFC as Executing Agency for the GeoFund

Aide-Memoires and Implementation Status Reports.

Audit Report and Management Letter for Regional Technical Assistance within
Geothermal Energy Development Program to International Geothermal Association,
January 28, 2010.

Eighth Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA8), Fiscal Year 2006-2007 as amended by the
Stage II Panel, dated 12/11/2007, Review of ECA Geothermal Energy Development
Program (GeoFund).

Europe and Central Asia GeoFund 1 (P075046) Learning Review of Regional Projects,
Draft Report, October 5, 2009.

Final Report 2008-2009, Geothermal Energy Development Program (GeoFund)
International Geothermal Workshop,dated March 7, 2009.

Implementation Completion Report by MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Company PLc, on
Thermal Production and Re-Injection Test in Ortahaza.

Implementation Completion Report by the International Geothermal Association (IGA)
on ECA Regional Technical Assistance , June 28, 2010.




                                        38
