Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13886
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2197-KE)
JANUARY 20, 1995
Public and Private Enterprise Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
I KSh = US$
ABBREVIATIONS
CBK                              Central Bank of Kenya
EDP                              Export Development Project
EPPO                             Export Promotion Programmes Office
EPZ                              Export Processing Zone
EPZA                             Export Processing Zone Authority
GDP                              Gross Domestic Product
GOK                              Government of Kenya
IDA                              International Development Association
IMF                              International Monetary Fund
IPC                              Investment Promotion Centre
KAHL                             Kenya Air Handling Ltd.
KEAS                             Kenya Exporter Assistance Scheme
KTDC                             Kenya Tourism Development Corporation
MUB                              Manufacturing Under Bond
OECD                             Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development
PCR                              Project Completion Report
PFP                              Policy Framework Paper
REER                             Real Effective Exchange Rate
SAL                              Structural Adjustment Lending
SAR                              Staff Appraisal Report
SDR                              Special Drawing Rights
SPPF                             Special Project Preparation Facility
TDI                              Trade Development Institute
VAT                              Value Added Tax
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
January 20, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Program Completion Report on Kenya -
Export Development Proiect (Credit 2197-KE)
Attached is the Program Completion Report on Kenya - Export Development Project (Credit
2197-KE). Parts I and III were prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II contributed by the
Borrower.
The operation consisted of both quick-disbursing, trade policy-related adjustment lending and
lending for investment in an Export Processing Zone (EPZ), an export assistance scheme and several
studies. The Credit, effective in December, 1990, and amended in July, 1992, totaled SDR 106.8
million, including SDR 37.3 million of IDA reflows. It disbursed over four fiscal years, with 91%
(i.e., the quick-disbursing portion) of the disbursements occurring in the first (FY91 - 26.4%) and
third (FY93 - 64.6%) years. Cofinancing from Japan in the amount of US$77 million equivalent was
released in FY94, along with the final portion of the Credit.
The trade adjustment policies linked to the fast-disbursing component included many of the trade
and exchange rate liberalization components of previous adjustment operations which had been later
reversed. The trade-related adjustment conditions seem to have been more successful this time because
similar trade liberalization programs in Tanzania and Uganda re-opened those markets to Kenyan
exports.  Much more successful was the Kenya Export Assistance Scheme (KEAS) which was
administered by TDI of Ireland. On the negative side, the Export Processing Zone built and operated
with funds from this credit, appears to be unsuccessful, particularly compared with a potential private
sector alternative. Based on these uneven results, as set out in the PCR, the operation's outcome is
rated as marginally satisfactory, and its institutional development negligible. The sustainability appears
to be uncertain.
An audit is planned. The audit will include a review of the role played by trade liberalization
in Tanzania and Uganda in the operation's marginal success and, how the Bank and the Government
might better design subsidized export promotion programs in the future.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and way be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2197-KE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE          .............................1...........                                        ..   . i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................................. iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ... .... 1
1.   Project Identity  .................................... 1
2.   Background  .....................................   1
3.   Project Objectives and Description  . ...................... 2
4.   Project Design, Implementation and Results .................. 3
5.   Bank Performance  . ............................... 19
6.   Borrower Performance .............................. 19
7.   Achievements under the EDP .......................... 20
8.   Sustainability .................................... 22
9.   Lessons Learned .................................. 22
PART H: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  24
PART m:  STATISTICAL  INFORMATION    ...................... 26
Table 1: Project Timetable   ........................... 26
Table 2: Credit Disbursements  . ....................... 27
Table 3: Staff Resources ............................ 28
Table 4: Supervision Missions ......................... 28
Table 5: Status of Covenants  . ........................ 29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.            l






i
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2197-KE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Kenya Export Development
Project. The Credit (SDR 69.5 million) was approved by the Board on December 21, 1990,
and became effective December 31, 1990. The Development Credit Agreement was amended
on July 9, 1992, to add SDR 37.3 million in IDA reflows, raising the total IDA financing to
SDR 106.8 million. Both tranches of the quick-disbursing component, totalling SDR
51,430,000 were fully disbursed, as were the reflows. As of December, 1993, just over SDR 2
million remained undisbursed on the other components of the project. The project accounts are,
however, fully committed and physical works are mostly complete. The project is expected to
close within the next quarter. Japan also supported the program with US$77 million equivalent
in cofinancing, which was released in October, 1993.
The PCR was prepared by the Public and Private Enterprises Division, Eastern Africa
Department of the Africa Regional Office (Parts I and III). On January 21, 1994 the Bank sent
the Borrower Parts I and III. The Borrower prepared Part II and submitted it on March 20,
1994.
The preparation of this PCR report is based on a mission to Kenya from October 24 -
30, 1993, the President's Report, Supervision Reports, correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower, and internal Bank documents, including a consultant's evaluation of several
components of the project in September, 1993.






iii
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2197-KE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    Kenya's economic performance was one of the success stories in Sub-Saharan Africa
during the first decade following independence in 1963, but began to run into difficulties in the
latter half of the 1970s and 1980s. The Staff Appraisal Report for the Export Development
Project (EDP), presented in 1990, noted that trade ratios had fallen over the previous decade,
reflecting the increasing inward-orientation of domestic production. The merchandise export/
GDP ratio had dropped from 20% at the end of the 1970s to 12% at the end of the 1980s.
Objectives
2.    The objective of the EDP was to increase the quantity and diversity of Kenya's
exports. The EDP intended to push aggressively toward increasing the neutrality of the trade
regime. This was to be achieved by reorienting incentives, both toward enhancing the profit-
ability of non-traditional exports (through appropriate exchange rate management and
improved access for exporters to inputs at international prices) and by squeezing profits in
highly protected import-substitution activities (through continued liberalization of imports). To
support the policy reforms and generate urgently-needed employment opportunities, and in
order to build the momentum for subsequent phases of export development, the EDP would
support institutional and infrastructure development for an export processing zone, for the
handling of export products and for firm-level assistance to nascent and potential exporters.
Project Components
3.    The program had a number of related components, including:
(1)   policy reform (trade policy, export incentives, regulatory reform);
(2)   investment in on-site and off-site infrastructure for an export processing zone
and in equipment to facilitate air-freight exports;
(3)   direct assistance to exporters in the form of a facility based on cost-sharing
with the private sector to provide grant assistance for consultancy services to
exporters;
(4)   studies to assist in designing subsequent stages of the export program (as well
as preparatory studies completed through funding under the SPPF and PPF);
and
(5)   technical assistance for product development and to the Customs Department.
4.    Policy Reforms: The policy reforms (described in detail in the main text of the report),
were designed to support further increases in the transparency of protection, reductions in the



iv
level and dispersion of effective protection, and greater use of indirect taxes (rather than
import duties) to meet the revenue needs of the Government. Some of the reforms were set as
preconditions to Board Presentation, and were implemented in 1990; others were set as
conditions for the release of the Second Tranche, which was originally scheduled for June 30,
1991.
5.     The project faced a difficult period in implementation during 1991-1993 when the
Government's performance on conditionality, including broad macro-economic indicators
related only indirectly to the project, as well as governance conditionality external to the
project, was judged unsatisfactory. As a result, IDA and other donors to Kenya ceased
disbursing balance of payment support between November 1991 and May 1993. A particular
problem of relevance to the project was that prudential supervision of a program of pre-
shipment export financing (as well as other aspects of the financial system) was seriously
mismanaged, leading to severe abuse of the program, a surge of credit and excessive monetary
growth and inflation. From late March, 1993, the Government began making a more serious
attempt to implement meaningful reforms and to tighten monetary and financial sector policies
and thereby control aggregate demand. The Government also took steps to strengthen and
enforce prudential regulations in order to prevent a recurrence of the financial abuses. In
March and April 1993, the Government took major steps to liberalize foreign exchange
transactions and devalued the Kenya shilling until it reached KSh 60 per US$, bringing it
closer to the newly-introduced inter-bank rate which stood at about KSh 70 per US$.
6.    In May, 1993, IDA determined that the conditionality for the release of the Second
Tranche had been met. The Second Tranche amounted to SDR 61.015 million, and was
approved May 7, 1993. Combined with the reforms initiated for Board approval, it appeared
that the process had culminated in the enactment of a reform program that in many ways went
beyond the scope of reforms as envisioned in the SAR. Strictly speaking, the project
conditionality has clearly been met and in some cases exceeded. However, there are still
complaints from a skeptical private sector about the continued lack of transparency in many
government procedures. Licensing systems have been significantly streamlined by the
implementation of the reforms, but private business people assert that there are still frequent
irregularities (e.g., in Customs, in some verification processes prior to investment approval,
and in some foreign exchange transactions).
7.    Investments:  The investment component of the Credit consisted of two parts: (a)
support for construction of the first phase of an export processing zone (EPZ) at Athi River
near Nairobi; and (b) purchase of equipment to improve air cargo handling capabilities at Jomo
Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi.
8.    As of October, 1993, most of the civil works contracted for the Athi River EPZ were
nearing completion. However, the contract for electrical supply will probably incur final costs
about 40 percent higher than estimated at the time of appraisal; and no contract has been let for
Sites and Services for Low Cost Worker Housing. This item was specified in the Appraisal
Report and estimated to cost about $0.66 million. The Export Processing Zone Authority
(EPZA) proposed an upgrade in the standards, increasing the anticipated final cost of this
element to just over $2.1 million. However, EPZA had solicited and obtained approval from
the Bank to build Administration and Ancillary Buildings for the zone, which were not
included in the SAR and cost over $4 million. This approval (along with escalation clauses
triggered by the large devaluation of the Kenya shilling) led to a significant over-commitment



v
of IDA funds against the civil works category of the Credit Agreement.   The contract
overruns were ultimately covered by reallocating funds within the project, but there was not
enough to finance the worker housing component of the project.
9.    In addition to the contract over-commitments, there are a number of issues regarding
the Athi River EPZ and the EPZA that need to be resolved: the management and operation of
the zone, the lack of an appropriate fee structure for the zone, a potential conflict of interest
with the EPZA regulating private EPZs that compete with the Athi River EPZ, responsibility
for the operation and maintenance of the off-site infrastructure, and finally, concerns about the
future security of the green belt around the Athi River zone (see paragraphs 4.2.08-2.4.14 of
the main text of this report). A study on alternative approaches for privatizing the EPZ, along
with follow-up technical assistance for the privatization process, will take place under the
auspices of the IDA financed Parastatal Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Project.
A well implemented privatization plan should resolve most of these concerns.
10.   The project component for Export Facilitation Equipment was intended to improve
capacities, management and handling efficiency at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. Kenya
Air Handling Ltd. (KAHL) received the bids for the study in August 1991 and selected a
consulting consortium. However, after selection, the winning consortium stated that the
personnel included in the proposal were no longer available. They presented new candidates
with lower qualifications but with higher costs. The World Bank responded that the new
proposal was unacceptable and the contract would have to be re-bid, but Kenya Air Handling,
which was undergoing major changes in management, never proceeded. The SDR 1.74 million
for this category was reallocated to the EPZ and other components of the project in March
1994 at the request of the GOK.
i1.   Direct Assistance to Exporters: As described in the SAR, a grant scheme was to be
established to finance the provision of consultancy services to exporters from competing
private sector sources. This was to be a pilot project, administered by a two-person unit
staffed by technical personnel with backgrounds in business/engineering and specialized in
export development. The unit was to identify potential exporters and agree on an enterprise
level export development program with them. Upon reaching agreement, the unit would fund,
based on 50 percent cost-sharing with the recipient of the assistance, the technical and
consultancy services needed to achieve the export development objectives of the firm.
12.   The Contractor for the Scheme, TDI of Ireland, has issued a report on the first five
quarters of operation, up to July 1993. The achievements are noteworthy: 175 grant-aided
projects have been approved, a/ compared to a target for the period of 105; and the additional
export revenues already achieved by clients stand at US$21.7 million, representing a ratio of
export revenues to grants of 15:1, b/ substantially over the original target ratio, specified
during design, of 2: 1.
13.   Studies: The following six studies were to be completed under the program: (a)
Evaluation of the need for continuing the export compensation scheme in view of the
I/ Increasing to 269 as of March 1994.
b/ Up to 42:1 as of March 1994.



vi
introduction of the import duty/VAT exemption program, and the design of subsequent phases
of the latter for direct exporters; (b) Design of alternative schemes, such as common bonded
warehouse, to extend free trade status to indirect exporters; (c) Design of subsequent phases of
development of export financing facilities; (d) Evaluation of the effectiveness and efficiency of
official tourism sector institutions, including Kenya Tourism Development Corporation
(KTDC); (e) Review of import duty exemptions extended to non-exporters; (f) Review of
factors constraining cargo handling capacities at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, and
design of an approach to introduce private sector management to air cargo handling. All the
studies were completed except the one on air cargo handling, which fell into difficulties during
contract negotiations and never proceeded to the implementation stage (see above).
Bank Performance
14.   The Bank's performance on this project was uneven. The Bank was very diligent
about ensuring that the Second Tranche conditions (especially policy reforms) were met, which
led to significant improvements in the environment for private and non-traditional exports. The
major implementation shortcomings (which were generally on the physical implementation
side) were probably attributable to the high turnover in Task Managers, compounded by the
complexities of a hybrid project with several disparate components.  Official supervision
missions took place about once per year in addition to on-going monitoring from headquarters
and from the Resident Mission in Nairobi. Record-keeping was generally confused when
responsibility for disbursements on the project was moved from Nairobi to Headquarters.
Records pre-dating the move were never systematically entered into the Disbursement
Management Information System. Consequently, there was no simple or straightforward
mechanism for comparing disbursements to contract totals.
Borrower Performance
15.   The Ministry of Finance's performance in managing the overall implementation of the
project was similarly uneven. Those components of the project most directly under its control
(e.g., the Duty/VAT Remission Scheme) fared the best. They were instrumental in ultimately
guiding the economic reform program through the Kenyan political system. Other components
appeared to suffer from a lack of regular supervision. The EPZ component of the project
enjoyed the energetic attention of the staff of the EPZA, who kept construction work moving
forward and aggressively marketed the Athi River EPZ among potential investors. However,
EPZA has yet to arrange for private sector management of the zone or to gazette a Board of
Directors for the EPZA and a fee structure for the zone. KEAS received considerable support
from the Ministry of Treasury, but often suffered from long delays in disbursements from the
Central Bank of Kenya. The KAHL, which was undergoing major changes in management,
failed to follow up on the proposal for the study on commercialization with the selected
consultants after problems developed in negotiations.
Achievements Under the EDP
16.   It is certainly too early to judge the final achievements of the EDP. The most important
component of the project in terms of impact on export earnings, the major policy reforms
associated with the release of the Second Tranche, have only been in place for about six
months. Typically, the supply response to major currency devaluations and liberalization of
export and investment procedures emerges only after about 18 months. The data on real



vii
monthly export revenues from 1987 through May 1993 display considerable volatility, but it
appears that there is a significant upward trend developing at the start of 1993. Part of this
upward trend may be related to the substantial trade liberalization programs enacted in Uganda
and Tanzania, which are rapidly developing as important new markets for Kenya's exporters.
There is reason to hope that this trend will continue and even accelerate in the months ahead,
as private investors adjust to the new opportunities available to them.
17.    However, there may still be several significant obstacles to accelerating private sector,
non-traditional exports: (a) continuing difficulties, delays and irregularities within Customs; (b)
the very high cost of international communications initiated from within Kenya; (c) the
continuing lack of export finance and the practical difficulties in arranging foreign exchange
transactions, (d) the high price of jet fuel which pushes up the cif price of Kenya's air freight
exports (i.e., horticultural products, cut flowers, etc.); (e) the continuing monopoly of Kenya
Air Handling Limited for the weighing of air cargo; and (f) the continuing inadequacies of air
cargo handling equipment.
Sustainability
18.    The economic policy reforms were probably the most successful and durable of the
achievements of this project, supported by liberalization in regional export markets (notably
Uganda and Tanzania). Although backtracking always remains a possibility, most observers
agree that the most important reforms - the move to a flexible and open exchange rate regime
and the liberalization of trade controls - would be very difficult to reverse.
19.    The Kenya Exporter Assistance Scheme was designed as a short to medium term
program with a strictly limited life span. The long term benefits were expected to arise
primarily from the demonstration effect. However, the Scheme would need to be in existence
long enough to assist firms at the level of improvements in product quality and the marketing
of available products before it could be said to have completed its job. Unfortunately, it
appears there will not be sufficient funds to extend the work begun in this area, although IDA
is actively pursuing options in this area.
20.    The economic viability of the Athi River EPZ needs to be ensured. Unless the
borrower fulfills its agreement to transfer management and operation of the EPZ to the private
sector quickly, with incentives to develop an appropriate fee structure, cost recovery on
physical investment is expected to be unsatisfactory. An alternative is to sell the assets to a
private investor--on the basis of a transparent auction process--who may then be able to
maximize returns over the long run. Another alternative would be to lease the assets of the
Athi River EPZ to a private investor on the basis of competitive bidding.
Lessons Learned
21.    The Export Development Project suffered significantly from high turnover among Task
Managers and resulting inconsistent supervision. It is clear that successive Task Managers
were unaware of the status of key components of the project and unsure of what actions they
should be taking to keep the project on track. An established hand-over procedure, including a
detailed memo outlining the current status of each element of the project and necessary future
actions, might mitigate this type of problem in the future.



viii
22.   The pre-shipment export financing program suffered from mismanagement and abuse
during implementation, due to systemic failure in prudential regulation in Kenya. The
experience with pre-shipment export finance in Kenya should not be cause to reject similar
programs elsewhere, but should be viewed as an example of how an otherwise sound program
can be abused in the absence of adequate oversight by both the borrower and the Bank.
23.   The lessons of the economic policy reform program are more complex. Ultimately, the
Bank's firmness on conditionality yielded a very important and positive set of reforms.
However, given its past policy reversals, the Government of Kenya still needs to work to
achieve the credibility in the eyes of private entrepreneurs (both foreign and domestic) that is
necessary to bring forth significant new investment and a strong export supply response. To
achieve this credibility, the GOK must continue to improve the transparency and consistency of
its implementation of economic reform. Because of the time required to earn credibility, along
with the inevitable time lag between trade policy reforms and a full export supply response, it
would be appropriate to initiate a post-closure evaluation of the project in 1995, focusing on
the trends in export earnings, export/import ratios, diversification of exports, and the
experiences of private sector exporters with the recent reforms.



PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2197-KE)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name:       Kenya Export Development Project
Credit No.:         2197-KE
RVP Unit:           Africa Region
Country:            Kenya
Sector:             Trade
Subsector:          None
2.    Background
2.1    Country Background: Kenya was one of the success stories in Sub-Saharan Africa
during the first decade following independence in 1963, but began to run into difficulties in the
latter half of the 1970s and 1980s. Economic growth suffered from the 1973 oil crisis,
deteriorating terms of trade, diminished access to the markets of the former East African
Community, an import substitution strategy involving substantial tariff and non-tariff
protection, expanding government budget deficits and increased regulation of the economy.
2.2   In the early 1980s, the Government embarked on a major stabilization and adjustment
program to redress fiscal and financial imbalances and restore the economy to a sustainable
growth path. The program, supported by a stand-by arrangement and two SALs from IDA,
included a devaluation, reductions in the budget deficit, and reforms in the financial sector.
Despite a world-wide recession, an attempted coup in 1982, and a major drought in 1984,
considerable progress was made in reducing the economic imbalances. While the stabilization
program was successful in reducing the budget and the balance of payments deficits, and in
moderating inflation, little progress was made in structural adjustment. Trade liberalization
measures introduced under the SALs were eventually reversed, and protection through non-
tariff barriers were intensified after 1983.
2.3   Sector Background: The SAR, dated November 1990, noted that trade ratios had
fallen over the previous decade, reflecting the increasing inward-orientation of domestic
production. The merchandise export/GDP ratio dropped from 20 percent at the end of the
1970s to 12% at the end of the 1980s and the merchandise import/GDP ratio dropped from 27
percent to 22 percent over the same period. Private sector imports declined, reflecting the
drop in new investment, the existence of large unutilized capacities, and import restrictions.
Conversely, public sector imports expanded, reflecting the growing importance of external aid
inflows in supporting activity levels in the economy. Export growth, although higher than in



2
most other African countries during the 1980s, was considered inadequate in relation to the
employment and foreign exchange needs of the Kenyan economy.
2.4    Second, the lack of diversification of exports had increased Kenya's vulnerability to
external shocks and limited the growth of an export constituency within Kenyan manufacturing.
Product diversification was limited, with nearly two-third of export earnings derived from
coffee, tea and tourism, and nearly 60% of merchandise exports from agricultural goods. The
real value of Kenya's manufacturing exports had been declining through the 1980s. A lack of
diversification was also seen in the market orientation of exports. A significant portion of
Kenya's manufactured exports went to regional markets, often unrecorded and on the basis of
unofficial barter. While developing country exports of manufactures to developed countries had
been growing, Kenya's share had fallen. Although several new Kenyan products had appeared
on export markets (e.g., horticulture products, high value finished garments), little of the
country's diversified manufacturing output was competitive on a cost or quality basis in the
more demanding OECD markets.
2.5    Policy context: At the time the project was being designed, the policy environment had
created an incentive structure that deviated significantly from neutrality among exportables,
importables, and non-tradeables. The real effective exchange rate (REER, i.e., the nominal
exchange rate adjusted for inflation differentials between Kenya and a reference group of
countries) had depreciated by over 14 percent from 1985-89, due largely to the significant
nominal depreciations undertaken in the Government's stabilization program. However, more
refined versions of the REER, focusing on competitiveness vis-a-vis Kenya's manufactured
export partners and third countries that compete in the same markets, suggested that continued
anti-inflation and exchange rate actions would be needed to improve export competitiveness
further. Import protection, involving both tariffs and non-tariff barriers, were considered to
be a significant constraint to the growth of exports, by reducing their profitability relative to
the import-competing sector. Export incentives were minimal and not sufficient to neutralize
the anti-export bias of other aspects of economic policy. A review of regulations revealed
significant redundancies in licensing/approvals procedures, requirements for excessively
frequent renewals of licenses, and a lack of speed and transparency in the licensing/approval
process. Export licensing requirements were particularly cumbersome. Price controls,
although improved since the implementation of an earlier ISAC, were still in place for 18
categories under a General Price Control Order and for 11 other items (mostly consumer
staples), which were subject to a Specific Price Control Order. There was a marked absence of
trade financing available.
3.     Project Objectives and Description
3.1    Sector development objectives:  The Government of Kenya decided to implement a
broad-based strategy that would draw mainly from the experience of successful exporting
countries in East Asia and Mauritius, where export promotion has been linked closely with the
development of small and medium firms and inflows of private foreign investment. Export
would be promoted through changes in trade incentives, parallel reforms in enterprise
regulations, and direct assistance to exporters through improved access to finance,
production/marketing technologies, and high quality physical infrastructure.



3
3.2    Linkages between project, sector and macro policy objectives: During implemen-
tation, the following macroeconomic policies were expected to have an important bearing on
the success of the project: (a) flexible exchange rate management; (b) reduction in the public
sector deficit and its domestic financing; and (c) reduction in the growth of broad money.
3.3    Project objectives: The objective of the Export Development Project was to increase
the quantity and diversity of Kenya's exports. The EDP intended to push aggressively toward
increasing the neutrality of the trade regime.  This was to be achieved by reorienting
incentives, both toward enhancing the profitability  of non-traditional exports (through
appropriate exchange rate management and improved access for exporters to inputs at
international prices) and by squeezing profits in highly protected import-substitution activities
(through continued liberalization of imports).
3.4    To support the policy reforms and generate urgently-needed employment opportunities,
and in order to build the momentum for subsequent phases of export development, the EDP
would support institutional and infrastructure development for an export processing zone and
for the handling and transportation of export products.  The program  would also help
implement institutional reforms and direct assistance schemes to support nascent exporters, and
finance studies to inform the next phase of export development.
3.5    Project components: The program had a number of related components, including:
(1) policy reforms (trade policy, export incentives, regulatory reform);
(2) investment in on-site and off-site infrastructure for an export processing zone and
in equipment to facilitate air-freight exports;
(3) direct assistance to exporters in the form of a facility based on cost-sharing with
the private sector to provide grant assistance for consultancy services to exporters;
(4) studies to assist in designing subsequent stages of the export program (as well as
preparatory studies completed through funding under the SPPF and PPF); and
(5) technical assistance for product development and to the Customs Department.
Greater detail on project design is presented in the section on Design, Implementation, and
Results, below, to facilitate comparison between project intentions and outcome.
4. Project Design, Implementation, and Results
4.1.01.       Policy Reforms: The policy reforms (described in detail below), were
designed to support further increases in the transparency of protection, reductions in the level
and dispersion of effective protection, and greater use of indirect taxes (rather than import
duties) to meet the revenue needs of the Government. Some of the reforms were set as
preconditions to Board Presentation, and were implemented in 1990; others were set as
conditions for the release of the Second Tranche, which was originally scheduled for June 30,
1991. However, there was a difficult period in implementation from late 1991 to mid 1993,
when donors withheld aid on the basis of governance and macro-economic conditionality and
when the Government reversed many key policy reforms. In March 1992, in a letter from IDA
to the Borrower, it was noted that the Government had met some of the conditions, but that
several other key conditions remained unfulfilled, and that there were significant discrepancies



4
between official policy and actual implementation, such that the letter of the agreement may
have been met, while the spirit was still being violated. Overall, it was judged that the
momentum on reforms had been lost, and that there had been significant back-tracking on
import liberalization in particular. Later memos noted that Customs, which was largely
uninvolved in the EDP, was a particular source of disruption. Other concerns, articulated
during a formal review of the status of the conditionality in September 1992, included
excessive growth of the budget deficit, of broad money and inflation, and appreciation of the
real exchange rate.  Consequently, IDA  held back the second tranches for the Second
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation (ASAO 11), and the Education Sector Adjustment
Credit (EDSAC) as well as for the EDP.
4.1.02.       Kenya's macroeconomic policy performance was reviewed again by a joint
IMF/IDA mission in February/March 1993 and was again found to be unsatisfactory. Since the
previous review in September 1992, the Government had implemented a number of additional
external sector policies as a step towards meeting the macroeconomic conditions for tranche
release. The measures included: (a) the introduction of foreign exchange retention accounts
covering 50 percent of traditional merchandise exports (October 1992) and 50 percent of
services (February 1993)1; (b) expanding the inter-bank foreign exchange market (February
1993); and (c) abolition of the parastatal monopoly in the coffee auction and broadening private
sector participation in the export of tea (October 1992). However, expansionary monetary
policies exacerbated inflation and created a widening spread between the market-determined
inter-bank exchange rate and the official exchange rate. Furthermore, because of negative real
interest rates, excess liquidity in the banking system and the continuing impasse between the
Government and multilateral financial institutions, speculation against the Kenya shilling
increased. Instead of taking measures to tighten its monetary stance, bring inflation under
control, and achieve meaningful fiscal compression, the Government announced on March 22,
1993 its intention to reverse previously adopted measures. 2 The Government stated that
retention accounts were no longer allowed and all export earnings were to be remitted to the
Central Bank at the official rate. The Government also indicated that it would re-impose price
controls, although this did not occur.
4.1.03.       The Government ultimately recognized that while its actions might temporarily
relieve the shortage of foreign exchange at the CBK, they would not redress the fundamental
macroeconomic imbalances which were aggravating inflation, weakening the Kenya shilling,
and undermining confidence in Kenya's economic management. From late March, 1993, the
Government began making a more serious attempt to tighten monetary and financial sector
policies and thereby control aggregate demand. The Government also took initial steps to
I The introduction in August 1992 of 100 percent retention of foreign exchange for exporters of non-
traditional goods helped to improve the incentives in this segment of the export market, but it
discriminated against exports of services and traditional goods.
2 GOK responds: [This comment] shows a lack of appreciation on what was feasible with exchange rate
moving up on a daily basis indexing into inflation. Monetary policies in such a free-fall situation are
ineffective because expectations are running ahead of any policy position short of freezing the
deterioration. Measures were in place by mid-April, which indicates an extremely rapid return to
macroeconomic controls.  This would not have occurred had the Government not already been in
discussion with the IMF prior to taking action even if the Fund disagreed with those actions.



5
strengthen and enforce prudential regulations in order to prevent a recurrence of the structural
problems which led to monetary mismanagement. On April 20, 1993, the Government
devalued the Kenya shilling by about 23 percent to KSh 60 per US$, bringing it closer to the
inter-bank rate which stood at about KSh 70 per US$. This adjustment followed a 25 percent
devaluation on March 9, 1993, which improved the competitiveness of the shilling, as
measured by the Real Effective Exchange Rate (REER), significantly (see Chart 1, below).
Chart 1
Real effective exchange rate
90
so
70
60    I T         N    S
50
40
30
20
I10
0 -
Source: IMF Information Notice System
4.1.04.       By early May, 1993, IDA determined that the conditionality for the release of
the Second Tranche had been met. The Second Tranche amounted to SDR 61.015 million 3,
approved May 7, 1993. Combined with the reforms initiated as conditions for presentation of
the credit for Board Approval, it appeared that the process had culminated in the enactment of
a reform program that in many ways went beyond the scope of reforms as envisioned in the
Appraisal Report. They included:
4.1.05.       (a) Movement of Trade Controls from Quantitative Restrictions to Tariffs -
Design: Except for products that would be retained in Schedule 3C (and subject to QRs) for
public health, environment and public safety reasons, all other items currently in 3C would be
shifted to Schedule 3B by June 30, 1991 (Second Tranche condition), with equivalent or lower
tariffs imposed on their imports. Outcome: This element was fulfilled by the GOK in the June
1991 Budget. The memo on the release of the Second Tranche stated that only twelve items are
classified under Schedule 3C, mainly on environmental grounds.
3 Including SDR 37.3 million from IDA reflows added to the Credit by an amendment signed in July
1992, as well as the SDR 23.715 million held under the original Credit Agreement until the
conditionality was satisfied.



6
4.1.06.      (b) Reduction in tariff levels - Design: A reduction in tariff levels was to be
implemented and coordinated with more active use of the exchange rate and greater reliance on
the VAT for revenue collections. In the first year (undertaken as a condition of Board
presentation), a reduction of 5 percentage points in the import-weighted average tariff of all
Schedules except the current 3C was completed. Further tariff reductions were a condition of
the release of the Second Tranche, aimed at reducing the level and variability of effective
protection. Outcome: The average level of import tariffs was reduced by 5 percentage points
in June, 1992. While the average tariff rate had been nearly 50% in 1989/90, it was down to
about 33% by 1993/94. The dispersion of tariffs was also reduced, from a range of 0 percent -
135 percent in 1989/90 to a range of 2 percent - 50 percent in 1993/94.  However, the
resulting loss of revenue was so great that the Minister of Finance, after consulting with the
IMF in late September 1993, exercised his limited discretionary power to raise all tariffs rates
by 25 percent, such that the current average tariff rests at just over 40%. These rates will
remain in effect until the next fiscal year, when Parliament approves the next budget.
4.1.07.       (c) VAT - Design: To compensate for revenue losses from the tariff changes,
VAT coverage and rates were to be raised. Outcome: By 1993/94, the number of ad valorem
rate bands had decreased from 15 in 1990/91 (ranging from zero to 150 percent) to four
(ranging from zero to 40 percent). The number of VAT exempt goods were reduced from over
1000 to about 500. The number of zero rated goods declined from 275 to 260. Therefore, the
dispersion in rates decreased while average levels of VAT increased, with the bulk of goods
(over 75%) incurring a VAT of 18%.
4.1.08.      (d) Tariff exemptions provided to non-exporters were to be reduced before the
release of the Second Tranche. In order to reduce speculation and erosion of import duties, the
period for which imported items could be stored in common bonded warehouses on a tariff
exempt basis was reduced to a maximum of one year in June 1990 as a condition of Board
Presentation. Outcome: Tariff exemptions for non-exporters were reduced statutorily by
tightening the exemption criteria significantly in 1992. In addition, ministerial discretion to
grant such exemptions was removed. As a result, the percentage of tariff-paying home-use
imports (i.e., imports that are not re-exported) increased from about 50% to over 75%.
Officially, the period during which imported items could be stored in common bonded
warehouses was limited to one year, but in practice, there are continued reports that the period
often exceeds the limit.
4.1.09.       Specific export incentives were designed primarily as measures to allow
exporters access to inputs at international prices, and to promote the provision of trade
financing and improved services for exporters. They included:
4.1.10.       (a) an import duty/VAT exemption scheme (introduced as a condition of
Board Presentation) was intended to provide direct exporters access to inputs at international
prices. Outcome: This scheme was evaluated by an independent consultant in October, 1993.
The evaluation concluded that the scheme, operated by the Export Promotion Programmes
Office (EPPO) within the Ministry of Treasury, has made a commendable start at achieving
duty and tax-free status for firms exporting less than 100% of output, as well as indirect
exporters (firms supplying significant inputs to direct exporters) and the original beneficiaries
(firms that produced 100% of their output directly for export). The scheme is currently
servicing around 140 firms, and has experienced a surge in volume following the recent large



7
devaluations of the shilling, which significantly increased the shilling price of imports and
therefore the total duties payable, as well as making exports more attractive in shilling terms. 4
Delays in payments through the Central Bank, which plagued the scheme in the past, have
improved. However, the EPPO Audit Unit (which verifies ex-post that individual firms have
complied with the terms of the scheme) has accumulated an extensive backlog, and the
evaluator judged that the scheme as a whole is still somewhat basic and unwieldy. The
recommendation was that Treasury start bringing it in line with best practice elsewhere in the
world. Concepts such as systems audit, period entry, risk-based sampling, and automated
random selection would greatly improve and simplify the current scheme.
4.1.11.       (b) an existing export compensation scheme, which provided a flat 20 percent
refund to eligible exporters, was amended as a condition of Board Presentation to accelerate
payments to exporters and to broaden product coverage. According to the Appraisal Report,
during project implementation, exporters were to be able to choose between the EC and
exemption schemes. Outcome: After receiving a Consultant's study and after consultation with
the Bank, the export compensation scheme was phased out during 1991 and 1992 and closed in
September 1993. The Import duty/VAT exemption scheme, although somewhat cumbersome,
is a fairer instrument, as the Compensation Scheme's flat 20% refund represented an excessive
benefit for some firms and a badly inadequate one for others.
4.1.12.       (c) The manufacturing-under-bond  (MUB) system  was reformed as a
condition of Board Presentation to reduce operating costs, to allow firms to sell rejects in the
domestic market, and to extend the scheme to new urban centers. Outcome: The scheme is
meant only for 100% exporters, and has in practice been taken up primarily by local investors,
foreigners opting instead for the EPZ scheme. It is understood that over 40 factories are now
operational under the scheme, most of them garment assemblers. The system still operates on
the traditional basis of having two locks on all storage areas, so that the Customs officer, who
is posted full-time to an individual factory, can authorize, and physically supervise, all
movements of stock, using his second lock. This procedure is, however, cumbersome,
outdated, and vulnerable to abuse. The treatment of local sales in the MUB scheme is another
problem. In most countries, factories given the substantial benefits of duty-free operation are
only allowed to sell a small percentage of their output into the local market, typically up to
5%, consisting of genuine offcuts and seconds. Otherwise, they would be operating at an
unfair advantage over local firms. However, in Kenya's MUB scheme, arrangements for local
sales appear discretionary, and of dubious fairness. 5
4.1.13.       (d) To meet the working capital needs of exporting firms, the GOK re-activated
the CBK's facility for rediscounting private financial paper. The facility allowed commercial
banks which granted preshipment loans to exporters (against confirmed and irrevocable
letters of credit or confirmed and verified export contracts) to rediscount with CBK the
accommodation bill created as a result of that transaction.  (See also paragraph 4.4.04).
Outcome: This feature turned into a financial scandal that received considerable attention from
both the local and international press. Reportedly, instead of ensuring that pre-shipment loans
4 GOK notes that EPPO is servicing 205 firms as of 1994.
5 GOK comments that: MUB sales into the local market are discretionary within the statutory limit of
2.5 percent. This is at rhe producers' discretion.



8
be confined to confirmed and irrevocable letters of credit, as specified in the Appraisal Report,
the scheme as implemented allowed loans to be made to some individuals against unverified
export orders. These individuals presented export orders for, most often, "gold bars". First
they received pre-shipment financing loans, denominated in Kenya Shillings, capable of being
exchanged into hard currency at the official exchange rate, (again with only the unverified
export order), claiming they needed the hard currency to pay for imported inputs, which also
did not require verification. They could then change the hard currency back into Kenya
Shillings, this time at the higher inter-bank rate, repay their preshipment loan, and pocket the
profits without necessarily exporting anything at all. They could also obtain subsidies from the
Export Compensation Scheme (see above). The following chart, presenting data on the real
value of non-gold exports and alleged gold exports, illustrates the scope of the problem. The
value of the transactions was so high that it was blamed for significantly affecting Kenya's
monetary growth and inflation rate. 6
Chan 2
Real Value of Domestic Exports
90
a70
f4SOI   ovX C                          t    FW                            ,frSwwa 
'~30
3 20                                                                    /   >
00 C6 6~                                                    a, "           0fi>  0>8888                Ch a, C:
real value of alleged gold exports     real domestic exports excluding gold
6 The Kenya PFP for 1993/94 - 1995/96 (Second Draft prepared by the Government of Kenya in Oct.
1993) states: 1992 witnessed a rapid growth in money supply of 35% compared to the previous year's
figure of 24% in 1991. This ... contributed to the escalation in the rate of inflation to 27.5% in 1992
compared to 15.8% and 19.6% in 1990 and 1991, respectively. The sharp rise in money supply was
largely due to the growth of domestic credit to the private sector including preshipment export financing.



9
The preshipment export financing scheme was closed down at the request of the World Bank in
April, 1993, along with the closure of the so-called political banks in Kenya associated with
the Goldenberg financial scandal. 7
4.1.14.       Other regulatory reforms intended to improve the environment for investment,
production, capacity expansion and trading in Kenya were designed as follows:
4.1.15.       (a) elimination of redundant licenses and procedures that affect exports,
reduction of the frequency of license renewals, and improvements in the processing and
transparency of existing regulations. Specifically -
(i)    Separate registrations required under the Industrial Registration, Statistics and
Factories Acts and by the Kenya Bureau of Standards and National Social Security
Fund were to be consolidated before release of the Second Tranche. Outcome: This
condition was met prior to the release of the Second Tranche. The Investment
Promotion Centre (Amendment)--IPC--Act of September 1992, and the Miscellaneous
Amendment Act of October 1992 introduced a General Authority, which substitutes for
all the registrations for the first 12 months after investment. After the first 12 months,
separate registrations under the various Acts (except the one for Statistics Act that does
require registration) apply. While IPC's General Authority is limited to the first 12
months, the memo recommending the release of the Second Tranche stated that renewal
of separate registrations is now undertaken on a routine basis.
(ii)    Licenses required under the Trade Licensing Act were to be consolidated into
three broad classes (manufacturer/trader; general trader; and small trader; with a single
license valid for export, import and domestic trade) and their validity extended to up to
three years before release of the Second Tranche. Outcome: The various licenses
under the Trade Licensing Act were regrouped (by Legal Notice No. 3 of January
1991) into: Form B--Manufacturer's Trade License; Form C--General Trade License;
and Form D--Small Trader's License. These forms were put into use beginning
August 1992. In addition, traders now have the option of selecting an extended
duration period of 36 months (compared to 12 months before) for their license, albeit
at higher cost. However, it appears that these changes might not be widely understood.
It was apparent during an evaluation mission in September 1993 that many private
businesses were completely unaware of the changes, and continued to deal with the
Ministry of Commerce on the basis of the 1967 version of the Trade Licensing Act. 8
7   About a dozen financial institutions were closed or liquidated between April and August 1993;
according to the Central Bank, another financial institution, which has had its banking license revoked, is
still in the process of liquidation. An investigation was initiated by the GOK, with a prominent
opposition politician at its head. This process is being monitored closely by the Bank in its ongoing
financial sector work in Kenya.
8  GOK comments:  While it is true that a number of traders are unaware of the three-year license
facility, in justice, it should be pointed that the Government ran advertisements in the press to inform the
public, besides using more conventionalfora.



10
(iii)   The Borrower was to implement proposals approved by the Cabinet Sub-
Committee in December 1989 to eliminate redundancies, speed approvals and increase
transparency in processing and approving of investment and operating licenses and
permits. Outcome: The memo prepared for the Release of the Second Tranche stated
that the condition was met, but noted that the proposal approved by the Cabinet Sub-
Committee did not contain any specific list of licenses identified as redundant. In
addition to the reform of the Trade Licensing Act, the memo noted that the
Government mounted an exercise in late 1992 to identify redundant licensing
requirements in a number of Ministries. This process resulted in about 22 licenses in
agriculture, livestock, and food processing being eliminated by Ministerial Orders.
(iv)   The licensing requirement for individual export consignments was eliminated
prior to Board Presentation, except for a limited number of products covered by the
Imports, Export, and Essential Supplies (Exports) Order (and the number of products
covered under the Order reduced form 38 to 19). Outcome: An exporter now needs a
specific export license only for the 19 products covered by the Order. These include:
items that are effectively banned, such as ivory, rhino horns, coral, and guns
(which probably should be explicitly banned, to remove any question of
possible discretionality);
some buffer stock staple foods such as rice, maize meal, sugar, and some beans
(but since imports are allowed in free of licensing restrictions, this type of
export licensing is now redundant); and
*     fish and meat, which require pre-shipment inspection and/or clearances for
health reasons (in the case of fish, the September 1993 evaluation found that
authorizations were required from 14 different government agencies, covering
over-fishing, disease control, suitability for export, etc.).
(v)    A consistent and transparent queuing system  for the external payment of
dividends and royalties was publicized and implemented prior to Board Presentation.
Outcome: This was another case where it appeared that theory and practice may have
differed significantly.  Private sector business asserted that, while there had been
substantial improvement from the situation in the 1980s, the queuing system still
involved considerable delays for most requests and that irregularities were not
uncommon. After September 1993, the problems were theoretically solved with the
ability to buy foreign exchange freely. However, many private sector business people
involved in foreign trade asserted that access to foreign exchange is not as easy in
practice as it appears on paper. The Central Bank continues to require that traders fill a
form similar to the old CD3 form, which had been used to ensure that exports allowed
out corresponded with proceeds eventually repatriated and exchanged into shillings.
Both the old CD3 and the new foreign exchange form (which is supposed to be
primarily for record keeping) are associated with considerable costs, delays, and
uncertainties to exporters. There has been considerable confusion over the conversion



11
of external accounts to foreign currency accounts. 9 Some private sector business
people ascribe the continuing problems of foreign exchange transactions to confusion
over a very new policy environment; others voice suspicions that there is a new set of
irregularities associated with the new policies.
4.1.16.       (b) Price decontrols were to be systematically extended during the period of
implementation of the Credit, especially for potential exportables and inputs into export
industries. The use of import-parity pricing was to be expanded for items that remained under
price control.  The scope and timing of specific actions was to be determined by the
Government. Outcome: The memo on the release of the Second Tranche stated that the
Government had made significant progress in this area, in particular with regard to
liberalization of the prices of goods formerly under the Specific Price Control Order, and that
the Kenyan Authorities went beyond the requirements of their April 1992 agreement with the
IMF.
4.1.17.       Summary of Outcome of Economic Reforms: The SDR 88.73 million spent
on quick-disbursing balance of payments support was conditioned on the set of reforms
outlined above. The letter of these reforms was clearly met for the release of the Second
Tranche (and some conditions were more than met, such as the liberalization of the exchange
rate and import procedures), although there are still many complaints from a skeptical private
sector about the continued lack of transparency in many government procedures. Licensing
systems have been significantly streamlined by the implementation of the reforms, but private
business people assert that there are still frequent irregularities (e.g., in some verification
processes prior to investment approval, in Customs procedures, and in foreign exchange
transactions processed through the banking system). Although great progress has been made in
regulatory liberalization, the GOK's history of policy reversals and the resulting skepticism of
the private sector indicates that the GOK's reform program has not yet achieved the credibility
needed to bring about the level of investment required for the desired export supply response.
10
4.2.01        Investments: The investment component of the Credit consisted of two parts:
(a) support for construction of the first phase of an export processing zone at Athi River near
Nairobi; and (b) purchase of equipment to improve air cargo handling capabilities at Jomo
Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi.
4.2.02.       The Athi River EPZ (Design): According to the Credit Agreement, the credit
was intended to support Construction of the first stage of an EPZ at Athi River, roughly 18 k/n
south of Jomo Kenyatta Airport south of Nairobi, including on-site and off-site infrastructure
consisting of access roads, water supply, sewerage and waste disposal facilities, power lines,
common production and handling facilities, and basic structures and services for business and
9   External accounts were financed by foreign currency but denominated in Kenya shillings. In
September 1993, the Central Bank announced that these were to be converted to foreign currency
accounts denominated in hard currencies. However, the documentation required for the conversion
process led to many accounts being effectively frozen.
10 GOK comments: It is clear that what private business people assert gets more credibility than what
Government's reform has actually done. The benefit of the doubt goes to the skeptics.



12
worker housing areas. The zone itself was expected to encompass about 93 hectares, and the
cost was estimated at about $26.5 million.
4.2.03.       On the basis of a consultant's study, which established the feasibility and
desirability of an EPZ at the designated site, a PPF was approved in April 1990 to complete
the design and engineering analysis. Although the Athi River site required heavy investments
in off-site infrastructure, it was considered superior to the alternative sites that were
investigated, where the terrain was much more uneven or required extensive drainage. The
economic rate of return for Phase I was estimated at 18% (including shadow wage and
exchange rates). According to the SAR, Although owned and developed by the Government, the
zone would be run on a commercial basis by a private sector operator.
4.2.04.       With regard to environmental issues, the Appraisal Report noted that (a) based
on information collected about current land use, no resettlement plan was believed to be
required; (b) the Project was to provide water supply and sewerage/waste treatment facilities
for incoming industries as well as enhance existing community facilities, and preserve existing
supplies available for wildlife; (c) the Project was to provide sites and services for 500 plots
for worker housing.
4.2.05.       The physical and operational design of the EPZ included mitigation measures
to (a) preserve green belts around the industrial site to safeguard woodlands; (b) apply
appropriate norms for factory-level emissions, require pre-treatment of liquid and solid wastes,
as well as provide common facilities for the treatment of effluents; and (c) implement land
zoning that would preserve the access of wildlife to the entry/exit points at the southeastern
boundary of the Nairobi National Park (completed as a Board Presentation Condition).
4.2.06.       Outcome: The necessary EPZ legislation was passed in 1990, which was the
precondition for disbursing funds for the civil works for the Athi River EPZ. As of October,
1993, most of the civil works for the Athi River EPZ were nearing completion. According to
the consulting engineers, the Off-Site water supply was essentially complete; the On-Site
Services and Ancillary Works was about 95 percent complete; and the Off-Site Sewerage and
Sewage Treatment Works were expected to be completed within one month. Electrical supply
was over 50 percent complete, with expected final costs (all of which are listed as local) about
40 percent higher than estimated at the time of appraisal. No contract has been let for Sites and
Services for Low Cost Worker Housing. This item was specified in the Appraisal Report and
estimated to cost about $0.66 million. EPZA has proposed an upgrade in the standards,
increasing the anticipated final cost of this element to just over $2.1 million. However, EPZA
solicited and obtained approval from the Bank to build Administration and Ancillary Buildings
for the zone, which cost over $4 million and (along with escalation clauses triggered by the
sharp devaluation of the shilling) led to a significant over-commitment of IDA funds against
this category of the Credit Agreement. The contract overruns were ultimately covered by
reallocating funds within the project, but there was not enough to pay for the sites and services
for worker housing as envisioned in the SAR and Credit Agreement.
4.2.07.       It appears that the original intention (as conceived at some point after the
Credit Agreement was signed), was for the GOK to finance the contract for the Administration
Buildings out of its own resources. The Bank wanted to ensure that specifications were
compatible with the rest of the project construction, and that competitive bidding procedures



13
were used, and so requested copies of all the bidding documents. However, in the course of a
switch of Task Managers on the project, the GOK sought IDA assistance in financing the
contract. At first, the plan was for GOK to finance the bulk of the contract and for IDA to
finance as much as it could within the confines of the budget as specified in the Credit
Agreement (including contingencies). It was estimated at the time that the budget could
accommodate about 20% of the cost of the $4 million contract. However, a no objection was
ultimately issued for the contract by the World Bank without any qualifications as to the
financial responsibilities of the GOK and IDA. In fact, IDA disbursed somewhat over 20% of
the contract price before IDA funds for this category of the project were depleted. Work under
this contract is, however, running behind schedule and it appears that less than half the money
has been disbursed as of end 1993.  The decision to complete the EPZ without an IDA-
financed worker housing component was made to ensure that a fully functioning EPZ could be
operational as soon as possible.
4.2.08.       In addition to the contract over-commitments, there are a number of issues
regarding the Athi River EPZ and the EPZA that will need to be resolved: the management
and operation of the zone, the lack of an appropriate fee structure for the zone, a potential
conflict of interest with the EPZA regulating private EPZs that compete with the Athi River
EPZ, responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the off-site infrastructure, and finally,
concerns about the future security of the greenbelt around the Athi River zone.
4.2.09.       Management: Even at this advanced stage, the issue of who will actually
manage and operate the zone is still unclear. Although the GOK, in its Letter of Export Policy
referred to in the Credit Agreement, committed itself to a policy of private sector operation of
the zone, EPZA is already in the process of extending its staff, presumably to enable it to
undertake the management role itself until they can make arrangements to bring in private
sector managers, a procedure they believe should take two years. In an effort to accelerate the
process, a study on alternative approaches for privatizing the EPZ, along with follow-up
technical assistance for the privatization process, is being initiated under the auspices of the
IDA financed Parastatal Reform and Privatization Project.
4.2.11.       Lack of an appropriate fee structure: EPZA has a proposed fee structure
which is somewhat lower than the (geographically) nearest competitor 11 and submitted it to the
Ministry of Finance, but it had not yet (as of October 1993) been approved for gazetting.
However, a financial analysis of the Athi River zone, based on EPZA's expenditure and
revenue projections (which are in turn based on their proposed fee structure and projected
occupancy rates), and including the costs of the on-site investment, is slightly negative.12 In
the absence of management which is provided with incentives to maximize the commercial
return to the zone, it is difficult to see how an appropriate fee structure can be developed.
11  Sameer Industrial Park is currently the only operational, multi-firm EPZ in the area and therefore
may enjoy a degree of market power.
12  Specifically, about negative two percent per annum, excluding the investment costs of extending off-
site infrastructure (water, sewerage and electrical power supply) for 12 km at a total cost of about $18
million, but including the most recent cost estimates for all on-site construction, and using a 20 year time
horizon for recurrent net revenues.



14
4.2.12.       Conflict of interest: Concerning the role of the Export Processing Zone
Authority, it had always been foreseen that its function would be regulatory, not executive.
There is an inherent conflict of interest in having the Authority oversee the operation of private
zones while at the same time managing its own zones. For this reason, the Bank informed the
Ministry of Finance it believes that it is inappropriate to have the Authority involved in the
management of the Athi River zone, and requested that EPZA restrict itself to the regulation of
zones in general, and to move with all due speed toward privatization of the Athi River EPZ.
4.2.13.       Management of off-site infrastructure: Responsibility for the operation and
maintenance of some of the off-site infrastructure is still unclear. According to EPZA, it is
taking over management from the contractors as the work is completed, and is still developing
terms and conditions for handing over management responsibilities to a variety of authorities,
including the National Water Pipeline Commission, the Nairobi City Council, and Mavoko
Town Council. They say they need technical assistance during the transition period, but it is
unclear how that will be financed.
4.2.14.       Security of the Green-belt: The designated green-belt between the Athi River
EPZ and Nairobi Park was zoned as a no-development area as part of the conditionality for the
project. However, the consulting engineers have expressed concern that the zoning regulations
will not be properly enforced. They note that there has been considerable market activity in
some of the green-belt property, involving values that are significantly higher than one would
expect for real estate that cannot be developed.
4.2.15.       Resettlement of Squatters: The resettlement of squatters was a potential
problem that was handled well by all parties concerned. Although there was no one living on
the site of the EPZ, there was an informal community along parts of the route for the off-site
sewerage line, about 500 of whom had to be resettled. The consulting engineers followed the
World Bank directives and guidelines from the start. They arranged with the local municipal
council to hold hearings six months in advance of construction. The municipal council made
land available which was about three quarters of a kilometer from the original housing site.
The new land was on higher ground, and the individuals now have legal title to their new plots
of land, and access to water kiosks and latrines, none of which they had before. They were
given new building materials and other logistical assistance in their moves. They will in the
future be connected the same water and sewerage mains as the EPZ worker housing sites.
4.2.16.       The project component for Export Facilitation Equipment was designed to
improve capacities, management and handling efficiency at Jomo Kenyatta International
Airport. The Credit was to finance the installation of additional cargo handling equipment,
including high loaders, tractors, weigh bridges, cargo dollies, forklifts, reach trucks and
hydraulic pallet trucks.  In order to ensure effective utilization of the equipment and
improvements in air cargo terminal operations, a condition for disbursement of funds was to be
the completion of a study and initiation of an action plan to introduce private sector
management for air cargo handling operations.
4.2.17.       Implementation: Kenya Air Handling Ltd. (KAHL) received the bids for the
study in August 1991 and selected a consortium between two firms. However, after selection,
the winning consortium stated that the personnel included in the proposal were no longer
available. They presented new candidates with lower qualifications but with higher costs. The



15
World Bank responded that the new proposal was unacceptable and the contract would have to
be re-bid, but Kenya Air Handling, which was undergoing major changes in management,
never proceeded.
4.2.18.       Outcome: Meanwhile, KAHL's monopoly on the handling of air cargo exports
was lifted, and Kenya Airways (the parent corporation of which KAHL is a subsidiary) is now
operating under a private management contract and is preparing for privatization. However,
there is some concern that the market for services for air cargo handling is not yet open to
meaningful competition. KAHL still has a monopoly on the weighing of air cargo for export,
and private exporters have complained about continuing irregularities in this process. The SDR
1.74 million for this category was reallocated in March 1994 to the EPZ and other components
of the project.
4.3.01        Direct Assistance to Exporters:   Design - A grant scheme was to be
established to finance the provision of consultancy services to exporters from competing
private sector sources. This was to be a pilot project, administered by a two-person unit
staffed by technical personnel with backgrounds in business/engineering and specialized in
export development. The unit was to identify potential exporters and agree on an enterprise
level export development program with them. Upon reaching agreement, the unit would fund,
based on 50 percent cost-sharing with the recipient of the assistance, the technical and
consultancy services needed to achieve the export development objectives of the firm. The
determination of eligibility criteria for grant assistance under the scheme, and agreement with
IDA on those criteria, were to be conditions of disbursement for funds allocated to that
component. Initial implementation of the scheme would occur prior to release of the Second
Tranche.
4.3.02.       Implementation: The Contractor for the Scheme, TDI of Ireland, has issued a
report on the first five quarters of operation, up to July 1993, which was reviewed by the
design consultant as part of a larger evaluation of export activities in Kenya.  The
achievements are noteworthy:
175 grant-aided projects have been approved, compared to a target for the
period of 105. 13
The additional export revenues already achieved by clients stand at US$21.7
million, representing a ratio of export revenues to grants of 15:1, 14
substantially over the original target ratio, specified during design, of 2:1
within two years of disbursement. 15
13 GOK updates indicate that as of 1994, 269 grant-aided projects have been approved.
14 GOK updates indicate that the revenue ratio is 42:1 from 210 projects whose claims have been
processed as of March 1994.
15 Although the target 2:1 ratio could hardly be considered ambitious, and there has been no effort yet
to establish the additionality of KEAS in these exports.



16
4.3.03.       TDI deserves recognition for the way they have implemented this scheme.
However, it must be recognized that the outcome achieved has been assisted by two major
changes affecting exports since 1989. Firstly, the enabling regulatory environment has been
improved more extensively than expected. Secondly, Tanzania and Uganda now both have
foreign exchange available with which to purchase goods from Kenya. This represents a major
opportunity for Kenya's substantial manufacturing base to return to its pre-1977 role as
supplier to the whole regional market. 16
4.3.04.       The pattern of grant usage has been different from initial expectations. In the
first year, the average grant size was US$5,590, compared to earlier predictions of
US$10,000. Also, around 80% of usage so far appears to have been for travel, most of it for
initial market exploration. There has been much less use than expected for in-factory services.
It would appear that both these differences reflect the major shift of emphasis, away from
OECD markets, and towards regional African markets. Nevertheless, as expected by the KEAS
team, this pattern is now beginning to change. In the most recent quarter, the average project
size has increased to US$10,500. The regional focus is as before, but more firms are moving
on from initial exploration into in-factory work.
4.3.05.       As of September 1993, all but US$38,000 of the US$1.4 million in total grant
funding made available under the EDP had been committed to specific approved grants. The
TDI contract continues until May 1994. Even allowing for a one-month wind-down period at
the end of the contract, that still leaves from October to April, with no further funds available
to continue grant approvals as yet, although IDA is actively seeking a new mechanism to
continue this program.
4.3.06.       One significant problem that KEAS faced, especially in 1992-early 1993, was
the long delay in disbursements from the grant fund in the Central Bank. At one point, the
delays reached six months, although part of the delay was related to the approvals process
within the Ministry of Treasury. The delays in Treasury were eventually mitigated, such that
disbursements could take place within five working days. However, the delay has recently
increased again to about 2 - 3 months. These delays have significantly soured KEAS'
relationship with its clients. Not only do the delays represent foregone interest, but exchange
rate risk as well (because clients were required to submit their claims in local currency even if
their costs were incurred in foreign currencies and even though the special account is itself
funded exclusively by hard currency and denominated in US dollars; therefore, some clients
suffered when the Kenya Shilling was devalued). Another problem with the Central Bank is its
record-keeping. The Central Bank disburses funds from the special account directly into the
client's bank account, sometimes combining payments from two or more claims submitted at
different periods of time under differing exchange rates, and making development of a proper
audit trail problematic. 17
16 GOK notes: While it is true that the opening up of Tanzania and Uganda have been beneficial, KEAS
has infact been able to access 45 markets and 25% of its projects are in the developed world.
17 GOK responds:   While the problems mentioned are true, the improvements over the months of
January and February have demonstrated that a KEAS type of operation canfunction very efficiently



17
4.3.07.       Also under the category of direct assistance to exporters, it was expected that
grant assistance would be available to encourage export catalysts (multinational firms with
proven technical expertise and marketing channels), who enter into sub-contracting or licensing
arrangements with developing country producers, or consultants with proven expertise in the
design, production, packaging and marketing of goods in international markets. Through a
PPF, the Credit financed in May 1990 the recruitment of external consultants to assist in the
identification and design of high-quality consumer items based on traditional Kenyan
technologies.
4.3.08.       Outcome: The marketing consultants began work with Kenyan designers and
producers to develop exports in the textile, leather, garment and accessories industries aimed at
up-scale markets in North America and western Europe. According to the original Task
Manager, they brought in about $7 million of exporter revenues and planned to expand with
the assistance of the UNDP, but the expansion program was never implemented. Although
some exports continue, this has never been developed into a major program.
4.4.01.       Studies: (Design) The following six studies were to be completed under the
program. 18 In the case of studies (a) to (c) below, they were to be completed and reviewed
jointly by the Government and IDA, and as a condition for release of the Second Tranche an
action plan on their major recommendations were to be agreed with IDA. The study identified
in (d) was to be completed by December 1991. The study identified in (e) would be conducted
by the Government on its own, but actions to reduce the number and value of such exemptions
was to be taken prior to release of the Second Tranche. Finally, the implementation of an
action plan to introduce private sector management to air cargo handling at Jomo Kenyatta
International Airport, based on the design recommended in the study identified in (f) was to be
a condition of disbursement for the funds allocated to the purchase of equipment for air cargo
handling.
4.4.02.       (a) Evaluation of the need for continuing the export compensation scheme in
view of the introduction of the import duty/VAT exemption program, and the design of
subsequent phases of the latter for direct exporters. Implementation: This report was prepared
by Bellhouse Mwangi Ernst and Young and submitted in July of 1992. The report
recommended a phase-out of the export compensation scheme and an expansion of the import
duty/VAT remission scheme. Specifically, the report recommended (inter alia) that the
eligibility of goods should be defined in a negative list, that the eligibility of persons should be
expanded to include indirect exporters, and that beneficiaries of the scheme be offered a choice
between specific, consignment-based authorizations and general, six-month authorizations
which would be self-regulated by balancing outputs against inputs. Outcome: The export
compensation scheme was wrapped up in September, 1993. The principal recommendations
about the expansion of the duty/VAT remission program were implemented in late 1992.
4.4.03.       (b) Design of alternative schemes, such as common bonded warehouse, to
extend free trade status to indirect exporters. Implementation: This report was included in the
18 In addition, feasibility and environmental studies for the export processing zone and a review of
infrastructural capabilities for the transport and handling of exports were funded through the SPPF and
PPF.



18
Bellhouse Mwangi Ernst and Young report described above in paragraph 4.4.02., above.
Outcome: Current policy on MUB is described above in paragraph 4.1.12.
4.4.04.       (c) Design of subsequent phases of development of export financing facilities.
Implementation: This report was prepared by First Washington Associates and submitted in
May 1992. The report recommendations were, inter alia, for the Central Bank to change its
Rediscounting Facility to extend eligibility to indirect exporters; to allow post-shipment as well
as pre-shipment credits; to exempt export loans and related bank loans from the general credit
ceiling; to allow Kenyan exporters to retain at least 50 percent of their foreign exchange
earnings; to facilitate mobilization of non-bank resources for export finance; to train bankers
and exporters in the use of transferable letters of credit, to clarify rules governing specialized
discount and export financing houses, and to establish an Export Finance Fund. Details of
related, recommended prudential regulations were included. Outcome: Many, but not all of the
recommendations were implemented. It appears that the selective nature of the implementation
program left out some of the checks on potential abuse that are needed for a sound, integrated
program of financial reform. As implemented, the pre-shipment financing scheme, lacking
proper checks, was severely abused (see paragraph 4.1.13., above.) The export financing
scheme was closed at the request of the World Bank in April of 1993. Unfortunately, there is
currently no facility for export financing beyond the normal channels for business finance in
general. The memo on the release of the Second Tranche noted that IDA has discouraged the
Government in proceeding now with the recommendations of the ... study regarding additional
export financing facilities. First, at this time, the availability of adequate export finance is not
a major constraint on exports. Secondly, because of abuses in the rediscount of export credit at
the Central Bank of Kenya, the rediscount facility is being phased out as part of the effort to
strengthen control over the financial sector.
4.4.05.       (d) Evaluation of the effectiveness and efficiency of official tourism sector
institutions, including Kenya Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC). Implementation:
The draft report was prepared by Deloitte Haskins and Sells in October, 1993 and submitted to
the Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife.
4.4.06.       (e) Review of import duty exemptions extended to non-exporters. Outcome:
This report was included in the Bellhouse Mwangi Ernst and Young report described above in
paragraph 4.4.02., above.
4.4.07.       (f) Review of factors constraining cargo handling capacities at Jomo Kenyatta
International Airport, and design of an approach to introduce private sector management to air
cargo handling. Outcome: This report was to be prepared by Lufthansa and GOPA Consulting,
but was never completed. See paragraph 4.2.16., above, for details.
4.4.08.       In addition, the SAR described a programn of Assistance for the Customs
Department. Funding through the PPF was provided to assist in the on-going computerization
of Customs operations. A review by consultants of computerization of Customs was underway
at the time of the SAR, and consisted of an evaluation of the status of development of computer
programs for information management. The consultants were expected to recommend a
comprehensive set of measures to accelerate the completion of computerization.
Implementation: The consultants submitted their report in January 1991. They determined that
the computerization program that had been initiated by Customs was badly flawed, and



19
recommended that the program be completely replaced. Outcome: Although the original
computerization program was essentially abandoned, the Customs Department has not
requested further assistance under the EDP. It is, however working with the Bank on this
problem under a transport project.
5.     Bank Performance
5.1    The Bank's performance on this project was uneven. The Bank was very diligent
about ensuring that the Second Tranche conditions were met, which led to significant
improvements in the environment for private and non-traditional exports. The major
implementation shortcomings were probably attributable to excessive turnover in Task
Managers, compounded by the complexities of  hybrid project with several disparate
components and inadequate procedures for transferring authority and background information.
The first Task Manager was also the principal designer of the project. He remained as Task
Manager for the first 16 months of the project, and project activities appeared to proceed
smoothly, if not very rapidly. Later Task Managers became concerned primarily with the
conditionality for the release of the Second Tranche, perhaps to the detriment of rigorous
supervision of other components of the project. 19 One of the major problems resulting from
this situation was the issuance of the no objection to the contract for construction of the
administration buildings at the Athi River EPZ site that led to the over-commitment of IDA
funds. It also appears, however, that there were differing interpretations among the successive
Task Managers about the extent to which the Borrower was meeting the conditionality for the
release of the Second Tranche. Some appeared to be most interested in the fine points of the
law; others about verifying the implementation of policies and their practical impact on the
ground. Official supervision missions took place about once per year (January 1991, August
1991, August 1992, and October 1993 in addition to on-going monitoring from both Bank
headquarters and the Resident Mission in Nairobi), which is within the normal range, but
projects of this complexity, in a country experiencing the difficulties Kenya was, may require
more than the normal level of supervision.
5.2.   Finances were generally confused when responsibility for disbursements on the project
was moved from Nairobi to Headquarters. Records pre-dating the move were never
systematically entered into the Disbursement Management Information System. Consequently,
there was no simple or straightforward mechanism for comparing disbursements to contract
totals.
6.     Borrower Performance
6.1.   The Ministry of Finance's performance in managing the overall implementation of the
project was similarly uneven. Those components of the project most directly under its control
(e.g., the Duty/VAT Remission Scheme) fared the best. They were instrumental in ultimately
19 The economic reform program associated with the quick-disbursing balance of payments support was
the most important component of the project both in terms of the financial resources devoted to it and in
terms of the likely impact; it was also the area of greatest interest to the Task Managers, who were all
economists.



20
guiding the reform program through the Kenyan political system. Other components appeared
to suffer from a lack of regular supervision.
6.2.   The EPZ component of the project enjoyed the energetic attention of the staff of the
EPZA, who kept construction work moving forward and aggressively marketed the Athi River
EPZ among potential investors. However, EPZA has yet to arrange for private sector
management of the zone.
6.3.   KEAS received considerable support from the Ministry of Treasury, but often suffered
from confusing accounting statements and long delays in disbursements from the Central Bank
of Kenya.
6.4.   The KAHL, which was undergoing major changes in management, failed to follow up
on the proposal for the study on commercialization with the selected consultants after problems
developed in negotiations. As a result, this category of the Credit was never disbursed.
7.     Achievements Under the EDP
7.1.  It is certainly too early to judge the final achievements of the EDP. The most important
component of the project in terms of impact on export earnings, the major policy reforms
associated with the release of the Second Tranche, have only been in place for about six
months. Typically, the supply response to major currency devaluations and liberalization of
export and investment procedures, only emerges after about 18 months. However, some
reforms, such as Duty/VAT exemption scheme, took place over three years ago as a condition
of Board Presentation, and other reforms, such as direct assistance to exporters, yield a quicker
supply response. The graph below shows real monthly export revenues from 1987 through
May 1993. Although there is considerable volatility, it appears that there is a significant
upward trend developing at the start of 1993. Part of this upward trend may be related to the
substantial trade liberalization programs enacted in Uganda and Tanzania, which are rapidly
developing as important new markets for Kenya's exporters. There is reason to hope that this
trend will continue and even accelerate in the months ahead, as private investors adjust to the
new opportunities available to them.



21
Chart 3
Real Domestic Exports Excluding Gold -
uw
c 90
a80
70
0I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
~Z 50 _ VVTTIa                                    
Xso    1F      +1 17      111  11     11||111 11I       1111t111      
CD 40
,-30
O 201 0I
0
>  rs  r  r- r- CD rn X cn cn cn cn o~~~~~~~0  o   oL    o   _L  S  L : is cq
= 0~~~ 
-    Real Domestic Exports Excluding Gold          \
Date of EDP effectiveness
_ GOK notes: To see the effectveness of the Ezport Development Program, it is best to see thatfrom October
1987 to September 1992 in only 7 months did the real value of exports erceeded KSh 65 million (1986 prices).
From October 1992 to September 1993, the last month from which data are available, 10 months have e-ceeded
KSh 65 million.
7.2.    However, there may still be several significant obstacles to accelerating private sector,
non-traditional exports:
-       Continuing difficulties, delays and irregularities within Customs;
*       The continuing lack of export finance and the practical difficulties in arranging
foreign exchange transactions;
*       The very high  cost of international communications initiated  from  within
Kenya;
*       The high price of jet fuel which pushes up the cif price of Kenya's air freight
exports (i.e., horticultural products, cut flowers, etc.);
nThe continuing monopoly of Kenya Air Handling Limited for the weighing of
air cargo; and
*       The continuing inadequacies of air cargo handling equipment.
7.3.    The EPZ at Athi River is nearing completion and has attracted significant interest from
potential investors. However, the numerous problems associated with this component of the
project will almost certainly result in considerable delays before any investors will be willing
to commit themselves to a position within the zone.
7.4.    KEAS has demonstrated the effectiveness of direct assistance to exporters, and led to
over $21 million in new exports in the first five quarters of operation.



22
8.     Sustainability
8.1.   At appraisal, sustainability was seen to hinge on two major factors: (a) the export
supply response needed to be rapid and visible and (b) a constituency to support non-traditional
exports needed to be developed. The Government's longer-term strategy, articulated in its
Letter of Export Policy, was intended to: (a) implement a neutral incentive regime; (b) use
tariffs for protective purposes while relying on indirect taxes to meet its revenue objectives; (c)
reduce the scope of licensing in the economy; and (d) improve the functioning of the financial
system in supporting production and investment. To make the policy reforms more effective
and sustainable, actions were also required to remove impediments to efficient production and
marketing and to draw small and medium firms into the export effort. Bottlenecks in physical
infrastructure for handling and transporting exports, and institutional inadequacies in specific
areas needed to be addressed simultaneously.
8.2.   The economic policy reforms were probably the most successful and durable of the
achievements of this project, supported by extensive liberalization in regional export markets
(notably Uganda and Tanzania). Although backtracking always remains a possibility, most
observers agree that the most important reforms - the move to a flexible and open exchange
rate regime and the liberalization of trade controls would be very difficult to reverse.
8.3.   The Kenya Exporter Assistance Scheme was designed as a short to medium term
program with a strictly limited life span. The long term benefit were expected to arise
primarily from the demonstration effect. However, the Scheme would need to be in existence
long enough to assist firms at the level of improvements in product quality and the marketing
of available products before it could be said to have completed its job. Unfortunately, it
appears there will be sufficient funds to extend the work begun on this promising area,
although IDA is actively pursuing options in this area.
8.4.   The economic viability of the Athi River EPZ needs to be ensured. Unless the
borrower fulfills its agreement to transfer management and operation of the EPZ to the private
sector quickly, with incentives to develop an appropriate fee structure, cost recovery on
physical investment is expected to be unsatisfactory. An alternative is to sell the assets to a
private investor--on the basis of a transparent auction process--who may then be able to
maximize returns over the long run. Another alternative would be to lease the assets of the
Athi River EPZ to a private investor on the basis of competitive bidding.
9.     Lessons Learned
9.1.   The Export Development Project suffered significantly from excessive turnover among
Task Managers and resulting inconsistent supervision. It is clear that successive Task
Managers were unaware of the status of key components of the project and unsure of what
actions they should be taking to keep the project on track. An established hand-over procedure,
including a detailed memo outlining the current status of each element of the project, potential
problem areas, and necessary future actions, might mitigate this type of problem in the future.
, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -- -   ----



23
9.2   It appears that the GOK had no mechanism to recoup the heavy costs of the investment
in the off-site infrastructure for the EPZ. Individuals who own property along the route of the
off-site water, sewerage and power infrastructure will be able to connect to municipal services
at the same rates as residents of Nairobi. As a result, these individuals have enjoyed substantial
windfall gains in their property values without having made any meaningful contribution
toward the investment costs. In many other countries, property taxes are proportional to
property values that are re-assessed regularly; or land-owners benefiting from major
improvements in infrastructure are assessed development fees or property tax surcharges (which
can often be paid off over a period of time), but there was no effort to recoup the off-site
investment costs in this project in any way. Since the SAR was written, the Bank has begun to
encourage efforts to recoup infrastructure costs from identifiable, direct beneficiaries. This
practice can substantially improve financial returns on some types of civil works projects and
can help ensure that economic benefits are more equitably distributed across the affected
population.
9.3.   The pre-shipment export financing program suffered from mismanagement and abuse
during implementation, due to systemic failure in prudential regulation. The experience with
pre-shipment export finance in Kenya should not be cause to reject similar programs
elsewhere, but should be viewed as an example of how an otherwise sound program can be
abused in the absence of adequate oversight by both the borrower and the Bank.
9.4.   The lessons of the economic policy reform program are more complex. Ultimately, the
Bank's firmness on conditionality yielded a very important and positive set of reforms.
However, given its past policy reversals, the Government of Kenya still needs to work to
achieve the credibility in the eyes of private entrepreneurs (both foreign and domestic) that is
necessary to bring forth significant new investment and a strong export supply response. To
achieve this credibility, the GOK must continue to improve the transparency and consistency of
its implementation of economic reform. Because of the time required to earn credibility, along
with the inevitable time lag between trade policy reforms and a full export supply response, it
would be appropriate to initiate a post-closure evaluation of the project in 1995, focusing on
the trends in export earnings, export/import ratios, diversification of exports, and the
experiences of private sector exporters with the recent reforms.



24
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2197-KE)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Government of Kenya undertook the Export Development Program during a
period of very difficult macroeconomics.  The fact that reforms did not backtrack in a
sustained way and that the Government experimented with devices to keep the reforms in
progress, like the FOREX C certificates and the consequential liberalization on foreign
exchange, demonstrates the conviction that this was the appropriate direction of policy change.
The Export Promotion Programs Office significantly increased the access of importers to
foreign exchange throughout the period when it was very scarce. Furthermore, the shift to
remove the anti-export bias was clearly biting since the lobbyists were able to get Parliament to
raise tariffs slightly in 1993/94.
The design of the project was seeking adjustment to a very different Kenya from that in
which implementation occurred. It is unfortunate that we were unable to take the new situation
into consideration in designing conditionality since, among other things, it was assumed that
EDP funds would be released appropriately in the course of 1992 to relieve anticipated balance
of payments requirements. The response of the economy to structural adjustment was, in part,
predicated on having funds available.
A second difficulty encountered arose from the non-negotiated but variable,
macroeconomic position which must underlie any sectoral structural adjustment program. The
comment of fulfilling the letter, but not the spirit, of the agreement is relevant to this. In the
course of attempting to establish a macroeconomic framework acceptable to the Bank, it was
found that there was an implicit cross-conditionality to the IMF program. In fact, the crisis in
February of 1992 arose from taking liberalization measures that were said to be necessary for
establishing the macroeconomic framework, in particular, the extending of the retention
accounts and opening of foreign exchange trading. This so-called moving goal posts problem
is particularly difficult since there are no negotiated, or for that matter, agreed targets to be
attained. It was not until Mr. Jaycox explicitly identified what the Bank required that the
Government was able to concentrate its efforts appropriately.
It should be noted that the Government opposed the export finance facility, claiming
that it did not have the capacity to administer it effectively. It was persuaded that this was a
necessary component of the program  which had to be introduced early.  This lack of
sympathetic understanding on the part of the Bank must be held in part responsible for the fact
that the facility was seriously abused to the detriment of the macro economy.



25
These points, notwithstanding, the export development philosophy permeated the
whole of the project period in a very beneficial way; even though there were a variety of
distortions and some back-tracking, exporters continued to benefit. This made the policy
changes of the post-program period, since late 1993, much easier and the transition to a non-
speculative, non-crisis, free foreign exchange market, an easy step.



26
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2197-KE)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                              Date Planned   Date Revised  Date Actual
Identification                    11/16/89            --       11/16/89
Pre-Appraisal Review              04/24/90            --       04/24/90
Appraisal Mission                 06/26/90            --       06/26/90
Appraisal Report (Yellow Cover)   10/05/90            --       10/05/90
Loan Negotiations                 11/05/90            --       11/05/90
Board Approval                    12/20/90            --       12/20/90
Loan Signature                    12/21/90            --       07/09/92
Loan Effectiveness                12/31/90            --       12/31/90
Amendment Signature               07/09/92            --       07/09/92
Amendment Effectiveness                                        10/09/92
Second Tranche Approved                                        05/07/93
Closing Date                      06/30/95



27
Table 2: CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
(in SDR Millions)
Item           Credit     FY91    FY92    FY93   FY94 a!   Actual
Agreement c/                                     Totals b/
Credit Amount             69.500
(of which:)
Civil Works               13.550    0.000    2.765    7.327    3.466     13.557
Air Cargo Equipment        1.740    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000      0.000
Studies                    2.190    0.374    0.194     1.058    0.350     1.976
Quick Disb. (1st Tr.)     27.715    27.718    0.000    0.000    0.000    27.718
Quick Disb. (2nd Tr.)     23.715    0.000    0.000   23.712    0.000     23.712
PPF/SPPF Refunding         0.590    0.143    0.000    0.000    0.000      0.143
Amendment (Reflows)       37.300    0.000    0.000    36.938    0.362    37.300
Totals b/                106.800    28.235    2.958    69.035    4.178    104.406
Percentage of Credit Agreement   26.4%     2.8%    64.6%     3.9%      97.8%
a/ Through 12/30/93
b/ Totals may not sum due to rounding discrepancies
c/ After reallocation in March 1994, some Category totals have been revised as follows:
Civil Works              15.467
Air Cargo Equipment      0.0
Studies                  2.460
PPF/SPPF Refunding       0.143



28
Table 3: STAFF RESOURCES
Staff Weeks per Fiscal Year          Total
FY89  FY90  FY91   FY92  FY93  FY94* Staff Weeks
Preparation/Identification  4.23   61.75                               65.98
Appraisal                       0.05  23.08                           23.13
Negotiation                     0.00   5.36                            5.36
Supervision                            10.54   8.73   35.37   16.44    71.08
Total Staff Weeks       4.23   61.80  38.98   8.73   35.37   16.44    165.55
* through 12/31/93
Table 4: SUPERVISION MISSIONS
Month/    No. of    Date of   Specialization    Performance
Year     Persons    Report    Represented*   Rating Status **
Supervision I          Jan-91       2       1/18/91        E, C            NR
Supervision If         Aug-91       4       8/15/91     E, DC, C            2
Supervision III        Aug-92       2       8/31/92       E, 0              2
Supervision IV         Oct-93       3       11/01/93      E, C              3
*                               **
E = Economist                   NR =Not Reported
C = Consultant                  1 = Problem Free or Minor Problems
DC = Division Chief             2 = Moderate Problems
0 = Operations Off.             3 = Significant problems being addressed



29
Table 5: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Credit Agreemnent                             Status of Compliance
Schedule 1, paragraph 3: Borrower has           Compliance
enacted the EPZ legislation and completed
the  formulation   and   publication   of
implementing regulations
Study of factors constraining cargo handling    Study was never completed; however, Kenya
capacities at Jomo Kenyatta International       Air Handling Ltd. is now  under private
Airport and design of an approach to            management along with its parent company,
introduce private sector management to air      Kenya Airways.
cargo handling operations
Eligibility  criteria  formulated  for bene-    Compliance.
ficiaries of a facility to make available funds
on a grant basis to exporters to finance the
employment of consultants' services.
Schedule 4:  The Borrower has extended          Compliance.
automatic  licensing  to  the  remaining
Schedule 3C  items by shifting these to
Schedule 3B, with  exceptions only  for
environment, public health and public safety
reasons.
The Borrower has implemented the second         Compliance.
phase of tariff reductions similar in scope to
those implemented in June 1990, so as to
reduce the level and variability of effective
protection  and  reduce  revenue  losses
stemming from the extension of import duty
exemption to non-exporters.
The     Borrower    has    commenced            Compliance;  Kenya  Export  Assistance
implementation of the facility [for assistance  Scheme operational.
to exporters] referred to in Part C. 1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.



30
The Borrower has implemented the following       Compliance.
reforms  of  enterprise  regulations:  (a)
consolidation of all registrations required
under the Industrial Regulation, Statistics
and Factories Acts, as well as those required
by the Kenya Bureau of Standards and the
National  Social  Security   Fund;  (b)
consolidation of licenses required under the
Trade Licensing Act, into three categories
and elimination of distinctions made between
different  forms  of  trade;  and   (c)
implementation of the proposals approved by
the Borrower's Cabinet Sub-Committee in
December 1989, to eliminate redundancies,
speed approvals and increase transparency in
processing and approving of investment and
operating licenses and permits.
T'he  Borrower  has  agreed  with  the           Compliaice; although pre-shipment export
Association on action plans to implement the     finance scheme terminated at request of IDA.
recommendation of the studies on the export
compensation scheme, alternative schemes to
extend free trade status to indirect exporters
and subsequent phases of development of
export financing facilities.



