Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14698
PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
KENYA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDITS 2197-0 AND 2197-1-KE)
JUNE 27, 1995
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CurTency Equivalents
(end of period)
Currency Unit =  Kenyan Shillings (K Shs)
1990   =   US$1 = K Shs 24.08
1991   =   US$1 = K Shs 28.07
1992   =   US$1 = K Shs 36.22
1993   =   US$1 = K Shs 68.16
Abbreviations and Acronyms
EDP          Export Development Project
EPZA         Export Processing Zone Authority
EPZ          Export Processing Zone
FSAC         Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
ISAC         Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
KEAS         Kenya Exporter Assistance Scheme
OED          Operations Evaluation Department
PAR          Performance Audit Report
PCR          Project Completion Report
PTA          Preferential Trade Area
VAT          Value Added Tax
Government Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA.
Ofie of the Diredor-General
Ope4lbons Evaluation
June 27, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Performance Audit Report on Kenya - Export Development Project
(Credits 2197-0-KE and 2197-1-KE)
Attached is the Perforrnance Audit Report (PAR) for the Kenya Export Development project
(EDP, Credit 2197-0-KE, approved FY90, and 2197-1-KE, an IDA reflow, approved FY92) prepared by
the Operations Evaluation Department. Comments by the Borrower on the PAR (as well as on the Project
Completion Report) are included in the document as Attachments I to 3.
The Export Development project supported the continuation of a reform program initiated under
the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit of FY88, and aimed at enhancing the neutrality of the trade regime
and promoting traditional and nontraditional exports. It contained a quick-disbursing, trade policy related
adjustment lending component, an investment component for infrastructure and air cargo handling
equipment, a facility to offer consulting services to exporters, and technical assistance and studies.
Macroeconomic policies, while not part of project conditionality, were expected to have an important
bearing on its success. Of particular importance were maintenance of a competitive and stable exchange
rate, reduction of the public deficit and its domestic financing, and reduced growth of the money supply.
Trade reforms met, and in some cases, exceeded, the EDP objectives. However, major issues arose
about governance and macroeconomic management, delaying release of the second tranche of the EDP for
nearly two years. Reform resumed in 1993, and after a period of continued high public deficits and
appreciation of the exchange rate, the most recent data show an improvement in the macroeconomic
situation. However, policy reversals have undermiined the credibility of the program, and it is too soon to
predict whether the ifnprovement will be maintained. The main investment component, an export
processing zone (EPZ), has not yet generated the expected linkages to the rest of the economy. The Kenya
Exporter Assistance Scheme (KEAS) was, on the other hand, very successful in promoting exports among
small and medium sized firms. The Borrower notes that irreversibility of Government commitment to
reform does not preclude flexibility, and disputes the Audit's assessment of the EPZ component.
On balance, the EDP's outcome is rated satisfactory, and its institutional development modest.
(The PCR ratings were marginally satisfactory and negligible, respectively.) However, sustainability of the
EDP is still uncertain. A key lesson from the project is the critical importance of macroeconomic stability,
particularly fiscal restraint, to the success of export promotion. The success of KEAS shows the value of
narrowly focused goals, of private management and of cost-sharing by beneficiaries.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfommance of their official duties.
I ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Contents
Preface ......................................................                                                  3
Basic Data Sheet .....................................................  5
Evaluation Summary . ................................................. 7
1. Background  .....................................................   11
2. Objectives and Design  .                ............................................  13
3. Implementation ................................................... 15
Policy Reforms . ................................................. 15
Investment ....................................................  17
Direct Assistance to Exporters (KEAS)  ............................... 19
4. Overall Assessment and Sustainability ................................. 21
5. Lessons Learned . ................................................. 23
Attachments:
1. Comments Received from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and
from  the EPZA  on the PAR  ...................................... 25
2. Comments Received from  the Central Bank of Kenya on the PCR  ....                                ........ 37
3. Comments Received from  the EPZA  on the PCR  ......................... 41
This report was prepared by Robert Myers (Task Manager) and Ralph Chami (Consultant) who
audited the operation in January 1995; Geri Wise provided administrative support.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






3
Preface
This is a Performance Audit Report (PAR) on the Kenya Export Development
project (EDP), for US$ 149.2 million equivalent, including USS 49.2 million equivalent of
IDA reflows. The Credit became effective in December, 1990, and was amended in July,
1992. It was disbursed over four fiscal years, with 91 percent (i.e., the quick-disbursing
portion) of the disbursements occurring in the first and third years. Cofinancing from
Japan in the amount of US$77 million equivalent was released in FY94.
The PAR is based on the PCR' prepared by the Africa Regional office, the
President's Report, the Country Assistance Strategy Paper, OED audits of related
projects, discussions with Bank staff, and other project documentation. An OED mission
visited Kenya and Tanzania in January 1995, and discussed the effectiveness of the EDP
with representatives of the Government and the private sector. Their cooperation and
assistance was invaluable in the preparation of this report and is gratefully acknowledged.
The PCR does a good job of tracking and evaluating the impact of the EDP, but it
does not discuss the appropriateness of the components of the project in terms of the
ultimate objective of enhancing exports. The PAR evaluates the EDP from both design
and implementation perspectives, and concludes that is was a satisfactory operation, but
with uncertain sustainability.
The draft PAR was sent to the Borrower and Cofinancier for comments; the
comments received from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and from the Export
Processing Zones Authority (EPZA) are reproduced as an Attachment to the PAR.
1. PCR, Kenya: Eipon Devdopnant Project (Credit 2197-KE), Report No. 13886, January 20, 1995.






5
Basic Data Sheet
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDITS 21974 AND 2197-1-KE)
Credit Position (Amounts in US$ million)"
As of May 31, 1995
Credit     Original   Disbursed     Canceled      Repaid      Outstanding
2197-0       100.0       99.2           -             -             109.6
2197-1        49.2       53.0           -             -             58.8
149.2      152.2          -             -             168.4
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$ million)'
FY91     FY92    FY93    FY94   FY95
Appraisal Estimate              38.5      81.8     90.7    96.3   100.0
Actual                          41.7      46.4    143.6   151.2   152.0
Date of Last Disbursement:   November 30, 1994
Project Timetable
Original                     Actual Date
Identification                  11/16/89                       11/16/89
Pre-Appraisal Review            04/24/90                       04/24/90
Appraisal Mission               06/26/90                       06/26/90
Negotiations                    11/05/90                       11/05/90
Board Approval                  12/20/90                       12/20/90
Credit Agreement                12/21/90                       12/21/90
Effectiveness                   12/31/90                       12/31/90
Amendment Signature             07/09/92                       07/09/92
Amendment Effectiveness           --                           10/09/92
Second Tranche Approved         12/31/91                       05/07/93
Credit Closing                  06/30/95                       06/30/95
a. Disbursed and outstanding amounts differ from the original amount of the credit in terms of USS because of changes in
the USS/SDR exchange rate.



6
Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle    FY89  FY90   FY9l   FY92  FY93  FY94b   TOTAL
Preappraisal            4.23   61.75    -       -      -       -        65.98
Appraisal               -       0.05   23.08    -      -      -         23.13
Negotiation              -      -      5.36     -      -      -          5.36
Supervision             -       -      10.54    8.73  35.37   16.44     71.08
Total                   4.23   61.80   38.98    8.73  35.37   16.44    165.55
Missions
Month/Year          Number of           Report
Persons            Date
Supervision _              01/91                  2              01/18/91
Supervision II             08/91                  4              08/15/91
Supervision III            08/92                  2              08/31/92
Supervision IV              10/93                 3              11/01/93
Supervision Ratings (Form 590)
Form     Proj. Development    Implementation       Legal      Management
Date         Objective            progress       Covenants   Performance
01/91            R                   R               R             R
08/91            2                   2               1             2
08/92            1                   2               1             2
11/93            2                   3               2             2
Other Project Data (Borrower/Executing Agency: Republic of Kenya)
Follow-on Operations      Credit No.     Amount (US$M)        Board Date
Agric. Sector Adjustment II   2204-KE              75.0            01/17/91
Education Sector Adjustment   2295-KE             100.0            09/05/91
b. Through December 31, 1993.



7
Evaluation Summary
1.    Kenya's economy has had a mixed record since Independence in 1963, but per
capita income remains low, at US$270 (in 1993). Rapid growth during the early 1970s was
followed by a slowdown later in that decade, and even slower growth in the first half of
the 1980s. Stabilization and structural adjustment efforts, first in the early 1980s and again
in the latter half of the decade, failed to produce a sustained improvement. In the late
1980s, increased public sector employment enlarged the budget deficit, monetary
expansion fueled inflation, and the expansion, along with declining terms of trade and slow
growth of nontraditional exports, contributed to a high current account deficit. A third
round of adjustment operations began with the Export Development Project (EDP) in
1990.
2.    At the beginning of the 1990s, Kenya's economy remained heavily dependent on
agriculture. The traditional exports of coffee and tea, along with tourism, were the
primary earners of foreign exchange, and the lack of diversity left the economy vulnerable
to external shocks. The narrow export base was also insufficient to generate adequate
foreign exchange or to create sustainable economic growth and employment for the
rapidly expanding labor force. The EDP supported the continuation of a reform program
initiated under the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit of 1988, and aimed at further
enhancing the neutrality of the trade regime and promoting both traditional and
nontraditional exports.
3.    Macroeconomic policies, while not part of EDP conditionality, were expected to
have an important bearing on its success. Of particular importance were maintenance of a
competitive and stable real exchange rate, reduction of the public sector deficit and its
domestic financing, and reduction in the growth of the money supply.
4.    The EDP comprised a quick-disbursing, trade related adjustment lending
component, an investment component for infrastructure provision and air cargo handling
equipment, a facility to provide consulting services to exporters, and technical assistance
and studies. The quick-disbursing component, which made up the bulk of the loan,
encompassed the following reforms:
* continued replacement of quantitative restrictions by tariffs, reduction in the
level and dispersion of effective protection, and the substitution of indirect taxes
for import duties to raise revenues;
* a set of measures to give all exporters access to inputs at international prices
and to provide trade financing and improved services for exporters, in order to
expand non-traditional exports by supporting small and medium businesses; and
* rationalization of the regulatory environment for investment, production,
capacity expansion and trading, and elimination of price controls.



8
5.    The project also included direct actions to remove bottlenecks in physical
infrastructure and to address institutional weakness. The investments consisted of:
* an export processing zone with high quality infrastructure and business services
for exporters, intended to produce a quick and visible supply response and to
provide a demonstration effect to producers by illustrating the profitability of
exports: and
* cargo handling equipment at Nairobi's international airport to increase capacity
and efficiency, conditioned on a study to prepare the introduction of private sector
management for cargo handling operations.
6.    Finally, the project included a study and technical assistance component to finance:
* an assistance scheme to provide consulting services to exporters, on a 50
percent cost-sharing basis with the private sector recipients;
* studies to help design subsequent stages of the export program; and
* technical assistance for product development and reform and upgrading of the
Customs Department.
Implementation
7.    Trade reforms carried out under the EDP met, and in some cases exceeded, the
objectives of the EDP. Quantitative restrictions were replaced by tariffs, the average level
of tariffs was reduced significantly, and the dispersion of tariffs was narrowed. The
average VAT level increased, and the Government undertook a program to provide export
incentives to all exporters. On the regulatory front, steps were taken to consolidate or
eliminate redundant licenses and procedures, as well as to ease accessibility to foreign
exchange and to liberalize prices of previously controlled goods.
8.    Significant setbacks occurred in the policy arena, however. Major issues emerged
concerning governance and macroeconomic management: the budget deficit rose sharply
and expansionary monetary policy pushed up inflation. The preshipment loan scheme,
created to provide financing for exporters, suffered serious abuses, which also contributed
to the increased inflation rate; this scheme was eventually closed down. Starting in
November 1991, when donors indicated their intention to postpone new aid pledges, IDA
withheld disbursements out of previously committed balance of payments support to
Kenya, citing poor macroeconomic performance. As a result, the second tranche of the
EDP was delayed nearly two years, to May 1993.
9.    Reform resumed in April 1993. The Government devalued the Kenyan shilling
and restricted the money supply. However, the backtracking of the Government on the
reform program had damaged its credibility in the eyes of the local business community
and foreign investors. Furthermore, the Government failed to bring the public deficit
under control and this deficit combined with the restrictive monetary policy to raise



9
interest rates. The high interest rates in turn attracted inflows of short-term capital for
speculative purposes, and the exchange rate appreciated again. The most recent data
indicate reductions in the fiscal deficit and in interest rates, and a moderate depreciation
of the exchange rate.
10.   The main investment component, the export processing zone (EPZ) is nearly
complete, but only one firm is fully operational. Management was to be transferred to the
private sector, but this transfer has yet to take place. Linkages with the rest of the
economy are not developing as expected. Confusion has arisen over the management and
maintenance of the off-site infrastructure, since the town where it is located has neither
the revenue base nor the expertise to undertake these responsibilities. Meanwhile, private
EPZs in Kenya are operating successfully, and at lower cost.
11.   The investment in equipment to facilitate air freight exports was dropped from the
project following changes in the winning consortium, and the funds were reallocated to
the EPZ. Meanwhile, however, the legal monopoly on the handling of air cargo exports
has been ended, and Kenya Airways, the parent corporation, is operating under a private
management contract while preparing for privatization.
12.   The EDP envisioned that the success of export promotion would rest on the
creation of an export constituency among Kenya's small and medium sized firms, and
allocated a portion of the credit to the subsidization of consulting services to help these
firms explore new markets and improve their products. The Kenya Exporter Assistance
Scheme (KEAS) has extended grants on a 50 percent cost-sharing basis to 151 companies
for 603 projects. The return on these projects has been high, with 74 percent of the
generated exports going to Tanzania and Uganda. Delays in disbursements have occurred,
jeopardizing the relationship of trust established by the consultants with their clients, and
all parties are concerned about the appreciation of the exchange rate, but on the whole
this component was implemented with few problems.
Overall Assessment and Sustainability
13.   The EDP as a whole was satisfactory, and institutional development was modest.
Most of the policy reforms were eventually carried out, and perhaps the most important
benefit of the project is the sense that the trade liberalization policies now in place are
not easily reversible. However, one of the main risks identified by the President's
Report-a macroeconomic situation not conducive to exports-did, in fact, transpire, and
while the macroeconomic situation has recently improved, it is still too soon to say
whether the improvement will be maintained. Therefore, the EDP's sustainability is still
uncertain.
14.   The EPZ offers superior infrastructure to firms located within its boundaries, but
the appropriateness of Government and Bank involvement in providing industrial sites and
services is doubtful, given that privately owned and managed EPZs are also in operation.
An EPZ can be useful to demonstrate the benefits of trade liberalization policies to
potential exporters, but in Kenya such policies are already in place for all firms, not just
those in the EPZ. Furthermore, the EPZ occupancy rate is still quite low.



10
15.   The apparent success of KEAS confirms the importance of support services for
new and emerging exporters, as well as the need for careful design and the benefits of
using private sector management. It also demonstrates the desirability of cost-sharing by
beneficiaries to ensure their commitment to common goals.
16.   On the operational level, the high turnover among project managers in the Bank,
coupled with inadequate record keeping, adversely affected the performance of the Bank
and the project as a whole. On the other hand, the Bank's persistence in enforcing the
conditionality for second tranche release sent a clear and consistent signal to both the
Government and the private sector.
Lessons Learned
17.   The Kenyan experience demonstrates the critical importance of macroeconomic
stability, and particularly fiscal restraint, to the success of export promotion. Excessive
budget deficits crowded out private investment and spawned capital inflows and an
overvalued exchange rate, creating an environment contrary to the thrust of the EDP.
Private sector confidence is also crucial for investment, but the Kenyan Government did
not inspire such confidence because it failed to follow a consistent set of macroeconomic
and financial policies compatible with the goal of trade promotion. The Government's
willingness and ability to control the budget deficit and prevent further appreciation of the
exchange rate will be the keys to future investment and export growth.
18.   The success of KEAS demonstrates several points. Careful design contributed to
the ability of this component to focus on its very specific goal, to provide support services
to new and emerging exporters, and reliance on private sector management ensured that
the scheme would not be used to further unrelated Government objectives. The use of a
cost-sharing arrangement ensured that the beneficiary enterprises would share the
scheme's goals. Finally, the limited time frame for the scheme prevented firms from
becoming dependent on its support.



11
1. Background
1.1    Kenya's economy has had a mixed record in the more than three decades since
Independence, but per capita income remains low, at US$270 in 1993. The economy is
heavily dependent on agriculture, which contributes about one-quarter of GDP and
employs about 70 percent of the labor force. Manufacturing contributes about 15 percent
of GDP and 8 percent of employment. Tourism is the leading earner of foreign exchange.
Coffee and tea account for about 22 percent of total exports, and manufactured goods
contribute another 6 percent. Unemployment is high, and during the next decade, the
labor force is expected to increase at an average of 500,000 p.a.; in comparison, the
modern sector has been creating only about 90,000 jobs per year in recent years.
1.2    Kenya's economy grew at an average of more than 8 percent p.a. during the
decade following Independence in 1963. Agriculture was the main source of growth, and
manufacturing was stimulated by the resulting rise in real incomes, as well as by high levels
of protection, a liberal attitude toward foreign investment, and an active government role
in industrial production. Growth slowed after the 1973 oil crisis, to an average of 5.4
percent p.a. during 1973-80. Structural constraints were also a factor in the slowdown; the
industrial sector became increasingly inward looking, as incentives favored the domestic
market over exports. The collapse of the East African Community, and with it, the loss of
Kenya's traditional markets in Uganda and Tanzania, exacerbated the situation.
1.3    GDP growth slowed further during the first half of the 1980s, to an average of 3
percent p.a., due to declining terms of trade, political uncertainty, drought, and the
erosion of fiscal discipline following the coffee boom of the late 1970s. A stabilization
program supported by the IMF helped reduce (temporarily) the budget and current
account deficits, but two IDA-supported structural adjustment credits in 1980 and 1982
failed to achieve their medium-term goals, as initial liberalization measures were reversed
and protection was intensified. Economic growth recovered in the second half of the
1980s, following a small coffee boom in 1986, but it was curbed by emerging
macroeconomic imbalances triggered by inappropriate government policies. A second
stabilization and adjustment effort began in 1986, supported by the IMF and by IDA, this
time in the form of three sector adjustment credits-in agriculture, industry and
finance-in the hopes that the less ambitious sectoral approach would prove more feasible.
These efforts produced mixed results. In the last few years of the 1980s, increased public
sector employment pushed up the budget deficit, monetary expansion fueled inflation, and
the expansion, along with declining terms of trade and slow growth of nontraditional
exports contributed to a high current account deficit. This situation led to a second round
of sectoral adjustment operations, beginning with the Export Development Project (EDP)
in 1990, and continuing with agricultural and education sector adjustment credits.
1.4   The Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (ISAC, 1988) was designed to stimulate
efficiency and investment in the industrial sector and to initiate measures for export
promotion through a broad range of actions, including the replacement of quantitative
restrictions with tariffs, the reduction of average tariffs, improved tariff exemptions on
inputs for exporters, price decontrol, a more transparent import licensing system, and



12
measures to improve the operation of the financial sector. The ISAC reforms were only a
first step, however. The level and dispersion of effective protection remained high,
reducing the profitability of export production relative to import substitution, and the
import duty rebate schemes were costly and benefitted only a few firms. Furthermore,
export profitability was still being squeezed by the exchange rate, as periodic nominal
depreciations failed to compensate fully for inflation differentials between Kenya and its
manufactured export partners and competitors. In addition, licensing procedures,
particularly for exports, were slow and lacking in transparency, price controls remained on
a number of items, and trade financing was unavailable.
1.5    Kenya's traditional exports, which still predominated, were volatile and insufficient
to generate adequate foreign exchange or to promote economic growth. Their lack of
diversity left the economy vulnerable to external shocks. Moreover, the anti-export bias of
the trade regime prevented the formation of an export constituency of small and medium
firms and restrained the inflow of foreign investment needed to create sustainable
development and generate employment for the rapidly growing labor force.



13
2. Objectives and Design
2.1   The EDP supported the continuation of the reform program initiated under the
Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit, adding direct measures and institutional support
designed to encourage an export supply response. The original credit was for US$100
million equivalent, including a quick disbursing component for policy reform (US$74
million equivalent), an investment component (US$22 million equivalent), and a technical
assistance component (US$4 million equivalent). The credit agreement was amended in
1992 to add US$ 49.2 million equivalent in IDA reflows.
2.2    Macroeconomic policies, while not part of the EDP conditionality, were
nonetheless expected to have an important bearing on the success of the EDP. Export
competitiveness depended on the depreciation of the Kenyan shilling, which called for
actively managing the nominal exchange rate, along with efforts to reduce domestic
inflation through the reduction of money supply. Of particular importance were flexible
exchange rate management, reduction in the public sector deficit and its domestic
financing, and reduction in the growth of broad money.
2.3   The policy reforms supported under the quick-disbursing component of EDP were
the following:
(a) Trade policy: continued replacement of quantitative restrictions by tariffs,
reductions in the level and dispersion of effective protection, and greater use of
indirect taxes (VAT) in place of import duties to raise revenue.
(b) Export incentives: a set of measures to give all exporters access to inputs at
international prices and to promote the provision of trade financing and improved
services for exporters; this was expected to expand the constituency for non-
traditional exports by assisting small and medium businesses who had typically had
difficulty obtaining finance from the formal market.
(c) Regulatory reform: rationalization of the regulatory environment for
investment, production, capacity expansion and trading, and further elimination of
price controls.
2.4   Policy reforms alone were not considered sufficient to remove all of the constraints
to export production and stimulate a sustained supply response. Therefore the EDP
included direct actions to remove bottlenecks in physical infrastructure and to address
institutional weaknesses in specific areas. The investment component had two elements:
(a) Export processing zone (US$19.5 million): establishment of an export
processing zone (EPZ) near Nairobi with high quality infrastructure and business
services for specific groups of exporters within the context of existing duty
drawback schemes. This component was expected to support the more
comprehensive reforms to the trade regime by producing a visible response in



14
terms of foreign exchange earnings and employment creation, and providing a
demonstration effect to producers by illustrating the profitability of exports.
(b) Export facilitation equipment (US$2.5 million): cargo handling equipment at
the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport at Nairobi, designed to increase capacity
and efficiency at the airport to enable exporters to meet the time and quality
requirements of export markets. Disbursement for this component was
conditioned on a study aimed at the eventual introduction of private sector
management for cargo handling operations.
2.5   Finally the project included a study and technical assistance component to finance
the following elements:
(a) Direct assistance to exporters in the form of a grant scheme to finance
consulting services on a 50 percent cost-sharing basis with the private sector
recipients. The grant facility was to be run as a pilot program for 24 months.
(b) Studies to help design subsequent stages of the export program.
(c) Technical assistance for product development (to be provided under the grant
scheme described above) and for reform and upgrading of the Customs
Department.
2.6   The design of the project seems for the most part to have been an appropriate
response to the situation in Kenya at the time. However, the rationale for constructing a
publicly-funded and managed export processing zone was questionable, given the
simultaneous approval for the creation of private EPZs, and the fact that steps to create a
neutral trade regime for exporters were underway on a much broader, economy-wide
scale.



15
3. Implementation
Policy Reforms
3.1    Initially, the Government of Kenya met, and in some cases exceeded, the
objectives of the EDP.2 In the area of trade reforms, in June 1991 the Government put
in place measures that included replacing quantitative restrictions with tariffs, and by
1993/1994 the average level of tariffs had been reduced to about 33 percent from nearly
50 percent in 1989/90.3 The dispersion of tariffs was also reduced, from a range of 0-135
percent to a range of 2-50 (and now 45) percent. The average VAT level increased. The
Government embarked on a program to provide export incentives, such as the expansion
in 1993 of the import duty/VAT exemption scheme, replacing the less efficient export
compensation scheme and extending benefits to producers who exported less than 100
percent of their output.
3.2    The efforts to promote export activity were adversely affected by the abuse of the
preshipment loans scheme for exporters. This facility allowed commercial banks granting
preshipment loans to exporters to rediscount with the Central Bank of Kenya the
documentation created as a result of that transaction. The loans were to be granted
against confirmed and irrevocable letters of credit or confirmed and verified export
contracts, but in fact the scheme reportedly allowed loans to be made to certain
individuals against unverified export orders. These loans were exchanged for hard
currency at the official exchange rate, and then changed back into Kenyan shillings at the
higher inter-bank rate. The value of these transactions was so high that, apparently, it
significantly affected Kenya's monetary growth and inflation rate. The preshipment export
financing scheme was closed down in April 1993 at the request of the World Bank, and
about a dozen financial institutions were closed or liquidated.4
3.3    On the regulatory reform front, measures were taken in late 1992 to consolidate
redundant licenses and procedures and to eliminate some licenses previously needed for
individual export consignments (with exceptions for certain products). Moreover, by late
1993, steps had been taken, with mixed success, to ease the accessibility to foreign
exchange and to liberalize prices of previously controlled goods.
3.4    While many of the policy reforms supported by the EDP were carried out, serious
setbacks occurred. The PCR reports that during the period from late 1991 to mid-1993
there was a discrepancy between the agreed export promotion program and what actually
transpired, with the Government reversing many key policy reforms. Serious governance
issues emerged, and macroeconomic management became a major concern. The budget
2. The enactment of the reform program is described in detail in the PCR.
3. The resulting loss of revenue led the Government, after consultation with the IMF, to place a surcharge of 25 percent on
all tariffs, increasing the average to over 40 percent. This surcharge has since been removed.
4. The Government points out that it had opposed creation of the export finance facility, claiming that it did not have the
capacity to administer it effectively.



16
deficit rose sharply to 7.1 percent of GDP (before grants) in FY1991/92 and 10 percent in
FY1992/93; an expansionary monetary policy boosted inflation from 15.7 percent in
FY1990/91 to 19.6 percent in FY1991/92 and 27.3 percent in FY1992/93; and real GDP
growth fell to 1.4 percent in FY1991/92 and -0.8 percent in 1992/93 (after averaging 5.6
percent p.a. during 1986-90). Starting in November 1991, when donors indicated their
intention to postpone new aid pledges, IDA withheld disbursements out of previously
committed balance of payments support to Kenya, citing poor macroeconomic
performance. As a result, the release of the second tranche was delayed nearly two years.
3.5   In April 1993, the Government agreed with the IMF and IDA on a plan to tighten
monetary and financial sector policies, devalue the currency and maintain the agreed
reforms, and the second (final) tranche of the EDP was released in May. However, the
backtracking of the Government on the trade and macroeconomic reforms not only
delayed the reform program and its expected benefits, it also damaged the credibility of
the Government in the eyes of the business community and foreign investors.
3.6    The Kenyan shilling was devalued in the spring of 1993, bringing the rate to
KSh 60 per US$, and the exchange rate was officially liberalized on October 18, 1993.
The Government restricted the money supply, with the result that the interest rate on (90
day) treasury bills rose to as high as 86 percent in mid-1993; it has since dropped, to about
17 percent in November 1994. A contributing factor to the relatively high rates on
treasury bills is the persistent Government deficit. The growth in Government
expenditure and net lending continued to exceed the growth in recurrent revenue and
grants. The Government financed the deficit mainly by borrowing from commercial banks,
while at the same time continuing to reduce its indebtedness to external sources.5
3.7    On the trade side, the PCR describes an upward trend in export revenue in 1993,
despite high volatility of the monthly series, and concludes that evidence of the success of
the export promotion program would emerge after 18 months from the time of
implementation. However, at the time of the audit mission to Kenya in January of 1995,
the exchange rate had appreciated again, from the KSh 60 per US$ reported in the PCR
to KSh 42 per US$; the surge in exports reported in the PCR, had already slowed down
and was overtaken by a faster growth in imports, resulting in a deficit in the trade balance.
The balance of payments, however, continued to show a surplus throughout 1993 and
1994, mainly due to the improvements in the capital account reflecting inflows of short-
term capital attracted by the high interest rates on treasury bills. The capital inflow
helped to increase the holdings of foreign reserves at the Central Bank of Kenya.
3.8    The significant increase in the inflow of foreign capital, primarily for speculative
purposes, together with inflows of foreign aid and revenue from tourism, contributed to
the appreciation of the Kenyan shilling. The substantial appreciation impeded the growth
of exports and engendered an increase in imports, particularly of finished goods. The
5. Monthly Economic Review of the Central Bank of Kenya, December 1994.



17
appreciation of the exchange rate did, however, reduce the cost of the Government's
external debt payments.6
3.9    Discussions with bankers and representatives from the business community
revealed a depressed investment climate. The main problem is uncertainty. Moreover,
the persistent Government fiscal deficit and the accompanying high cost of borrowing
crowded out private investment activity. The high yields on treasury bills draw capital and
prospective lenders who prefer to hold such instruments to lending capital for long-term
investment, with the result that small businesses rely either on internal sources or on the
informal sector as costly sources for borrowing. Discussions with exporters and bankers
highlighted the adverse effect of the appreciation of the Kenyan shilling, coupled with the
high cost of borrowing, on exports and potential investments in plants and equipment.
Exporters were also affected by the variability in the exchange rate, which impeded long-
term planning. Private bankers, as well as local businesses, also cited skepticism with
respect to the Government's continued commitment to the reform measures already in
place as reasons for the weak supply response to the policy reforms.
3.10   The President's Report noted that a stable macroeconomic environment was
critical to the success of the EDP. Although the monetary authority has taken significant
steps to curb inflation, restoring public confidence also calls for a consistent and serious
effort on the part of the fiscal authority to reign in fiscal deficits. This would not only
ease the uncertainty regarding the sources and eventual need to finance such a deficit, but
would also help reduce the upward pressure on interest rates that discourages private
investment and diverts the limited local savings and foreign capital inflow to finance public
sector spending. Moreover, it is quite difficult to maintain a competitive and stable real
effective exchange rate in such a macroeconomic environment, as witnessed by the recent
appreciation of the Kenyan shilling. The level and variability of the nominal exchange
rate is closely associated with the Government's fiscal policy. Fiscal deficits and an
appreciated exchange rate can only undermine the export promotion effort and impede
the export supply response that is instrumental in sustaining trade policy reforms. The
latest economic estimates show some promising results, with a sharp drop in the budget
deficit and in inflation, a stabilization of the exchange rate at around KSh 55 to the US$,
and a resumption of growth in real GDP.
Investment
3.11   The project included direct infrastructure investment to foster the sustainability
and effectiveness of the policy reforms by accelerating the export supply response and
drawing small and medium firms into the export effort. The investment was targeted to
on-site and off-site infrastructure for an export promotion zone (EPZ) at the Athi River
and to equipment to facilitate air freight exports at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport.
The latter effort was dropped following unacceptable changes in personnel and costs by
the winning consortium, and most of the credit for this project was reallocated to the EPZ
6. This was a reason cited by the Governor of the Central Bank of Kenya for not intervening to curb the appreciation of
the exchange rate (see the Central Bank of Kenya Monthly Economic Review for December 1994).



18
project. Meanwhile, the legal monopoly on the handling of air cargo exports has been
ended (although they maintain a de facto monopoly due to locational advantage), and
Kenya Airways, the parent corporation, is operating under a private management contract
and preparing for privatization.
3.12   Most of the civil works for the EPZ were close to completion by the end of 1993.
Management of the EPZ was to be transferred from the Government authority (EPZA)
to the private sector in order to ensure a market determined, competitive fee structure,7
but at the time of the PCR, management was still in the hands of the EPZA. The PCR
notes the confusion over who is responsible for managing some of the off-site
infrastructure, and raises concerns about the land speculation that has taken place with
respect to land that was zoned as a no-development area as part of project conditionality.
3.13   At the time of the audit mission the civil works for the EPZ were almost
completed, but, as already reported in the PCR, due to contract over-commitments there
was not enough money to finance the sites and services for worker housing. Occupancy of
the industrial sites is still low. The EPZA continues to administer the EPZ, although it
has said it will bring in private sector managers in two years. A visit with the Mayor of
Mavoko revealed considerable concern and confusion regarding the role of the town in
maintaining the infrastructure.' Officials from the town council voiced their concern
regarding the lack of available expertise for the job, coupled with the absence of the
necessary tax base and revenue needed to maintain such a costly undertaking. The
officials indicated that the tax collection system is highly centralized, with the tax revenue
collected by the town authority going automatically to the central authority to be disbursed
at its own discretion.
3.14   The audit mission visited the neighboring Sameer Industrial Park, a privately run
EPZ with about ten (mostly foreign owned) firms involved in activities ranging from highly
labor intensive garment manufacturing to capital intensive pharmaceutical production and
personal computers assembly. Firms located within both the Government-run and the
privately owned EPZ cited tax holidays, relaxation of foreign exchange controls, and
superior infrastructure, as well as externalities from locating in an industrial park, as
benefits for locating inside the zone. On the other hand, both firms operating within the
EPZ and exporters in general are concerned with the poor state of the communications
and transportation networks available for moving goods to their final destination and the
resulting inefficiencies and increased costs which reduce the competitiveness of exports.
3.15   It also became apparent that the majority of firms in the EPZ, while enjoying
access to superior infrastructure relative to exporters outside the zone, imported most of
7. This intention was included in the Letter of Export Policy, which was incorporated by reference into the EDP
Development Credit Agreement.
8. Studies to assist the privatization process and to provide recommendations for the operation and maintenance of the off-
site infrastructure are now being funded under the IDA-financed Parastatal Reform and Privatization project (Cr. 2440-KE).



19
their intermediate goods, with labor being the only local input.9 Labor earnings are
typically higher than outside the zone, with a mostly female labor force, characterized by
high turnover. Unreliability and low quality of domestic inputs discourage foreign firms in
the EPZ from buying inputs from the local market, with the result that the backward
linkages that were expected to facilitate technology transfer are not materializing."
3.16   Another issue that arose, which was mentioned in the PCR, is the appropriateness
of having the same Government authority that regulates and oversees EPZs also involved
in the day to day administration of the EPZ at Athi River. At the time of the audit
mission, there were still no firm plans for transferring administration to the private sector.
If the administration of the EPZ is not transferred to the private sector, it would be
difficult to justify the investment by the Government and the Bank, given that the
privately run EPZs are quite successful and presumably less costly. Moreover, it is easy to
foresee conflicts of interest arising when the same authority is in charge of overseeing
private, as well as its own EPZ.
Direct Assistance to Exporters (KEAS)
3.17   The EDP aimed at reducing the Kenyan economy's vulnerability to external shocks
by encouraging diversification away from the main traditional exports of coffee, tea and
tourism. It also envisioned that the success of the export promotion program would hinge
on the formation of an export constituency among Kenya's small to medium sized firms.
To this end, a portion of the credit was allocated to subsidize consultancy services to help
prospective exporters explore potential markets for their products, design products and
packaging, and improve inspection and quality control systems. The Trade Development
Institute of Ireland, the contractor for this scheme, with two consultants in residence,
would identify potential exporters, and once an agreement was reached on an export
promotion program, the Kenya Exporter Assistance Scheme (KEAS) would fund the
project through a 50 percent cost-sharing grant with the recipient. The scheme was
intended to be a pilot and was to be limited to a 24 month period.
3.18   At the time of the audit mission KEAS had been in operation for over two and a
half years (it has since been closed down), and by November of 1994 it had approved a
total of 603 projects in 151 companies. These firms represent a wide spectrum of
activities, with clothing, footwear, and textiles being the most important sector, followed by
food and food products, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, engineering and packaging
products, and finally handicrafts. Ownership of the firms ranges from 100 percent foreign
to 100 percent Kenyan, with the latter accounting for the majority of the recipients.
Employment levels among the recipients ranged from over 1,000 employees to less than
100, with smaller firms more common. Annual turnover ranged from US$5 million to the
more frequent US$0.5 million.
9. EPZA notes that as of April 1995 there were 750 employees in the EPZ, with expected employment of 1600 by the end
of the year (assuming building construction is completed).
10. The EPZA has a program to promote greater use of local inputs.



20
3.19 The type of assistance requested by prospective exporters shifted from market
research, which dominated the early stages of the grant program, in response to the
institutional distortions in place at the time, to market development projects which
entailed market visits, and, more recently, to quality upgrading. The majority of
cumulative grants per company over the two year period fall in the US$10-30,000 band,
with a significant percentage falling within US$60-100,000." The market focus for the
export effort remained the PTA, with Tanzania and Uganda accounting for 74 percent of
the exports from firms supported by KEAS. Europe accounted for 12 percent, with North
America and the Far East accounting for another 5 percent.
3.20   According to a report by KEAS, the return ratio on completed projects was about
38:1,12 far exceeding the original expectations of 2:1. The return ratios in the first three
quarters of 1994 were as follows: 40:1, 36:1 and 15:1 respectively, with a total of US$20.8
million of export orders attributed to the completed projects supported by KEAS. One
factor that contributed to the success of KEAS was the fact that the grant's objectives
were clearly spelled out in the project design. Another important factor was the cost-
sharing arrangement, which limited the clientele to firms that were serious about pursuing
export opportunities. On the demand side, firms perceived this scheme to be independent
of the Government and able to maintain client confidentiality. Firms that were involved
in the scheme pointed out that the experience has provided them with a springboard and a
sense of commitment to export activities without making them dependent on continued
assistance from KEAS.
3.21   On the operational side, concerns were raised, however, regarding delays in
disbursements, with some clients yet to receive their payments. This jeopardizes the
relationship between the consultants and their clients. Another concern raised during the
discussions was the excessive number of signatures needed for approvals, and the
application, on occasion, of two different exchange rates for the same transaction. On the
economic side, users expressed grave concerns regarding the continued appreciation of the
exchange rate, which according to the consultants and the firms interviewed has adversely
affected the initial successful export drive (with the return ratio falling from 36:1 to 15:1
in one quarter). Both parties also argued that both the level and the variability of thc
exchange rate is detrimental to their effort, impeding effective planning and investment in
much needed capacity expansion. This constraint has a particular impact on the ability of
firms to expand their markets in developed countries, which are more quality conscious
than the traditional Uganda and Tanzania markets.
11. Measured on a per individual project basis, however, over half of the projects were below USS10,000. See Client &
Activity Analysis, January 1995, prepared by KEAS.
12. New export orders divided by the cost of the projects.



21
4. Overall Assessment and Sustainability
4.1    The EDP as a whole was satisfactory, and institutional development was modest.
Most of the policy reforms were eventually carried out, and perhaps the overriding
positive aspect of the project is the sense that the trade liberalization policies now in place
are not easily reversible. However, the President's Report listed several risks to the
success or sustainability of the export promotion program, including a continued fiscal
deficit, a negative export incentive stemming from the macroeconomic situation, and a low
occupancy rate at the proposed EPZ, limiting the creation of employment and value
added. This PAR notes that these risks all became a reality, and that, although the
macroeconomic situation has recently improved, it is too soon to judge whether the
improvement will be maintained. A further source of uncertainty is the ability of the
Government to avoid significant appreciation of the exchange rate, which would stifle the
growth of exports. Finally, infrastructure investment and maintenance, which are crucial
for export promotion, will be jeopardized if the Government is not able to control the
fiscal deficit. Sustainability of the EDP is therefore still uncertain.
4.2    The EPZ offers superior infrastructure to firms located within its boundaries.
However, the rationale for such favored treatment is not clear. In general the value of an
EPZ lies in demonstrating the benefits of trade liberalization policies to potential
exporters, but in Kenya such policies are already in place for all firms, not just those in
the EPZ. Furthermore, while the lack of infrastructure may be an important constraint,
the appropriateness of Government (and Bank) involvement in providing industrial sites
and services is particularly doubtful when privately owned and more efficient EPZs are
already in operation. This issue is particularly poignant given that firms inside the existing
zones have tended not to forge the domestic linkages that the Government hoped would
facilitate technology transfer.
4.3    KEAS appears to have been a successful pilot program. Its success lies in its
design and careful implementation. Grants were targeted directly to intended recipients in
the private sector, and on a 50 percent cost-sharing basis, which helped create a sense of
commitment on the part of the recipients, not only to the immediate activity, but also to
undertaking future investments in export activities.
4.4    On the operational level, the PCR rates the Bank's performance as "uneven". The
high turnover among project managers, coupled with inadequate record keeping, adversely
affected the performance of the Bank and the project as a whole."3 On the other hand,
the Bank's persistence in enforcing the conditionality for second tranche release sent a
clear and consistent signal to both the Government and the private sector.
13. The PCR describes the spending of project funds on administration buildings for the EPZ, contrary to the original
intention of the project, due to confusion over project documentation.






23
5. Lessons Learned
5.1    The Kenyan experience demonstrates the critical importance of macroeconomic
stability, and particularly fiscal restraint, to the success of export promotion. Excessive
budget deficits crowded out private investment and spawned capital inflows and an
overvalued exchange rate, creating an environment antithetical to the thrust of the EDP.
Private sector confidence is also crucial for investment, and the best way for the
Government to inspire confidence in the economic environment is to follow a consistent
set of macroeconomic and financial policies that is compatible with the goal of trade
promotion. This was not the case in Kenya during the implementation of the EDP. The
Government's willingness and ability to control the budget deficit and prevent further
appreciation of the exchange rate will be the key to future investment and export growth.
5.2    The apparent success of KEAS demonstrates several points. Careful design
contributed to the ability of this component to focus on its very specific goals-to provide
support services to new and emerging exporters-and reliance on private sector
management ensured that the scheme would not be used to further unrelated Government
objectives. The use of a cost-sharing arrangement ensured that the beneficiary enterprises
would share the scheme's goals. Finally, the limited time frame for the scheme prevented
firms from developing a dependency on its support.






Attachment 1
Page 1
MSisTRWY OEF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
Te1eumuis: duINCOsa 1aA4obI                                                P.O. Box 30430
Tdepbane: almrobt 34022416                                                    NAIROBI
WVA t,p14y  p*. quo4                                               17th  June,   195
1tS No MCI.t,C,0H,t, 22,!06 t t , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~............... .........
Comments Received from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry
and from the EPZA on the PAR
Chief of Mission,
World Bank,
Regional Mission in Eastern Africa,
Hill Park Buildidg, Upper Hill Road,
P. 0. Box 30577,
NAIROBI.
(Attn. Mr. F. Stephen O'Brien)
Dear Sir,
RE; PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT: EXPORT DEVELOPMEN'T PROJECT
(CREDITS 2197-0 AND 2197LI-KE)
Reference is made to the Draft on the Export Development Project which
you have kindly availed to this Ministry and wh.ich has been read iSi
conjunction with the Programme Completion Report No. 13886 of the
World Bank. I wish to comment as8 follow3:-
1.  Tho period 1990 ko 1995 when the EDP was under implementation also
saw the World Bank and!other major donors adopt a persistant stance
of setting conditionalities as their development cooperation policy.
The mucces5es and, failures in the performance of the EDP could be
attributed, to some extent, to the effects of the conditionalities.
Thus, while the PAR has indicated the salutary effectt of the
conditionality on the performance of the project; the negative
effects like disruption of the tempo ok implementation, cost overruns
and cqncellation of the Export Facilitation Equipment   component,
should also be highlighted.
2. The policy reforms which the GOK adopted within the Structural
Adjustment Programme package and part cr which were assisted by
the EDP have registered Freater success than the PAR has highlighted.
Importantly, the reforms are meajit to be irreversible as GOK is
convinced about their long term positive impact on the country's
economic development. However GOK comitment to the retorms dods
not preclude future adjustments of the policies in the face of
new realities which may come up during impl4mentation.;



26                                 Attachment I
Page 2
/2
3.   The PAP ri.ghtly notes the success made by the KEAS component of the
EDP_ While it i8 true that extorts to Uganda and Tanzania
accounted for 74% of the KEAS assisted exports, GOK has been active
in promoting exports to other PTA countries like Ethiopia, Zambia,
Zimbabwe, Malawi etc. beside  overseas marketa.  Thus, what has
been initiated under KXAS has good prospects of further growth.
A.   THE EXPORT PRQCPSSING ZONE COMPONENT
I am attaching the full comments which have been made on this
component by -the Chief Eksecutive of the EPZA and whlch have been
copied to you already.  I trust that the comments and those herein
contained wil.1 aseslt in prbpe.ring your final edition 6f the PAR.
This Ministry looks forward to further follow-up discussions of thes
impact of the EDP.
Thank you for ydur continued assistance.
Yours faithfully,
Jo. L   R. LAVNA,
for: PERMANENT SECRETARY



27
Attachment 1
Page 3
The Export Processing Zones Authority
Comments on the Draft Performance Audit Report for Export Development Program EDP
Credit 2197-KE
(i) Introduction
The Performance Audit Report (PAR) for CGovernment of Kenya's Kenya Export Development
Project (EDP) for US $ 149.2 miilion was conducted to assess the success of the 4 year project,
December 1990 to 1994, which was financed through IDA reflows ( US $ 49.2 million) and
lapanese Government contributions. The Export Processing Zone at Athi River was one of the
funded components, with a commitment of US 19.3 million towards infrastructure development
(I 2.7% of funds).
The PAR is based on tlie following supporting itemls;
l.    The Project completion report (PCR) preptrecl in lanuary 1995 by the Africa Regional
Office.
2.    The President's Report
3.    The Country Assistance Strategy Paper
4.    Tihe OED audits of related projects,
5.     Discussions with bank staff
6.    Visit Kenya by OED staff in Jantatry 1995.
7.    Other Bank dicuments
(ii) Background
The PAR is supposcd to evaluate thc project from both the decign, implemcntation and results
of the various facets of the program.
EPZA has studied the report and wishes to address a rumnbe- of ssues which have been pointed
out in the report.
(iii) Conclusions
1.    The PAR concentrated unduly on the EPZ con'ponent of the EDP which was only 12.7
% of the program funding. It largely ignored commenting the majority (87 %) of the EDP
funded projects. The PAR is therefore partial and it should be noted that a projec.t cannot
be evdiuated on a partial assessment.
2.    The design of the EPZ project omitted several inportant areas that were critical to the
smooth implementationl of the EPZ Athi River project and proper functionling oi the zone
once complete. These ;ire listed below:-
i



28                                   Attachment 1
Page 4
-mnechianism for transitiorn to privatisation
-how the wildlife, the local community and business persons would find a
mutually beneficial coexistence in the areas around the zone.
-capacity building within government institutions that would eventually manage
and maintain lie assets upon completion of zone construction
-assessment of the nature of demand by potential EPZ investors at Athi River
3.    The Implementation of the EPZ Athi River project as part of the EDP was deficient in
the following areas-
-communication between the Bank and EPZA was not well defined
-coordination between various bank departnients on matters that directly related
to zone developmernt was not good
-Bank policy on EPZ development as evidenced by the PAR is not consistent
4.    The PAR itself also include.s many statements which are incorrect and patently ignore
the facts on the ground. I he PAR also does not take into consideration the conventional
practices in EPZ development and management practices adopted world-wide and most
notably by some very successful EPZ program particularly in Asia. A proper PAR should
have been able to. draw on the experience and practices of established EPZ's as a
yardstick to compare the Kenyan EPZ's performlance.
5.    Nevertheless, the above four observations notwithstanding, the EPZ Authority feels that
the Kenya EPZ program has taken nff and that Athi River zone will be an important
contributor toward the achievement of program's economic objectives.



29                                Attachment I
Page 5
(iv) Detailed comments
A.     PAR COVERAGE OF EDP AREAS
The PAR report discusses extensively the EPZ project white leaving out details of how the other
components which were 87% of the EDP project funds performed. A more balanced coverage
of all areas of the EDP project is needed
B.     Time Frame for FDP Results
The PAR report states that Export processing zone funded under EPL  was to provide a "quick and
visible supply response and provide a demniuistratiorl effect to producers by illustrating the
profitability of exports" (Para.5 p. 8., para 2,4 p. 13). Further the PAR states that occupancy rates
at the zone are low.( para.13 page 9) In additinii the reporr dtatps tihat cituring the visit by the
OED audit team  saw "only one operational firm, Tri-Star EPZ Ltd" (para.3.13 p,17)
EPZA is rather surprised by this assessment since
1.   No specific time frame was stipulated in the. EDP  documents as to the expected time
frame for achieving the EPZ employment and investmenit, against which this comparison was
made. Further conventional wisdom and numerous studies state that individual zones need to
be pronmoted anrd investors take time to become aware of the facilities and attractions of these
new zones.
2'.    The desired demonstration effect is provided by the uptake of prc'-built industrial sheds
which enable investors to rapidily install matchinery, employ wod&ers and commence export
production.
At the time of the OED visit to the zone there were actually two firms operating in 4 of the pre-
built industrial godowns, employing 600 workers.  Another 2 industrial buildings had been
leased to a pharmaceutical manufacturer. There was already a waiting list for the remaining 6
industrial buildings which were as yet incomplete.
The occupancy is therefore not low since all the industrial buildings which were constructed
are either already leased  or had been assigned to tenants pending their completion and
subsequent leasing. Independent interviews with EPZA clicnts would have revealed this, had the
OED team conducted them. The experience oi EPZA is that the demand for the industrial
buildings provided has outstripped supply and at the time of the OED visit the Authority had
already leased additional land to an EPZ cnterprise to develop additional buildings for renting
to investors within the zone, a fact rha-t was madep known to the OED team during the visit.
3.    Since the bulk of the serviced land at the zone is in the form of plots, rather than pre-
built industrial buildings, it is necessary that a realistic expectation for the time required to
construct buildings be taken into account. The average time taken to build, equip and
commission a factory is at least 11 monrhs.At the time of the OED visit, two investors had
already commenced construction oi two custom-built factories, one a textile yarn manufacturer
arnd another a pharmaceutical company, and the buiidings are scheduled to be complete by mid
1995. A further 3 applications for plot allocations for approved EPZ investors had also been
received by januJary 1995, and plot allocation was in progress.



30                                      Attachment 1
Page 6
EPZA has every confidence that given adequate funds to complete the industrial buildings under
contract FN/004 and with the construction of additional industrial buildings and custom-built
factories by private investors at the zone, the demonstration effect will be achieved in the near
term.
What the audit should instead have noted is that the Athi River EPZ project as designed under
EDP the project was deficient in assessing the nature of demand for EPZ premises, and this
resulted in concentrating resources on developing plots, and under-funding the pre-built industrial
buildings which are necessary for providing the demnonstration effect.
C.    ROLE1OF EPZA AS A DEVELOPER/OPERATOR and ILSTIFICATION OF GOVERNMENT
INVOLVENAENT IN ZONE DEVELOPMENT
The Report questions the role of the EPZ authority as developer and operator of the publicly
funded zone at Athi River, giveni its other role as regularor (pal-a 3.1 6 p. 18). The report questions
the need for a publicly funded zone bearing in mind trhat private zones already existed.
1. The report ignores the fact the EPZ ALt provides several roles for the Authority including
those of promoter, facilitator, advisor to Government, developer and regulator. This model has
been adopted by EPZ Authorities in several countries including several sLIccessful zone schemes
(Taiwan, China, Sri Lanka, Pakistan etc).
2, The assertion that EPZ Authority operates from a position of inherent conflict of interest,
ignores the fact the Authority is responsible for ensuring the success of all parts of the program
including that of the private developers, whom it licences facilitates, and actively promotes.
3. The involvement of government in zone development and management has been necessary
in somc countries due to scepticism and lack of confidence by the investors. Governmerits
therefore are obligated to step in the event of market failure. This was the case in Kenya as
(para. 3.9 of page 1 6 Of the PAR attests to. The commitment to the EPZ program manifested by
the Keenya Government's investment in high quality infrastructure and business services has
demonstrated to both local and foreign investors that there is a long-term commitment to the
EPZ program. Therefore, investors, particularly those constructing their own buildings have
confidence in the future of their tenure in the zone. While the report notes that Governiment
backtracking on reforms resulted in lack of confidence in the long terrm comnmilmenr to policy
reforms by government, the impact of the government's developing a zone on restoration of
credibility with investors is ignored by the report. Discussions with just a few Athi River
tenants would have demonstrated that this is a significant consideration for some investors.
4. Further, the report ignores the basic difference between the Athi River zone and the existing
or planned privately developed zones, in meetinig investors needs. One of the major constraints
identified as hindering export-oriented investment is the absence of high quality infrastructure
in rerms of serviced land and buildlings. Private zones are for the most part of a limited size and
are dependent on the existing physical infrastructure provided by local authorities up to the zone
perimeter. Where existing external infrastructure is poor then it is unlikely that new zones will
be developed. This has led to the development of private zones only within the existing
industrial areas where services are available but conversely where land availability is iimited and
transportation can be problematic due ro congestion on the roads. Lack of land for expansion and
uncerrainly about whether additional services will be- available is a common risk factor faced
by smaller private EPZ (industrial parks).



31                                    Attachment 1
Page 7
EPZA on the other hand provided off-sire services and a large serviced land area at Athi River,
in an region which previously had a low to moderate concentration of industries. The
development of Athi River zone provided serviced facilities which will be adequate for future
development by a large number of investors. This has already had a substantial positive socio-
economic impact on the development of Athi River and Kitengela towns.
n. Contrary to what the PAR stipulates, the first private zone namely Sameer Industrial Park and
the Athi River zone were designated on the same day (November 23, 1990). By this time the
Government had  already decided that it would develop Athi River, so at the time of making this
commitment to a publicly funded zone, there was no existing private tone.
D.    PRIVATISATION OFtATHI RIVERAND MANAGE,M1ENT OFOFF-SIrE INFRASTRlUCTURE
SERVICES
Th1e PAR states that the Athi River project was to have been privatised and that the EPZA has
made no move towards privatizing the zone by the time of the OED visit (para. 3.12, p.1;7) and
that there was confusion over who was to manage the off-site infrastructure services.
EPZA requests that the following be noted:-
I.The privatisation of Athi River was not a condition of the credlit Agreement, although it has
been the governmeri's iiitentiori tco privatise the zone. The privatisationi of Athi River is a matter
that is going to be studied by consultants with funds for this undertaking being nmade available
by the World Bank.The consultant will study a variery of options available to Goyerrment to
involvc private sector participation in the zone. The LOP project was faulty in design in that it
did not make any provision to facilitate the transition from development by the public sector to
a situation where there is substantial privatisation of the zone's operations. EPZA recognised this
and requested the Government of Kenya and the World Bank to provide funds to study the best
way that this transition can be effected. Terms of referencp for this study have been prepared and
a short list of consultants drawn up.
2.     The relationship between EPZA as the developer of the off-site services and the local
authorities who normally administer water and sewage services in the domestic territory, was
again an issue that EPZA identified as being an area where the project design was wveak. EPZA
reqt;Les1tei lhe Governmert and the World Bank to finance as study of how this area of weakness
could be remredied, and funds have been made avai!dabi to hire consultants to examine and
rpcommendi how the off-site services can best he manage&, bearing :n mind the lack of capacity
in some of the local authorities.
3.     Privatisation of public assets, particularly utilities, is a matter of national interest and
FPZA has a responsibility to see that the resources that the Kenyan public will pay for are
managed and where necessary disposed of in a manner that is both cransparent and accountable.
Undue hasre in privatising would not have achieved these goals, and particularly since it has not
been demonstrated from recent widespread privatisation .n other economies (particularly Eastern
Europe incuiLding Russia) that a mere change in ownership means that the national economic
objectivcs would be achieved. EPZA was obligated to take over the assets from the contractor
upon completion of the construction contracts andi hired rhe minimum required staff to maintain



32                                  Attachment 1
Page 8
and manage the property. The staff establishment for Athi River was based on recommendations
made by the Consultant engineer for the project.
iE.    JUSTIFICATION OF THE EPZ 5CHEME
The PAR questions (para. 10, p. 14) the relevance of the EPZ scherne in view of the fact thal
the trade liberalisation policies have taken effect in the domestic territory atnd queries the Bank's
wisdom in funding an EPZ.
1. In realitv, the EPZ scheme in Kenya addressed three bottlenecks that were constraining export
competitiveness:- bureaucracy, lack of physical infrastructure and high operating costs relative
to what conmpetitors in other cuuntries experience. The EPZ package seeks to provide solutions
to these bottlenecks by making the operating procedures as straightforward as possible, by
providing high quality zone infrastr.icrture and by providing fiscal incentives to lower the costs
of operation. In response to the PAR, EPZA conducted a telephone survey of its EPZ Athi River
tenants (cuirrent and future). The results shows that the investors could not find a similar package
in the domestic territory in terms of reasonably priced  high quality physical facilities, rapid
projecr approval, and on-going after-care by the EPZ authority. The EPZ approach clearly meets
a need that these investors have. Copies of the responses to the questions asked arc attached.
2.    As staled earlier publicly developed zones are the norm in most countries where EPZ's
have been successful instrument of economic policy.. Governments in countries wishing to
develop these zones have turned to a variety of funding sources to supply the needed credit to
implement the project. In Kenya's case the World Bank ftunded the Athi River EPZ project, at the
request of the Government of Kenya. This is a historical fact that PAR surely cannot call into
question this late in the day.
F.    DOMtESTIC LINKAGES. EXPORT DIVERSIFICATION AND  EMPLOYMENLT_ REATION
The PAR asserts that the EPZ firms lcXated at the zone have few domestic linkages and that as
a result of a purported low occupancy, there is low employment. The PAR also talks of the risk
that the export program faces if the East African market for the goods does not continue to grow.
The report also states that labour turnover in the zones is high (para. 7.15, p.17).
Contrary to the assertions made in the PAR the EPZ program including Athi River zone has begun
to achieve the intended economic objectives - jobs, technology transfer, backward linkages, new
oroductive investnment and export diversification. This is ackrowledged in the 1995 Economic
Survey (p. ASl-1 52).
Each of these issues are adrfressed in turn below.
1. The creation of domestic linkages is an objective of the EPZ program. There are firms
already  in the EPZ scheme chat rely solely on local raw materials (grains, cotton, sisal and
water). Two of these projects are in Athi River and will be operational in miid-19935. For those
firms whose products have a higher imported content, the  Authority has d program  of
progressive backward linkage which is developed with each investor. This is being implemnented,
particularly where the local contenit is a significant factor in getting preferential market access.
The major constraint in some cases is the availability of reasonably priced inputs of a standard
corimparable to what is imported. The EPZA has hosted the Kenya Partnership Subcontracting
Excllange (KSPX) and extensively used its resources to assist investors source raw materials and
components from local suppliers.



33                                  Attachment I
Page 9
2. It should bR noted that the EPZ program now has an average employment of 200 employees
per company. In Athi River alone, by April 1995 there were 730 employees in the as yet
"unfinished' zone ouit of a total zone employment of 3,100. With the completion of the on-
going construction by zone plot tenants and assuming the completion of the remaining ancillary
and industrial buildings, Athi River is expected to employ 1,600 workers by the end of 1995.
This represents a substantial creation of employment bearing in mind that Industrial Sameer Park
which has been in operation for 3 years currently has 1,400 employees.
3. The export markets for EPZ goods are extremely diverse. Some investors focus on the PTA
market including Tanzania and Uganda, others focus on the European market while others sell
to the USA, and in the case of an EPZ manufacturer of sisal buffs, to Korea. The ncwly licensed
companies in the EPZ including those at Athi River follow this pattern quite closely. Each investor
comes to the EP;ZA with his market already identified and there are various reasons given for the
choice of Kenya as a production location for products going to that market, including preferential
market access, languuige affinity, ease of access to markets from production location etc. EPZA
expects that this pattern will continue with the result that Kenya will become Increasingly known
for non-traditional exports to various regional and overseas markets. Cumulative export sales by
EPZ firms stood at sh 9 billion by the end of 1994.
G.    ZONE COMPLETION, LAND SPECULATION AND HOUSING SCHEME
The PAR states that most of the civil works were comlplete by late 1993 (para.3.12, p.17) and that
speculation has taken place on land that was to be as a no-development ared as part of the
project conditionality. The report also states that the houSing site-and -service scheme was not
implemented due to over-commitment of funds (para. 3.13 p.17)
1. Much has been made of the fact that the report that the civil works were complete in late
1993. Yet civil works alone do not operationalise a zone. Buildings and on-site services are
equally important. To date, due to funding inadequacies, 6 industrial buildings, the clustoms gate
house and the administration block are not complete. The absoi.ce of these key components of
zone infrastructure have continued to hamper occupancy and smooth operation by investors.
EfPLA has made every effort to procure additional funds to complete these buildings and it is
projected that funds will be available early in the next friancial year.
2. The wildlife corridor which was supposed to be zored as a no-development ared is located
in land that belongs to the local community. Kenya Wildlife Se-vice IKWS) is currently studying
how anirnals and the local community can coexist in an economically and ecologically
responsible way. The issue of developments outside or the zore are clearly the responsibility
of the local authorities and in the case of the wildlife corrdor, the KWS. EPZA can only act in
an advisory role and has already formed a consultatior corrm.tee a all afftcted parties who
meet regularly.
3. The site and services scheme was an integral componeat of the Arni River EPZ program. This
component, contrary to the PAR assertion, was actually under-funded.
H.    FAILURES BY THE BANK
Resonr.s given i n the PAR for the Bank's failure to adequately monitor the project are summarised
in the use of the words "high turnover of project managers at the Bank M. However the specific
areas where the bank has failed to give the necessary have not been clearly listed. These are
importanr in view of the evaluation given in the PAR of success of the EPZ scheme. Lessons can



34                                   Attachment 1
Page 10
be learned fronm examining those areas where the bank should have played a greater role.
EPZA gives below some guidelines on areas that could have been improved and that may still
need to be addressed.
1. The nature of demand for premises at Athi River, at the project design stage, was not properly
assessed and thus an emphasis in plots rather than the desirable pre-built industrial buildings
resulted.
2. While it was undierstood that the Government desired to privatise the zone, no element of the
project design covered how best this could be done. It was only towards the end of the project
that this matter rpceived practical attention from the Bank.
3. No provision was made in the project for capacity building within the EPZ authority and the
local authority to facilitate the-ir management of the assets in the interim while a route to
privarisalion of on-site works and a permanent arrangement for operation of off-site insfrastructure
was being sought.
4. The PAR seems to questinn actions taken by the Kenya Government in consultation with the
Bank itself in developing the  zone, particularly the funding of the Athi River Zone. This
backtracking and lack of policy focus within the Bank can only contribute to a loss of
conifidence in the bank's ability to give consistent, well considered advice.
4. The mechanism for implenienting the wild life corridor which is situated on privately owned
land should have been a subject for study within the main zone project Con1sultallcy.
5. The Bank's concentration on financial returns rather than economic return.s f6ir the zone
project, as a measure of success contradiLts the very nature of the EPZ as an instrument for
economic development. The bank should have recognised this right at the. beginning and built
in an assessment mechainism that can properly auantify the economic and financial returns oi
Athi River EPZ. (*Seefootnote below added by OED.)
6. The lack of a proper follow-up and consultation mechanism between EPZA and the Bank,
significantly slowed down communication. and speedy resolution of issues. Even when visits
were made by PAR and PCR researchers, EPZA wonders what information was recorded during
these visits, sirce the record given in the PAR is substantially different from the facts, in many
instancPc. It also appears that one section -.n the bank is unaware what another section is duing,
as indicated bv the glaring lack of knowledge by the PAR writer of the status of privatisation and
oft-site infrastructure studies, being funded by the Bank.
EPZA.ce   June 7th 1995.
Enels.
*Thefinancial analysis in the PCR found a slightly negative rate of return. The economic rate of return
is likely to be similar, given that there is no need to shadow price foreign exchange or labor.
Adjustments were made for tax distortions, and the PCR calculations were based on EPZA 'sforecast of
occupancy rates, operating revenues and costs, excluding the cost of the off-site infrastructure.



35
Comments Received from the Government on the PCR
The attached commnents were received too late to be included with Part II of the
PCR. The comments received from the Central Bank of Kenya and the Export Processing
Zones Authority are reproduced as Attachments 2 and 3, respectively.






37                                Attachment 2
Page 1
Comments Received from the Central Bank of Kenya on the PCR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT  -  KENYA
KENYA EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDrT 2197 - KE)
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   In  the  continuing  drive  to  promote non-traditional exports
of goods and further enhance the institutional credit flow
to the sector, the Central Bank of Kenya did a commendable
job  to  assist  non-traditional    exporters  by  availing  the
export pre-shipment financing to them by way of Rediscounting
Facility  for  Pre-Export  Bills  of  Exchange *during December
1990.     But  due  to  gross  abuses  of  the  Facility  by  the
participating  banks  in  collaboration  with  their  exporting
clients, the facility was phased out in April 1993.  The other
causal  factor for its suspension was its mu'tiplier   effect
i.n exacerbating the intensity of inflation wil':hin the economy
through  the  expansion  of  money supply.   Unfortunately,  for
the export sector, with the phasing out of the facility, there
is  currently  no  facility  for  export  financing  beyond  the
normal channels for business in general.   The  major  concern
is the inadequacy of institutional credit flow to the small
and medium scale non-traditional exporters given the inherent
high risk and the absence of sufficient collateral.
2.   From  the  Central  Bank's  past  experience,  further  direct
participation  in special  export  schemes  like  the moribund
export  rediscounting  facility  do  not  urgur  well  for  the
effective   and  efficient   implementation  of monetary policy
especially during periods of contractionary monetary policy
stances accompanying Structural Adjustment Programmes.  Under
the circumstances the Central Bank recommends the institution
of   Eximbanks,   as   the   most   appropriate   institutional
development.   With the institution of Eximbanks, there would
be no justification for introducing Discount Houses as has
been recommended in earlier studies in this area.
The present 3 year Development Plan 1994/96 (page 155) is very
categorical   in  this  premise.    The  plan  pronounces that
modalities of creating a fully-fledged Export Credit and
..../2



38                          Attachment 2
Page 2
Guarantee  Scheme/Import Export Bank will be examined during
the  plan  period.    The  Bank  would  be willing  to  play a
promotional   role  towards   this  end  especiallv  in  the
institution of Export Credit Guarantee Scheme.
3.     The  Central  Bank of Kenya  is also fully committed to the
evolution and promotion of a sound and well functioning
money and capital markets.    And        in      relation      to
international trade (the export sub-sector) financing, one
area of assistance would be in the introduction of Bankers
Acceptances.    Already,  the  Development  Division  of  the
Banking Department has embarked on a feasibility study on
introducing  Acceptances  within  the   Kenyan  money  market
as Acceptances credit is  a fairly commonly used instrument
for   raising   capital   for  short-term  durations  within
developed  financial  systems.       For  example,  within  the
region, the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe has evolved a very
successful  Acceptances  market   particularly  as  a  means
for raising temporary  working capital and/or post shipment
finance  against  export  debts.    Their introduction within
our  money market would be in line with the spirit of the
present Development Plan (page 69) which inter alia states
that  the  Government  will  facilitate  the  introduction  of
private money market instruments such as Negotiable Bankers
Acceptances and Commercial Paper.
4.     Recent  pronouncements  and  actions  from the Bank confirms
the  Central  Bank's  heightened  committment  to  continued
pursuance  of  tight  monetary  policy  to contain  inflation
with the ultimate goal of furtherstabilising the shilling
exchange rate within a decontrolled interest rate regime.
On the macro-economic policy front, the Central Bank of
Kenya has always recognised two important factors in export
sector development and competitiveness.
... /3



39                           Attachment 2
Page 3
The Bank has endeavoured to maintain an appropriate and a realistic
exchange  rate  policy,  to  surpport  liberalisation  in the trade
regime  and  promote  a sustained export-led growth.  The policies
have been implemented within a framework of bold anti-inflationar%
measures. The shilling exchange rate. was totally freed on October
18, 1993 with the Bank's role minimally being limited  to
stabilising the market for orderliness and instilling confidence
within the forex regime.
5.    Chronic  inflation  is  evidently  incompatible  with  the objective
of macro-economic stability.  Recently, the Central Bank introduced
some bold contractionary monetary policy measures to contain the
inflationary tendencies within the Kenya economy.   The             Bank
resumed  active  Open  Market  Operations  during February  1994  to
mop-up  the  excess  liquidity  within  the  banking system.   As  a
further financial system stability measure, the requisite liquidity
ratio for banks and non-bank financial institutions was stepped
up to 25% and 30% respectively effective from March 21, 1994.  The
lender of Last Resort Facility under Sections 35 and 36 of the
Central  Bank  of  Kenya  Act  was  also  cautiously  and  prudently
implemented  to  discourge  banks partaking of the facility.   With
effect from April 11, 1994, the Bank Rate was increased bv varying
the  bench-mark  to  the  highest  weekly Treasury Bill yield   rate
(plus 2.5% CBK commission margin) resulting in a higher rate for
borrowing and discounting eligible assets.
6.     The  Central  Bank of  Kenya  continues  to deploy  the Cash  Ratio
requirement as a major monetary management  tool.   The Cash Ratio
was increased from 14%0 to 1650 effective 7th February, 1994, and
March 21, 1994, the Cash Ratio requirement was further increased
to 20%.
7.     All  these measures have contributed towards the stabilisation of
the  exchange  rate  and augmented  with  the  other  recent  trade
liberalisation  measures  have made Kenyan  exports                 more
competitive especially within the sub-region (PTA Countries).  The
Central   Bank   will  introduce  Bankers  Acceptance  to  enhance
.../4



40                            Attachment 2
Page 4
institutional credit flow to the sector and also contribute
on the studv on Export Guarantee and Credit Scheme as there
is no credit scheme that can succeed without the blessing
of a Central Bank given tile latter's pivotal position within
the  financial  system.    Mleanwhile,  the Central  Bank will
continue to evolve a sound and well-intergrated  financial
system from both perspectives of efficient sectoral resource
mobilisation and allocation.
CENTRAL BANK OF KENYA
MAY 1994



41                                 Attachment 3
Page 1
Comments Received from the EPZA on the PCR
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CREDIT 2197-KE
ATHI RIVER EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
A.   INTRODUCTION:
In pursuance of a policy of promoting growth of non- traditional exports and export-
oriented private sector, the Government of Kenya with the financial assistance of the
World Bank, undertook development of Phase I of the Export Processing Zone at Athi
River as an investment component of the Export Development Project.
This component comprised of provision of water supply for the zone, 96 hectares of
fully serviced and demarcated industrial site, on-site and trunk sewerage and
treatment works, 12 No. factory units with 15000m2 of industrial space and 2,000m2
of office accommodation. Other facilities included a health centre, a fire station,
gatehouse and electricity supply including a substation.
Construction of most of these facilities have been completed. Outstanding works such
as administration building are expected to be completed by July, 1994. Tenders for
the only remaining contract, site and service scheme for workers' housing, have been
invited and will be awarded during 1994 with expected completion in 1995.
All the industrial buildings have been firrnly booked and investors have started taking
possession of the completed units. When fully completed, this major development
project, will provide high quality infrastructure in a secure industrial park for export
oriented manufacturing. The Kenya Govemment is therefore grateful to the World
Bank for the IDA credit which made implementation of the EDP possible.
The Export Processing Zones Authority, as implementing agency forthe project, takes
this opportunity to thank all those who have been associated with this development
B.   ATHI RIVER EPZ PROJECT COMPONENTS:
The investment component of the project was implemented through five separate
contracts as follows:-
1.    Off-site water supply: Contract FN/001
2.    On-site services and ancillary works: Contract No.FN/002
3.    Off-site sewerage and treatment works: Contract No.FN/003
4.    Administration and Ancillary Buildings: Contract No.FN1004
5.    Site and service for low cost housing: Contract No. FN/005 (this contract is
due to be let out)



42                                   Attachment 3
Page 2
C.    CONSTRAINTS AND PROBLEMS:
During the implementation period, several problems were encountered:
1.0   FINANCIAL
1.1   Budqetarv Provisions and Ceilings:
The Athi River contracts were implemented at a time when the Govemment
and IMF had agreed to pursue strict budgetary ceilings on capital
expenditures. In view of this, although work output by contractors required
that substantial provisions be made in the annual budgets to accord with the
rate of contractors' capital outlays and cash flows, this could not be done.
This in tum affected progress of the works. For construction contracts which
have to be executed within specific time frame so as to avoid price escalation,
it is advisable for GOK to negotiate waivers or other options in relation to
budgetary ceilings depending on the circumstances of each project.
1.2   Devaluation of Kenya Shilling and Fixed Dollar contracts:
During 1992193 when contracts were being undertaken, massive devaluation
of the Kenya Shilling occurred. This had two major effects. One, budgetary
provisions which had been made in KE became inadequate to sustain the
pace of monthly payments to contractors throughout a financial year as each
annual allocation was exhausted early in the financial year thus leading to the
need for supplementary estimates. This took time to process which in tum
affected rate of progress. Secondly, although contracts were tendered in
Kenya Shillings, actual payments were pegged to dollar rates as at the time
of tender. These remained fixed for the entire duration of contracts. The
effect of devaluation was to increase Kenya Shillings payments and therefore
contract price substantially above domestic construction price increases. On
the other hand, foreign currency payments were made at tendered Kenya
Shillings, Vs dollar exchange rates which were substantially lower than rates
after devaluation but actually meant that budgetary provision became
insufficient. It would appear at this stage that awarding contracts in local
currency with a provision for variation of price clause but incorporating a
certain proportion of hard currency payment to cover'foreign costs may be
more appropriate for construction projects of this magnitude, instead of fixing
the entire contract in hard currency.
1.3   Contributions by GOK and IDA:
At the beginning of the project, it was envisaged in the financing plan that
contributions by GOK and IDA would be in proportion of:-
IDA   -     74%
GOK  -      26%
However, when the Credit Agreement was concluded, it stipulated that GOK
would finance 20% of local costs whereas IDA credit would finance 100%



43                                Attachment 3
Page 3
foreign costs plus 80% of local costs. This was inconsistent with funds
allocated. Further, during tendering, contractors were asked to quote the
proportion of their tender sums which would cover foreign as well as local
costs. These proportions were subsequently used when processing payments
with the result that actual percentage of payments by IDA and GOK ranged as
follows:-
CONTRACT                      IDA          GOK
001                            92.55%      7.45%
002                            88.6%       11.4%
003                            87.0%       13.0%
004                            44.0%       56.0%
Electricity Supply             80.0%       20.0%
Due to this disproportionate percentage payments, IDA credit allocation was
exhausted earlier before contracts could be completed. This together with
budgetary constraints within GOK, necessitated a request for additional funds
to complete the contracts. This process took considerable time to resolve.
Monitoring of project funds would have been easier if IDA conditions were
incorporated fully into contract documents so that proportions of actual
payments by IDA and GOK would be in accord with the position envisaged in
the financial plan.
1.4   Exoanded Scope of Works:
Initially, three contracts 001, 002 and 003 were let out. Subsequently, the
fourth contract, 004 for administration, ancillary buildings (Gate house,
Firestation, Health Centre) and 12 No. factory buildings was aiso let out.
However, the works covered in this latter contract had substantially increased
due to:-
ti)   The Govemment decided to construct the factory building to quick start
establishment of EPZ enterprises within the zone,
(ii)   The size of the administration building was increased to provide
lettable office space to ready investors.
Before contract 004 was awarded, the Govemment sought and obtained a 'No
Objection' from the World Bank. Although the award of this contract implied
that additional funds were required, this was not formally resolved between
GOK and IDA until march, 1994 when additional funds were made available
through re-allocation.
1.5   Delays in Payments:
Throughout the construction period, considerable delays occurred in releasing
various payments to the contractors.  This had several effects.  One,
contractors had to be paid interest on delayed certificates at higher rates
above prevailing bank interest rates. During the period when the project was



Attachment 3
44                                  Page 4
under implementation, Kenya experienced particularly high interest rates. This
meant additional payments had to be made to contractors which should have
been avoided if not saved. Two, delay in payments affected contractors' cash
flows and therefore work output thereby slowing down progress of the works.
Thirdly, excessive delays beyond contractual payment period of 75 days
entitled a contractor to terminate a contract. One contractor invoked this
clause and it took considerable effort to negotiate for a resumption of work.
Other contractors are using such delays to make claims due to their extended
stay on site.
2.0   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION:
2.1   Proiect Team, Coordination and Monitorinc:
The project team comprised of:-
Water Development Department officials
Treasury officials
EPZA officials
Consultants and Contractors
On the whole, there were minimal staff changes and most of the key team
members continued with their duties during implementation.  However,
although it had been proposed that a project coordination unit would be
established within the Ministry of Finance to oversee implementation and
monitoring, EPZ contracts were fully coordinated by EPZA with assistance
from Treasury officials who provided financial support functions and the
Consultant who carried out all technical functions. EPZA core staff headed by
the Chief Executive who had been engaged soon after the project started,
worked hard to process all payments and to follow up all contractual issues
requiring Govemment and World Bank action in addition to keeping other
aspects of the EPZ programme on track. During this period, the consultant
also put in extra efforts above normal consultancy to ensure that construction
works progressed well. Such effort included advice to EPZA and coordination
with other statutory authorities such as Nairobi City Council on water supply,
Mavoko Municipal Council on land and related issues and several Govemment
Departments. The Department of Water Development-also took active part as
supervising 'Engineer for the water and sewerage contracts, 001 and 003.
Monthly site meetings were held for each contract and quarterly reports
prepared by the consultant and circulated to Treasury and the World Bank.
However, the Bank did not give regular feedbacks or comments on quarterly
reports.
2.2   Implementation Period:
The major phases of the Athi River EPZ Project comprise of:-
(i)   Pre-contract period
(ii)   Construction phase



45                               Attachment 3
Page 5
(iii) EPZ Investment take off period
(iv)   Full operational phase
The IDA credit became effective in December, 1990 following which pre-tender
actions were initiated in January 1991. However, the first tenders were not
awarded until December 1991 i.e one whole year after, which is considered
too long. This can be reduced if pre-contract actions are streamlined.
Construction of the first contract started in January 1992 and although two
contracts have been completed and handed over, the last contract, 005 has
not yet been let out. If let out soon, it is expected to be completed during
1995 after which final costs of the entire project will be known. The entire
construction period will therefore be 4 years which is also considered too long
for this size of project. Also, although all four contracts (001-004) were
programmed to be completed within 65 weeks from date of commencement,
this has not been the case. This has led to additional costs being incurred
due to contractors' extended stay on site as well as costs associated with
supervision. With the handing over of keys to the first EPZ investor in April,
the EPZ project has now commenced an investment take-off period. This is
expected to take some 3 - 4 years.
2.3   Supervision Missions:
During construction phase of the project, the World Bank mounted only two
supervision missions. It is noted that although construction issues required
attention during this period, no supervision mission was sent for over a year.
It is felt that more frequent supervision missions would have helped to resolve
most of the construction issues in good time.
D.    COMMENTS ON PART I OF PCR
1.0   Paragraph 4.2 06 page 11 Outcome
As at 31st March 1994 all the civil works for off-site water supply, on-site
services and ancillary works, off-site sewerage and treatment works were
complete. Electrical supply is now available to the industrial buildings and
street lighting and security fencing. Tenders for low cost housing site and
service have been evaluated and the 3 lowest tenders are as follows:-
Ksh.132,999,951/=       US$ 1,923,863.45
ksh.134,448,000/=       US$ 1,944,809.69
Ksh.136,867,365/=       US$ 1,981,251.80
GOK has been requested to provide budgetary allocation for financing this
component.



46                                  Attachment 3
Page 6
2.0   Paragraph 4.2.07 page 12 Outcome
The IDA Credit Agreement page 15 had acknowledged the following
component of EPZ "common production and handling facilities and basic
structures for business". The Govemment decided to plan for construction of
the 12 factory building to quick start the EPZ programme. The financial under-
provision has now been resolved by IDA agreeing to re-allocate SDR
1,917,000 for civil works vide their letter of March 7th 1994 and the GOK
providing the balance of the funds.
3.0   Paragraph 4.2.09 page 12 Management
The initial studies conducted prior to project implementation recommended
that the Athi River Zone be operated by the private sector. EPZA agrees with
this recommendation and recognises that Zone management would be a
distraction from its core business. Other EPZ Authorities in some countries
do however manage public Zones i.e. Sri Lanka, Malaysia etc. However,
EPZA, as the developer of the Zone owns the assets that it has developed,
and is obligated to protect those assets, once received, until the responsibility
for their operation is transferred to the appropriate bodies. The initial planning
of the Zone did not address the issue of which mechanism should be
employed for this transfer. This lack of planning at the initial stages has
meant that adequate resources have not been made available either within the
project, within EPZA or within GOK to develop the mechanism and modalities
of operation for the Zone.
The EPZA Board is now gazetted and operational - The World Bank has also
agreed to finance a short term consultancy to study privatisation of the Athi
River EPZ.
4.0   Paragraph 4.2.10 page 13  Lack of Tenants
The PCR states that there is a lack of tenants for the Athi River Zone.
However, by January 1994 all of the industrial buildings had been reserved,
and two large industrial sites had firm commitments. The first tenant has
leased the building and obtained keys for Unit Bi on 11th April, 1994. They
are now installing machinery and employing workers. It is uncommon for any
potential industrial tenant to sign a lease for a property in advance of that
property being demonstrably completed and available. EPZA fully endorses
its projected rate of occupation of Phase I of the Zone, i.e Phase I fully
committed by end 1997, which it considers conservative. The interim target
for the year 1994 will be comfortably met. Already the Authority is evaluating
a request from a local investor to lease land to develop 100 industrial units.
There is also a request from some foreign investors to develop a number of
premises for lease to investing enterprises from their home country.



47                                 Attachment 3
Page 7
5.0   Paragraph 4.2.11 page 13 Lack of an Appropriate Fee Structure:
The PCR states that there is a lack of an appropriate aazetted fee structure
for the Athi River Zone, and that this lack is the primary impediment to tenants
signing final commitments. It is not the intention of EPZA to gazette rental and
service charges for Athi River. EPZA has guideline rental rates which it uses
for negotiation, but retains the flexibility to ensure that the individual needs of
investors are taken into account whenever possible.  This policy also
increases the attractiveness of the Zone to potential private operators.
Licence fees have been set by the Board and will soon be gazetted by the
Minister before June, 1994. The EPA policy in this regard has been that
whatever the result of the original financial analysis during the planning stage
of the project, the rent charged by Athi River must be bearable by the market
and be comparable to similar EPZs wodd wide. Thus the scope for increase
in rental at present is limited, since the rates being charged are very close to
the market leader, Sameer Industrial Park.
6.0   Paragraph 4.2.13 page 13 Management of Off-Site Infrastructure:
The intention of EPZA is to transfer the Athi River EPZ operational
management functions to the bodies best equipped-
to operate them. These are listed below.
The achievement of the transfers listed in Table 1 below faces two obstacles:
the capacity of the public sector institutions to operate the services, and the
mechanism by which the private sector operator can be introduced to the
project. This was recognised by EPZA as a complex challenge, and one
which could not be tackled directly by EPZA without some technical
assistance. The assistance required would be in three forms:
a)    Needs assessment studies of the public sector institutions which are
planned to accept some of the management aspects of the off-site
services.
b)    A study to identify the optimum mechanism for the transfer of the
operation of the Athi River Zone to a private sector operator, including
financial planning.
c)    Training and sensitisation of the private and public sector entities
involved in the operation of the Zone.
Draft Terms of Reference for these activities were prepared by EPZA and
given to World Bank mission of October 1993.



48                                Attachment 3
TABLE 1                                                               Page 8
Operation/Function        Body/Entity responsible at   Transferred to
present
Off site water supply     EPZA                      Nairobi City Counci
Off site sewerage and     EPZA                      Mavoko Town Council
effluent treatment
roads and public lighting    National Roads Authority    National Roads Authority
leading to Athi River zone
Regulation of planning    Mavoko Town Council       Mavoko Twon Council/Athi
development around the                              River planning committee
EPZ
ImportUexport regulation  Customs and Excise        Customs and Excise
Property management       EPZA
within the EPZ                                      Private Operator
Environmental regulation    EPZA                    Private Operator/EPZA
Licensing of investors    EPZA                      EPZA
Security within the zone  EPZA                      Private Operator
Security outside of the   Police                    Police
zone
Promotion of the zone     EPZA                      Private Operator
Promotion of the EPZ      EPZA                      EPZA
regime
Development of future     EPZA                      EPZAIPrivate operator
phases                                                                       i
It is proposed that the Government of Kenya requests the World Bank to finance technical
assistance to enable this exercise to be undertaken. In the meantime, EPZA has prepared
a recurrent budget for Zone operations and presented the same to the Govemment.
7.0   Paraqraph 4.2.14 page 13 Security of the "Green-Belt"
The PCR expresses concem regarding the security of the "green belt" near
the Athi River EPZ from undesirable development. This is a genuine concem
and EPZA had initiated discussion with the relevant Local Authority. It was
confirmed that an environmental committee for Athi River area has been set
up. This committee includes Kenya Wildlife Services, National Environmental



Attachment 3
Page 9
& Secretariat and Mavokq Municipal Council among others. It has been
agreed that EPZA will participate in this committee. It is recognised that a
mechanism for controlling and monitoring new developments within the game
corridor is currently inadequate and KWS and MMC are to be requested to
initiate action to address this issue.
8.0   Paragraph 9.2 page 21  Lessons Leamed
The PCR states that GOK has no mechanism to recoup the heavy costs of the
investment in the off-site infrastructure for the EPZ. In this regard it should be
noted that local taxes are based on the value of land, and any increase in
value due to improved infrastructure will result in increased income for the
local authority.
D.    LESSONS
1 .0   The EPZ project has now reached initial stages of the investment phase. And --
although some construction work is still being carried out, the main objective
to provide high quality infrastructure has been achieved. Firm indications are
that the industrial site will be fully taken up within the next 3-4 years. In
addition, the Govemment through EPZA, which is a reiatively young parastatal,
has successfully implemented a major development project of considerable
complexity. It is hoped that the experience gained will be useful during
implementation of the next phase of Athi River and EPZ project planned in
Mombasa.
2.0   It is now evident that the initial planning of the Athi River zone did not address
in detail the mechanism of transfer and management of the facility from the.
developer to the private operator. If this had been done, a smooth transition
from public development to private management would have been
systematically achieved. It is appreciated the World Bank is commissioning
a consultant to carry out this exercise.
3.0   The financing of the project did not cater for capacity building and institutional
development of EPZA, and statutory authorities that would be called upon to
manage municipal services. This is considered necessary for a project of this
nature.
4.0   More frequent supervision missions would have helped resolve some of the
issues encountered during the implementation.
EPZA
Apnil, 1994









i'   f ..    ; ... .     .,:,
"'''.2         ' '- i.  .           -1  ...                                     ;  .,'>r
!~~~~~~~~~~. ''  .. .    ..:



