Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMFCIAL USE ONLY
C   Zz 57- Ae
Report No. P-5417-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT OF SDR 69.5 MILLION (US$100 MILLION)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
IN SUPPORT OF AN
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 21, 1990
This document has a restricted distbuion and may be used by recipients only in the performauce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   Kenyan Shilling (KSh)
USS 1.0 - KSh 23.0
GOVERNMENT OF KEYA FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
APDF      Africa Project Development Facility
ASAO      Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation
AEF       African Enterprise Fund
CBK       Central Bank of Kenya
EC        Export Compensation
EIB       European Investment Bank
ESAF      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EPZ       Export Processing Zone
FIAS      Foreign Investment Advisory Services
FSAC      Financial Sector Assistance Credit
FSTAC     Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit
GOK       Government of Kenya
IDA       International Development Association
IFC       International Finance Corporation
IMF       International Monetary Fund
ISAC      Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
JICA      Japan International Cooperation Agency
KAHL      Kenya Airfreight Handling Limited
KfW       Kreditanstalt fut Wiederaufbau
KEUA      Kenya External Trade Authority
MIGA      Multilateral Investment Guarantee Association
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MUB       Manufacturing-under-Bond
OECD      Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development
PFP       Policy Framework Paper
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
SAE       Structural Adjustment Facility
SAL       Structural Adjustment Loan
SPA       Special Program of Assistance
SPPF      Special Project Preparation Facility
USAID     United States Agency for International Developmen:



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MENYA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
CREDIT SUMMARY   ..  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   ..   .  .
PART I.  COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A.  The Economy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Structure   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .1
Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            2
B.  Recent Stabilization and Adjustment Efforts . .      3
C. Development Strategy and Medium-term Economic
Framework..                                          4
D.  Country Assistance Strategy . . . . . . . . . .      4
Economic and Sector Work  . . . . . . . . . .      5
Adjustment Lending: Experience and Prospects       5
Investment Lending: Experience and Prospects       8
Lending Program: Level and Composition  . . .     10
Summing Up  . .11
F.  Donor Activities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     11
PART II.  THE EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A. Trade Structure and PerformAnce . .    . . . . . .   12
B. Constraints on the Development of
Non-traditional E.xports . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
The Policy Environment . . . . . . . . . . .     14
Exchange Rate Policies. . . .       .14
Import Protection  .              . . . .      15
Export Incentives  . . . . . . . . . . . .     16
Anti-export Bias . . . . . . . . . . . . .     17
Regulations.                                        17
Finance   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
Direct Support to Exporters . . . . . . . . . .     19
Subsectoral Constraints and Infrastructure  . .     20
C.  Obiectives and Approach of Export Development
Program  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  20
Objectives  . .20
Approach  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     21
D.  Policy Reforms  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     23
Macroeconomic Policy  . . . . . . . . . . . .     23
Trade Policy  . .23
Export Incentives . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     24
Regulatory Reform . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     25
E. Investments ....  .  .    . ......  .  .    .  .   .  27
Export Processing Zone  . . . . . . . . . . .     27
Rationale  . .27
Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authodzation.



- ii -
Environmental Mitigation . . . . . . . . .    28
Export Facilitation Equipment . . . . . . . .   28
F.  Studies and Technical Assistance  . . . . . . .   29
Direct Assistance to Exporters  . . . . . . .   29
Product Development . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
Assistance to the Customs Department  . . . .   30
Studies ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  30
PART III. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.  Borrower and Credit Amount  . . . . . . . . . .   32
B. Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    32
C.  Disbursement  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  34
D.  Procurement ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  36
E. Administration, Monitoring and Reporting  . . .    38
F. Accounts and Audit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    39
PART IV.  IMPACT AND RISKS
A.  Benefits and Soc.al Costs . . . . . . . . . . .   39
B. Risks .................... .                       41
PART V.  SUJMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND CONDITIONS  . . . . . . .   42
PART VI.  RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   44
TABLES
Table 1:  IDA Commitments to Kenya, FY86-90 . . . . . . . . .    8
Table 2: Quantitative Restrictions and Average Tariffs . . .    15
Table 3:  Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
Table 4: Estimated Disbursements and Allocation of IDA Credit
By Disbursement Category  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
Table 5: Procurement Methods for Investment and TA Components    37
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Key Economic Indicators
Annex 2: Status of Bank Group Operations in Kenya
Annex 3:  Timetable of Key Loan Processing Events
Annex 4: Letter of Export Policy and Policy Matrix
Annex 5:  The Export Processing Zone
Annex 6: Export Facilitation Equipment
Annex 7: Export Structure and Performance
Annex 8: Supervision Plan
MAP      IBRD No. 22397



KEPRT DEVLTOUHNT PROJECT
CREDIT SUISIARY
Borrower:   Government of Kenya
Executin£ Agency:   Ministry of Finance
Credit Amount:   IDA:  SDR 69.5 million ($100 million equivalent)
Terms:   Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Description and
Allocation of
Credit:   The proposed Credit will support an integrated package
of policy reforms, investments, studies and technical
assistance. Actions to be implemented during the
program period constitute the first phase of the
Government's strategy to diversify and expand non-
traditional exports. The actions build upon the
coherent strategy of reforms implemented since 1986 to
broaden the role of market signals, raise efficiency,
and strengthen institutions in agriculture, industry
and finance. The policy reforms, supported by a
quick-disbursing component (SDR 51.4 million, or $74
million equivalent, to be released in two tranches).
include import liberalization and tariff reform.
improved access for exporters to inputs at
international prices, and appropriate exchange rate
management. These measures, which would increase the
neutrality of the trade regime, will be supplemented
by changes in trade and enterprise regulations. The
investment and technical assistance components are
closely-integrated with the policy reforms, and are
designed to make them more effective and sustainable
by accelerating the export supply response and drawing
small and medium firms into the export effort. The
investment component (SDR 15.3 million, or $22 million
equivalent) would finance the construction of the
first phase of an export processing zone (EPZ) at Athi
River near Nairobi (SDR 13.6 million, or $19.5 million
equivalent), as well as the upgrading of equipment for
air cargo handling at Jomo Kenyatta International
Airport, Nairobi. The technical assistance component
(SDR 2.8 million, or $4 million equivalent) would
finance the provision of consultancy services to
exporters and fund studies to help design the next
phase of the Government's export development program.
Benefits and
Risks:   The reforms and investments supported by the proposed
Credit will make Kenyan exports more competitive and



- iv _
raise the profitability of export-production.
Maintenance of appropriate anti-inflation and exchange
rate policies and access by exporters to inputs at
world market prices would assist in enhancing
competitiveness. Profitability, relative to producing
for domestic consumption, would be enhanced by the
trade policy reforms, and would be supplemented by
regulatory reforms, infrastructure investments, and
direct- aseistance to exporters.-The efficiency of
resource allocation within individual firms and in the
industrial sector would improve as a result of this
reorientation of incentives. The establishment of the
EPZ would encourage new investment, and together with
the economy-*ide reforms and exporter assistance would.
create additional employment, involve small and medium
firms in export production, and support the
development of Kenyan sntrepreneurship.  Flinally, the
vulnerability of the Kenyan economy to external shocks
would be reduced by the diversification and expansion
of non-traditional exports.
Successful implementation of the program faces three
A         major risks.  First, maintenance of an appropriate
-real exchange rate and the availability of 'credit to
finance private sector investment would be threatened
if the fiscal deficit is not reduced.  Under the
macroeconomic program agreed in the Policy Framework
Paper for.1990-92, the Government intends to restore
internal and external balance.  The second risk is
that the proposed reform program may not produce a
significant export response because it is not
implemented vigorous'ly or external market conditions
deteriorate, and lack of foreign exchange earnings
results in the reimposition of'import.reptrictions;
This risk would be mitigated by monitoring the
macroeconomic situstion closely and adjusting
aggregate expenditures appropriately, basing the
program on the Government's own export strategy,"and
using a variety of instruments such, as the EPZ and
direct exporter ass$stance scheme to accelerate the
supply response and,broaden-the export effort.
Finally, there is a risk that the proposed EP2'may not
be successful in attracting investors, generating
foreign exchange or employment gains, and addin8 to
value added or technology transfer.  Thi's risk is
minimized by undertaking complementary efforts'to
reorient the overall trade regime, limiting the
initial size of the zone, offering incentives    "
comparable to successful zones elsewhere? and' ensuring
that it is operated along comercial lines.



v 
Estimated Costs:
($ million)          Local   Foreign   Total
Sectoral adlustment component             -       74.0      74.0
Investment component                     16.8     12.5      29.3
Export processing zone                 16.5     10.0      26.5
Infrastructure                       11.9      7.2      19.1
Project management                    1.2      0.7       1.9
Baseline cost                    13.1       7.9      21.0
Physical contingencies             1.3      0.8       2.1
Price contingencies                2.1      1.3       3.4
Air cargo handling equipment            0.3      2.5       2.8
Studies & Technical Assistance            2.1      3.8       5.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       18.9     90.3    109.2
FinancinR Plan:
Sectoral                    Technical
(8 million)       Adiustment      Investment  Assistance  TOTAL
Government           -              7.3            0.5      7.8
IDA                74.0            22.0            4.0    100.0
Other a/             _               -             1.4      1.4
TOTAL            74.0           29.3            5.9    109.2
a/ Private sector contribution to consultancy costs for exporters.
Estimated Annual
Disbursements:
($ million)     FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95
Adjustment component      37.0    37.0       -        -       -
Investment component        -       4.3     8.4      5.6     3.7
Technical assistance       1.5      2.0     0.5       -       -
Cumulative                38.5    81.8    90.7    96.3   100.0



ADPraisal.RePort:    This is a combined President's and Staff AppVaisa1
Report .
Economic Rate of
Return:~  Calculated for' iain investment compouent. and
estimated at la percent..-
lgsP   IBRD No. 22397                           ..
r~~~~~~~~~~ ,,  
.~~       ~ ~ ~ ~ 0a
'       .        - 



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED IDA CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.01        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
credit to the Republic of Kenya to help finance an Export Development
Project. The proposed Development Credit for SDR. 69.5 million ($100
million equivalent) would be on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40
years.
1.02        A Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for the period 1990-92 was
discussed by the Executive Directors of the Bank, meeting as a Committee of
the Whole, on April 26, 1990. The PFP and the second annual arrangement
under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) was approved by
the IMF on April 30, 1990. Part I of this report provides an overview of
Kenya's economic structure and performance, development problems and
prospects, the key priorities for reform, and the Bank Group's assistance
strategy. The export development program of the Government of Kenya (GOK)
is detailed in Part II. Part III describes the features of the proposed
Credit, identifies specific performance conditions attached to it, and
evaluates the potential social impact and risks of the program. Basic
economic data are presented in Annex 1.
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. The Economy
Structure
1.03        Kenya's per capita income of $370 in 1989 places it at the
higher end of the range for low income countries. The economy has recorded
an average growth in per capita income of about two percent per year since
Independence in 1963. Agriculture is an important sector of the economy.
in terms of share of output (30 percent), employment (80 percent) and
foreign exchange earnings (almost 60 percent of merchandise exports in
1989). Kenya's manufacturing sector is among the largest in Sub-Saharan
Africa, and accounts for about 12 percent of output and 8 percent of
employment. The sector is dominated by long-established multinational and
Kenyan-Asian firms producing mainly for the domestic market. There is some
evidence of disinvestment by these firms during much of the 1980s, due
mainly to unfavorable enterprise regulations. While manufacturing has
contributed significantly to economic growth, exports from the sector have
fallen since 1980. The service sector accounts for about one-half of total
output, and has served as an important source of employment is recent
years. It includes tourism, which is now Kenya's largest single foreign
exchange earner.  Wages for unskilled and skilled workers .:-- competitive
with those found in developing countries that have attracted foreign
investors. In addition, Kenya possesses the basic resources necessary to
compete in the world marketplace--agricultural and natural resources; and



- 2 -
abundant, inexpensive and industrious workers who have been found to be
easily trainable.
Performance
1.04        Four phases can bG distinguished in Kenya's economic
performance since Independence: (a) rapid growth (averaging 6.5 percent
p.a.) and low inflation (below 4 percent p.a.) in the first decade until
1973, resulting mainly from increased agricultural output, manufactured
import-substitution and access to the East African Community markets; (b)
slower growth and rising inflation during 1973-80, due to adverse movements
in the terms of trade and the emergence of structural constraints in
agriculture and manufacturing; (c) serious macroeconomic imbalances and low
growth during 1980-85, caused mainly by the oil shock of 1979 and the
erosion of fiscal discipline; and (d) a revival of growth since 1986, that
resulted initially from improved terms of trade but has subsequently been
sustained by a favorable response from smallholder agriculture to
improvements in incentives and by maintaining public spending through
increased reliance on foreign savings. A stabilization package has been
implemented since 1987 to set the economy on a sustainable growth path.
Despite significant fluctuations in the terms of trade, a large external
debt burden, and continuing structural bottlenecks in the economy, GDP
growth has held above 5 percent p.a. during 1986-89.  The current account
deficit in 1989 declined to 5.9 percent of GDP, while the budget deficit
for FY90 is estimated to have been held at 4.2 percent of GDP.
1.05        Although Kenya stands out as a good performer by most criteria.
there are several reasons for concern about its future. This concern has
its roots in three factors. First, high rates of population growth imply
an intense pressure for employment generation, with nearly 400,000 new
entrants into the labor force each year. Large and steady increases in
output are required to preserve social and economic progress. Second,
since 1986, when Kenya benefitted from a sharp but temporary upswing in
coffee prices, the Government has found it difficult to restrict aggregate
expenditures and the operations of parastatals, and has relied partly on
expansion of the public sector and concessional assistance to support
growth. Since 1981, the private sector share in total modern sector
employment has fallen from 53 to 49 percent, and its share in gross
investment has dropped from over 13 percent of GDP to about 11 percent.
Unlike in agriculture, the Kenyan private sector has not been very active
in the structural transformation of the manufacturing sector. Third,
recent political events point to the need for greater attention to
effective governance. There is a clear perception that early actions need
to be taken to improve decision-making and resource allocation processes.
Lack of transparency, weak accountability, and concentrations of economic
and political power could act as severe constraints on the development
prospects of several sectors of the economy, through adverse effects on the
use of public resources and on the willingness of the private sector, both
foreign and domestic, to make longer term commitments to investment and
production.



- 3 -
B. Recent Stabilization and Adiustment Efforts
3.06        The Government implemented major stabilization and adjustment
programs twice during the 1980s. Kenya has enjoyed good relations with the
IMF, which has actively supported the Government's stabilization efforts,
although several programs in the early 1980s failed when targets were
breached. In 1982, the stabilization program was supported by a stand-by
arrangement with the IMF. and included a devaluation, reductions in the
budget deficit, limits on credit expansion, and adjustments of nominal
interest rates. While these measures were successful in reducing the
budget and current account deficits, and in lowering inflation, little
progress was achieved in structural adjustment despite IDA support through
two Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs) in 1980 and 1982. Trade
liberalization measures introduced under the SALs were eventually reversed,
and protection through non-tariff means intensified after 1983.
1.07        The Government began implementing another major stabilization
and adjustment program in late 1986 to correct renewed macroeconomic
imbalances and deterioration in economic performance resulting from the
loss of fiscal discipline and adverse external developments. This program
has been supported by the IMF through its stand-by arrangement, structural
adjustment facility (SAF) and enhanced structural adjustment facility
(ESAF), and by IDA with sector adjustment credits in agriculture, industry
and finance. Through the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) process, a
stabilization program coordinated with structural reforms has been agreed
annually since 1988 between GOK, the IMF and IDA. The latest PFP, covering
1990-92, was discussed by the Executive Directors of the Bank, meeting as a
Committee of the Whole, on April 26, 1990. The second annual arrangement
under the ESAF was approved by the IMF Board on April 30.
1.08        Despite progress toward stabilization and the successful
implementation of sector adjustment proc ams, which have contributed to the
good growth performance over the past fc - years, Kenya's economic recovery
is fragile. Because of the lack of growt,& and diversification of non-
traditional exports, the economy has relied excessively on foreign savings
to finance imports and the budget deficit, leaving Kenya vulnerable to
external shocks. The remaining macroeconomic imbalances, unless corrected.
threaten to undermine recent economic and stabilization gains. While the
medium-term effects of the Gulf crisis remain uncertain, preliminary
estimates by IDA and the IMF suggest that Kenya may face additional
financing needs of at least $300 million over 1991-9.. Since the expansion
of foreign exchange earnings from the adoption of an export-oriented
strategy will take time, and in view of the import liberalization that has
occurred over the past 18 months, inflows of quick-disbursing external
funds will continue to be required. Further stabilization measures to deal
with Kenya's more difficult economic environment, especially in terms of
fiscal policy, have been agreed within the context of the IMF program.



- 4 -
C.  Development Strategy and Medium-term Economic Framework
1.09        The Government's long-term development strategy is articulated
in Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1986. Economic Management for Renewed Growth.
which forms the basis of the Development Plan for 1989-93 and the series of
PFPs including the current one for 1990-92. The Sessional Paper emphasizes
the need to create productive employment opportunities for a labor force
that is expected to increase by 90 percent between 1985 and 2000.
Accordingly, it sets a high target GDP growth rate, which is to be
generated primarily by the private sector. Increasingly, the Government's
role is expected to be the provision of an appropriate enabling environment
rather than direct participation in economic activity. The strategy
emphasizes the need to increase agricultural productivity, strengthen links
between rural non-farm activities and the formal sector, and restructure
manufacturing to improve efficiency and enhance export competitiveness.
This strategy is appropriate.
1.10        As spelt out in the current PFP, the Government's specific aims
for 1990-92 are to attain output growth of over S percent; reduce inflation
by 1992 to the level forecast for Kenya's trading partners (about 5
percent) compared with 10.1 percent in 1989; and reduce the external
current account deficit to a sustainable level of 3.6 percent of GDP by
1992 (from 5.9 percent in 1989)   To achieve these objectives, the
Government intends to: (a) redu_e the budget deficit to levels that can be
sustained by foreign and non-inflationary domestic financing, and do not
crowd out the private sector; (b) limit the use of new non-concessional
sources of external financing; (c) pursue an exchange rate policy that, in
addition to complementing liberalization in the trade regime, promotes
sustained export-led growth; (d) reorient trade and industrial incentives
to reduce anti-export bias, encourage efficiency, promote the growth of
non-traditional exports and encourage domestic and foreign investment; (e)
rationalize the budget by limiting public sector employment and improving
the quality and implementation of the public sector investment program; and
(f) further improve farmer incentives, agricultural input supply and
agricultural services, particularly for smallholders.
D. Country Assistance Strategy
1.11        IDA's country assistance strategy has three main objectives:
(a) encouraging the Government to provide a stable macroeconomic
environment within which public resources are utilized more efficiently;
(b) supporting changes in the incentive framework and infrastructure base
that would facilitate the development of an efficient and export-oriented
private sector; and (c) addressing longer-term human resource issues and
arresting the deterioration of Kenya's fragile physical environment.
1.12        While actions are required on several fronts, there are three
priority areas in which IDA is well placed to support GOK's efforts: (a)
Improving public sector management, to contain fiscal expansion, improve
the effectiveness and efficiency of public expenditures, particularly the



public investment program, and limit the scope and size of parastatal
operations. These issues have been at the center of the Bank's '-:onomic
and sector dialogue with the Government, with implementation steps being
agreed in terms of sector adjustment and selected investment operations,
technical assistance, and discussion and agreement on the content of the
public investment program. (b) Expanding and diversifying the export base
to reduce dependence on external assistance. Support for these efforts
would be provided through policy-based lending, mainly in the industrial
sector, and selected infrastructure investments to relieve transport and
other physical bottlenecks. (c) Strengthening the basis for sustainable
development by addressing human resource and environmental issues. The
human resource strategy would be implemented through sector adjustment
operations and investment operations in health and education, and support
for the GOK's population program. Environmental problems would be
addressed through projects focussed on arid and semi-arid lands, forestry,
and wildlife, as well as the development with the GOK of a national
environmental action plan. The Bank's country strategy, consisting of
analytical work. the lending program and aid coordination, is designed to
address the issues identified above, while taking account of the
Government's receptivity, the role of other donors active in Kenya, and the
Bank Group's comparative institutional advantages.
Economic and Sector Work
1.13        The ESW program will underpin the country strategy by enhancing
the policy dialogue, meeting the analytical needs of the lending program,
and strengthening aid coordination. The ESW program seeks to support three
key areas of the country strategy: (a) deepening structural adjustment; (b)
rationalizing public expenditures; and (c) addressing longer-term issues of
sustainable and equitable development. Key studies planned include the
Industrial Review (FY91) focussing on the regulatory and physical
environment for the efficient expansion of the industrial sector, the
Public Investment Review (FY91) to improve the quality and composition of
development expenditure, and a Capacity Building study focussing on
improving public sector management. In addition, the ESW seeks to place
greater emphasis on longer-term issues, especially poverty alleviation,
human resource needs and the environment. A report on Human Resource
Development (FY91) addressing issues of the quality of social services,
access and equity is currently under preparation. Further work is planned
in FY91 and FY92 under the Social Dimensions of Adjustment umbrella to
develop targeted interventions for poverty alleviation. With regard to the
environment, assistance has been provided to the Government to formulate a
comprehensive wildlife management and environmental investment strategy. A
sector report and action plan is expected to be developed during FY92.
Adjustment Lending: Experience and Prospects
1.14        The increased reliance on sectoral reform programs since 1986
represented a shift in Bank strategy in Kenya away from global adjustment
operations, following the poor performance of the SALs of 1980 and 1982.
Implementation of the SALs fell short of expectations because the program
conditionality covered too many areas; the proposed pace of adjustment .as
too ambitious and unsustainable; the loans involved few substantive up-



- 6 -
front actions; and consensus within the Government on key issues was often
inadequate. Instead, by emphasizing coordinated sectoral adjustment
operations that are clearly-focused, measured and administratively
feasible, it has been possible to sustain a comprehensive and successful
reform process in the Kenyan economy. IDA approved adjustment credits for
agriculture (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation--ASAO I) in 1986.
industry (Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit--ISAC) in 1988 and the
financial sector (Financial Sector Adjustment Credit--FSAC) in 1989.
1.15        The Government began implementing ASAO I in 1986. and it
included measures to improve the timeliness, availability and application
of key agricultural inputs; improve agricultural credit policies; enhance
price incentives for agricultural producers; rationalize budgetary
allocations and expenditures; and restructure designated agricultural
parastatals. This program has been implemented, although with slower
progress than expected, in restructuring two parastatals. The second
tranche of the Credit was released in March 1988.
1.16        The ISAC was approved in 1988.  Progress in implementing the
reform program has been satisfactory in all areas and the second tranche of
the Credit was released on schedule in October, 1989. The objective of the
ISAC program was to stimulate efficiency and investment in the industrial
sector, and to initiate reforms to promote export production. Therefore,
its policy package included a broad range of actions in the areas of import
liberalization and industrial policy. During this early phase of import
liberalization, emphasis was given to enhancing the transparency of
protection by replacing quantitative restrictions (QRs) on competing
imports with tariffs. The number of tariff categories was also cut, and
initial steps were taken to reduce average tariffs; as a result, rates on
non-competing imports have come down. The Government also moved vigorously
in the areas of price decontrol, investment incentives, financial sector
measures to activate the money and capital markets, and the reform of
development finance institutions. Through improved incentives for the
operation of the manufacturing-under-bond scheme, ISAC also included a
first set of actions to reduce the anti-export bias in the industrial and
trade policy regime. However, such actions need to be intensified, as the
response of investment and non-traditional exports is yet to be manifested.
Moreover, the reform process initiated under ISAC has to be sustained over
a considerable period to build sustained business/investor confidence.
1.17        The financial sector reform program of the Government, which is
supported by FSAC and an associated Financial Sector Technical Assistance
Project, is currently under implementation. Measures implemented in the
sector include: passage of a new Banking Act which improves the legal
framework for the regulation of financial institutions; strengthened
prudential supervision by the Central Bank; improvements in monetary
programming and the use of indirect monetary policy instruments;
restructuring of several insolvent financial institutions; and maintenance
of positive real savings and lending rates. Implementation of the reform
program has exceeded expectations in several areas. The second tranche of
FSAC was released in August 1990 after all conditions for tranche release
were met. Under the financial sector reform program, interest rates are
expected to be fully liberalized by June 1991.



-7-
1.18        IDA's experience with adjustment lending in Kenya suggests that
sector-based programs have been more effective than the SALs of the early
19809 because: (a) key government agencies have been better able to -.onitor
and administer critical components of the adjustment programs; (b)
account.ability and ownership by implementing agencies has been stronger;
and (c) sectoral programs have stressed incremental changes that are
sustainable, rather than too rapid liberalization. The sustainability of
these adjustment measures has been enhanced by careful coordination with
the annual macroeconomic stabilization program designed in the context of
the PFP, and by considerable donor support that allowed Kenya to continue
to maintain liberalization measures.
1.19        Sector adjustment lending continues to be the most effective
instrument for achieving policy changes that are essential for improving
Kenya's economic performance. With the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit,
IDA will have completed a first generation of policy-based lending (three
operations) to support sector adjustment efforts. Although this strategy
has been successful, Kenya's reform agenda and its balance of payments
financing gap remain considerable. The need to be alert to stabilization
concerns, coupled with the length of time required for the realization of
benefits from the shift to a more outward-looking development strategy,
suggest that adjustment operations will have to continue as major elements
of donor assistance in the medium-term. In addition, the constituency for
policy reform needs to be broadened within Kenya. An attempt would be made
through a second-generation of policy reforms to consolidate the gains made
and deepen the adjustment process. Planned sector adjustment credits
include: (a) an agriculture sector operation (ASAO II) which, though quick-
disbursing, is the centerpiece of a larger program of outlays in the sector
that includes investments for forestry development and the establishment of
a national extension system;  (b) the export development program proposed
in this document, which recognizes that reforms in policies, while
necessary, would need to be supported by investments in infrastructure and
technical assistance to remove simultaneously the various bottlenecks that
constrain a supply response; (c) a parastatal reform program which would
seek to improve the functioning of the public sector and parastatal
enterprises, while encouraging the divestiture of public sector firms as
appropriate; and (d) programs in health and education that would address
the objective of strengthening Kenya's human resource base.
1.20        Recent experience has confirmed the importance of ensuring a
balanced macroeconomic policy environment within which sector adjustment
programs can be implemented effectively. Without appropriate demand
management, exchange rate, and public expenditure policies, the payoffs to
the sectoral adjustment approach would be reduced substantially. The
rolling three-year macroeconomic policy framework developed jointly with
the Government and IMF as part of the PFP process establishes an
appropriate policy umbrella under which sector operations can proceed, and
will be considered a precondition for such operations. Moreover, continued
efforts to assist the Government in improving public sector management and
establishing effective control over public spending in key sectors such as
education and agriculture will play a major role in improving the
macroeconomic framework.



-8-
Investment Lending: Experience and Prospects
1.21        The Bank Group has at present 4 loans and 23 IDA credits under
implementation in Kenya. Total amounts outstanding on loans and IDA
credits are $542.4 million and $1,323.2 million respectively. Eighty-seven
loans and credits have been disbursed fully. Over the past five years, IDA
commitments amounted to $647 million (Table 1) for a total of 18 credits,
including three sector adjustment operations. Annex 2 provides a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments in Kenya as of
September 30, 1990. Net Bank Group transfers to Kenya fell from $125
million in 1982 to a negative $40 million in 1986, rising gradually over
the next three years to reach $56 million in 1989. There has been no IBRD
lending since 1986, when the debt service ratio began to exceed 20 percent.
The drop in transfers resulted from: (a) the rising burden of interest
payments on over $700 million of IBRD loans; (b) the restructuring of the
project portfolio; (c) the absence of quick-disbursing loans following the
poor performance of the two SALs; and (d) the fall in new commitments from
an annual average of $184 million during 1978-82 to $94 million during
1983-86. Net transfers have increased in recent years due to the
resumption of quick-disbursing lending and the recent IDA reflows
initiative.
Table 1: IDA Cammitments to Kenya, FY86-90
($ million)
FY86     FY87     FY88      FY89     FY90
Commitments       75.0     49.0    143.8    235.0    201.6
1.22        The status of the Bank's project portfolio and implementation
performance in Kenya are satisfactory, but several areas for improvement
have been identified. Credit effectiveness is often delayed because of the
time taken to obtain the Government's legal opinion and clearance of
project documents; the management of procurement, especially of technical
assistance, needs to be standardized and speeded-up; and compliance with
audit requirements has been low. Further, delays in intra-governmental
payments and in the setting of domestic tariffs (e.g. railways), and lack
of effective coordination among official agencies have resulted in project
implementation delays. A comprehensive action plan to tackle these and
other portfolio management issues in Kenya was launched by IDA during FY90.
The action plans have resulted in an increase in supervision coefficients,
and consist of the designation of Divisional portfolio managers, systematic
midterm reviews of project performance, broader role in project supervision
for the Resident Mission, organization of country implementation reviews,



- 9 -
intensive training of project counterparts in procurement and disbursement
issues, and coordination and participation by IDA in multi-donor reviews of
procurement and project implementation. This focus on implementation.
including restructuring and cancellations of loans where required, will be
a continuing feature of the country strategy.
1.23        Looking to the future, investment projects would be selected
and designed to support the Bank's strategy. Given the importance of the
agriculture sector to Kenya's development prospects, the investment lending
program has a focus on agricultural intensification by enhancing services.
inputs, marketing and rural infrastructure. During FY91-95, operations are
planned in the areas of agricultural extension and marketing, rural
finance, forestry development, livestock, agro-industrial development, and
rural roads and water supply. To improve Kenya's neglected infrastructure,
the lending program focuses on transportation, energy and the strengthening
of local government self-financing. Special emphasis is placed in the
lending program on human resource development, poverty alleviation, women
in development, and the environment. The human resource strategy focuses
on supporting policy reforms in education and health, continuation of the
successful population program, and implementation of the Women in
Development Action Plan for Kenya. In line with the Action Plan, the
emphasis is on integrating gender issues in projects and policy reform
programs; a primary focus will be on agriculture, where efforts will be
made to increase the productivity of women farmers through extension.
Environmental problems would be addressed through projects on forestry and
wildlife, as well as through development with the Government of an
environmental action plan.
1.24        Poverty concerns will be addressed through the dialogue on food
security and nutrition, as well as in the lending program. For example,
food security is a crucial objective of ASAO II, which would require the
preparation of action plans for improving drought preparedness. The
Government has also asked the Bank to assume a lead role in helping to
formulate and implement a long-term strategy for the development of arid
and semi-arid lands. Strengthening the human resource base in these areas,
where the majority of Kenya's poor live, will be a key element of this
work. In addition, as mentioned above (para. 1.13) the Government has
requested Bank assistance within the Social Dimensions of Adjustment
framework in developing a welfare monitoring system and in designing
targeted interventions for poverty alleviation.
1.25        The effectiveness of the policy reform effort will depend
critically on generating a supply response from the private sector. In
this respect, IFC can play an important catalytic role. IFC has invested
in 15 enterprises in the industrial, financial and tourism sectors, with
total gross commitments of $146.1 million, of which $18.3 million represent
equity holdings. In industry, IFC has invested in the pulp and paper.
textiles, tanning, and agro-processing subsectors. Although during the
early 1980s IFC was able to average two new projects per year, the last
three years have witnessed a decline to one per year. The prospects for
the next few years will depend on the Government's ability to reduce the
large public sector claims on the economy's resources, and to improve the
climate for private investment. IFC has broadened its involvement with tne



-10 -
private sector in Kenya through the establishment in 1989 of the Nairobi
office of the African Enterprise Fund (AEF). The AEF allows IFC to make
loan and equity investments in smaller projects than IFC's mainline
business; it is currently reviewing two such projects in Kenya. In
addition, the Africa Project Development Facility (APDF), based in Nairobi,
continues to assist entrepreneurs to prepare project proposals and
financing. To date, APDF has assisted 10 Kenyan firms at a combined
project cost of $32.1 million. The IFC/MIGA affiliate, Foreign Investment
Advisory Services (FIAS), is assisting the Government in preparing an
investment policy statement. A seminar has been held for senior government
officials, and an official statement is under preparation.
Lending Program: Level and Composition
1.26        The lending program envisages a volume of Bank Group assistance
to Kenya of roughly $240 million per year. The strategy calls for a
reduction of quick-disbursing assistance, which will amount to roughly 50
percent of IDA lending over FY90 and FY91, to a lower level of 35 percent
by FY93. This is predicated upon a relatively high level of economic
performance which, given recent experience, has a good probability of being
attained. The resolution of recent political problems and the maintenance
of tourist receipts and aid inflows at current levels would play a critical
role in ensuring continued stability and economic performance. These
concerns suggest that the Government will have to accelerate the
implementation of policy reforms in those areas already earmarked for
action, as well as in those not covered by current and planned adjustment
operations, in order to demonstrate a continued commitment to economic
reform and to overcome the effects of a possible downturn in external
receipts. Areas requiring more vigorous government efforts include:
restraints on the growth of public sector employment, improvements in the
efficiency of public investments, and parastatal reform (including the
divestiture of activities better suited to private ownership and
operation). Thus, in the event of a deterioration in the economic
environment, the maintenance of current levels of IDA lending will depend
critically on the adoption of even stronger measures by the Government,
along the lines identified above.
1.27        The assistance strategy would call for a reduction in the
proposed lending program under two sets of circumstances. First, in the
event that agreement with the Government on structural reforms proves
elusive or is delayed, IDA would proceed only with the investment
components of the lending program. Despite continued soundness in
macroeconomic management, if the reform dialogue in a sector shows little
progress, only the affected adjustment operation would be dropped from the
lending program until such progress is visible. To this extent, the
proposed lending strategy would be self-adjusting, and IDA lending would
fall to roughly $140 million for that year. Thus, the criteria for judging
progress would be the Government's ability to sustain previous reform
efforts and to develop and implement sector reform programs which address
the structural constraints discussed above. The reform agenda in these
sectors is being defined through the policy dialogue and the Government's
own strategic and policy- statements. Second, a marked and sustained
deterioration in the macroeconomic policy environment would trigger the



- 11 -
cancellation of policy-based lending as well as of investment operations
that would not be viable in such circumstances. An inappropriate
macroeconomic framework, that is, the collapse of the PFP process, would
thus result in a lower level of assistance, essentially to a core level of
lending. Progress would be evaluated on the basis of the Government's
ability to meet agreed stabilization targets, especially in terms of the
exchange rate, containing the growth of public expenditures, and reducing
inflationary pressures.
Summing Up
1.28        In evaluating the proposed country strategy, two sets of
questions emerge. First, whether in Kenya's complex socio-political
environment there can be a sustained commitment to improving economic
management while grappling with the country's longer-term problems.
Second, whether the pace and nature of the reforms supported by the Bank
Group are appropriate and realistic in addressing Kenya's development
constraints. While it is not possible to provide definitive answers to
these questions, Kenya's recent macroeconomic imbalances have helped focus
the attention of decision-makers on the need for a serious reform effort
that could be supported by donors. The Government has itself cogently
articulated the need for stabilization and structural adjustment, and in
many instances has taken ownership of reform programs advocated by donors.
However, the process of internalizing Kenya's development agenda is far
from complete across all sectors, so that there is a need to reinforce
continuously the internal forces that advocate change. The Bank Group is
well-placed to support this process. The economic dialogue will continue
to press for a faster pace of adjustment, with the size of the associated
lending program and its quick-disbursing component being determined by
needs generated from implementing this pace. However, these efforts must
be tempered by the realization that in Kenya's current socio-political
environment, policy shifts that are too dramatic, even if implemented, may
not prove sustainable.
1.29        At the end of 1988, IBRD and IDA held 23 percent and 16
percent, respectively, of Kenya's stock of long-term public and publicly-
guaranteed debt (including IMF). By 1994, IBRD's share of total debt is
expected to fall to 7 percent, and IDA's to rise to 28 percent. With
respect to public debt servicing, IBRD's share is expected to range between
26 and 32 percent during 1990-94 and IDA's share between 2 and 4 percent.
Within the preferred creditor category, which includes IMF. AfDB and EIB,
IBRD's share in disbursed and outstanding debt is expected to decline to
about 15 percent by 1994. Although Bank Group exposure is relatively high,
risks are low given Kenya's record in terms of avoiding debt rescheduling
and relatively good prospects for the continuation of the Government's
adjustment efforts.
F. Donor Activities
1.30        The task of supporting policy reforms and development programs
in Kenya is a large one, and it is clear that the Bank cannot do this



- 12 -
alone. A key element of the country strategy is, therefore, to strengthen
the coordination of donor activities. Fortunately. Kenya is assisted by a
large number of bilateral and multilateral donors who have actively
supported the Government's adjustment efforts. Japan has recently become
the largest bilateral donor to Kenya, followed by the United States and the
United Kingdom. Major multilateral donors include the African Development
Bank, the European Community, and the European Investment Bank. As of June
30, 1989, cofinancing commitments for IDA adjustment operations totalled
$221 million, and coordinated financing amounted to $142 million. In
addition, the country has benefitted from debt forgiveness of bilateral
loans, most notably from the United Kingdom, Japan, Germany, the United
States and France. A significant number of bilateral donors currently
extend only grant assistance to Kenya. The country also participates in
the Special Program of Assistance (SPA), which has proven to be an
effective vehicle for mobilizing and coordinating donor support.
1.31        Effective donor coordination has and will remain an important
element of the country strategy, especially in assisting Kenya to meet the
additional financing needs caused by the Gulf crisis while maintaining
progress in stabilization and adjustment. Efforts to seek donor backing
for the Government's adjustmene programs will be a key aspect of this
strategy. An active role in mobilizing and coordinating this support and,
if necessary, in organizing meetings of donors to address major policy
issue, would be played by the SPA. In terms of donor coordination, the
Bank will continue the practice of holding bi-annual Consultative Group
(CG) meetings in Paris, mini-CGs in Nairobi in the intervening years,
monthly informal donor meetings in the Resident Mission and, where
appropriate, organizing sector coordination groups. Implementation of the
sectoral adjustment approach has required close cooperation with the IMF.
not only to monitor the macroeconomic framework and prepare the PFP, but
also in sector adjustment programs, particularly in trade and finance.
This cooperation has been maintained in preparing the present Credit.
II.   THE EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A.   Trade Structure and Performance
2.01        Two features of the structure and performance of Kenya's
external trade may be noted. First, the growth of trade has been
inadequate. Trade ratios have fallen over the last decade, reflecting the
increasing inward-orientation of domestic production. The merchandise
export/GDP ratio dropped from 20 percent at the end of the 1970s to 12
percent at the end of the 1980s and the merchandise import/GDP ratio
dropped from 27 percent to 22 percent over the same period. Private se-tor
imports have declined. reflecting the drop in new investment, the exis :;.ce
of large unutilized capacities, and import restrictions. Conversely,
public sector imports have expanded, reflecting the growing importance of
external aid inflows in supporting activity levels in the economy. Export
growth, although higher than in most other African countries, has been



- 13-
inadequate in relation to the employment and foreign exchange needs of the
Kenyan economy. Merchandise exports fell by 16 percent in real terms
between 1980 and 1985, and manufactured exports declined by 40 percent.
Both have recovered slightly since then, due partly to an expansion in
exports of horticultural products and hides and skins, but their real
levels in 1989 were still lower than in 1980.
2.02         Second, the lack of diversification of exports has increased
Kenya's vulnerability to external shocks and limited the growth of an
export constituency within Kenyan manufacturing. Product diversification
is limited. with nearly two-thirds of export earnings derived from coffee.
tea and tourism, and nearly 60 percent of merchandise cxports from
agricultural goods (see Annex 1). Although in absolute terms Kenya's
exports of manufactures are larger than most other African countries, their
real value has declined during the 1980s. Exports of labor-intensive
manufactures (e.g. textiles, clothing, footwear and leather products) are
low relative to most other countries of Kenya's size and level of
development. The lack of diversification is seen also in the market
orientation of exports. A significant proportion of Kenya's manufactured
exports goes to regional markets, often unrecorded and on the basis of
unofficial barter. While developing country exports of manufactures to
developed countries have been growing, Kenya's share has fallen. Although
several anew" Kenyan products have appeared on export markets (e.g.
horticultural products, high-value finished garments. sports goods), little
of the country's diversified manufacturing output is currently competitive
on a cost or quality basis in the more demanding OECD markets. Finally,
lack of diversification is seen in the limited involvement of small and
medium firms in manufactured expor.tr (including the processing of
agricultural products), unlike in other successful developing countries.
The major exporters are large firms, many of which are of foreign origin.
Manufacturing for export is therefore not a avisible* activity, and
provides limited employment and little diffusion of technology or
entrepreneurship to other manufacturing sectors.
B. Constraints on the Development of Non-Traditional Exports
2.03         The recent experience of developing countries suggests that
successful export development depends on a multitude of factors. In terms
of overall incentives, low and stable rates of import protection, a
competitive exchange rate, and access by exporters to inputs and sales at
world market prices are critical. However, changes in incentives by
themselves are seldom enough. Supportive changes in the regulatory
envirornment, and the availability of information services, working capital
finance, and high quality production, trade facilitation and transport
infrastructure have been found to be equally important determinants of
export success. The following section evaluates the environment for export
production in Kenya in terms of what is known about the requirements for
successful export development.



- 14 -
The Policy Environment
2.04        The main elements of the trade regime that determine the
absolute and relative profitability of export production are the exchange
rate, import protection, and export incentives. In Kenya, their aggregate
impact has been to create an incentive structure that deviates
significantly from neutrality (among exportables, importables and non-
tradeables). Measures of the real exchange rate indicate that the absolute
profitability of Kenyan exporters was greatly squeezed during the first
half of the 1980s. Subsequently, however, Kenya has followed a flexible
exchange rate policy, and the Shilling has depreciated in real terms
(relative to its trading partners) in conformity with the exchange rate
targets specified under the IMF-supported stabilization program.
Nevertheless, continued (though modest) real depreciation is still required
to offset the earlier appreciation of the Shilling. The Government has
also initiated reforms in import policies, with the ultimate objective of
reducing the level and dispersion of effective protection. Under ISAC, the
coverage of quantitative restrictions was reduced, ad valorem rates
substituted for specific tariffs, and tariff categories decreased from 25
to 12 and were revised so that similar rates apply to comparable products.
However, the level and dispersion of effective protection remain high,
thereby reducing the profitability of export production relative to import
substitution. Finally, despite recent reforms, the export incentives
system has done little to enhance export profitability.
2.05        Exchange rate policies.  The real exchange rate (RER), i.e.,
the nominal exchange rate adjusted for inflation differentials between
Kenya and a reference group of countries, is a key determinant of the
absolute profitability of export production. 1/ The decline in real
manufactured exports during 1980-84 and its partial recovery since then
(para. 2.01) are reflected in the trends in the RER since 1980. Following
a depreciation of about 47 percent during the 1970s, the RER, by standard
trade-weighted measures, appreciated by 11 percent during 1980-84.
However, since 1985 the RER has depreciated by over 14 percent, due largely
to the significant nominal depreciations undertaken in the Government's
stabilization program. These trends are also evident in RER measures other
than the trade-weighted index. Therefore, given the real depreciation of
the Shilling since 1985, exchange rate adjustments have a more limited role
in Kenya's stabilization and export promotion policies than in other
African countries.
2.06        However, alternative measures of the RER vary in their
assessments of the extent to which the real appreciation that occurred
during 1980-84 has been reversed. Measures that focus more explicitly on
manufactured and non-traditional exports than the trade-weighted index show
that while exchange rate distortions are being eliminated gradually with
nominal depreciations, the RER has not been restored to its 1980 level.
The profitability of Kenyan manufactured exporters has been squeezed
because the nominal depreciations have not compensated sufficiently for the
1/ The level of the RER measures the relative price of non-tradeables to
tradeables.



inflation differentials between Kenya and (a) its manufactured export
partners, and (b) third countries that compete for the same markets. These
Sindings suggest that continued anti-inflation and exchange rate actions,
along the lines agreed in the recent PFP and the second annual arrangement
under the ESAF, would be needed to improve export competitiveness further.
2.07        Import protection.  Domestic producers are protected from
imports by the import licensing system and with tariffs, although tariff
levels have also been determined by the Government's revenue needs.
Attempts to reduce protection have been underway since the SALs in the
early 1980s, with little sustained progress until the ISAC program in 1988.
2.08        Under ISAC, the import licensing system has been made more
transparent, with licenses now granted automatically for all imports except
those on Schedule 3C. 21 As Table 2 shows, QRs now affect about 22
percent of all items, and slightly above 5 percent of total import value
Table 2: QUANTITATIVE RESTRICTIONS AND AVERAGE TARIFFS
Coverage of QRs              Average Tariff Rate
Year  Z of items    2 of imports 1/ unweighted  import-weighted 21
1986/87    40.3           12.0             38.8           24.4
1989/90    29.6            7.0             46.3           24.1
1990/91    22.1            5.4             45.4           19.9
1/  Import values refer to actual 1986/87 data to allow comparability.
2/ Weighted by actual imports.
(standardized with FY87 values)--a significant reduction from the
corresponding amounts in FY87 (before the implementation of the ISAC
reforms). Under ISAC, QRs on Schedule 3B items were replaced with tariffs
that, in most cases, provide less than equivalent protection. Despite the
reduction in import coverage, QRs on Schedule 3C impo_ts continue to
2/ Since June 1988, Kenya's imports have been classified into five
schedules: Schedule 1--high-priority raw materials, intermediate and
capital goods; Schedule 2--bulk items that require ministerial approval
regarding specific technical criteria (e.g., fertilizer); Schedule 3A--
items similar to those in Schedule 1, but less standardized; Schedule 3B--
imports that compete with domestic production and are restricted only with
tariffs; and Schedule 3C--other competing imports and luxury goods,
restricted with QRs, including items restricted for public health and
safety reasons. In general, consumer goods, intermediate inputs and
capital goods are distributed across all Schedules.



- 16 -
protect a large proportion of domestic value added in the manufacturing
sector. The lack of compatible production and import data for the
manufacturing sector makes it difficult to estimate the precise share, but
it i'icludes the bulk of the food processing, textiles, leather processing.
and fabricated metal sub-sectors. Such QR-based protection is not
transparent, provides differential protection to firms even within the same
industry, implies a revenue loss to the Government, and corresponds to
tariff-equivalents that are much higher than the maximum nominal tariff.
2.09        As Table 2 shows, the weighted average tariff is now about 20
percent as a result of measures announced in the 1990191 Budget,
significantly lower than in FY87, although, as is common in the first phase
of import liberalization, the unweighted average tariff has risen sharply
due to the conversion of QRs on Schedule 3B imports to their tariff
equivalents. Despite the moderate average tariff, the cascading structure
of nominal tariffs (which has increased since FY87) results in high and
variable effective protection rates for different activities. 3/ Under
ISAC, a first step towards reducing dispersion was taken in the form of a
cut in the number of tariff categories from 25 to 12. However, the
variability of protection is also affected by the frequency of ad hoc duty
exemptions provided mainly for imports of capital and intermediate inputs.
While detailed data on such exemptions are not available, the difference
between statutory and effective tariff rates, particularly for capital
goods and intermediates, results largely from such exemptions, in addition
to leakages at Customs. Their incidence also accounts for substantial
revenue losses.
2.10        Export incentives.  Apart from facilities intended to
compensate exporters for duties paid on imported inputs, there are no other
incentives targeted specifically at exports. Existing schemes include
export compensation (EC) and manufacturing-under-bond (MUB). The EC scheme
has been in place since 1974, and is currently available to all exporters
of eligible products (the list is modified periodically). It provides
exporters, upon completion of their export, with a refund of 20 percent of
the FOB export value to compensate for duties paid on imported inputs. The
MUB scheme, which was revamped in June 1988 as part of the ISAC program,
applies only to firms that produce entirely for exports, and exempts these
firms from duties on imported inputs. However, serious problems remain in
the operation of both schemes, and neither has been effective in offsetting
the prevailing disincentives to exports.
31   Th.s pattern is evident from the Table 2 of Annex 7, which shows that
the average effective tariffs on capital, intermediate and consumer goods
were 20, 22 and 35 percent respectively in FY87, and 15, 21, and 35 percent
respectively in FY89. As the Bank's Industrial Sector Report (1987)
reported on the basis of a survey of industrial firms, effective protection
rates ranged between -167 and over 1000 percent for individual activities.



- 17 -
2.11        The EC scheme has been plagued by delays in effecting
compensation payments. and benefits only a few exporters. 4I Moreover,
its use of a flat 20 percent rebate rate under- or over-compensates
products according to their import content (since tariffs on intermediate
and raw material imports range from 0 to 80 percent), while its reliance on
a positive list to define eligibility (currently 1250 items) implies that
access to duty-free imports is not available to all potential exports.
While the MUB scheme can benefit only firms that specialize in export
production, its attraction is limited even further by its high operating
costs (license fees, bonding costs and Customs costs), and the prohibition
on domestic sales of rejects. Only five firms use this facility at
present. Although attempts are underway to speed up the processing of
claims under the EC scheme and to simplify MUB regulations, these would not
be adequate to support a broad-based expansion in exports.
2.12        Anti-export bias.  The preceding analysis shows that exchange
rate policies have not fully restored the absolute profitability of
manufactured export production to its 1980 level, while the import
protection regime continues to make export production less profitable
relative to import-substitution activities. Moreover, as Table 3 in Annex
7 shows, the existing export incentives system does not offset this bias
against exportables.
Regulations
2.13        The ability of firms to respond to changes in the incentive
structure that encourage export production depends critically on the
regulatory framework within which they operate. Particularly relevant in
this context are regulations that affect foreign and domestic investment,
foreign trade and transport, and production for exports. A review of these
regulations indicates that: (a) redundancies in licensinglapprovals exist
particularly in the areas of industrial registration, customs procedures
for export, and export licensing; (b) a combination of higher fees and
longer validity of licenses could avoid the need for frequent renewals in
the areas of domestic and foreign trade and transportation; and (c) the
speed and transparency of approval and licensing procedures must be
enhanced for Customs clearance, investment approvals, remittance of
dividends, profits and capital gains, and payments for technology and
management contracts. Regulations regarding automatic approval for
remittances of profits and royalties are of particular importance to a
strategy that intends to attract foreign investors into export industries,
although under current resource constraints they would need to be phased in
gradually. 5/
g/ Since FY1981, the top four exporters have received between 37 and 66
percent of each year's total payments under the scheme.
5/ A preliminary review of foreign investment policies has been completed
with the assistance of IFCIMIGA staff in its Foreign Investment Advisory
Services (FIAS). A proposal to reform regulatory requirements has been
submitted to Cabinet by the Investment Promotion Centre.



- 18 -
2.14        Export licensing requirements are particularly cumbersome.  All
exporters are required to have general trade (export) licenses, which must
be renewed annually. In addition, each export shipment must be licensed
separately. Product-specific export licenses (renewed annually) are also
required for thirty-eight items for a variety of reasons ranging from
ensuring adequate domestic supplies to the need for ensuring export product
quality. Hence, a Kenyan exporter of horticultural products (which require
a specific export license) must obtain three sets of licenses before he can
make his first shipment, and must then be licensed for each export
shipment, besides having to renew two licenses each year. Obviously, these
licensing requirements are costly (particularly to small and inexperienced
exporters), and may even make it unprofitable to export. 6/
2.15        Price decontrol is a regulatory area in which considerable
reform has occurred since the implementation of ISAC. Prices of 20 product
categories were decontrolled in 1988, and currently 18 categories remain
controlled under the General Price Control Order, while 11 others (mostly
consumer staples) are subject to Specific Price Control Orders. Since
1988, prices of several additional items within these product categories
have been decontrolled, including 76 products since October 1989. Price
controls have had three main adverse consequences for Kenyan manufacturing:
(a) high cost and low quality production in price-controlled industries has
hindered their export as well as that of products that use them as inputs;
(b) the use of cost-plus pricing formulae in setting controlled prices has
discouraged efficient production; and (c) delays in responding to
producers' requests for price increases and the use of outdated price
information have reduced profitability and new investments in these
industries.
Finance
2.16        An additional constraint on supplying export markets is the
absence of trade financing. Funds are required by exporting firms for the
purchase of local and imported intermediate inputs, for payments to
domestic factors, and for holding inventories. Currently, well-established
firms are able to obtain investment and working capital funding from the
formal financial system relatively easily by securing term loans or
overdraft facilities with fixed asset collateral. However, such credits
are in local currency, and significant costs are involved in making the two
currency conversions required to complete each funding-repayment cycle. In
addition, given the credit ceilings that currently operate, the
availability of funding for export activities is not assured. For smaller
firms, or those with limited or impaired collateral, the export of
manufactures is inhibited by the absence of pre-shipment financing based on
export transactions documentation, forcing firms to rely on high-cost
sources of funds such as internal savings or informal markets.
61 It is estimated that the costs incurred by exporters in processing
imports and exports are, respectively, 10 percent of CIF import value and
percent of FOM export value.



- 19 -
2.17        Most exporting firms cannot obtain financing from the organized
financial system for three reasons: (a) Export production is considered to
be riskier than production for the local market because of inappropriate
and uncertain incentives. In the Kenyan context, in which interest rate
ceilings have been binding, financial institutions have found spreads on
loans to exporters to be inadequate to cover the risks of non-performance.
(b) Financial institutions are inexperienced with cash flow-based
financing in general, and the funding of non-commodity export transactions
in particular. (c) Although under existing financial arrangements the
Central Bank (CBK) can rediscount pre- and post-shipment export loans
granted by commercial banks, the rediscount rate is set inappropriately.
Since this rate is set at 3.5 percent above the Treasury Bill rate, and
effectively 4 percent and 1.5 percent, respectively, above the administered
ceilings on short- and long-term loans, little use is made of this
facility. Without money market instruments for managing the liquidity of
private sector financial paper, even firms with confirmed letters of credit
for exports have difficulty obtaining internationally-competitive funding.
Direct Support to Exporters
2.18        The provision of exporter assistance in Kenya extends back to
1965, when the Kenya Export Promotion Council was founded by the Kenya
Association of Manufacturers and GOK. The Council was reconstituted as the
Kenya External Trade Authority (KETA) in 1976, with strong private sector
representation. However, following the resignation of the private sector
members of its Board over 1985-87, KETA was absorbed into the Ministry of
Commerce. Support programs for exporters have since been conducted by its
Department of External Trade. Several other organizations are also
involved in exporter assistance--the Investment Promotion Centre, Kenya
Bureau of Standards, and Kenya National Trading Corporation--all of which
are parastatals, and the Kenya Association of Manufacturers and the Kenya
National Chamber of Commerce and Industry. However, such involvement is
small, erratic and indirect, and the main thrust of Kenya's exporter
assistance program is imparted through the Ministry.
2.19        Despite extensive and continuing help by external donors, the
Ministry's (and earlier, KETA's) activities are a textbook study in the
ineffectiveness of official trade promotion agencies. Without general
policies that support export development and incentives to motivate
producers to seek out export markets, exporter assistance programs-_
consisting of promotion through trade fairs, publicity, information and
training--have proven to be premature and, therefore, ineffective. Also,
the Ministry's staffing, bureaucratic orientation, small budget and lack of
accountability to the private sector render it unsuitable to provide the
broad range of services required by Kenyan exporters. especially small and
medium firms.
2.20        Surveys of such firms were conducted in preparing GOK's export
development strategy. They showed that, at the firm level, installed
manufacturing and processing capacities require considerable strengthening
and reorientation in order to deliver products for sale in the more
demanding external markets. Provided that policy measures to increase
international demand for Kenyan products are implemented, the supply



- 20 -
response can be supported and accelerated by the provision of consulting
services in the following areas: market research and exploration, product
and packaging re-design, product inspection and improved quality control
systems, cost reduction at all stages of supply, travel to export markets,
pre-investment studies for export projects, establishing distribution and
selling operations in export markets, acquiring design and process know-
how, and training in support of these activities. The attraction of
"export catalysts", either individual investors or established foreign
firms, could also make a useful contribution in meeting the need for such
services, and GOK has recently initiated several actions in this area to
create a demonstration effect.
Subsectoral Constraints and Infrastructure
2.21        In addition to the overall incentive framework and other
generic constraints on export development, there are specific deficiencies
in subsectoral policies and institutions, and in physical infrastructure.
In several instances, interventions would result in large benefits to both
domestic and external trade. For example, handling efficiencies at Mombasa
Port (where, on average, waiting and servicing time is nine days),
improvements in Customs operations (where productivity is very low during
normal shifts and overtime payments have escalated, along with illegal
activity), abolition of Kenya Airfreight Handling Limited's monopoly of air
cargo terminal operations at Nairobi Airport, and better arrangements for
transit and internal container traffic would all provide considerable and
immediate benefits to the economy. In other cases, improvements in
policies and physical infrastructure could be expected to contribute
directly to increased foreign exchange earnings and employment in specific
exporting subsectors. For example, a recent consultant study of the
tourism sector--funded jointly by USAID and IDA--identified a series of
actions that would increase net foreign exchange retention from tourism and
strengthen the base for sustainable development of the sector. The
measures proposed by the study include improved land zoning, restructuring
of official agencies (e.g. Kenya Tourism Development Corporation) and their
mandates, upgrading of physical infrastructure, and changes in licensing
and tariff policies. The information base to support subsectoral reforms
of this type requires considerable strengthening, and it is expected that
several studies would be completed through the assistance of external
donors in the near future.
C. Objectives and Approach of Export Development Program
Obiectives
2.22        Kenya's exports, which consist mainly of coffee, tea, other
agricultural products and tourism, have been erratic and insufficient to
promote overall economic development. Concerns about export performance.
employment and increased reliance on external inflows prompted the
Government of Kenya (GOK) to prepare an export development strategy paper
in late 1989, which was subsequently discussed with IDA and used as a basis
for designing the EDP. It recognized that past rates of growth of export



- 21 -
earnings and non-agricultural employment would not be sufficient to support
sustained increases in Kenya's per capita income and accommodate the
projected expansion of its labor force. Moreover, given current fiscal
constraints, the required growth in foreign exchange earnings and
employment would have to come mainly from increased private sector
investment and export production. Therefore, the Government has decided to
implement a broad-based strategy that draws mainly from the experience of
successful exporting countries in East Asia and Mauritius, where export
promotion has been linked closely with the development of small and medium
firms and inflows of private foreign investment. Exports will be promoted
through changes in trade incentives, parallel reforms in enterprise
regulations, and direct assistance to exporters through improved access to
finance, production/marketing technologies, and high quality physical
infrastructure.
2.23        The export development program would not only support the
second phase of ISAC reforms, which is intended to reduce the anti-export
bias, but also supplement it with more direct measures and institutional
support to encourage an export supply response. Thus, while the policy
elements of the proposed operation have many of the same objectives as the
ISAC program, they would push aggressively toward increasing the neutrality
of the trade regime. This would be achieved by reorienting incentives,
both toward enhancing the profitability of non-traditional exports (through
appropriate exchange rate management and improved access for exporters to
inputs at international prices) and by squeezing profits in highly-
protected import-substitution activities (through continued liberalization
of imports). To support the policy reforms and generate urgently-needed
employment opportunities, and in order to build the momentum for subsequent
phases of export development, the EDP would support institutional and
infrastructure development for an export processing zone and for the
handling and transportation of export products. Thus GOK's objective is to
combine the provision of a concentrated package of resource-intensive high-
quality infrastructure and comprehensive policy liberalization--to generate
an early supply response and demonstration effects for the rest of the
economy--with the phased introduction of measures to eliminate the anti-
export bias on an economy-wide basis, thereby ensuring a broader base for
employment and foreign exchange earnings. The program would also help
implement institutional reforms and direct assistance schemes to support
nascent exporters, and finance studies to inform the next phase of export
development. Thus, the institutional and investment components of this
operation would support changes in the policy regime, and also help in
achieving an explicit focus on export promotion.
Approach
2.24        In addition to consensus on the need for export promotion,
there is agreement within the Government and with donors about the
direction, sequencing and timing of trade liberalization in Kenya. Since
the EDP would be implemented in the context of past agreements, it includes
several elements of continuity that deepen and extend policy reforms
initiated under ISAC. Specifically, the EDP would (a) complete the
conversion of QRs into tariffs; (b) further reduce tariffs on non-competing



- 22 -
imports while initiating tariff reductions on imports that compete with
domestic production; and (c) reduce the dispersion of effective protection.
2.25        As the success of the EDP depends critically on a positive
response from the private sector, the reform package must be sustainable.
Sustainability has two major implications for the program: (a) The export
supply response needs to be rapid and visible. Therefore, a strategy that
considers using all viable, cost-effective and proven options for the
expansion of exports. even if these are limited in nature, should be
adopted. Also, the correspondence between targets and instruments needs to
be clearer, and the 'pain' inflicted through liberalization measures
tailored carefully to match the "gains' derived from implementing the
strategy. (b) Currently, a constituency that supports non-traditional
exports, as opposed to traditional commodity exports and the manufacture of
import-substitutes, does not exist. Export development needs to be a
national effort, with a clear and articulate domestic political
constituency. A critical factor in developing the national consensus would
be the full participation of small and medium businesses, many of which are
owned by Kenyan-Africans. A concerted effort is needed, therefore, to
provide exporter assistance that is oriented towards drawing smaller firms
into export production.
2.26        The export development effort is expected to be maintained over
several years. At this stage concrete measures have been articulated and
support of IDA and other donors has been sought for the first stage, to be
carried out over the next 24 months. The Government's longer-term
strategy, which is articulated in its Letter of Export Policy (see Annex
4), is intended to: (a) implement a neutral incentive regime; (b) use
tariffs for protective purposes while relying on indirect taxes to meet its
revenue objectives; (c) reduce the scope of licensing in the economy; and
(d) improve the functioning of the financial system in supporting
production and investment. In the interim, while protection is high and
variable, the Government intends to reduce the anti-export bias by
providing exporters access to inputs at international prices through the
implementation of several parallel schemes (e.g. improved export
compensation, duty/VAT exemption, MUB, EPZ). The schemes would be reviewed
over the next two years, and consolidated as required. The reviews and
detailed design of subsequent phases of the program would be based on
analytical work planned for 1991 and 1992 by the Government and other
donors, as well as on studies to be funded under the proposed Credit and
forthcoming sector work by IDA.
2.27        It is evident, however, that reforms in policies, while
necessary, would not be sufficient by themselves in removing constraints to
export production. To make the policy reforms more effective and
sustainable, actions are also required to remove impediments to efficient
production and marketing and to draw small and medium firms into the export
effort. Bottlenecks in physical infrastructure for handling and
transporting exports, and institutional inadequacies in specific areas need
to be addressed simultaneously. Therefore, the first stage of the export
development program would be supported by an IDA Credit consisting of
funding for a closely integrated package of policy, investment and



- 23 -
technical assistance components. The specific components are described
below in paras. 2.29-2.42.
D. Policy Reforms
Macroeconomic Policy
2.28        The macroeconomic framework for the EDP has been described in
para. 1.10. During implementation, the following macroeconomic policies
are expected to have an important bearing on the success of the project:
(a) flexible exchange rate management; (b) reduction in the public sector
deficit and its domestic financing; and (c) reduction in the growth of
broad money. The competitiveness of Kenyan exports depends partly on
continued real depreciation of the Shilling. This depends, in turn, on
management of the nominal rate as well as a reduction in domestic
inflation, which is currently almost double that of Kenya's trading
partners. A moderation in the growth of the money supply, which has
expanded in response to the financing requirements of the Government, would
be necessary to achieve this objective. However, for any given level of
increase in broad money, credit market pressures from expansionary budget
financing need to be reduced to allow for expanded private sector needs.
When interest rates in the economy are fully liberalized, as scheduled in
June 1991, both the cost and availability of credit would be critical
factors in determining the pace of expansion and reorientation of
capacities toward export production. As detailed in the current PFP, and
as reflected by its recent actions, the Government is committed to pursuing
appropriate policies in each of the above areas.
Trade Policy
2.29        The program would support continued increases in the
transparency of protection, reductions in the level and dispersion of
effective protection, and greater use of indirect taxes rather than import
duties to meet the revenue needs of the Government. The specific
components would be:
(a) Except for products that would be retained in Schedule 3C (and
subject to QRs) for public health, environment and public safety
reasons, all other items currently in 3C would be shifted to Schedule
3B by June 30, 1991 (Second Tranche condition), with equivalent or
lower tariffs imposed on their imports. This would complete the June
1990 transfer of a large block of items (nearly 55 percent of the
items in the pre-June Schedule 3C) from Schedule 3C to 3B, which was
undertaken prior to Board Presentation of the Credit.
(b) A reduction in tariff levels would be implemented and
coordinated with more active use of the exchange rate (as agreed in
the PFP) and greater reliance on the VAT for revenue collections. In
the first year (i.e. as announced in the Budget of June 1990 and
undertaken as a condition of Board Presentation), a reduction of 5
percentage points in the import-weighted average tariff of all



- 24 -
Schedules except the current 3C was completed. This reduction was
achieved by shifting a large number of items currently in Schedules 1
through 3B to the next lower tariff rate, and implied a
proportionately larger cut in Schedule 3B (mainly competing imports).
The dispersion of tariff rates was also reduced by eliminating (i)
the highest rate category (135 percent) for all Schedules, (ii) the
next highest category (100 percent) for many items in all Schedules
except the present 3C, and (iii) moving some items at 'zeron tariff
rates to the next highest rate (which have simultaneously lowered
incentives for capital flight through over-invoicing of imports).
Further tariff reductions would be announced by June 30, 1991 and
would be linked to release of the second tranche of the quick-
disbursing component of the EDP. It is not the policy of the
Government to announce fiscal measures in advance of the annual
Budget Speech. However, in view of understandings reached during
preparation of the Credit, and as affirmed in the attached Letter of
Export Policy, the tariff reductions would be guided by the same
principles as the first stage. They would aim to reduce the level
and variability of effective protection and, combined with continued
efforts to maintain an appropriate exchange rate, would include the
following: a reduction in average tariffs of a similar magnitude to
that implemented in the FY90 Budget, and further narrowing of the
dispersion of tariff rates.
(c) To compensate for revenue losses from the tariff changes in June
1990 and June 1991, VAT coverage and rates need to be raised. A
first set of adjustments was announced in the June 1990 Budget.
Further, tariff exemptions provided to non-exporters would be
reviewed in a Ministry of Finance study, and revenue losses from such
exemptions would be reduced, by end-June 1991 (condition for release
of the Second Tranche). Finally, in order to reduce speculation and
the erosion of import duties, the period for which imported items may
be stored in common bonded warehouses was reduced to a maximum of one
year in June 1990 (as a condition of Board Presentation), after which
period such goods would be subject to duty.
Export Incentives
2.30        The program includes a set of measures to allow exporters
access to inputs at international prices, and to promote the provision of
trade financing and improved services for exporters. At the same time, the
Credit would support actions to strengthen the free trade status of
exporters operating in the manufacturing-under-bond (MUB) scheme, and
extend broader incentives to investors locating in a proposed export
processing zone. The specific components of the Credit are:
(a) An import duty/VAT exemption scheme has been introduced (as a
condition of Board Presentation) to provide direct exporters access
to inputs at international prices. The scheme is tied to specific
export contracts or past export performance; it is based on product-
specific value coefficients; eligibility would be broader than under
the EC scheme; and import documentation, ex-post audits, and
performance bonds posted by exporters would be used to limit abuses.



- 25 -
In the first year of operation, the number of products eligible for
the duty/VAT exemption would be broadened every quarter. but a
negative list would be implemented the following year.
(b) The existing export compensation (EC) scheme, which provides a
flat 20 percent refund to eligible exporters, was amended recently
(as a condition of Board Presentation) to accelerate payments to
exporters and to broaden product coverage. In future, exporters
would be able to choose between the EC and exemption schemes, but
safeguards would be instituted to prevent use of both facilities for
the same export consignment.
(c) The manufacturing-under-bond system was reformed recently (as a
condition of Board Presentation) to reduce operating costs (through
simplification of bonding requirements covering the transit of goods
between warehouses and factories), to allow firms to sell rejects in
the domestic market, and to extend the scheme to three new urban
centres (in addition to the three centres at which HUB is currently
allowed).
td) To meet the working capital needs of exporting firms, the
Government has reactivated the Central Bank of Kenya's facility for
rediscounting private financial paper (see para. 2.17). The facility
would allow commercial banks who grant preshipment loans to exporters
(against confirmed and irrevocable letters of credit or confirmed and
verified export contracts) to rediscount with CBK the accommodation
bill created as a result of this transaction. Introduction of the
scheme would involved elimination of the penalty rate that applied to
rediscounting by the Central Bank of private sector financial paper
held by commercial banks.
Regulatory Reform
2.31        The proposed Credit would support the Government's actions to
ease the regulatory environment for investment, production, capacity
expansion and trading in Kenya. The following actions would be taken:
(a) In the area of enterprise and trade regulations, actions would
be taken over 24 months to eliminate redundant licenses and
procedures that affect exports, reduce the frequency of license
renewals, and improve the processing and transparency of existing
regulations. Reforms in this area would occur in the context of a
wider review of production and investment regulations that is
underway. and includes assistance from HIGA/IFC. Specific reforms
include:
(i)   Separate registrations currently required of firms under
the Industrial Registration, Statistics and Factories Acts and
by the Kenya Bureau of Standards and National Social Security
Fund would be consolidated before Second Tranche release. AS
an interim measure, all such registrations have been
centralized at the Investment Promotion Centre.



- 26 _
(ii) To reduce the number of approvals for manufacturing and
trading and to increase competition, before release of the
Second Tranche licenses required under the Trade Licensing Act
would be consolidated and their scope broadened. A timetable
for such actions has been agreed. Three classes of licenses
would exist: manufacturer/trader; general trader; and small
trader. Further, a single license would be valid for export,
import and domestic trade; in the case of the latter, no
distinction would be made in the case of manufacturer/trader
and general trader licenses among wholesale, retail and other
levels of distribution. Finally, enterprises would be given
the option of acquiring licenses with a validity period of up
to three years, rather than being restricted to annual
renewals.
(iii) Only a minimum set of approvals--environmental, health
and safety, and legal--will be retained for all new
investments, and amendments will be made to existing
legislation to accommodate the elimination, consolidation or
automatic approval of other permits (totalling 24). A specific
proposal towards this end was prepared by the Investment
Promotion Centre and was approved by the Cabinet Sub-Committee
on Investments in December 1989. Agreement on the next steps
in implementing the new regime were reached with IDA as a
condition of Board Presentation. Implementation of the
proposals would require the formulation of a Miscellaneous
Amendment to alter existing laws, and would imply a broadening
of the principle of 'automatic" approvals, once firms have been
cleared by the Investment Promotion Centre. The implementation
of the measures proposed in the IPC paper would be completed
prior to release of the Second Tranche of the Credit.
(iv) The licensing requirement for individual export
consignments have been eliminated, except for a limited number
of products covered by the Imports, Export and Essential
Supplies (Exports) Order. In addition, the number of products
covered under the Order has been reduced from 38 to 19. Items
remaining on the list consist mainly of food, but also include
antiques, ivory and bullion.
(v)   A consistent and transparent queuing system for the
external payment of dividends and royalties has been publicized
and implemented. The queuing list specifies the criteria to be
applied in evaluating requests for such payments
(b) Price decontrols, which have covered additional products since
release of the second tranche of ISAC, would be systematically
extended during the period of implementation of the proposed Credit.
especially for potential exportables and inputs into export
industries. Further, the use of import-parity pricing would be
expanded for items that remain under price control. In view of the
good record of Kenyan policymakers in decontrolling prices (see para.
2.15), and given basic agreement with IDA on the principles to be



- 27 -
applied, the scope and timing of specific actions would be determined
by the Government.
E. Investments
2.32        The investment component of the proposed Credit consists of two
parts: (a) support for construction of the first phase of an export
processing zone at the Athi River near Nairobi; and (b) purchase of
equipment to improve air cargo handling capabilities at Jomo Kenyatta
International Airport in Nairobi. Both parts are considered to be integral
to the export effort, as explained below, and benefits from implementation
of the investment components would be substantially enhanced by effective
implementation of the broader policy elements of the export program.
Export Processing Zone
2.33        Rationale.  The establishment of EPZs, both public and private.
is an integral part of GOK's strategy to enhance the neutrality of the
trade regime. To ensure its sustainability, the reform strategy combines
phased economy-wide measures that benefit all exporters with measures aimed
at providing comprehensive policy liberalization, together with high
quality infrastructure and business services, to specific groups of
exporters within the context of schemes such as MUB and the proposed EPZ.
Experience in other developing countries shows that EPZ-type investments
can support more comprehensive reforms in the trade regime in two ways: (i)
they are capable of producing a quick and visible response in terms of
foreign exchange earnings and employment creation; and (ii) by illustrating
the profitability of exports, they can provide a powerful demonstration
effect to producers who have been oriented historically towards domestic
markets. These benefits from EPZ development are particularly relevant to
Kenya, given the need to sustain trade reform, the absence of an existing
export constituency, and the lack of widespread experience in exporting
manufactures to non-regional markets.
2.34        Description.  Construction of the first stage (about 93
hectares, of which about 69 hectares would be used for industrial sites) of
an export processing zone at Athi River, near Nairobi, would be supported
by the Credit. The Credit would finance on-site and off-site
infrastructure, including roads, water supply, sewerage and waste disposal
facilities, power lines, and basic sites and services for worker housing.
Due to the advanced state of design, construction of the zone is expected
to begin in July 1991, and would be completed over 24 months.
2.35        Agreement on IDA support for the EPZ was reached during
implementation of ISAC, and an SPPF was extended in June 1989 to undertake
a study consisting of analyses of investor demand, product profiles,
economic and financial feasibility, and of alternative sites and
environmental effects. On the basis of a review of the study, which
established the feasibility and desirability of an EPZ at the designated
site, a PPF was approved in April 1990 to complete the design and
engineering analyses. The study has been completed and was used in the



- 28 -
appraisal of this component of the EDP. The economic rate of return for
Phase I is estimated at 18 percent, which compares favorably with both ex
ante and ex post returns calculated for successful EPZs in other developing
countries.
2.36        The design of the enabling framework and implementing
regulations for the EPZ has been based upon the findings of the
consultants' report, and a 1989 study funded by USAID. Legislation
governing zone activities was presented to Parliament in June 1990, and
would be enacted prior to the disbursement of funds for the EPZ component.
A survey of investors suggests that the strongest demand for locating
within the zone would come from multinationals already operating in Kenya,
but desirous of reorienting production to export markets. It is expected
thet producers of apparel, leather/footwear, fcod products, packaging
materials, and electronic and electrical goods would find it profitable to
locate in the zone. To attract and retain a broader range of producers,
the draft legislation for the EPZ provides firms with a package of
incentives that is internationally competitive, and would minimize
administrative and other impediments to free trade. Although owned and
developed by the Government, the zone would be run on a commercial basis by
a private sector operator. Annex 5 provides additional details on this
component.
2.37        Environmental Mitigation.  The proposed EPZ site is not
contiguous with any wildlife reserve areas. However, owing to the
proximity of the Nairobi National Park and wildlife transit routes, site
selection and design of the EPZ have been based on an environmental
assessment and mitigation plan completed jointly by Wildlife Conservation
International and the Penang Development Corporation. In this connection,
the following points should be noted: (a) based on information collected
about current land use, no resettlement plan is required; (b) the Project
will provide water supply and sewerage/waste treatment facilities for
incoming industries as well as enhance existing community facilities, and
preserve existing supplies available for wildlife; (c) the Project will
provide sites and services for 500 plots for worker housing. Consequently,
and in addition to the economic benefits, construction of the EPZ would
result in a large number of (non-quantifiable) environmental benefits. The
physical and operational design of the EPZ includes mitigation measures to:
(a) preserve 'greenbeltsw around the industrial site to safeguard woodlands
(which are important for a large number of birds and mammals) and provide
recreational areas; (b) apply appropriate norms (provided by IDA and
accepted by the Government) for factory-level emissions, require pre-
treatment of liquid and solid wastes, as well as provide common facilities
for the treatment of effluents; and (c) implement land zoning that would
preserve the access of wildlife to entry/exit points at the southeastern
boundary of the Nairobi National Park (completed as a Board Presentation
Condition).
Export Facilitation Equipment
2.38        The Jomo Kenyatta International Airport at Nairobi is an
important exit point for high value/low volume exports from Kenya.
However, limited capacities and handling inefficiencies at the airport



- 29 -
result frequently in Kenyan producers being unable to meet the time and
quality requirements of buyers in export markets. In addition, poor
manage: int of the air cargo terminal by Kenya Air Freight Handling, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Kenya Airways, has resulted in low workforce
productivity, problems with air cargo security, and unacceptably high
handling charges. The Credit would finance the installation of additional
cargo handling equipment, including high loaders, tractors, weighbridges,
cargo dollies, forklifts, reach trucks and hydraulic pallet trucks. In
order to ensure effective utilization of the equipment and improvements in
air cargo terminal operations, a condition of disbursement for funds
allocated to this component would be the completion of a study and
initiation of an action plan to introduce private sector management for air
cargo handling operations. Several donors have expressed an interest in
supporting related export-handling infrastructure (e.g. cold storage
facilities and refrigerated transporters for horticultural exports) which
require larger outlays of funds. IDA would provide further support for the
improvement and rehabilitation of trade-related infrastructure through the
proposed Transport Corridor Project.
F. Studies and Technical Assistance
2.39        The Credit would finance (a) a facility based on cost-sharing
with the private sector to provide grant assistance for consultancy
services to exporters; (b) studies to assist in designing subsequent stages
of the export program, including studies completed through funding under
the SPPF and PPF; and (c) technical assistance for product development and
to the Customs Department.
Direct Assistance to Exporters
2.40        With the exception of information services and publicity, the
exporter assistance functions of the Department of External Trade would be
reduced considerably in the future. Instead, a grant scheme would be
established to finance the provision of consultancy services to exporters
from competing private sector sources. This would be a pilot project, and
would be based on successful models developed for India and Indonesia. The
scheme would be administered by a two-person unit staffed by technical
personnel with backgrounds in business/engineering and specialized in
export development. The unit would identify potential exporters and agree
on an enterprise level export development program with them. Upon reaching
agreement, the unit would fund, based on 50 percent cost-sharing with the
recipient of the assistance, the technical and consultancy services needed
to achieve the export development objectives of the firm. The grant
facility is expected to be run on a pilot basis for 24 months. The
determination of eligibility criteria for grant assistance under the
scheme, and agreement with IDA on those criteria, would be conditions of
disbursement for funds allocated to this component. Initial implementation
of the scheme would occur prior to release of the Second Tranche.
Bilateral donors, specifically USAID and the EEC, have expressed strong
interest in cofinancing such firm-level assistance, i.e. schemes that are
located in the private sector.



-30-
Product Development
2.41        The use of "export catalysts'--i.e. multinational firms with
proven technical expertise and marketing channels, who enter into sub-
contracting or licensing arrangements with developing country producers, or
consultants with proven expertise in the design, production, packaging and
marketing of goods in international markets--is a useful tool for export
development. Through a PPF, the Credit financed in May 1990 the
recruitment of external consultants to assist in the identification and
design of high-quality consumer items based on traditional Kenyan
technologies. Although it is too early to evaluate the effect of this
program, initial results have been encouraging. Several producers have
established links with buyers in the developed country markets. By
producing goods to the demanding technical specifications and consumer
preferences of OECD markets, it has been possible to mobilize small groups
of producers in the garment, leather and food industries to focus on export
production. Further actions in this area would be based on individual
private sector initiatives, possibly supported with grant assistance under
the scheme described in para. 2.40.
Assistance to the Customs Department
2.42        The effective operation of the Customs Department is important
to the success of the overall export effort. Based on preliminary
evaluations by IDA staff and consultants, it is evident that despite recent
efforts at improvement, the present organization, level of technology, and
operational practices of the Customs Department result in high transactions
costs, low security of cargo, uncertainty and delays in clearance, and
revenue leakages. Several donors have expressed interest in assisting in
the reform and upgrading of Customs services. Through the proposed
Transport Corridor Project, IDA intends to tackle institutional and
technology issues in this area in a comprehensive manner, in addition to
the improvement of port facilities. In the interim, together with reforms
in Customs and transit regulations for the EPZ, funding through the PPF was
provided to assist in the computerization of Customs operations. Although
the benefits from computerization--e.g. from monitoring trade flows and
exporter/importer information in a timely manner; evaluating applicable
duties accurately and in a non-discretionary manner--have been long
recognized, progress has been slow. A review by consultants of
computerization is underway, and consists of an evaluation of the status of
development of computer programs for information management. The
consultants are assisting in training personnel, and in the evaluation and
procurement of computer hardware.  At the end of their assigrmenti (end-
March 1991) they would recommend a comprehensive set of measures to
accelerate the completion of computerization, and present their report to
the Government.
Studies
2.43        As mentioned in para. 2.26, the proposed Credit is intended to
support the first phase of a multi-year export development program in
Kenya. Subsequent stages of the program would consolidate alternative
schemes to provide exporters with access to inputs at international prices;



- 31 -
extend trade reform to achieve lower and more uniform tariffs, eliminate
duty exemptions for most non-exporters, and substitute indirect taxes for
tariffs in meeting the revenue objectives of the Government: strengthen the
Government's institutional capacity to monitor, design and administer trade
and industrial sector reforms; and eliminate the sub-sectoral impediments
to production and trade. A series of studies is required to provide the
analytical underpinnings for such reforms, and would be undertaken by the
Government on its own or with the assistance of external donors. Terms of
reference for the six studies identified have been agreed with IDA.
2.44        The following six studies--with an estimated requirement 90
man-months, of which IDA would finance 75 man-months and the Government the
remaining portion--would be completed under the program. 7/ In the case
of studies (a) to (c) below, they would be completed and reviewed jointly
by the Government and IDA, and as a condition for release of the Second
Tranche an action plan on their major recommendations would be agreed with
IDA. The study identified in (d) would be completed by December 1991. The
study identified in (e) below--review of import duty exemptions extended to
non-exporters--would be conducted by the Government on its own, but actions
to reduce the number and value of such exemptions would be taken prior to
rel ase of the Second Tranche. Finally, the implementation of an action
plan to introduce private sector management to air cargo handling at Jomo
Kenyatta International Airport, based on the design recommended in the
study identified in (f) below, would be a condition of disbursement for the
funds allocated to the purchase of equipment for air cargo handling.
(a) Evaluation of the need for continuing the export compensation
scheme in view of the introduction of the import duty/VAT exemption
program, and the design of subsequent phases of the latter for direct
exporters;
(b) Design of alternative schemes, such as common bonded warehouses.
to extend free trade status to indirect exporters;
(c) Design of subsequent phases of development of export financing
facilities;
(d) Evaluation of the effectiveness and efficiency of official
tourism sector institutions, including Kenya Tourism Development
Corporation (KTDC);
(e) Review of import duty exemptions extended to non-exporters; and
(f) Review of factors constraining cargo handling capacities at Jomo
Kenyatta International Airport, and design of an approach to
introduce private sector management to air cargo handling.
7/ In addition, feasibility and environmental studies for the export
processing zone and a review of infrastructural capabilities for the
transport and handling of exports were funded through the SPPF and PPF.



- 32 -
III. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Borrower and Credit Amount
3.01        An amount of $100 million is allocated for this operation.  A
breakdown among the different components is: quick-disbursing component--
$74 million: investment component - $22 million; and studies and technical
assistance component - $4 million. In addition to the IDA Credit, several
bilateral donors (e.g. USAID, EEC, EIB, KFW, JICA) have indicated interest
in providing cofinancing, parallel financing, and technical assistance in
support of the EDP, so that total resources mobilized through the program
may reach $150 million. The borrower would be the Government of Kenya,
with the Ministry of Finance (MOF) as the implementing agency. The Central
Bank will also be involved in matters relating to exchange controls and
finance.
B. Costs and Financing
3.02        The costs and financing plan for the Project are shown in Table
3 below; detailed costs for the investment component are shown in Annexes 5
and 6. The quick-disbursing amount allocated to support the policy and
sectoral adjustment component of the program ($74 million) would cover 6.3
percent of projected financing requirements in 1991, and is based on an
estimate of the potential effect of the reform program on the size of
Kenya's financing requirements (e.g. foreign exchange required to sustain
import liberalization). Table 3 in Annex 1 presents estimates of Kenya's
financing gap for 1990-92.
3.03        The investment component of the Credit--$22 million--is
composed of two separate parts.
(a) Export processing zone: This component consists of construction
of on-site and off-site infrastructure (93 hectares) for Phase I of
the Athi River EPZ. which is expected to be completed over 24 months
starting in July 1991. The Credit would finance 100 percent of the
foreign exchange costs associated with construction of Phase I, and
up to 80 percent of the local costs, for a total amount of $19.5
million. Total project costs are estimated at $26.5 million,
including $1.4 million (or 5.4 percent) in local taxes. The
Government's FY91 Budget includes an allocation for its share of
local costs.   The base cost amounts were derived from the appraisal
estimates of July 1990. Design standards have been tailored
carefully to meet the needs of potential investors in the zone.
There are no land acquisition costs, as the site for the zone has
been provided free by the Government. Physical contingencies of 10
percent have been applied to all cost items. Price contingencies
have been calculated on the basis of a S percent annual increase in



- 33 -
Table 3t Proiect Costs and Financing
(S million)
Local       Foreign      Total
Project Costs:
Sectoral adjustment component   _              74.0       74.0
Investment component            16.8           12.5       29.3
Studies and TA                   2.1            3.8        5.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST               18.9          90.3      109.2
Financing Plan:
IDA   Government         Other a/    TOTAL
Sectoral
adjustment      74.0      -                 -         74.0
Investment
EPZ           19.5       7.0               -         26.5
Air cargo
equipment      2.5       0.3               -          2.8
Studies & TA      4.0      0.5              1.4         5.9
100.0      7.8              1.4       109.2
a/  Shows private sector contribution to financing of consultancy
services for exporters under cost-sharing grant scheme.
Memo: IDA share of investment and technical assistance costs,
excluding local taxes: 77.7?Z
both local and foreign costs. The physical and price contingencies
amount to $5.56 million. or 21 percent of the total costs of this
investment sub-component. Annex 5 provides additional details on
this investment.
(b) Export facilitation equipment: This second sub-component
represents the purchase of equipment for upgrading and expansion of



- 34 -
cargo-handling facilities at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport
in Nairobi. The list of equipment to be added was determined by
consultants funded under the PPF to review transport and export
facilitation capabilities in Kenya. Total costs of equipment
purchase were estimated in October 1990 at $2.8 million, of which
foreign exchange costs to be funded by IDA amount to $2.5 million.
Additional information on this sub-component is provided in Annex 6.
3.04        The total cost of studies and technical assistance during the
program period is estimated to be $4 million. of this amount, $880,000
represents costs funded through an SPPF ($50,000) and PPF for:
feasibility, environmental, and design and engineering studies for the EPZ
and export handling infrastructure ($691,000); technical assistance for
product development and the computerization of Customs ($179,000); and the
purchase of three personal computers to operate the import duty/VAT
exemption scheme ($10,000). The cost of the proposed grant facility to
provide technical and consultants' services to exporters is estimated at
$3.6 million, of which IDA would finance foreign expenditures equivalent to
$2 million (including an allocation of $600.000 in operating costs). The
Government would finance $200,000 in estimated local operating costs. As
the facility would operate on a 50 percent cost-sharing basis with the
recipients of assistance, the private sector contribution over a two-year
period is estimated at $1.4 million. The average size of grants is
expected to be $10,000. It is estimated that the six studies proposed for
completion during the program period would cost $1.4 million, of which
IDA's contribution would be $1.1 million.
C. Disbursement
3.05        As shown in Table 4 below, the Credit will finance 100 percent
of foreign exchange expenditures related to the quick-disbursing component
intended to support sectoral policy reforms. It will finance 100 percent
of the foreign costs and up to 80 percent of the local costs for
construction of the EPZ, and 100 percent of the foreign costs of
procurement of air cargo handling equipment. Finally, the Credit will
finance 100 percent of the foreign and local costs associated with IDA's
share of support for technical assistance and studies.
3.06        The quick-disbursing component intended to support sectoral
adjustment would be available in two equal tranches of $37 million each.
the first becoming available upon effectiveness, and the second upon
fulfillment of specific conditions for tranche release, expected before
December 31, 1991.
3.07        Disbursements of funds for the investment component would be
subject to specific conditions. With regard to the EPZ infrastructure.
disbursement would occur after (a) enactment of the EPZ legislation and
publication of implementing regulations; and (b) establishment of a proje -
coordination unit within the Ministry of Finance to oversee implementation.
monitoring and control of the investment and technical assistance



- 35 -
Table 4 Estimated Disbursements and Allocation of IDA Credit
By Disbursement Category ($ million)
Estimated Disbursements:
FY91     FY92     FY93      FY94     FY95
Sectoral adjustment      37.0     37.0        -        -         -
component
Investment component       -       4.3     8.4        5.6       3.7
Studies and TA            1.5      2.0      0.5        -         -
Cumulative               38.5     81.8    90.7       96.3    100.0
Allocation of IDA Credit:
Amount of Credit Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated             To Be Financed
Sectoral adjustment           74.0          1002 of foreign expenditure
component
Investment component
EPZ                         19.5          1002 of foreign and 802 of
local expenditure
Air cargo equipment          2.5          1002 of foreign expenditure
Studies and TA                 4.0          1002 of foreign and local
expenditure
TOTAL        100.0
components. These actions are expected to be completed before July 1991.
Despite an estimated construction period of two years, starting in FY92 and
ending in M94, in view of past experience in Kenya the disbursement period
has been extended to FY95. Continued disbursements for this sub-component
would be contingent upon satisfactory progress in the implementation of the
broader trade policy reforms proposed for the Kenyan economy. Effective
implementation of the policy package would have a measurable effect on the
benefits generated by operation of the EPZ. Disbursements for the purchase
of air cargo facilitation equipment would occur upon completion of a study
and initiation of an action plan to improve air-cargo handling operations
at the airport and introduce private sector management. This is expected
to occur before December, 1991.



- 36 -
3.08        Disbursement of funds for the studies and technical assistance
component is expected to occur over the period FY91-FY93. All studies are
expected to be completed by December 1991. Recruitment of consultants to
operate the grant facility for exporters is expected to occur during the
first half of FY92, and disbursements of grant funds would begin prior to
release of the Second Tranche of the Credit, after agreement is reached
with IDA on the eligibility criteria for receipt of grant assistance.
3.09        A special account (Investment Special Account) would be
established in a commercial bank through the Central Bank of Kenya, in
accordance with procedures established for Kenya by IDA, and would be
replenished quarterly. Use of this special account is expected to
facilitate disbursements of funds for the implementation of the investment
and studies/technical assistance components. Upon effectiveness, IDA would
make an initial deposit of up to S1 million into the Special Account, which
is estimated to be the projected average quarterly expenditures for
construction of the zone that may not be covered by other funds withdrawal
procedures. Provision would be made for the use of SOE procedures, and the
Ministry of Finance would retain the backup documentation for periodic
inspection by IDA supervision missions, and conduct an annual audit
according to procedures for Kenya that have been agreed with IDA. For the
quick-disbursing component, SOE would be used for contracts in amounts of
less than $300,000 equivalent. The Credit would also refinance the SPPF
and PPF.
3.10        IDA funds for the investment component are expected to be
disbursed over four years. Project completion is expected to occur on
December 31, 1994. The closing date for the EDP is June 30, 1995.
D. Procurement
3.11        The quick-disbursing component of the Credit would reimburse
100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of general imports not contained
in a negative list. Local currency funds generated by the sale of foreign
exchange provided by the Credit would be available without restriction for
use in the Government's budget. Both private and public sector imports
would be eligible for financing. International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
would be applied to contracts above $2 million. Below that amount, public
procurement procedures (which have been reviewed and are acceptable to IDA)
would be applied to government imports, while private sector purchases
would be based on established commercial practices and, wherever possible.
at least two quotations from two different countries would be sought.
Provision would be made for retroactive financing of expenditures on



- 37 _
Table 5: Procurement Methods for Investment and TA Components atb/
S  llion)
Procurement Method
Categorylltem               ICB    Other cl Other d/  TOTAL
Civil works and supplies  24.11                        24.11
(17.09)                     (17.09)
Equipment
Air cargo handling        2.80                        2.80
(2.50)                      (2.50)
Computers                          0.01               0.01
(0.01)            (0.01)
Consultancies
Studies                                    2.11       2.11
(1.81)     (1.81)
Project management                         3.21       3.21
(3.01)     (3.01)
Technical assistance                       2.99       2.99
(1.58)     (1.58)
26.91   0.01    8.31      35.23
(19.59) (0.01)  (6.40)   (26.00)
at Figures in parentheses are estimated to be financed under the
proposed IDA Credit.
bl Table includes procurement under the SPPF ($50,000) and PPF
($830,000) for studies, technical assistance and computers.
c/ Consists of international shopping according to Bank guidelines.
di Consists of recruitment of consultancy services for economic and
environmental feasibility analysis, engineering design and project
supervision of EPZ; technical studies for development of export
policies; product development studies; and assistance with
computerization of Customs and establishment of exporter assistance
scheme.
imports incurred up to three months prior to effectiveness of the
Credit,for an aggregate amount not exceeding $10 million equivalent.
Current pre-shipment inspection procedures applied to imports into Kenya
are acceptable to IDA.



- 38 -
3.12        Table 5 provides a description of procurement methods for the
investment and technical assistance components of the EDP. Procurement of
civil works, goods and services associated with the EPZ would be according
to IDA Guidelines for ICB. To encourage broad participation, five ICB
contracts for construction of EPZ infrastructure averaging $5.3 million
each would be awarded. Draft bidding documents for the procurement of
works, supplies and project management consultancy services are expected to
be reviewed with IDA during December 1990, and contracts are projected to
be finalized before July 1991. The main procurement actions are expected
to occur between July 1991 and July 1993. For the air cargo terminal, ICB
would be employed for the purchase of the entire list of standardized air
cargo handling equipment that has been identified. Technical services for
construction management and supervision for the EPZ would be procured
according to Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Due to the large
size of individual contracts, all bidding documents and contracts would be
subject to prior IDA review.
3.13        A contract would be awarded on the basis of Bank Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants for two individual consultants to administer the
grant facility for exporters, which would be under the direct supervision
of the Ministry of Finance. Consultants for technical and subsectoral
studies (see para. 2.44) would also be recruited according to Bank
Guidelines, and terms of reference for the studies have been agreed with
IDA.
E. Administration, Monitoring and Reporting
3.14        A project coordination unit would be established within the
Ministry of Finance to oversee implementation planning, procurement and
financial control over the investment and technical assistance components
of the EDP. The unit would be established prior to disbursement of funds
for civil works and supplies for the EPZ. It would be headed by a Project
Coordinator appointed by the Ministry of Finance, and would contain staff
and consultants with experience in international procurement and project
supervision. The unit would supervise the activities of the project
management consultants, and would liaise with the EPZ Authority and the EPZ
project management consultants. The Project Coordinator would report to
the Permanent Secretary, MOF.
3.15        The Ministry of Finance would be responsible for monitoring the
implementation of the EDP and the effectiveness of policy actions supported
by the Credit. The Ministry has taken the lead in the preparation of the
EDP, although much of the technical work on which it has drawn was
coordinated by an inter-agency group, and included submissions from the
Ministries of Industry, Commerce and Planning and from the Kenya
Association of Manufacturers, which provided the private sector inputs. It
will submit semi-annual progress reports to IDA; the first such report will
be submitted no later than seven months after effectiveness. The semi-
annual reports will monitor: (a) utilization of the export compensation,
import duty1VAT exemption, and HUB schemes, measured in terms of number of
applications, total value of imports, and value of duty relief; (b)



- 39 _
progress in regulatory reform, including the number of products for which
prices have been decontrolled; (c) status of completion of the six studies
proposed under the EDP; and (d) status of preparation and implementation of
the grant assistance scheme for exporters. In addition, MOF will submit
quarterly reports to IDA regarding: (a) product coverage under the import
duty1VAT exemption scheme, both in terms of actual utilization and number
of export products eligible under the scheme; and (b) status of
construction and disbursements for the EPZ. The first quarterly report
would be received no later than four months after effectiveness, and the
first semi-annual report no later than seven months after effectiveness.
Monitoring of program implementation would be based on the information
provided in the quarterly and semi-annual reports, together with
information gathered during supervision missions by IDA staff and regular
joint assessments of the macroeconomic situation by IMF and IDA staff.
Annex 8 provides details of supervision plans.
F. Accounts and Audits
3.16        The Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) will maintain records of all
transactions under the quick-disbursing component of the Credit in
accordance with sound accounting practices. The Project Coordination Unit
vithin the MOF would maintain records of all investment, studies and
technical assistance transactions. Not later than six months after the end
of each fiscal year of the Government, accounts will be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and would be submitted to the
Association. Audit reports will include a separate opinion with regard to
the claims submitted to IDA on the basis of SOEs, and would state whether
such claims have been effected in accordance with the Credit Agreement.
IV. IMPACT AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Social Costs
Benefits
4.01.       Actions under the proposed Credit would enhance the
competitiveness of Kenya's non-traditional exports and raise the
profitability of export production. The initial supply response is
expected to come from existing exporters with excess capacities. The trade
policy reforms would reorient incentives toward export production by
raising its profitability relative to producing for the domestic market.
Direct assistance to exporters and regulatory reforms would supplement th.e
trade reforms by making export production more profitable in absolute
terms. This reorientation of incentives within the industrial sector woul'
provide a powerful impetus for existing firms to improve their efficiency.
besides promoting the allocation of resources toward more efficient import-
substituting and export industries. The establishment of the EPZ and



_ 40 -
improvements in the HUB scheme would promote new investments, mainly from
medium and large firms, both domestic and foreign. Combined with the
economy-wide incentives, this would generate additional employment
opportunities and draw small and medium firms into the export effort.
Moreover, the provision of direct assistance to exporters, particularly
smaller firms, would support the development of Kenyan entrepreneurship and
fill gaps in marketing and production technologies. At a macroeconomic
level, by stimulating the growth of non-traditional exports, these actions
would increase and diversify Kenya's foreign exchange earnings, thus making
its economic performance less susceptible to external shocks. Tangible
benefits would also accrue from establishment of the EPZ--notably increased
employment--whose economic rate of return i5 estimated at 18 percent (see
Annex 5).
Social Costs
4.02.       While some transitional costs are anticipated as a result of
the proposed trade reform and price decontrol measures, the program has
been designed to minimize their incidence. Information concerning
industrial and employment dislocation resulting from the few corporate
bankruptcies that occurred during 1989 and 1990 suggest that the problems
of the affected firms pre-date, and are unrelated to, the implementation of
import liberalization. Although Kenya experienced a sharp increase in the
nominal value of imports during 1989, there was little increase in their
real value, and much of the increase was in categories of imports that
remain under quantitative restrictions or competing with sectors other than
ones in which the industrial dislocations have occurred. The tariff
reductions to be implemented under the Credit would affect some inefficient
import-substituting industries adversely. However, their pace is gradual,
given the continued depreciation of the Shilling that is envisaged.
Further, the implementation of direct assistance measures for exporters,
and the reforms of enterprise and sub-sectoral regulations would make it
attractive to undertake new investments in other sub-sectors.
4.03.       As with ISAC, the impact on consumers of decontrolling prices
is expected to be small. The items to be decontrolled are those for which
the combination of domestic competition and the availability of imports
makes it unlikely that producers would have sufficient market power to
raise prices substantially. Further, although the export of several items
have been liberalized through amendments to the Imports, Exports and
Essential Supplies (Exports) Order (see para. 2.31 (a) (iv)l, exports of
essential consumption items on the list would continue to be controlled
during the program period in order to assure adequate domestic
availability. With IDA assistance, the Government is currently designing a
welfare monitoring system to measure the effects of its policies on the
poor. Information from this system would be useful in designing strategies
for alleviating any major social costs from implementation of the EDP,
should they occur.



- 41 -
B. Risks
4.04.       There are three main risks associated with implementation of
this operation. First, the maintenance of macroeconomic stability is
critical to the success of these actions in stimulating exports. A key
element of the program in expanding Kenyan exports is the maintenance of a
competitive exchange rate. This would be difficult to achieve if domestic
inflation is not reduced from its current level, which depends crucially on
the growth of the money supply associated with the Government's budget
deficit. The Government's financing needs would affect the program's
success also through their impact on the terms at which credit is available
to the private sector to finance the new investment necessary to reorient
capacity toward export production. The recently-approved PFP for 1990-92
provides a framework to monitor such variables as well as to implement a
program to restore internal and external balance.
4.05.       The second risk concerns the sustainability of the proposed
reform program. Given the lack of a constituency for export developmert,
it is possible that the program may not produce a significant export
response because key components are not implemented with sufficient vigor
or existing bottlenecks in the economy turn out to be more binding than
anticipated (e.g. transport sector inefficiencies). To reduce this risk,
the program is based substantively on GOK's own export strategy paper.
Further, it attempts to accelerate the supply response by using a variety
of export promotion instruments, including the EPZ and provision of
critical infrastructure, and to broaden the export effort by providing
consultancy services to exporters through a grant scheme. Further,
complementary investments by IDA (e.g. through the proposed Transport
Corridor Project) and other donors (e.g. OECF's proposed assistance to the
Government to upgrade transport and handling infrastructure for
horticultural exports) are expected to mitigate risks arising from the most
critical infrastructural deficiencies.
4.06.       If, however, the proposed measures do not result in adequate
increases in foreign exchange earnings, there is an associated risk. The
EDP builds upon the trade liberalization measures initiated under ISAC. and
maintenance of an open import regime is critical for inducing efficiency in
industrial production. The Government has recognized the beneficial effect
of import liberalization on broad sectors of the economy, a perception that
has been reinforced by the generally favorable response of the private
sector. However, Kenya's tight foreign exchange situation (para. 2.07)
increases the risk of back-tracking on import reforms. Both IDA and the
IMF continue to monitor macroeconomic developments closely; further
restraints on aggregate expenditures by the public sector may be required
to relieve the pressure of foreign exchange shortages. A detailed
assessment of the foreign exchange situation and macroeconomic strategies
for its amelioration was completed recently in preparation for the
Consultative Group meeting at the end of November, and agreement was
reached with the Government on an appropriate macroeconomic stance.
4.07.       The final set of risks arises with regard to the EPZ envisages
under the Credit. Experience in other developing countries shows that,



- 42 -
despite the physical investment involved, EPZs may not be successful in
attracting many investors from abroad, generating large net foreign
exchange gains, and contributing greatly to value added and technology
transfer. To minimize these risks, the proposed zone is set in the context
of a broader effort to reform and liberalize the trade regime, would offer
incentives to investors that are comparable to those at successful EPZs
elsewhere, and is being attempted on a modest scale in the first phase of
development. In addition, the proposed zone would be run on a commercial
and self-sustaining basis, and would ensure a high quality of services.
V.  SU?WARY OF AGREEHENTS AND CONDITIONS
5.01.       The following agreements and assurances were obtained from the
Government:
(a)   The Government would open and operate a special account
according to procedures satisfactory to IDA [para. 3.091;
(b)   Procedures that are satisfactory to IDA for reporting on the
progress of implementation would be followed (para. 3.151;
(C)  Accounting and auditing procedures, satisfactory to IDA, would
be followed [para. 3.16].
5.02.       The proposed conditions of second tranche release are:
(a)   extend automatic licensing to remaining Schedule 3C items by
shifting these to 3B, with exceptions only for public health,
environment and public safety reasons (para. 2.29 (a)];
(b)   implement second phase of tariff reduction of a similar
magnitude and following the same principles as the first phase, so as
to reduce the level and variability of effective protection and
reduce revenue losses stemming from the extension of import duty
exemptions to non-exporters (paras. 2.29 (b) and (c)l;
(c)   implement a facility to finance the provision of consultancy
services to exporters (para.2.401;
(d)   implement reforms of enterprise regulations to (i) consolidate
all registrations required under the Industrial Registration,
Statistics and Factories Acts and required by the Kenya Bureau of
Standards and NSSF (ii) consolidate licenses required under the
Trade Licensing Act into three categories (manufacturer/trader,
general trader, and small trader) and eliminate distinctions made
between different forms (export, import and domestic) and levels
(wholesale, retail, other) of trade (iii) implement the proposals
approved by the Cabinet Sub-Committee on Investments in December 1989
to eliminate redundancies, speed approvals and increase transparency



- 43 ^
in processing and approving investment and operating licenses and
permits [para. 2.31 (a)]; and
(e)   review with IDA the findings and recommendations of the
following studies and agree on action plans to implement their
recommendations:
(i)    evaluation of the need for continuing with the export
compensation scheme and design of subsequent phases of the
import duty1VAT scheme;
(ii)   design of alternative schemes to extend free trade
status to indirect exporters; and
(iii)  design of subsequent phases of development of export
financing facilities [para. 2.44].
5.03.       A study to evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of
official tourism sector institutions, including Kenya Tourism Development
Corporation (KTDC) would be completed, its findings reviewed jointly with
IDA, and agreement reached on an action plan based on its findings, by
December 1991 (para. 2.44 (d)l.
5.04.       In addition, the following conditions of disbursement would
apply to the investment component of the project:
ExPort Processins Zone
(a)   enact legislation for the export processing zone and complete
the formulation and publicizing of implementing regulations (para
2.36 and 3.071;
(b)   establish a project coordination unit within the Ministry of
Finance [para. 3.07 and 3.14];
Export Facilitation Equipment
(a)   complete a study and initiate action plans to improve the
efficiency of air cargo handling at Jomo Kenyatta International
Airport and introduce private sector management to air cargo handling
[para. 2.44 (f) and 3.071; and
Technical Assistance
(a)   agree with IDA on the eligibility criteria for the extension of
grant assistance to exporters (para. 2.40 and 3.081.



- 44 _
VI. RECOMMENDATION
6.01.       1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of ASreement of the Association. I recomaend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed IDA Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
November 21, 1990



- 45 -                                Annex I
Page 1 of 4
Table 1:          KEY INIICATORS
Projections
Actual  Preim.           -
1986     1989     1990      199"1    1992
CDP Growth Rate                        6.0       4.0      4.8      5.0      5.1
GNP Growth Rat*                        5.5       4.3      5.6      6.2      6.1
GtE/Capita Growth Rate                 1.6       0.5      1.7      1.5      1.3
Consumption/Capita Growth Rate         2.1      -6.8     -1.4      1.7      2.7
Total 000 (in USS)                  5730.7   5700.5   5908.8   6540.9  6948.3
DOD/ICS                              213.6    201.7   190.2   199.1   201.2
DOD/GOP                               63.3      69.1    66.3    6S.8    63.4
Debt Service-IT (in US3)             635.1     594.0    779.3    775.3    937.6
DObt Service/lOS                      23.7      21.0     25.2     23.7     24.3
Debt Service/CoP                       7.6       7.2      8.6      7.8      7.7
Total Interest/ICS                     6.6       7.3      8.6      9.1      9.1
Interest/COP                           2.8       2.7      3.0      3.0      2.9
Gross Investeent/ODY                  2S.3      25.4     24.2     23.1     22.4
Domestic Savings/cOY                  20.7      19.7     19.3     19.7    20.0
National Savings/COY                  17.6      16.5     16.7     17.3     17.4
Marginal Savings Rate                 0.00      0.02     0.22     0.27     0.21
3ov t Rovenues/CDP                    23.4      23.4     23.9     23.7     23.6
Gov't Expendituree/GDP 1/             28.5      30.4     30.4     29.9    29.3
Fiscal Deficit/COP 2/                 -4.5      -7.1    -4.5    -6.1       -5.7
export Growth Rat.                    -3.1       1.5      7.5      6.0      6.0
Exports/COP                           12.7      12.4     12.7     12.8     12.9
mport Growth Rate                     10.6       2.2     -3.6      1.1      6.0
lmports/COP                           21.5      21.0     19.3     18.6     18.7
Curreont Account (in mill.US3)      -459.2    -715.2   -8W0.8  -582.9  -537.0
Current Account/COP                   -7.9      -8.7     -7.5     -5.9    -4.9
Trms of Trade Index (1962-100)        88.4    ?7.4       74.0     76.3     79.3
MElt:
OS Ratio (incl.IMF & ST) 3/           32.9      29.6    33.7    30.0    30.0
Note: Fiseal data Is In fIscal ye r ending on Juno 30.
Fiscal year COP is calculated as a simple average of calendar year data.
Trade data Is In ral prices.
1/ Numerator includes net lending.
2/ Numerator include odjustment to cash.
3/ DOnominator Is exporte of goods and services.



Table  i:           KfNYA    -  BALANCE OF PAYMEN4TS
Table  2:   ___  _ ____   _--_  _ _------
(USS mfileons at carreet Prices)
Actael                       ProltI.                        Projection.
tao0     1965    1low        1991    19o        t9a9     1990      1991      1992     1993      p994      1995      1991
A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_                   ____r of_ Goods               ___ Ws_            ___                 ----     ----      ----      ---- -___ ___
A.   Eupert, ef Coeds I NFS         2,145    1.59?    1,910    1,760    1,924    1,990    2,286    2,617    2,762    3,o0l    3,365    3,766    4,064
1. IMrcheadle (f b) t5          1,63        096    1,218        96@    1,0d9       961    1,148    1,31t    1,430    1,642    I,71          1,595    2,340
2. Nom-Facto.  Service              162      610       700       191       666    5,011    1          1, 99    1,321    1,410    1,650    1,610    2,344
B.   Iport, of Coeds a WFS          2,70     3,594    1,920    1,C01    2,312    2,463    2,690    2,669    3,021    3,295    3,027    3,9e1    5,001
1. Mererdle.to (FOB) 2/          2,170    1,249    1,41Y    1,4r7    1,0t0    S,6ag         2,124    2,161    2,346    2,622    2,716    8,053    3,018
2. lem-Factor Str,iv.c            659        344       403       484       611      674       673       612       07t      762       039       920    1,123
C.  Ite".rce Balance                 (023)        4       98      (212)    (388)    (406)    (400)    (362)    (270)    (274)    (252)    (216)    (316)
D.   Ntt  Factor lneoe              (222)    (223)    (259)    (302)    (300)    (35K)    (32m)    (336)    (370)    (315)    (3no)    (307)    (370)               c
t. Foctor R..oIpts                  63        43        37        31         a       12        6S        79        64       4z        23        26        34
2. Factor Pay etg                  276       2"0       290       339       306      313       411       417       431      362       391       392       404
(LI lnt.re.t pymolt)            5lt       lt8       200      227       200       191       241       200      2"1       233       222       222      230
E.   Net Current Tresteore             27       6s        56        12        99      101       104       1t0       110       114      It?       121       126
1. CarvoLt Recelpts                 43       10         69       110       127     3I5        149       164       159      103       166       1ts       164
e  worker$,, r._lttance          0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
b. *eher corr.at trams.          43       100        69       110      121       145       149       164       159      103       lo0       113       164
2. Curreet Pyomets                   10       26        81        36        30       44        45        41        46       60        S1        63        b6
F.   Current Acceest B.lance         (619)    (130)    (103)    (441)    (869)    (716)    (6"I)    (563)    (53t)    (475)    (613)    (463)    (66)
0.   Loae-Ter  Capital l.5ew         407       (10)    It9       265       466       613      59t       59t       s0s       5t?      010       693       691
1. Dlrect Iavoetamt                  16       13        20        3t       (19)     (17)      (56)      (18)      (19)       (C)      (6)      (t5)      (I7)
2. O91cl.l Capitol Groats          t1i      51o       149       142       20       200       176       102       too       166      136       501       20O
3. Net LT Loan* (D56 date)         406        66       306       220      229       260       349       411       404      394       462       491       092
a. Dlobhrme mt.                 I0G       420       645      631       627       491       764       649      911       834       930       992    1,004
b. R*psymouts                   255       342       340        l1l     298       241       415       436      447       471       414       491      392
4. Other LT 1r5fl rw  let)         (114)    (219)    (313)    (136)          0        0        8t        41        33       20        16        10        16
H.   Total Other It..r (net)          141       33        24        60       264      312       149       106       (31)      (10)      (21)     (71)        0    X ?
1. Net Short term Capital          131        40        21        66       63        62        33       (11)       (3)       2        (9)      (69)      (36)  0 
2. CapItol flows r.E.1.              0                   0         0      200       20o        11       11        (28)     (12)      (32)      0 2)       12)     
3  Errero ed Omeisioes               10      (12)        3        (0)       0         0         0         0                  o         0                   o 
1.   Changes 1t Net Resorweg         191       115       (90)      121       (00)    (110)      (66)    (120)       (t0)     (92)      (76)      (69)    (286)   "'
1. Not Credit freo the IMF         146       126       (167)     (62)      30       (29)        6        06      (61)      (60)      (13)        0         a     .
2. Otho0   Roserve cd.n9 .          46       (13)      (23)    19         (96)     (61)      (71)    (168)        11      (32)      (62)      (69)    (206)
(- indicate.  a*cess*)
I/  Includes aircrtft and ships' stores as well aI   re-.isports.
2/  Inclures lesses.



KENYA    -  BALANCE OF PAIERTS (coetiua_d)
Actual                      Prelm.                        Prej etUet
Shares .1 GDP (Curreau US3)t      '190       195      10        3907          190    09      90       1991     1991     3993      1994     1905      I997
eaee               flee               ..~~~~~---  --  --- ------                      ------                      ---      ---       --
I. leseca. UsIa..                  4?t       0.1       1.3     -2.7      -4.0     -6.6      -6.1     -9.6      -2.6     -2.3     -2.0      -1.6      -i.e
2. Ited  latereab Ps r._e           1.4       2.9      2.0       2.9      2.6      2.a       2.1       2.6      2.7       1.9      1.7       3.6 C.3
3. Currgt Laceaut Solace          -11.1      -2.2     -1.4      -6.0     -1.9     -9.1      -7.6      -6.9     -4.9      -3.9     -1.6     -3 1      -3.1
4. LT Capital ltl2.  (It. 0)       6.0    -0.2        2.3       3.3      6.6       6.2      6.6       6.0      6.3       4.6      4.6       4.0      6.0
6. 1.bt Cr1 t from t   IMIF          10       2.1     -0.9      -0.6      0.4      -0.4      0.1       0.7     -0.I      -0.1     -0.1      0.0       0.0
IS  (il$. .2 Cergeft UNi)           7123     61s1     7246      7916    0,3a7      ,246    9,042    9,942   10,9C6   12,096   13,306   14,610  13,016
Frolve Eacbmae  Rsrw te
._.. _____ . ......   .._
I  1.tIW. Recr"s  tIFS  lid)        492       391      413       260      264       26       ---       ---      ---       ---      ---       ---      ---
2. Gld (         yr Lads prtlc*)      9        13       14        13        1t       I6      ---       ---       ...      ---      ---       ---      ---
3. Gross Sese.,.  tact. Good        601       408      427       274      281       299      -- -      -- -     --                           .. ___   ---
4. Gro.ss Ie. Is MUbA  lepert       2.0       2.e      2.4       1.4      1.6       1.1      ---       ---      ---       ---      ---       ___      __
*. N...  oIt. x-Pat. (IFS rt)         7        10       i         10       to        21      ---       ...      ---
2. .".  Ett. X-4at.  (IOA1IGO)      100       100       of        79       78        70      ---       --       ---       ---      ---
3. K-Ret. br UP Coewo          l       ete      o 16    10        16       to        21      ---       ---      ---       ---      ---                - -.
,,
4-
0 



Annex 1
-48-                                  Page 4 of 4
Table 3:           External Financing Requireamnts -  Sources
(In mIll;ions or     dollars)
P R O J E C T E D
1989     1990     1991     1992
External Financing Requirements                 1196      1261     1130     113l
Current Account
(excluding official transfers)                715       "8I      58J      537
Amortization 1/                                 241      415       486      447
World Bank/IDA                                 (79)     (96)    (101)    (102)
IMF Repurchases                                 132      100        40       I1
Chang  in Reserves                              110       66       120       70
Disbursements                                   1199      1174     1139     1102
Grants                                          280       178      162      160
Loans from _
Offfeal Creditors                             384       719      093      724
World Bank/IDA                               (244)    (213)    (226)    (145)
Private Creditors 1/                            107       45      156     1i7
IMF-ESAF                                        103       106      106        0
Other Capital (net)                             325       126       21       31
Gap 2/                                             0        87       41       33
Source: I8R, Debtor Reporting System and stff estimates.
Note: The Government of Kenya Is currently d;scussing with the IP appropriate
measue  ne ded to close the gap In 190.
This Base Scnaorlo Is subject to revisions based on eccurences In the Cult
1/ Includes privae no*-guaranteed debt.
2/ Expected disbursement from cofinancing and additional multilateral
assistnce.



- 49 -
STATUS W SAN   WUP OPtATIONS IN KENA                      Annex 2
_Page 1 of 2
A. STATMT OF MK LOANS AN tDA CREDITS
(as of September U0, 1960)
Amuat (Les Cancellations)
Loan or      Fisal                                                                          Undi s-
Credit Me.   Year    Sorrower  Purpoe                                        Bank      tOA  bursed
Forey-four (44) Loans and forty-three (4J) credit. fully dibrse              6.S2   702.15
Of which SECAI , SM.. ad Progrm Loans/Credlt: */
Cr.A021-0    10       Kenya      Agricultur Set                              0.00    40.00
cr.n7-o    19is"       "eya      Agriculture Sector                          0.00   20.00
Cr.AO8-0    1NS    K"y           Indstrial Sector Operatlon                  0.00    10.00
Cr.1927-0    196      K"ya       Industrial Sctor Operation                         102.00
Cr. 927-1    19       Kenya      Industrial Sector Opeati..                          58.70
Cr.2040-1    1990    Venay       Financial Secor Opewation                           44.00    -
0.00   209.70    0.00
Cr.20490 *  1089    K"ya         Flinactal Sector Operation                         120.00   12.39
C-r.1107     19       K"ya       Fifth Education                                     40.00    8.96
'Pr.M2?      192    Iey          Cotton Proc. a Marwing                              20.5     0.74
Cr.12U       1962    Keny        Intogratod Rural Heelth a
Femily Planaing                                  23.00    2.93
Cr.1U7       196o     Kenya      Natbol Extenion                                     15.00    6.43
Cr.10        13    Kenya         Seondary Towns                                      22.00    12.23
Ln.2iU       1904    Keya        KIambl   Hydroelecric                      00.00              2.06
I.B.2409     19is     Kenya      Second Highwy Sector                        5.00              3.31
Cr.F017      1964    Kenya       Secend Highwy Secor                                 40.00   33.16
Cr.1566      195    Knya         Water Engneering                                     0.00    0.33
Cr.103       196"     Keny       Sixt Education                                      37.60   82.5S
Cr.175      1s9"      Kenya      Petrolm Expler. Toeh. Aseist.                        0.00    2.86
cr.n         196      Keny       Agric. Secor Ibnag_nt                               11.60    4.28
Cr.1730     197    Ken          KUE 2nd saIl Scale Industry                          6.00    6.63
Cr.175       197    Kenya        Anial H"lbth Series                                 15.00    13.47
Cr.1920      1987    K"ya        Soease Ra lway                                      23.00    13.20
Cr.1         1966    Keny        Agriculture Research                                19.60   19.65
Cr.1904      193    Kenya        Population mI                                       12.20   10.96
Cra.m        1        Kenya      Geth1mal Devlopmet                                  40.70   29.26
Cr.1*74      19       Keny       Rural Services                                      20.80   17.44
Ce.2056      1900    Kenb        TA                                                   5.00    4.70
Cr.200,      1a0    Konya        Third Nalrobi Water tool. Proj                      U4.90   61.31
Cr.2062      10    Koa           Coffee                                              46.80   48.42
Cr.213       1190    Kena        Population IV                                       35.00   80.59
Cr.2147      10    Knya          TA-Wt Reship. Prem                                   0.00    0.54
Totl                                      011.62 i134.U3  3U8.78
of Whicb replid                         36.0     20.41
Total held by al. & IDA                    42.44  1323.17
Ameut sold         11.74
of which repai   11.74
Toal undtisr_d                                             388.76
*/ Apprved after F0
o  SAL, EML or Progrim Leo/Creit
(kentedl.wil 11.12.90)



- 50 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC NWESTIn   IN KEYA
(as of September 80, I9)
Amount in USS Million
Fl ael
Yer         Obligor                      Type of Dusines           Loon  Equi Ity   Total
1967,1906,  Ienya Ho"el Properties       lotela                     6.2      0.7      6.9
and 197
1970,1914   Pon Afriaen Paper Mlilla     Pulp and Paper            40.7      0.8    47.0
1077,1979
ton, im,
1961, 1966,
nd 1089
1972        Tomerim Promotion Service    Hotels                     2.4      -1/      2.4
197         Rift Valley Textl fee Ltd.    Tei low                   6.8      2.6      9.1
19t         Kenya Co_nrcial  anek Ltd.   Capital Markoe              2.0      -       2.0
1980,1984   Dovelopment Financ           DevOlopment Finance        6.1      1.3      6.4
Compny of Kenya Ltd.
1981        KIeya ComAercall Finance     Money   Capital Market     5.0       -       5.0
1962        8nburi Portland              Cement and Construct.      4.4.      -       4.4
Csmnt Co., Ltd.              Iterial
1962        Diamo  Trust of              Money   Capital Markeb      -       0.6      0.6
Kenya Llmited
1082,1967   Industrial Promotion         llone A Capital Market      -       2.0      2.0
Sevcew (Keya) Ltd.
18          Tetra Pak Converer.          Pulp A Paper Product       2.2      0.4      2.6
Limited
1964        Leather tnduetrieo  of       Tanning                    2.1      0.6      2.7
Kaey Limited
1960        Medho  Paper nternational    Pulp & Paper Produt       87.1      2.0    89.1
Limited
196         Equatorial Beach             Tourl m                      .6      -       S.6
Proprtie.
1986        Oil Crop Dewlopment Ltd.                                9.7      1.4    11.1
Total Gro Cemitment                                   127.6     1.83   146.1
Lss: repayments, cancellations,
exchange adjustments,
temination  and sale.                            94.0      9.0   108.0
Totel Cosmitmete now hold by IC                        88.5      9.8    48.1
TotaI Undliburse                                        0.0      1.2     1.2
1/ 644,9$7
kenfedI.Wkl
11.9.90



- 51 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
MENYA
Export Develovmsnt Protect
Timetable of UTy Loan ProcessinR Events
Time taken to prepare:                           December 1989 - June 1990
Prepared bys                                     The Government of Kenya
with IDA assistance
First IDA mission:                               April 24, 1990
Appraisal Mission Departure:                     June 26, 1990
Date of Negotiations:                            November 1990
Planned Date of Effectiveness:                   January 1991
Second Tranche Conditions
The proposed conditions of second tranche release are:
(a)   extend automatic licensing to remaining Schedule SC items by
shifting these to 3B, with exceptions only for public health,
environment and public safety reasons;
(b)   implement second phase of tariff reduction of a similar magnitude
and following the same principles as the first phase, so as to reduce
the level and variability of effective protection and reduce revenue
losses stemming from the extension of import duty exemptions to non-
exporters;
(c)   implement a grant scheme to finance the provision of consultancy
services to exporters;
td) implement reforms of enterprise regulations to (i) consolidate all
registrations required under the Industrial Registration, Statistics,
and Factories Acts and required by the Kenya Bureau of Standards and
NSSF (ii) consolidate licenses required under the Trade Licensing Act
into three categories (manufacturerltrader, general trader, and small
trader) and elminate distinctions made between different forms (export,
import, and domestic) and levels (wholesale, retail, other) of trade
(iii) implement the proposals approved by the Cabinet Sub-Committee on
Investments in December 1989 to elimiWate redundancies, speed approvals
and increase transparency, in processing and approving investment and
operating licenses and permits; and



- 52 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
(e)   review with IDA the findings and recommendations of the three
studies identified in para. 2.44 (a), (b) and (c) of the President's
report and agree on action plans to implement their recommendations.
Conditions of Disbursement
In addition, the following conditions of disbursement would apply
to the investment component of the project:
(a)   approve legislation for the export processing zone that
establishes the organizational and incentive framework for the zone and
the rights and obligations of all parties involved in its operations,
and complete the formulation and publicizing of implementing
regulations;
(b)   establish a project coordination unit within the Ministry of
Finance which would be responsible for implementation planning,
procurement and financial control, and monitoring and reporting on the
investment and technical assistance components of the Project;
(c)   complete a study and initiate action plans satisfactory to IDA to
improve the efficiency of air cargo handling at Jomo Kenyatta
International Airport and introduce private sector management of
terminal operations; and
(d)   agree with IDA on the eligibility criteria for the extension of
grant assistance to exporters.



- 53 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
mrSA
KIPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement Methods for Investment and TA ComPonents albi
($ dillion)
Procurement Method
Category/Item                ICB       Other cl Other dl   TOTAL
Civil works and supply      24.11                           24.11
(17.09)                         (17.09)
Equipment
Air cargo handling         2.80                            2.80
(2.50)                          (2.50)
Computers                            0.01                  0.01
(0.01)                (0.01)
Consultancies
Studies                                          2.11      2.11
(1.81)    (1.81)
Project management                               3.21      3.21
(3.01)    (3.01)
Technical assistance                             2.99      2.99
(1.58)    (1.58)
26.91      0.01        8.31     35.23
(19.59)    (0.01)      (6.40)   (26.00)
a/ Figures in parentheses are estimated to be financed under the proposed
IDA Credit.
bl Includes procurement under the SPPF ($50,000) and PPF ($830,000) for
studies, technical assistance and computers.
bl Consists of international shopping according to Bank guidelines.
cl Consists of recruitment of consultancy services for economic and
environmental feasibility analysis, engineering design and project
supervision of EP2; technical studies for development of export policies:
product development studies; and assistance with computerization of Customs
and establishment of exporter assistance scheme.



- 54 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
RENYA
EXPORT DEVRLOPKENT PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
(USS)
A. Project Costs
Local           Foreiza             Total
Sectoral Adjustment Component    -                 74.0               74.0
Tnvestment Component             16.8              12.5               29.3
Export processing zone         16.5              10.0               26.5
Infrastructure               11.9               7.2               19.1
Project supervision           1.2               0.7                1.9
Baseline costs               13.1               7.9               21.0
Physical contingencies        1.3               0.8                2.1
Price contingencies           2.1               1.3                3.4
Air cargo handling equipment   0.3                2.5                2.8
Studies & TA                      2.1               3.8                5.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST               18.9              90.3              109.2
B. Financing Plan
Sectoral                     Studies
Adiustment    Investment    and TA          TOTAL
Government               -              7.3           0.5          7.8
IDA                     74.0          22.0            4.0        100.0
Private sector           -             -              1.4          1.4
TOTAL                   74.0          29.3            5.9        109.2



- 55                     .' nnex -
.MLNSTRY OF FI.NACEL1*N
TdWgh Addtm: "VOa"W.                                     THE TREASURY
Tdep t: MkOb 331111                                          P.O. Bo 3007
whe re*in p4w quote                                             NAUI0OB
R.t No. .. CON.109/03                                             KENYA
...ltt..Xer... 199.0.
Mr. Barber Conable
President
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington DC 20433
United States of America
Dear Sir,
Lotter of Export Policy
Introduction
1.   The objectives and policies to be pursued as part of the
Government of Kenya s three year programme of economic adjustment
are set out in the three year Policy Framework Paper (PFP) covering
the period 1990-92. The paper was prepared in collaboration with
the staffs of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund, and
was transmitted to you on April 2, 1990.   Kenya's principal
objective for the ecoromy over the medium term is to encourage
efficient growth which can productively absorb the -rapidly
expanding labour force. During 1990-92. the Government's overall
objective  will  be  to  provide  a  favourable  and  balanced
macroeconomic environment, while addressing the structural problems
constraining gro'wth.
2.   As in the recent past, policy-making for the years ahead will
stress the dominant role of the private sector in revitalizing the
Kenya economy, and the need for the Government to continue
strengthening market based incentives to promote private sector
activity, Emphasis continues to be placed on increased productivity
in agriculture and in rural nonfarm activity, and on supporting a
dynamic informal sector.  Increased attention will, however, be
given to the restructuring and enhancement of industrial
incentives, building on the measures carried out since mid-1988,
which were supported by IDA through its Industrial Sector
Adjustment Credit (ISAC).  Specifically, trade reforms initiated
under ISAC would be continued,   and a multi-year programme was
introduced in the FY90 Budget to eliminate the anti-export bias in
the Kenyan economy and to enhance expert competitiveness.  The
first stage of the programme, implementation of which has a:ready
begun, involves several measures to deregulate broad areas of
production. pricing, and trade, and to move towards greater
neutrality in production and marketing incentives among imports.
exports and non-traded gocds.
Macroeconomic Policy Framework and Medium Team Procramme
3.   Despite  adverse  fluctuations  in external  conditions  in!
periodic domestic imbalances caused by natural and econ^- _
1



- 56 -
Annex 4
Pate 2 of 16
factors, Kenya's performance over the past decade has been
impressive. Aggregate output has increased at an average rate of
4.3 percent per year, and Kenya has avoided the disruptions of
economic activity and external payments that have characterized the
performance of many developing countries.   While much of this
increase in output was offset by one of the highest rates of growth
in population in the world, social indicators have continued to
improve and are significantly better than in other African
countries.   Effective economic policies and political stability
account for much of Kenya's success.
4.   Nevertheless, the Kenyan economy is faced with several long
term economic imperatives that require continued attention to
structural reform and macroeconomic stability.   The creation of
productive emplovment opportunities for a labour force that has
been growing by about 4 percent annually is a high priority. In
addition, although investment in the economy has grown in recent
years, in real terms it is yet to reach the peak levels of the
early-1980s. Moreover, aggregate efficiency indicators show that
there is considerable scope for raising the growth rate of the
economy through the application of policies to induce better
resource allocation. Measures to step-up employment and investment
in the economy would need to occur in an environment of real
spending cuts, as the Government's adherence to fiscal and
financial austerity would eliminate the possibility of a continued
public sector stimulus to economic activity. Consequently, greater
attention will be given to strengthening incentives for investment
and production by the private sector, and to integrating Kenya's
economy more closely with the international economy so as to derive
the maximum benefits possible from exploiting its comparative
advantages.
5.   The existence of an appropriate  macroeconomic framework is
critical to the success of structural policies. The Government is
committed   to   continuing   the   programme   of   macroeconomic
stabilization initiated after the 1984 drought. There has been a
notable economic recovery over the past five years, with output per
capita rising nearly 6 percent during 1985-89, and real fixed
capital formation increasing by about 5 percent per year.
Macroeconomic imbalance have been reduced with the fiscal deficit
falling from 6.6 percent of GDP in FY87 to an estimated 4 percent
in FY89. Through judicious use of external borrowing and reserves,
and despite adverse movements in external terms of trade that have
resulted in a persistent external current account deficit of 6-7
percent of GDP, the external debt service ratio declined from
nearly 39 percent in 1985 to below 30 percent in 1989. Continued
fiscal austerity is central to the Government's economic
stabilization programme, not only to reduce inflation from its
current level of about 11 per cent to the level of its trading
partners, but also to alleviate pressures on the balance of
payments that result from the Budget deficit and its financing.
Simultaneously, policies will be vigorously implemented to expand



- 57 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 16
and diversify earnings from the exports of goods and services, in
order to generate employment opportunities, to provide resources
to satisfy the import requirements of a growing economy, and to
reduce the risks of economic instability arising from concentration
on a few primary exports and tourism.
Exoort Policy Reform Obiectives and Procramme
6.   The  Government's  export  policy  strategy  is based on  a
recognition of the need to generate employment and investment, and
to expand and diversify foreign exchange earnings. It recognizes
also that there is a significant anti-export bias in the operation
of the import tariff and QR regime, which is geared toward
protecting production for the domestic market, often at high cost,
and has been established partly in response to the need for revenue
by the Government.  Finally, the strategy is based on models of
successful export development found in other developing countries,
particularly in East Asia.  The Government's objectives in the
trade policy area are, therefore, to (a) eliminate the anti-export
bias and establish a neutral incentive regime; (b) use tariffs
exclusively for protective purposes while relying on indirect taxes
to meet revenue objectives; and (c) eliminate bottlenecks to the
production and sale of exports and import-substitutes arising out
of excessive and discretionary bureaucratic control, poor quality
physical infrastructures, restrictive financing, and inadequate
information and business services.
7.   The achievement of these objectives is expected to take
several years.   The agriculture,  industry and finance sector
adjustment measures that were introduced, respectively, in 1986
1988 and 1989, laid the foundations for the explicit export
orientation announced in the FY90 Budget. By broadening the role
of market signals in real resource allocation, improving
incentives, and strengthening institutions, the sectoral adjustment
programmes have imparted greater flexibility to the real sectors
to cope with closer integration with external markets. The present
focus is on implementing an interim set of measures towards
achieving  the  objectives  identified  above.   While  gradually
reducing the level and variability of effective protection in the
Kenyan economy, a number of instruments will be used to offset the
anti-export bias in overall incentives, to improve the provision
of infrastructure, information, finance and other production and
trade related services, and to initiate studies that would support
subsequent phases of export development. The measures to be taken
in order to achieve the short- and medium-term objectives of the
Government are described below; the attached matAix of agreed
actions provides additional details.
Exchanae Rate Mana ement
8.   Kenya's exchange rate has been managed flexibly since the
introduction of the recent stabilization programme, and much of the



- 58 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 16
real appreciation that occurred during 1980-84 has been reversed.
The Government recognizes the need to maintain an exchange rate
that is appropriate in terms of meeting its stabilization,
protection,  and export promotion objectives.    Flexibility  is
required with respect to the nominal rate, as well as strong action
to bring the domestic inflation rate down to the level of Kenya's
main trading partners. The Government intends to pursue exchange
rate and anti-inflation policies vigorously, as agreed periodically
in the context of PFP discussions.
ImDort Licensin2
9.   Until the availability of foreign exchange earnings in the
Kenyan economy improves considerably, current control procedures
to monitor aggregate inflows and outflows will continue to be
required.   This in turn, implies the continuation of an import
licensing system, as imports constitute the largest single source
of demand for Kenya's scarce foreign exchange resources. However,
significant reforms were effected in the import licensing system
under the industrial sector adjustment programme. Since June 1988
(a) imports have been reclassified into five schedules, of which
four (schedules 1, 2 3A and 3B) are now subject to automatic
licensing; (b) the system for processing import applications has
been streamlined to enhance the speed of approval and reduce
uncertainty, thereby squeezing the average lag between application
and foreign exchange allocation from six months to about four
weeks; (c) protection through quantitative restrictions has been
substituted   by   equivalent   or   less-than-equivalent   tariff
protection.   Thus, with the exception of items in Schedule 3C,
significant progress has been made toward import liberalization in
Kenya.
10. Under the programme, the Government is committed to removing
all remaining quantitative restrictions on imports (with exceptions
for reasons of public health, environment and safety) and replacing
them with equivalent or lower tariffs. Nearly a third of the items
in Schedule 3C were shifted to Schedule 3B in the Budget for FY90
(announced in June, 1990), in many cases with less-than-equivalent
tariffs. All remaining items, with the exceptions noted above,
would be shifted to Schedule 3B in June 1991, including competing
imports in sectors like food processing, textiles and garments,
leather processing and metal fabrication, whose domestic production
is highly protected at present. In addition, the Government will
continue to monitor the import application process to ensure
speediness and transparency in approvals.
Tariff Reform
11. Both the level and variability of effective protection in
Kenya are too high to support the efficient development of its
productive sectors.   The specific long-term objective of the
Government with respect to the level of protection in the economy



- 59 -
Annex 4
Page 5 of 16
is to lower it to levels consistent with rapid long-term growth.
the unweighted average nominal tariff rate will be lowered to below
35 percent over five years and the number of tariff categories will
be more than halved. Reforms effected in the tariff regim.,e since
1988 include: (a) replacement of most specific tariffs with ad
valorem. rates, (b) reduction in the number of tariff categories
from 25 to 15, and revisions to these so that similar rates apply
to ccmparable products; and (c} in June 1990, a reduction of 5
percentage points in the average im-port-weighted tariff for all
Schedules except 3C (1989), which was achieved by shifting a large
number of items to lower tariff rates and by eliminating the
highest rate category (135 percent). Cumulatively, recent tariff
reforms correspond to a reduction in the dispersion of tariff
rates, a proportionately higher average tariff reduction for
competing imports, and a reduction in effective protection.
Revenue losses from the tariff reductions were more or less offset
by increases in the level and coverage of the VAT, thereby
protecting the Government Budget.
12. The Government intends to continue with its policy of tariff
reforms in a phased manner. Average tariffs will continue to be
reduced, the scope of reductions in the second phase (June 1991)
will be similar in magnitude to that effected in the FY90 Budget,
and the reductions will be implemented in a manner designed to
reduce both the level and variability of effective protection.
increases in the coverage and level of the VAT will be utilized to
offset revenue erosion.  Finally, import duty exemptions granted
to non-exporters will be reviewed and reduced (both in value and
num-ber) in June 1991.   It i- expected that, through a gradua.
phasing-in of the reforms in import licensing and tariffs
identified above, by the end of the programme period Kenya will
have a more liberalized import regime than most developing
countries.
Extorter Incentives
13.  Export incentive programmes in Kenya have a long history, with
the Export Compensation (EC) scheme of 1974 representing a long-
standing commitment of the Government to helping exporters offset
the cost burden resulting from the high import duties that were
required for protecting domestic production.   The programme has
been improved over time, and is an important incentive in major
exporters of manufactured goods. In addition, under the industrial
importer adjustment programme, measures were introduced to create
manufacturing-under-bond  (MUB) facilities so as to extend free
trade status to exporters. Although these programmes have achieved
sonA success. they have not been able to generate a broad-based
export supply response.
14.  The anti-export bias in the Kenyan economy stems largely fre-
high  non-tariff  and  tariff  barriers.         In  addition,   t;..
competitiveness of Kenyan products i-. external markets is affected



- 60 -
Annex 4
Page 6 of 16
by high cost infrastructure, institutional weaknesses, and
regulatory  shortcomings.    Eliminating  the  many  factors  that
constrain export expansion will take several years, but Kenya is
able to draw upon the successful experiences of several developing
countries in designing a set of policies towards that goal.  The
Government has devised a package of policy and investment measures
that is intended to improve the attractiveness of export
production, not only for Kenyan prod-.cers but also investors from
abroad. Under the programme, the Government intends to implement
the following measures, all of which were announced in the Budaet
for  FY90.  and  which  are  currently  at  various  staaes  of
implemer%tation:
(a)  Improvements have been made to the EC and MUB schemes to
reduce delays, broaden coverage, simplify procedures, and
lower production costs.
(b)  While protection levels in the economy are expected to
decline over time, the early provision of access to
inputs at international prices for exporters is critical
to  generating  non-traditional  exports.    An  import
duty/VAT exemption scheme for direct exporters will be
operational by December, 1990 and in the first stage it
will involve product coverage that is at least as broad
as under the existing SC scheme; the number of export
products eligible under the scheme would be expanded
every quarter.  Exporters will be given the option of
choosing between the EC and import duty/VAT exemption
schemes as soon as value coefficients are developed. The
development of these coefficients will be accorded
priority.  Safeguards to prevent "double-dipping" will
be installed. The system will be extended to indirect
exporters in the future, and additional refinements will
be introduced after sufficient operational experience has
been gained.   Two studies will be completed before
December 1991 (i) to reevaluate the need for maintaining
the SC system in view of the introduction of the import
duty/VAT exemption scheme, and design the subsequent
steps for the latter, and (ii) to design alternative
instruments (e.g. common bonded warehouses) for extending
the import duty/VAT exemption scheme to small exporters
and indirect exporters.
(c)  On a limited scale, the Government intends to provide
high quality infrastructure/business services and an
environment of comprehensive policy liberalization to
exporters operating in designated export processing zones
(EPZs).      Legislation   establishing   the   enabling
environment for EPZs in Kenya was introduced in
Parliament in July, and an EPZ Act is expected to be
approved by December, 1990; implementing regulations for
EPZs will also be ready at that time. An EPZ Authority



-61-                    Annex 4
Page 7 of 16
will oversee the establishment of such Zones in Kenya,
both publicly-owned as well as private.  A privately-
developed and operated EPZ is at an advanced stage of
implementation in Nairobi, and IDA assistance has been
requested for the construction of on-site and off-site
infrastructure for a Zone to be located at Athi River
near Nairobi. The economic/environmental feasibility and
engineering design studies for the site were funded
through an SPPF and PPF from IDA. The Athi River EPZ,
although developed by the public sector, will be operated
by the private sector on a "for-profit" commercial basis.
The site has been selected carefully to serve as a
"growth pole" for the region, and construction of some
supportive infrastructure for the area has already begun.
A third site is to be identified at Mombasa, and
assistance in completing the feasibility study for the
site has been received from the African Development Bank.
(d)  To alleviate costly infrastructural constraints on the
expansion of exports that are not amenable to production
within   EPZs   (e.g.   horticultural   and   agro-based
industries), the Government intends to implement a two-
pronged strategy. During 1991, and following agreement
with IDA on an action plan to privatize the operations
of the air cargo terminal at Jomo Kenyatta International
Airport, Nairobi, IDA resources would be used for the
purchase of equipment to upgrade air cargo handling
facilities at, the airport.   It is expected that the
elimination of shortages of equipment, improvements in
their utilization rates, and enhancements to operational
processes,    workforce    productivity,    management,
accountability and cargo security at the airport would
lower the costs of exporting high value products from
Kenya. At a later stage, and with possible assistance
from IDA through a transport and trade infrastructure
operation, the Government intends to implement a
coordinated series of policy measures and investments to
improve trade facilitation and transport on a broader
scale.
Exporter SuDport
15. Changes in the incentive regime for producers (utilizing
exchange rate and fiscal measures) are by far the most important
areas of policy action for export development. In addition, the
Government of Kenya intends to improve the condition of physical
infrastructure and trade facilitation procedures. However, a
coherent export development strategy should also address the
regulatory, financial and information constraints on export
production and marketing. Towards this end, the following measures



- 62 -
Annex 4
Page 8 of 16
are proposed for the programme period.  It is expected that, in
addition to IDA, a large number of bilateral donors would
participate in supporting the implementation of these measures.
(a) To allow enterprises to take advantage of the change in
the overall incentive regime, they should be freed from
costly regulatorv  constraints.    The Government  has
undertaken a review of enterprise regulations, and
intends to take several actions during the programme
period to eliminate redundant approvals and simplify
licensing procedures to increase the speed of processing
and transparency of rules.  The specific measures are
identified in the attached matrix of agreed actions.
(b)  The availability of finance for exporters, particularly
of working capital to enable producers to fulfil export
orders, is an important constraint.   The Government
intends to revive the Central Bank s rediscounting
facility for private financial paper by eliminating the
penalty interest rate that currently applies, and by
allowing commercial banks to rediscount export bills
based on confirmed letters of credit. A study to design
subsequent phases of the export financing mechanism will
be completed, and an action program agreed with IDA,
before December 1991.
(c) As in many other developing countries, the Kenyan
experience suggests that public sector export promotion
agencies can play only a limited role in the provision
of direct assistance to exporters. The range of skills
required to design, produce and market export quality
goods is seldom available at a single source, and private
sector provision of such services has been found to be
more effective. While the Government intends to retain
several exporter information services within official
agencies, the main thrust of exporter assistance is
expected to shift over time to reliance on multiple
sources of consultancy services from the private sector.
To achieve this objective, IDA assistance is sought to
implement a grant scheme for exporters, based on
successful models applied elsewhere in developing
countries. The scheme would be applied on a pilot basis,
lodged at a commercial bank but insulated from official



- 63 -
Annex 4
Page 9 of 16
pressures, and would advance grants on a 50 per cent
cost-sharing basis to exporters to enable them to recruit
the consultancy services required to penetrate external
markets. The scheme will be operational before December,
1991.
Yours sincerely,
Hon. Prof. G orge S
Vice-Preside t         ister for Finance



.   ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
KENYA - EXPORt ODEvEOpUENT PROJECT QEDP)
RUfMA   OF PROPOED PNC  ACTISS
October, 1990
REfORMSJ ECTIvES                     AC      UND  ISAC                     PROPOSED ACTION PO¢RASM             TIMING            tONDITION FOR
1. TRADE REFORM
1. 1 chnaRt. _M_agaagmt.
Meintain epqrt                       Th. .icheng  atC was nug oie          Continoe the current polIcy of      Continuous.       Board
_ompetitvtase  ndW *xternal          flexitly lathbo context of            flexible *xchang  rate                                Prse ntationC
bleonec by continue  floxibl         IF-s_ppo rted *tabil Iation           m_naemnt so as to improve                             aInd
_a agament of tho *xcbange           progra. A          u It,* the         export competitivenes  by                             Second
r ts;                                ra  eachapne, rate has                =aintnining ap expanding                              Trnnche
depreciated continuously since        gains froe the recent
1968.                                depreciation of the real cate.
2.  Import Licenain.
Shitt to tariff-based                Thb import licenaing system            Iplement autoemtic lce nsing,       June 1990        Board
protection to achieve greator        was made moro transparept and          In two       tor ltem  in          .          ,t)    Presentat ion;     4
transparency. rsin" roienue          arutometic licensing *xtendsd         ScbeduiIaClR n ith soe               ViW iuly 1 991;    *nd
and provide more even                to oll imports *xeept those on        exceptions for oeviFeonmkt                            Second Tronche.
protectlon within * b_etors.         Schedule SC. As a result, the         public  e ath and public
coverge qf quantitative               safety reasons, while impOSigl;
retrictlions (P.) *as redce          equIvalent or lower tariffs on
to about 7 percent of tota I          th ir import. In each stags..
import valo. QRS on Schedule          ite   wouid be shifted from
asB iems (which include               Scedaul-J SC to UB with
competing Imports)  ere               appropriate tariff increases.
replaced eith qaivalent or
*         lower t<if
.~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .    *.                                                            
.~~~~~~                                                                                                                                               0Q
.~~~~~~~~ .-
.   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P,
s!   '  b'  '  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ s ' ' X W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



REFR   JCTI1   S                .     CU    ISAC                            PROPOSED ACTION PRORM                t                 COITION FOR
S.~~T
a. tariff Redfuction.
Reduce the loel and                   Tariff catgoriou were revised          Implemet a two-Pbase                June 1990         Board
disperrlon of effcWtivo               ad slplitfi d, the number of           reduction ir                        (completed);end   Proeeeot.tion
protection so as to reduce            tariff rote  reduced, ad              which mould be coordinoted           July 1991.         nd
*ati- xport bia a*nd encourage        valor _ rate esubstituted for         with continued eahange rate                            Seond Trancho
mro teficln  rmorce                        specif rItee, ad                  deprecintion *nd greater
.5 loction,                           equivalent or lewor tariffs            rellance on VAT for rev nue
substituted for licensing             coll ction.
reetrisien. on Schedule SR            In th firat  abe , average
aporta. As *  result, import-         tariffs (on aIll iport except-
wei Oted tariffs are no               the current Schedule SC) were
sllobtly lewer for Import             reduced by *bout 6 percente
Scheduleo  1. 2 and IA, but           points. Furthr, this derea
havet plum for Shehdule. u            corrspond d to a reduction In
and 8C, c_mpred to FY198l             the variability of effective
The caecading atructura of            protection becaus  it was
tatiff. ha. also incr eaed, as        achieved by; elimlnating the
-* reult.                             highest rate ategory for all
-             ~~~Schedules and the neat highest                                         '.5
category for _eny ites in all
SCh dules *eaept the current
-              .             .    a~~~~~~~~~c; *nd shifting a large
nuber of Items in Schedules I
to UB to the next lowr tariff
rate; and Itt also involved
raising scm zoro tariff. to
-the net highest rate.
To compenste for revenue
loss due to lower toriffs,
VAT rates wore raised, and the
period for which imports can
be stored In bond d warehouees
(effectively indefinite prior
to June 1990)} wa reduced to
one yea.
Tariff chane  In the scond
pb   would be guided ETU^;b 
sam orincislo end would be
o i-llIaf.jc"a  as the first                                        x
In or~  to    oe the  vl                                         _
and variability of effective
protection.  Tariff *emeptions
tor non0-*Xprtere would also
be revi ewe and reduced by
nd-Jn  1991.



~I~IhLW.EIIYfl  N       ACT!   IWER ISAC                      P30056  ACTION PROORAM               TIINDG           CONITION1 FUR
b.Acesm  of, euieorerto.
epvethe- accessv Ifj             o Te iplea    o  to   f h                ImlmntdtAT                       December IM0      Der
toimprted lijt            eIor  cc~ee tlo   C)                  gjyL.g          gfcra                    .            Proeesattion
N                              ~~~~~~~~~~percent reloa to eunpertera.  to cb*i bet""e this scheme
mme reviewe  to an attempt to        aNd the existing EC system.                    -
expedite ,eoyente sod broaden         It would be tie  to specific 
coyseep.   :.l.enseport contracts, and product
Isproi,.mnt has resulted               I lIgIbiIlity would be, broader
-              ~~~~~dolor  persiet en  pays4ts       theml under the EC scheme, with
remain concentrated smon* e           the sumber of eligible,
few iaif. exportes".                  prodiacts to he broadened every
o  laceetiwes under the               quorter durijii  the fIirst -year
SepoWetring-nder-boad (HUB) ~'of operati on.
that produce *xilusIvely for          exporters and broaden
eXport, mere improved;                0llgibilito.
Neweover, the facilit. is still .        ftform Nas regulations to      - ue190             Board
chrob ter#sed by hi1                  reduce, operating coats and         (completed)       Presentation
opeetrieg cosuts andonly five         sI los fitms to sofll rejecs it,
firms cirreotly use It.               the local, market.
OQ13



IIFA OSJECTNVES                      Ac    ISAC                            PRWOS   ACTI" PROO                  T                 CINDITION FOR
2. Exgrter Assi
Prote tbo avallability of            o No transectione-bsed                o  Impl_met a preo-shipuet          Decemr 1990    Board
trad  finaetS an  sport       t l_lncimg Is ovailable for                  finacing echo_s to meet the                           Presentation
er loesto  xprter.  *rand ev_n  hn                                         working capital 'Ide of
colletiral-ba_ed fuwing Is            exporters, which would be
aallable it lo restrctd to            based ea the oxueting CB
laso tlm.  A Central OSan            rWdiaceunt eche ad trade
(Ce) eh*oes to reiscout              documentation.
export lean  has bee dormat
becaus the re4'scoest rat  Is
pumitively high.
o  Theoffoctveneesof the              o Agree with IDA on                 July 1991        Disb "nt
Oerton t of External Trade            oligibility criterti for grant                        condition
1n prowiding exporter                 mistanc.
*assitance preorn Was
Oxemid. It wa found that,         °        Iopl t a gront schemeI
despite substantial donor                with cot sharing (50 percent)
*asisteae  thes  prograM              by beeicIaries, to filance          December 1991    Second Trencho   _
haov  largey bee  i   fectivet        conultancy services for
with little oecwtabillty to           exporters.
prive" exportere. However,
tIm-level savee establish
the send for servige  to
-tregthsm *the capabilities of
K_Ypn ftre  an  ehanc their
export cempeltt_v.e .
.         .~~O
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l~~~~~M
L~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



REFORM    ECTS.                                                             P         ACTI PROCAM                II                CoDiTui  FOR
III.  REIMTURT IIEFORII
1.  .  .  . . esdtr.
* t 1 ^ ^ + s r smMm ft 
Ibfore feature. df the                Iaveetmset laceatiwes were            A 00view of foreign investent        Oe_mber lo90; 8oard
regulatory *yetm that are             eahameed;*_v*atmswt approvl           pol ioles sd of other      7          nd               Presntetion
Iltoija to impede the reaposee        procedure. st#-emI load, oud          regulations, Including Cuctms        Bocem_r 1631      a nd    N
of dexpertor  to isnrovd       '      work !ml lt regulotloo isd. and trsnit procedures, ia                                        $*cond Trench*
''' po"brt-)etivesl       t           _ ..  - mKore ur. .en  e,av, a    t uMnderay. On thip beasis
-  prelionry r eiw  Indicates         spciftc actio#s woul'd be
-          < ' ' th*at  (i) rediundances still    tkokn to: (a) c"nsolidato
e -    -#xs lt in Ict  _tg _ ov 1     registration forms for
reuPiremunts for                      enterprises;,(b) consolidate.'
operstionjqups  ion of                 flac"e"e required undr the        N
bus,ieson_, particularly for          Trade Licesing Act Into-three
Custwepe export procedures and        cotgopriep
N       industrial rigiatratton; (1i)          (U1aufactureo/Trrodr.   eeral 
St  pIco        d permits mot         Tradr, sad $lII Traefr),
be re e   nilly;      (itt)           eliminate rtrictio onren
may rgulation  erq Met                types of tr'de NWd levl of
aodeslstered  tn a  k s 0d          . distribution of product for
, trr liceneolds.. In the fit
* t<ansparent fahion,       >two ciftpr cs, except for a                   *
reotried list of producs;
N                  (e) reduc  the oewe of
-              - >  <   retrteta prbduatsCwbich
require prior approval before
,,'sxport fte to  19'   e)0
0  - . | J *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~elei-st  the sd for  ermit.
f ao erch  xporit |Onsin_ t;
(e folato, plicts                                   N
k    ,      >                                            tz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iplemet   p uwprwt   *
*  proedure and a   eing
ystem fir externa  poylenti
-N-  '  ^  -¢  ot dividends endryoltebs
-     r      x ot *the prIVaM secrt I(f)
-~~~~ .                                                            im  lplemet th  C8epr_ - -- ed
1i I*C (ed app rovedx 
-   s                                11  *~~~~~~~~-                   Coblea Sub-Comlttee on-
-           *             ¢                    t~~~~~~~~~~~~~nvet_t  In O e_sbr 1963)                    
investent approvaJs to * .
wsall nur  r rcquired for
A~~ ~ -                                                                   _
. . .. . . .. . . 



REF" OBJECTIVES                                   PISC                      ROPOSED ACTION PEOSAM              TImINO            COITtON FOR
snvironntal, bheltb and
saf-ety, ad legal reasons.
2. Pric decontrol.
Enhanc production lanceetlve         Prices of about 20 product            o Extend price decontrol to         Dec mber 190     Board
and ffiCency, and rduce              groups se   decontrolled  and         additional items# particularly      and continuous    Preuentation
uneertalnty aMd r%lonlra of -        e    Isyrovenontu *ad  tn             potentiol *xportablee and
supplies to con    rs.               pIoc        produersn requet          input. into xport industrieu.
~~~ ~~for lncresou In eontrolled-
pricn. Price control apply            o For iton that remion under
currently to Its  In t18              price control, expnd the  ge.
prodect groups (uder the              of import-parity pricing in
Osrl Order), snd to 11                price dotermination.
product, moty con r
staples, uder Specif Ic
Order. Delays Persist In the
processng of producrsc 
reque< a  ad tbo updating of
inforution used tn adjusting                                                                                  1
pries. Also mt  controlled
prices are *till based on
cost-plug pricing formule,
which provide n obvious
dloiictive to  ffticilecy.
Ott,
4.A 4'
0
0'



_1OllJEtTCTI                                        ISAC                   PROPO   ACTIO FROAI                                   CONDITION
IV. TECHNCAL 5ThlIES
UndrCta k  studies to Inform         N/A                                   (i) Prpare TORe, and                 (;) December     Board
reform  in policies and design                                             (ii) Complete the following         1990 and (i i)    Pr_en tation
subsequnt phsee of export                                                  studies and agree with IDA on       December 1991     *nd Second
development program.                                                       action plans:                                         Tranche
o revior of export
copea_tton schee and design
of next phas of import
duty/VAT exemption schem for
dirwct oxportrs;
e design of shmes to extend
free trade status to indirect
*xporters;
o design n xt phase of export
financing;                          July 1991         Second Tranche
o review Import duty
exemption for non-exporters n
and r duce numbr nd vlue of                                            °
o  review operations of sir         July 1991         Condition of
Carso terminal at Jo_*                               disbursement of
Kenyatta International Airport                        funds for
and implemont plans to                                purchae  of air
Introdue privote sector                              core. handl;ng
-   .  aement ef air cargo                             quipment
^           ~~~~handling
Prpare TORs for the following       December 1991
tudy, complete by stipulated
date, *nd agree on   action
plan to Implement Its
rec_endtions.
* ealuate effeedtivenss and-
efficiency Of tourtIc sector
Institutions including Keny-
V. 111IN1STA.L MITIGATION           N/A                                   Tourilm Development
Corporation;                                                  '
Mitigte the advere effctsf
of industrial developmnt on                                                o  Implement land zoning            December 1990    Board         -
wildlife, quality of natural                                               regulations that preserve the                         Presuntateon e' 0
reources and comemity life                                                  cessl" of e ildllfo to                                            o
In areas surrouondia  thm                                                  entry/exit points oe the
proposed EPt sits.                                                         southoeat bounday of the
Nairobi National Park.



- 71 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 9
The Export Processin8 Zone
Introduction
1.         Export Processing Zones (EPZs) are a relatively recent
adaptation of the free trade zone concept. Physically, most EPZs resemble
industrial parks, although in some cases the approach is applied on an even
more limited basis as with the manufacturing-under-bond scheme currently in
place in Kenya. EPZs offer export-oriented assembly and manufacturing
industries an environment of comprehensive policy liberalization, while
providing a range of financial and fiscal incentives, high quality
infrastructure, and specialized business services. This package is
designed to allow firms to compete on a more equal footing in highly
competitive export markets. The cornerstone of EPZ regimes is the
transparency of the incentives they provide, and the automaticity with
which these are conferred on all export manufacturing and service firms
that meet an explicit set of eligibility criteria.
2.         To date, 46 developing countries have sponsored EPZ programs,
with about 300 zones that employ over 1.4 million people. Their success in
increasing net foreign exchange earnings and employment has been mixed, and
it is clear that they are not a substitute for economy-wide policy
liberalization. However. EPZs are often an useful means of accelerating
the implementation of wider trade policy reforms. Comprehensive trade
reform may be politically difficult since it could imply employment losses
in the initial phases due to the contraction of inefficient industries. By
limiting policy reform to specified geographical areas or firms, EPZ
programs can be implemented more easily. .Furthermore, as illustrated in
several developing countries, the success of EPZs in terms of providing a
quick supply response can help mobilize domestic support for implementation
of more comprehensive reforms. EPZs are also useful in accelerating the
flow of foreign expertise into the export sector in the form of marketing
channels, management skills, financing, and technology.
3.        After nearly three decades of import-substituting manufacturing,
Kenya, has adopted a comprehensive, but measured, strategy toward
increasing the outward orientation of the economy. The achievement of
neutrality in its trade regime is designed to occur over several years to
ensure that the reform process is sustainable. Nevertheless, there is an
urgent need to accelerate employment generation and export earnings and to
catalyze domestic producers by demonstrating the feasibility and
profitability of exports. Therefore, together with phased improvements in
the overall incentive regime, the Government has decided to establish
several EPZs in Kenya. Three sites have been identified for this purpose.
The first is a privately-owned site, which is also being developed by the
private sector, within an existing industrial area in Nairobi. A second
site, proposed for IDA financing through this Project, is located at Athi



- 72 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 9
River township. 12 kilometers south of Nairobi international airport. A
third site has been identified in Mombasa, and a feasibility study funded
by the African Development Bank is expected to be completed by end-1990.
The Project
4.         Objectives and General Description.   The principal objectives
of the proposed EPZ at Athi River are to: (i) expand non-traditional
manufactured exports; (ii) generate employment and improve labor force
quality through the upgrading of skills; and (iii) stimulate domestic and
foreign investment in export-oriented industries. In achieving these aims,
the Athi River EPZ would provide firms with high-quality infrastructure
facilities and incentives so as to complement Kenya's existing competitive
advantages in the production of manufactured exports. These advantages
include its low wage rates, a large and disciplined labor force, and the
quota-free status of Kenyan manufactures in OECD markets.
5.         The proposed Export Development Project (EDP) would support
construction of the first phase of the Athi River EPZ (about 93 hectares,
of which about 69 hectares would be used for industrial sites). As
specified below (para. 11), the proposed project would finance on-site and
access roads; water supply, sewerage and hazardous waste disposal
facilities; power lines; and sites and services for worker housing. The
engineering design and specifications, including a detailed land use plan,
have been prepared by a team of consultants from the Penang Development
Corporation of Malaysia and a Kenyan engineering consulting firm.
Construction of the Zone is expected to begin in July 1991, and would be
completed over 24 months. Bidding documents for civil works and supplies
associated with the IDA project a..e nearing completion. The planning and
construction of separate but suppottive off-site infrastructure facilities
funded entirely from the Kenya Government's or private sector resources
have been underway since 1989, when the Government decided to develop a
*growth pole* south of Nairobi.
6.         Location and Site Choice.   The township of Athi River, where
the proposed EPZ would be located, is classified by the Government as a
rural center and is located about 12 km. southeast of Nairobi international
airport. The population of Athi River is about 25,000, and has grown at
almost 7 percent annually since 1979, largely due to migration from the
countryside and nearby towns in response to industrial growth in the area.
The main industrial employers are the East Africa Portland Cement factory
and the Kenya Meat Commission, which are located at opposite ends of the
township. In addition, there are about 200 small and medium businesses,
400 kiosks, a post office, a commercial bank, two primary schools and a
health center. While some subsistence farming is carried out, the main
agricultural activity is open ranching, and tFe lands surrounding Athi
River are largely marginal in terms of agricu..tural potential.



- 73 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 9
7.        The Athi River site offers a number of advantages for an EPZ
relative to alternative sites within Kenya. The township is well served by
two major highways, the Mombasa Road and the Great North Road and is linked
by rail to both Nairobi and Mombasa. Direct air service is available from
Nairobi to major markets in Europe, Asia and Africa, while the port of
Mombasa offers shipping links. Due to its proximity, Athi River also has
access to Nairobi's substantial surplus labor pool, including the highest
concentration of educated and trained manpower in Kenya. The location of
the EPZ site near Nairobi also implies that electricity, water, and
telephone costs are highly competitive.
8.         Institutional and Incentive Framework.  The enabling framework
for EPZs in Kenya would be defined through legislation that has been tabled
in Parliament, and is expected to be enacted shortly as the EPZ Authority
Act. The Act would define the rights and obligations of EPZ developers,
operators, and firms; specify the powers and functions of the EPZ
Authority; and, along with the implementing regulations for EPZs, delineate
the operating regulations and incentives applicable to EPZ developers.
operators and firms.
9.         The EPZ Authority would be an autonomous entity, with half the
membership of its Board being private sector representatives. The main
functions of the Authority would be to implement the incentive framework
applicable to EPZ firms; insulate EPZ operators and firms from the
regulatory and licensing requirements of government departments and
agencies; and enforce compliance with the regulatory requirements of the
EPZ Act. The first Kenyan EPZ, a small privately-owned and developed zone
within an industrial area in Nairobi, is expected to become operational
immediately after the legislation is enacted. The Athi River EPZ, although
owned and developed by the Government, would be run by a private-sector
operator.
10.        The main itLcentives that would be provided to EPZ firms are: (i)
exemptions from payment of all duties and taxes on imported raw materials,
intermediates, capital equipment, and spare parts utilized in export
production; from export taxes; and from corporate income tax for ten years
from the start of production: (ii) unrestricted foreign ownership and
employment of foreign nationals; (iii) autonomous control over foreign
exchange earnings and unrestricted repatriation of capital and dividends
from these earnings; and (iv) no restrictions on the sale of EPZ output to
the local market provided all applicable duties and taxes are levied. This
package of incentives compares favorably with those offered in other
successful zones in the region, and reflects the major concern of the
Government with generating employment and an early demonstration effect
from exports.
11.        Proiect Components.  The Project would comprise the following
components associated with construction of Phase 1 of the Athi River EPZ:



- 74 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 9
A. Off-site Works (Phase 1)
(a) Construction of a trunk water main to the site and to the
Kitengala Reservoir from the site;
(b) Construction of a trunk sever from the site to stabilization
ponds; and construction of sewage stabilization ponds.
(c) Construction and improvements of roads, surface water drainage
along roads, and street lighting.
(d) Provision of electricity from the transformer at Athi River to a
transformer at the site.
Ce) Construction of surface water drainage facilities (outfall).
B. On-site Works (Phase 1)
(a) Plot demarcation, site preparation and construction of perimeter
fence.
(b) Construction of roads and footpaths, surface water drainage along
roads, and lighting of streets and perimeter fence.
'c) Construction of water supply, sewerage, and solid waste disposal
facilities.
(d) Construction of electricity distribution facilities.
C. On-site Works (sites and services for 500 residential plots)
(a) Plot demarcation and site preparation.
(b) Construction of roads, footpaths, and surface water drainage.
(c) Construction of water supply and solid waste disposal facilities.
12.       Estimated Costs.  The total project cost for construction of
Phase 1 of the Athi River EPZ is estimated at $26.52 million, of which
$9.96 million or about 38 percent is the foreign exchange component. The
proposed IDA Credit would finance about 74 percent of the total Project
cost. Estimates of the project costs are shown in Table 1. The estimates
of off- and on-site works (including sites and services for worker housing
plots) are based on detailed designs prepared by the engineering
consultants retained by GOK (para. 5), and funded under an SPPF and PPF.



- 75-.
Annex 6
___________
Page 5 of 9
Table 1: Projoct Cost Sumary (USS million)
----------------------------------
Share of
Description                                             Local   Foreign   Total    Total
A. Off-site Works (Phase 1)
________________________
(i)  Water                                         3.137    1.847    4.984      18.82
(il)  Sewerage                                      4.627    2.717    7.344      27.7%
(li1)  Roads; surface water (S.W.) drainage;
and streot lighting                            0.822    0.596    1.417      6.3X
(iv)  Electricity                                   0.410    0.273    0.683       2.6%
(v)  Surface wator drainage (outfall)              0.310   0.087    0.397        1.6%
Sub-total                                      9.306    5.520   14.826     56.9%
8. On-sits Works (Phase 1)
(i) Plot dbearcation; site preparation;
and perimeter fence                           0.223    0.074    0.297      1.12
(cl)  Roads and footpaths; S.W. drainage;
and street lighting                           1.456    0.930    2.387      9.02
(iil)  Water supply;  eweorage; and solid
waste disposal                                0.449    0.268    0.717      2.7?
(iv)  Electrical distribution                       0.123    0.184   0.307       1.22
Sub-total                                     2.262    1.468   3.708      14.0X
C. On-site Works (Sites and servieos
for 500 plots for worker housing)
(i)  Plot demarcation;                             0.030   0.008    0.038       0.1%
and site preparation
(iI)  Roads and footpathe;                          0.28     0.141    0.408      1.SX
and surface water dainage 
(i;)  Water supply; and solid                        0.060    0.030    0.080      0.38
waste disposal
Sub-total                                     0.345    0.179   0.524       2.02
Technical Service  -
Design and Supervision (10X)                          1.190    0.716    1.906      7.22
Base Cost                                              13.093    7.871   20.964     79.12
Physical Contingencies (10o)                            1.809   0.787    2.096       7.92
Price Contingencles (152)  /a                           2.160    1.299    3.4S9     13.0%
Total Project Cost                                     16.602    9.967   26.520    100.OX
/a  Consists of foreign and local cost escalation of 6 percent per year,
with expected start date of construction In July 1991.



- 76 -
Annex 5
Page 6 of 9
The costs for technical services related to design and supervision are
estimated at 102 of the works components; p;,ysical contingencies estimated
at 102 of the base cost (including technice; supervision); and price
contingencies for local and foreign costs estimated on the basis of a 5
percent annual increase in local and foreign costs (including technical
supervision and physical contingencies).
13.        Project Benefits.  Experience in other countries suggests that
the main benefits from the proposed Athi River EPZ would be twofold 1!:
(i) the zone would augment Kenya's foreign exchange earnings; and (ii) it
would create additional direct and indirect employment. In addition to
these benefits, which are quantified in estimating the economic rate of
return (para. 14), the EPZ would further other economic and social
objectives. Most significantly, it would assist in the development of
Kenyan entrepreneurship by providing opportunities for the creation of
small-scale enterprises both as subcontractors to EPZ firms and as
suppliers of services to the EPZ workforce. Establishment of the zone
would also help upgrade the quality of the Kenyan labor force and
management. Since the early entrants into the EPZ are likely to be firms
in the garment and textile industries, which employ mostly female workers,
the zone would contribute to promoting women's participation in economic
activities. Finally, the EPZ would support GOK's policy of
decentralization by encouraging economic development outside the existing
urban centers.
14.        Economic Rate of Return.  The economic benefits from
establishing the Athi River EPZ are measured by estimating the value of (i)
the additional direct and indirect employment created due to the EPZ; and
(ii) the net gain derived from converting foreign exchange into domestic
currency for wages and other purchases from the local economy. 2/ The
employment benefits accrue as a result of the divergence between the market
wage rates and the shadow wage rates, for each skill category of labor.
The foreign exchange benefits arise due to the difference between the
official and shadow exchange rates, and apply to all payments by EPZ firms
for local inputs, which must be made aut of the firms' foreign exchange
earnings. The other benefits noted in para. 13 are difficult to quantify,
and have not been included in estimating the ERR. The costs of all off-
and on-site works included in Phase 1 are included in the analysis along
1/ See P.G.Warr, "Export Processing Zones: The Economics of Enclave
Manufacturing", World Bank Research Observer, Washington, D.C., volume 4,
no. 1, (1989), for a benefit-cost analysis of EPZs in four East Asian
countries.
2/ Although local bales by EPZ firms are permitted, their economic effect
is that they displace imports of the same value. Hence the receipts of the
EPZ firms are identical to the opportunity cost of the forgone imports (the
c.i.f price), implying no net economic effect dS a result.



77 -
Annex 5
Page 7 of 9
with the costs of operating and maintaining the EPZ. 3/ The land to be
used for the zone is marginal with no alternative productive use in its
present state and is, therefore, not included among the project costs.
15.        All benefits and costs are considered over a 15-year period.
The shadow exchange rate used in valuing the foreign exchange benefits and
the foreign component of the investment and operating cssts assumes a small
overvaluation of the Shilling. In estimating the benefits from additional
employment, and the labor costs involved in constructing and operating the
EPZ, shadow wage rates specific to labor type are used to reflect the
differential opportunity cost of labor in each category. In the base case,
a density of 200 workers per hectare is assumed in estimating the direct
employment created by zone enterprises. 4/ Employment in off-zone
enterprises induced by EPZ development is estimated to match the growth of
unskilled employment within the zone. As a result, the EPZ is projected to
create 12,000 jobs within the zone, and 9,000 jobs in off-zone enterprises
when Phase I of the zone is fully operational in the year 2000.
16.        Based on these assumptions, the project has an ERR of about 18
percent in the base case (Table 2). which compares favorably to the rates
of return for successful EPZs elsewhere. Sensitivity analyses were carried
out assuming (i) a 20 percent decrease in employment; (ii) a 15 percent
increase in investment costs; and (iii) a 10 percent increase in
employment.   The effects of each of these on the project's ERR is shown in
Table 2. and illustrates the ERR for the zone would be about 14.7 percent
even in the worst case--if irnvestment costs are 15 percent higher
(reflecting the price contingencies) and employment benefits 10 percent
lower.
31 Private sector operation of the Athi River and other EPZs is necessary
to ensure that there is appropriate cost recovery for operations and
maintenance and some part of capital expenditures. Operation and
maintenance responsibilites (e.g. among the EPZ Authority, Ministry of
Works, Athi River Town Council, Kenya Power and Lighting Company Ltd.,
National Pipeline and Water Resources Corporation) have been delineated for
the Athi River site, and annual costs have been estimated. With the
exception of existing water charges, the other tariff levels are judged to
be appropriate. The Government has proposed that Town Council water
charges for the EPZ be set at levels determined by the Nairobi City
Commission under the IDA-funded Nairobi Water Supply Project.
4/ The employment density has been estimated to be about 470 per hectare
for the Bayan Lepas Free Trade Zone in Malaysia, and an average of about
290 per hectare for all Free Trade Zones in Penang, Malaysia.



Annex S
Page 8 of 9
Table 2     SENSITIVITY OF ERR (Z)
Change in Employment                Chan8e in Investment Costs
* 02 (Base Cas)                 +152
+102                               19.5                      18.6
02 (Base Case)                     18.0                      17.1
-20Z                               15.5                      14.7
17.       Environmental Impact.  While Athi River is not within a major
wildlife dispersion area, its proximity to the Nairobi National Park places
it on the edge of a secondary migration route in the Athi-Kapiti ecosystem.
This ecosystem, which includes K.itengela in the Athi plains, the Kapiti
plains, the Ngong Hills, and the National Park, covers an area of
approximately 2j500 sq. kms., antd has the second largest migratory wildlife
population in Kenya.  Given the year-round availability of water and
pasture within it, the National Park is a critical part'of the Athi-Kapiti
ecosystem, particularly in drought years. Its significance is heightened
because settlement of the high-potential agricultural'areas north of the
Athi-Kapiti plains precludes their use by wildlife, and the fencing of the
northern and western boundaries,of the Nairobi National Park and the
Nairobi/Mombasa road acts as an effective barrier to'seasonal migrations.
An assured migration route between the Park and the Athi-Kapiti plains is,
therefore, important to the.survival of the Athi-Kapiti wildlife
populations.
18.       Wildlife exit and entry points along the few open migration
routes from the National Park have been under pressure for over a decade.
The return of land around the'Park to Masai owners for private development
has resulted.in sub'divisions and fencing that prevent animals from easily
entering the Park from the south.  Closer to the proposed EPZ site in Athi
River, an active land market has developed in response/to recent industrial
development. The EPZ site has been chosen carefully so that it is
relatively distant from the entry and exit points that are being threatened
by this commercial development.  However, it is recognized that, if.its.
growth is not managed carefully, the development of the EPZ would put
additional pressure on migration routes on the Park's southern boundary.
Provision has therefore been made in the Project for creation of a "dreen
Belt' along the Athi and Stony Athi rivers, which would consist.of



79
Annex 5
Page 9 of 9
protecting existing Acacia woodlands and planting new trees and grassy
areas. This would provide a corridor for seasonal wildlife migrations, act
as a buffer on urban development, preserve woodlands for a large number of
birds and mammals, and have great aesthetic appeal in an otherwise treeless
landscape. The construction design of the EPZ incorporates, therefore,
site preparation and construction of both greenbelts and recreation areas.
In addition, the zoning code for lands in the immediate proximity of the
migration routes in and out of the Park was recently revised to preclude
commercial development in these areas.
19.       Two other aspects of the environmental mitigation plan for the
EPZ should be noted. First, pollution control will be essential for the
protection of wildlife and natural habitat in surrounding areas. There is
equal concern about air borne pollution (in view of the proximity of
wildlife) and liquid and solid wastes (due not only to water use by
agricultural and residential households dependent on the Athi River, but
also the ecological importance of flows in the Mbagathi River, which is the
lifeline for animals in Nairobi Park). On the recommendation of the
consultants, provision for liquid and solid waste disposal has been made
north of the Mombasa Road, at a considerable distance from the EPZ site and
Athi River township. S/ In addition, the Government has decided to use
pollution control standards and guidelines provided by the World Bank for
pre-treatment of effluents by firms locating within the EPZ, and for
monitoring the effectiveness of pollution mitigation at common facilities.
Second, existing facilities for water supply and sewerage in the area are
poor. Development of the EPZ and the influx of new people into the area
would put additional pressures on the existing infrastructure. The Project
provides, therefore, for a considerable expansion in water supply and
sewerage facilities to accommodate the expected growth in household and
industrial needs. In addition, the Project includes sites and services for
500 plots for worker housing, to forestall a deterioration in community
life and standards when the EPZ is operational.
5/  The environmental assessment and mitigation plans were completed bv
Wildlife Conservation International (a division of the New York Zoologl a
Society) and Penang Development Corporation.



-80 -                             Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
Export Facilitation Equipment
Introduction
1.    The thrust of the Government of Kenya's program of structural
reforms to increase the outward orientation of the economy has been
toward improving the policy environment to encourage efficient import-
substitution and exports. Measures taken or proposed in this area
include import liberalization, flexible exchange rate management, and
mechanisms to reduce on an economy-wide basis the anti-export bias in
the system. In addition, on a more selective basis, steps are proposed
to provide high quality infrastructure and comprehensive policy
liberalization through the establishment of export processing zones. To
supplement these measures, the Government has initiated a review of
storage, handling and transportation facilities and constraints, with
particular emphasis given to their role in the facilitation of export
trade.  A preliminary study of issues was funded under a PPF, and
recommendations made in the study are to be expanded and implemented
through this Project and, subsequently, through a proposed Transport
Corridor Project.
2.    In view of the proximity of two of the proposed EP2s to Jomo
Kenyatta International Airport at Nairobi and the vital role the airport
plays in Kenya's exports of horticultural and garment exports, the
Government has decided to focus on air-cargo operations during the first
phase of its actions to improve export facilitation infrastructure.
Besides adequate and predictable air cargo space for imports and
exports, the other main requirement for developing non-traditional
exports is a high level of cargo security. The present cargo terminal,
established in 1978. has experienced a 102 percent increase in
throughput during 1979-89. There is, however, a high degree of
congestion at the terminal and the freight apron, and a high incidence
of tampering and theft. The availability and maintenance of equipment
is impaired by the low management capabilities and accountability of the
operator of the air cargo terminal--Kenya Airfreight Handling Limited
(KAHL), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Kenya Airways. Combined with low
workforce productivity, high handling charges, and poor procedures for
document control, cargo monitoring, and pedestrian and commercial
vehicle traffic, utilization of the air cargo terminal facilities is a
daunting experience.
Project Components
3.    The review of air cargo terminal operations showed that upgrading
and better utilization of equipment is required. However, the provision
of equipment without a major organizational change would be of limited
use to the overall objective of ensuring the smooth and secure movement
of cargo through the airport. Consequently, the Government has proposed
that the procurement of supplementary and upgraded equipment be combined
with an action plan to implement measures to improve air cargo terminal
operations, chiefly through the introduction of private sector



_ 81 _
Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
management and a commercial orientation. Subject to initial
implementation of the action plan to introduce private sector
management. it is proposed that this Project finance the acquistion of
equipment identified in Table 1. The total cost of this component is
estimated at $2.8 million, and is based on October 1990 market prices.
IDA financing would meet 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs,
amounting to $2.5 million. Procurement would be through international
competitive bidding.
Table 1: Air Cargo Handling Equipment
Item                     Available   Additional  Estimated Cost
(No.)      (No.)           CS)
(a) High loader                  2            5          750,000
Cb) Passenger steps              I            1           15,000
,c) Cargo dolly                 74           30           60,000
Sd) Cargolmail trolley          60          100          200,000
-e) Tractor                      4            3        1,195,000  1/
Cf) Forklift                     4            1           70,000  21
Cg) Reach truck                  3            1           15,000
(h) Hydraulic pallet truck      16           20          180,000
i) Weighbridge and manual
scale                        3            1           15!000  31
Local taxes and duties         300,000
TOTAL      2,800.000
1/ One A-310 (Airbus) class and two B737 class tractors.
21 One 15-ton forklift.
31 One weighbridge and two 250 kilogram scales.



82                       Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
Table 1: Kenya - Export Structure and Performance
Principal Exports
Value ($ millions)          Nominal rate
Est.    Proj. of growth (Z)
1980    1985    1989    1993  85-89    89-93
Merchandlse:
Tea                      156      233     259      484     2.7    16.9
Coffee                   291      281     220      305    -5.9      8.5
Horticultural products   -         33      90      161    28.5    15.7
Petroleum products       439      155      73       89   -17.1      5.1
Fruit & vegetables        68       64      47       77    -7.4    13.1
Hides,skins & products   38        15      29       42    17.9      9.7
Soda ash                  21       17      22       31     6.7      9.0
Cement                    27       20      12       16   -12.1      7.5
Pyrethrum                 25       12      14       25     3.9    15.6
Sisal                     24       18      17       23    -1.4      7.8
Other                    225      108     203      340    17.1    13.8
sub-total         1,314     956      986   1,593      0.8    12.7
Non-factor services:
Tourism                           249     393      530    12.1      7.8
Transportation                    197     232      320     4.2      8.4
Other                             111     321      115    30.4   -22.6
Sub-total           747     557      946     965    14.2       0.5
TOTAL                  2,061   1,513   1,932   2.558       6.3      7.3
Destination of Merchandise Exports:
Share of total (2)
1980    1985    1988    1989
OECD countries                         42.4    54.0    53.9    54.3
of which:  United Kingdom              11.4    11.9    19.5    19.5
West Germany                11.4    11.9    12.0      8.7
Netherlands                  3.6     6.7      5.1     4.9
United States                3.3     6.8      4.8     4.8
Africa                                 25.0    24.6    25.5    22.3
of which:  PTA countries               23.7    18.5    18.8    14.6
Middle East                             4.0      3.2     2.5      2.9
Asia                                   12.6      9.2     6.0    11.9
Other                                  16.0      9.0     12.1    8.6
TOTAL                     100.0   100.0    '00.0  100.0
Source: Statistical Abstract, 1989; and Economic Survey, 1990.



- 83.-
Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
Table 2: Tariff Structure by End-Use '
All
Consumer Intermediate Capital Classifiable
Goods      Goods       Goods    Imports'
1986187
Unweighted Average Tariff       58.9        38.8       30.7         42.3
Import-Weighted Average Tariff 43.0         25.0       29.1         28.1
Effective Tariff Collection    35.0         22.4       20.1         22.1
1988189
Unveighted Average Tariff       62.6        40.6       29.1         44.1
Import-Weighted Average Tariff 46.0         28.0       28.2         28.8
Effective Tariff Collection    34.7         20.7       15.4         18.7
M SITC was converted into Broad Economic Categories and then into End-Use
Categories on the basis of United Nations (1989) Classification by Broad
Economic Categories, Statistical Papers Series M, No. 53. The computed
value given above relate to 80.0 percent of import items and 75 percent
of import value. The rest could not be reclassified because no
equivalencelconcordance was available for those SITC categories.
v The average computed here is not comparable to the average for all
imDorts shown elsewhere.
Source: linistry of Finance.



Table Ss hal Eftfcive Exchenge  at"   (NME) and Anti-Espert Gle e
19am    tool    1982    is"       1964    19m      198m    1967    19m8        to"
Trad-bFXgheds 113 (3Sh/5)                       7.57    6.00    7.26    7.41    6.60    0.90    7.09    7.t6    7."6    6.00
Nst-Ttaditieni ONDuai Emrt
ffectiv ies idy (5)                        7.5      9.1     8.0      4.9     6.4      7.4      7.4     6.6      4.3      4.2
_  fo1r T Exparts (l1El)                  jI1       1.72    7.88     7.79    7.17    7.41    7.61    7.64    7.91    6.5
Effectilve Dty ()                         21.5    20.2    22.9    20.0    17.4    19.1    17.0    16.0    17.6    14.4
Us13 for iiuprO  (lEE)                    -9. 2   j0  9l    8.91     6.69    7.09    8.1       *.80    8.67    6.91    9.20
i-EkerO                       _LL 4     1.10    1.14    1.14    1.11    1.10        .09   jjj       118    1.10
# to compeing the effctlve duty on importO, oly tariff protection io conedered becaus comprehenive ad reliable estisate
are o" avaliabl. for thw twriff eqivalent of Us due to liort liening. Whilo the leteneity of ecb Ipe  e imports since
1mD km varied acoing to the availability of forei sacbec       e, their Ielusloo would significoatly lncreas  the effective
mport dty  sd th  leOel of oatl-export bls, buo Is unlikely to afft their trends. Sice th  imopt of   _be bom
elamm. the sabsidy to exporto Includ_  only oxport compensaion paymets.
ft   TMe ostl-eao1 t bias eseour  the relative pttofabilIlty, In terme of Kenya Shillings, of producing a dellar's worth ot an import-
edAdI10ot c empred to a dellor's ourth of as exportable.
!frweet 31.1stry ot FihU:Oa



- 85 -
Annex 8
Page I of 4
KENYA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. Bank Supervision Input. The inputs indicated in the Table below
refer to total staff and IDA consultant resources estimated to be
required for the review of progress reports, procurement and
disbu:sement actions, correspondence, donor coordination, and in-country
supervision of the Export Development Project (EDP). These activities
are estimated for this "hybrid operation' as follows:
Sectoral Adj.     Investment    Studies & TA
(Staff weeks)   Component          Component      Component      Total
FY91             4                 6               3           13
FY92             6                 4               4           14
FY93             6                 4               3           13
FY94             2                 4               3            9
FY95             2                 4               3            9
Due to the 'hybrid' nature of the operation, supervision of the
different components would require a mixture of skills.  Therefore, in
addition to the Task Manager, who will supervise the sectoral adjustment
and studies/TA components and be responsible for the overall
coordination of the Project, specialized resources would be required to
supervise the infrastructure investment components. Supervision
missions will normally be composed of the Task Manager, a staff member
or consultant specialized in the management of infrastructure operations
(including procurement), and a disbursement expert (from the Resident
Office in Nairobi).
2. Borrower's Contribution to Supervision. The Ministry of Finance
(MOF) is responsible for implementing the EDP, with assistance from the
Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) in matters relating to exchange controls,
finance, and the maintenance of records on transactions under the quick-
disbursing component of the Credit in accordance with sound accounting
practices. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be established within
MOF to oversee implementation planning, procurement and financial
control of the investment and technical assistance components. The
Project Coordinator will report to the Permanent Secretary, MOP.
Quarterly and semi-annual progress reports will be submitted to IDA, and
will contain the following information:
Semi-annual report
a) Utilization of the export compensation, import duty/VAT
exemption, and manufacturing-under-bond schemes, measured in terms
of number of applications, total value of imports. and value of
duty relief.
b) Progress in regulatory reform, including number of products
for which prices have been decontrolled.



86
Annex 8
Page 2 of 4
c) Status of completion of the six studies proposed under the
EDP.
d) Status of implementation of the grant assistance scheme for
exporters.
Quarterly report
a) Product coverage under the import duty1VAT exemption scheme,
both in terms of actual utilization and number of export products
eligible under the scheme.
b) Status of construction and procurement of goods and services
for the EPZ.
3. The first quarterly progress report will be submitted to IDA no
later than April 1991, and the first semi-annual report no later than
July 1991. Thereafter, they will be submitted in quarterly/semi-annual
cycles until project completion. The information contained in these
reports will be used to formulate specific terms of reference for each
supervision mission. In addition, all accounts will be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and such accounts will be
submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year of the Government.
4. Responsibility for coordinating arrangements for IDA supervision
missions and for the timely transmittal of documents, information and
studies would rest with the Permanent Secretary, MOF.
S. Maior Supervision Issues. Supervision of the *hybrid' EDP requires
specific attention to the following major issues:
Sectoral Adiustment
1) Developments in inflation, the availability of finance, and
level of the real exchange rate and their effect on exporter
profitability and competitiveness.
2) Maintenance of automatic licensing for imports in Schedule 1
to 3B, and progress in extending automaticity to items currently
under 3C.
3) Reductions in protection, their effect on industrial
adjustment and the Budget, and progress towards greater uniformity
of protection and elimination of import exemptions for non-
exporters.
4) Implementation of schemes to provide free trade status to
exporters (import duty/VAT exemption, export compensation,
manufacturing-under-bond, and export processing zone).
5) Operation of exporter assistance programs. including pre-
shipment financing and grant assistance facility.
6) Implementation of reforms in production, investment and trade
regulations.



- 87 -
Annex 8
Page 3 of 4
Investment
7) Procurement, construction and disbursement related to the
export processing zone, including review of bidding documents and
selection process for contractors and consultants.
8) Evaluation of the performance of the EPZ Authority, private
sector operator, environmental mitigation effort, and total
employment and exports from EPZ firms.
9) Implementation of measures to introduce private sector
operation of the air cargo terminal at Jomo Kenyatta International
Airport.
10) Procurement of equipment for air cargo handling.
Studies and Technical Assistance
11) Review of selection of consultants, content of studies and
scope and timing of action plans resulting from their
recommendations.
12) Evaluation of progress in Customs computerization.
13) Evaluation of progress in product development activities.
14) Coordination with donors on sharing information from IDA and
donor-financed studies and formulating action plans to assist in
the implementation of the Government's export development
strategy.
Audits
15) Review or disbursements under the Credit, including
examination of back-up documentation for SOEs and other accounts.
16) Periodic review of the use of ICB and application of agreed
procurement and pre-shipment inspection procedures under the
quick-disbursing component.
17) Review of annual audited accounts.
6. Content and Timing of Supervision Missions
Approximate       Activity Code             Skill              Staff
Dates              From Above               Requirement        Weeks
FY91
June               1 to 4, 7, 9, 11,        Economist; Infra-    S
12, 13 and 16            structure engineer;
Disbursement expert
FY92
December           1 to 6, 7, and 9 to      Same as above         6
17
June               1 to 7, 12 to 17         Same as above         5



86~~~~~~~~~ 
Annex 8A                          '         -
-88 -                               &ne'
Page 4 of4 -
FY93
December          ,      i to 7.,14 to 17                  Same as above                 5
June                     1 to 8,  14 to 16                 Same as   bove                5.
FY94
--December                 1 to 6,  8,  14 to                Economlst;                    4
17                               DJsburse'.ent expert
June                     I to 6, 8, 14 to                  Same a   above                4
16
FY95
December                 1 to 6, 8, 14 to                  Same as above                 4
i7
.                         9..
.,
4   -  .  9.          
.9.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
. ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..4.
,,   ,  ,9 .         ,4
9.                  9 9      .                                        9.9                     
999~ ~ ~   ~   ~ ~~   ~    ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . . .9-
.9   J.                                                                                               9
k                          9       ,~~ ~~~~~~~~~.  9
~~~~.           9 .            ,                  .:
*         . .   .'                        .   ..



MAP SECTION
N
3~~              ~    ~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .      
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . .



1SRi 22397
SUDO,N                                     KENWA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
z~~V LE                      EAST No                  NOT
E/                                    NO
<  5   VA|LEY    5   EASTE+N  , 1       NORT;2~~~~~~~~~~~RN 
RIFT
0 <  A tSE\_ TownsJ                    t/:X   f
= TR,N,.S                                               -    Ottnoni NM.
\52N  ew Q   ~~~~~~~   <    kASTERN                       .-~~w  ooo
I,y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~io 199'.0 /S   
Nq&t-         \t          *^9S         
,1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AU                               IM , \zh



