                                                                                             50254
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTION PANEL                         1818 H Street,N.W.                     Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                           Washington, D.C. 20433   Fax : (202) 522-0916
                                                                                    Email: ipanel@worldbank.org


Werner Kiene
Chairperson
                                                                              IPN REQUEST RQ 09/07

                                                                                        August 3 1,2009



                  MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OF THE
                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                                         Request for Inspection
            KENYA: Export Development Project (IDA Credit No. 2197 KE)
       Notice o f Receipt o f a Request for Inspection and Decision Not to Register the Request

              In accordance with paragraph 17 o f IBRD and IDA Resolutions that established the
      Inspection Panel (the "Resolution"), Ihereby inform you that on April 2 1,2009, the Inspection
      Panel (the "Panel") received a Request for Inspection (the "Request") related to the above-
      referenced Project.

              The Request was submitted by the Friends o f Nairobi National Park (FoNNP). The
      Request states that an export processing zone (EPZ) "located in Athi River, Nairobi, Kenya,
      was funded by the World Bank sometime in 1994 " without any stakeholder consultation. It
      alleges that this EPZ contributed to the creation of environmental and social conflicts,
      depleted water resources, led to irregular electricity supply and abandoned manufacturing
      operations. I t hrther claims that "the EPZ lies waste after crippling and helping to destroy the
      Kitengela wildlife ecosystem" and that "local communities are becoming increasingly hostile
      over government plans to urbanize marginal lands ". The Request informs the Panel that plans
      to increase industrial development in the EPZ announced by the Government o f Kenya on
      April 21, 2009, may further harm the pastoralist communities and wildlife o f the Nairobi
      National Park and the surrounding Kitengela Plains. Moreover, the Request states that "game
      census records strong numbers o giraffe, lion, buffalo, eland, zebra, dik-dik, warthog,
                                            f
      gazelles, and scores o other wildlife " in the area which has been marked for industrialization
                             f
      due to the `tflawedplanning by the World Bank o the EPZ" which "block[s] not only the
                                                           f
      open-ecosyetem o Nairobi National Park, but also that o Amboseli National Park, because
                         f                                         f
      o its extending encroachment into wildlife areas". The Request concludes by asking the
       f
      "Inspection Panel o the World Bank to urgently investigate this matter".
                           f

              Since the Requester had not specified which World Bank-financed project had
      allegedly caused the harm documented in the Request, the Panel, in accordance with
      paragraphs 19,20, and 21 o f i t s Operating Procedures, wrote the Requesters on April 23,2009
      to request additional information. The Panel and the Requester corresponded between M a y
         and August 2009 in an attempt to clarify the allegations made in the Request and to identify all
         necessary information.

                Based on the information received thus far, the Panel has determined that the Project in
         question was the Kenya: Export Development Project which had been financed by an
         International Development Association (IDA) credit in 1990. The Project closed on June 30,
         1995.

                    Under the Panel's eligibility criteria', the Panel may not investigate Projects for which
         the loan has been closed or more than 95% disbursed. Because the Project closed on June 30,
          1995, the Panel i s not registering the Request in the Panel's Register, and i s advising the
         Requester o f this decision. In making this determination, the Panel notes the many
         significant concerns stated by the Requesters and has forwarded the Request to Management
         for i t s consideration.


                                                       Sincerely,
                                                                       /



                                                    Werner G e n e
                                                    Chairperson




        Enclosure:
         Copy o f the Request for Inspection




        cc:      Messrs./Mmes. Daboub (MDD), Wheeler (MDW), Okonjo-Iweala (MDO), Ezekwesili
                 (AFRVP), Zutt (AFCE2), Bricknell (AFCKE)




1
 International Development Association (IDA) Resolution 93-6, dated September 22, 1993 ("the 1993 Resolution"),
Paragraph 14(c).

                                                       2
From: "acacia" acacia@wananchi.com
To: Ipanel@,worldbank.org
04/21/2009 02:59 P M
cc:
Bcc:
Subject: The Export Processing Zone, Athi River, Nairobi, Kenya

Dear Sir/Madam:

The EPZ, located in Athi River, Nairobi, Kenya, was funded by the World Bank, sometime in
1994. Until that time, a strong and viable migration o f wildebeest and other wildlife utilized
that area and the surrounding Kitengela plains for grazing. Pastoralist communities coexisted
peacefully.     Since then, environmental and social conflicts             continually arise
and persist. Water sources are vastly meagre. Electricity supply remains poor. Manufacturers
have abandoned operations. The EPZ lies waste after crippling and helping to destroy the
Kitengela wildlife ecosystem. The local communities are becoming increasingly hostile over
government plans to urbanise marginal lands.

Today, the Minister for Trade o f the Government o f Kenya, announced plans to increase
industrial development along the current Export Processing Zone. However, organizations
including the Kenya Wildlife Service, the International Livestock Research Institute, and the
Afiican Wildlife Foundation, are working exhaustively to insure the area i s protected for the s t i l l
healthy populations o f wildlife. The game census records strong numbers o f giraffe, lion,
buffalo, eland, zebra, dik-dik, warthog, gazelles, and scores o f other wildlife which inhabit the
area marked for urbanization and industrialization, a condition generated by the flawed
planning by the World Bank o f the EPZ.

Ihave been serving Friends o f Nairobi National Park since 1995. When the EPZ was contructed
east o f Nairobi National Park, there was no stakeholder consultation. N N P i s the oldest
protected area in East Africa, gazetted in 1946. The Director o f KWS has deternmined that
protected areas must be managed as open ecosystems for sustainability. Fenced parks, such as
Lake NakuruNational Park, are dying terribly. The current EPZ serves to block not only
the open-ecosystem o f Nairobi National Park, but also that o f Amboseli National Park, because
o f i t s extending encroachment into wildlife areas.

Irequest the Inspection Panel o f the World Bank to urgently investigate this matter. Kenyan
ministries o f every function are busily studying strategies to develope the Kitengela. UNEP and
many environmental bodies have published extensive research that the only viable and
sustainable use for the Kitengela i s pastoralist and conservation. Environmental tradgedies are
escalating throughout the region. I t i s yet time to avoid the complete ruin o f the Kitengela open
ecosystem and wildlife corridor.


Regards,

Mrs. Joan Sikand
Vice Chair
Friends o f Nairobi National Park
