CREDIT NUMBER 2197 KE
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Export Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                 * 1992


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT NUMBER 2197 KE
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         "J, 1992, between the
REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered
into a Development Credit Agreement (Export Development Credit),
dated December 21, 1990, (the Development Credit Agreement) for the
purpose of assisting in the financing of the program referred to in
Recital (A) of the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement (the
Program);
(B)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Program by
increasing the amount made available under the Development Credit
Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-
seven million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 37,300,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments to the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended by the deletion of the word "and" at the end of Sub-
section (g), its replacement after Subsection (h), and the addition
of the following:
"(i) "Amending Agreement" means the Agreement Amending
the Development Credit Agreement (Export Development Project)
between the Borrower and the Association, dated    2q
199a"


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended to read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred and six million eight
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 106,800,000) (the
Credit), which includes an original amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixty-nine million five hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 69,500,000) and an
additional amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-
seven million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 37,300,000) (the Additional Financing)."
Section 1.03. A proviso is added at the end of Sec-
tion 2.04 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement reading as
follows:
"; provided, however, that any commitment charge on the
Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after
the date of the Amending Agreement."
Section 1.04. The amount of the Credit allocated to Category
(4) of Schedule 1 in the table set forth in Paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to the Development Credit Agreement is increased from SDR
"51,430,000" to SDR "88,730,000".
Section 1.05. The following paragraph is added at the end of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
"6. After a date twelve months from the date of the
Amending Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and no
commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts to or on the
order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Additional Financing. At
any time after such date, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Additional
Financing from the Credit Account or any part thereof."


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished
to the Association that the execution and delivery of this Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to Section 2.01 of this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the
Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association
of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on behalf of the
Borrower, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the
Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by
Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into force
and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties
hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association establishes a
later date for the purposes of this Section. If this Agreement shall
terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development
Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this
Agreement had not been executed.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KF.NYA
By U(
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice-President
Africa


