Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo: 20635
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(42170)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$230 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
FOR A
PUBLIC SECTOR RESOURCE MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
June 26, 2000
POVERTY REDUCTION AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT UNIT
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 17, 2000)
Currency Unit = tenge
tenge I = US$ 0.00703
US$ I = tenge 142.32
FISCAL YEAR
January   December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ESW      -      Economic Sector Work
EU-TACIS       -     European Union Technical Assistance Commonwealth of
lndependent States
CAS      -     Country Assistant Strategy
GDP      -      Gross Domestic Product
IBTA      -     Institutional Building Technical Assistance
PSRMAL       -      Public Sector Resource Management Adjustment Loan
SAL      -     Structural Adjustment Loan
UNDP       -     United Nations Development Programme
USAID      -      United States Agency for International Development
WTO       -     World Trade Organization
Vice President:   Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:    Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Manager/Director:    Pradeep Mitra
Task Team Leader/Task Manager    Helga Muller



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  10
6. Sustainability                                                                      I 1
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     13
9. Partner Comments                                                                    14
10. Additional Information                                                            16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed  without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P034093                                       Project Name: PUBLIC SEC. RES.MGT.
Team Leader: Helga W. Muller                              TL Unit. ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: May 17, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: PUBLIC SEC. RES.MGT.                           L/C/TF Number: 42170
Country/Department: KAZAKHSTAN                                           Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: BB - Public Sector Management Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  08/07/96                                Effective: 11/24/97           11/24/97
Appraisal:  04/10/97                                  MTR:
Approval:  08/26/97                                Closing: 12/31/99            12/31/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                             Johannes Linn
Country Manager:     Kiyoshi Kodera                            Kadir T. Yurukoglu
Sector Manager:      Pradeep Mitra                              not applicable
Team Leader at ICR:   Helga Muller                             John Holsen
ICR Primary Author:  John Mikesell; Helga Muller
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The primary objective of the project was to improve the effectiveness of resource mobilization by
the government and to improve the efficiency with which government resources are used through
administrative reform, reform of the budgetary process, and the development of a public
investment program. A secondary objective was to support a set of policies concerning housing
and related utilities, aimed at largely eliminating the heavy burden these activities have, in the past.
placed upon the government budget.
The adjustment program built on the considerable macroeconomic accomplishments of monetary
and fiscal policy in Kazakhstan in constraining inflation and reversing the decline in real gross
domestic product that occurred between 1990 and 1995, a 41 percent decline over those years.
The long contraction exposed weaknesses in public sector resource management. The size of
government had to diminish to meet the fiscal realities, and public sector incentives had to change
to reduce inefficiency and to improve government resource allocation.  Public resource
management continued to follow the procedures and practices of the era of central planning and
these did not mesh with the needs of a potentially resource-rich country heading towards the
flexibility of a market economy. Fundamental adjustments were required in public sector
management ii the country were to meet its considerable potential and to initiate those changes
was the intention of PSRMAL. Expenditures and functions of the government did not correspond
with available resources which caused an imbalance in the budget.
Government receipts had dropped from 37 percent to 22 percent of GDP between 1993 and
1996. During the same period current expenditures declined from 29 to 25 percent of GDP.
Because GDP declined also significantly during the 1993-1996 period, in real terms the declines in
government receipts and expenditures were even more dramatic. The general budget deficit,
measured on a cash basis, exceeded 7 percent of GDP in 1994, but was limited to 3.1 percent of
GDP in 1996. However, the cash budget deficits had been held down in part by large payments
arrears, particularly in wages and pensions. These trends in government receipts, expenditures,
and payments arrears clearly indicated the urgency for actions to improve the fiscal situation by
making more efficient use of the limited funds and improving fiscal management in the medium
and longer term.
The PSRMAL program was intended as a catalyst for the adoption of important, ambitious, and
wide-ranging institutional and policy reforms and was very important for the country assistance
strategy.  A critical element in the country assistance strategy for Kazakhstan was the
modernization of the state, the recasting of the government, its policies, and its instrumentalities
so that it could. play its necessary and appropriate role in a market-oriented economy. The main
objective for public sector reform in Kazakhstan was to strengthen the effectiveness of resource
mobilization by the Government and to improve the efficiency with which its resources are being
used. The need for reform was particularly important because real declines in government
revenues and in expenditure made public sector resource mobilization and efficient use of
available resources urgent for the people of Kazakhstan. The PSRMAL program thus has been at
the heart of the country assistance strategy.
- 2 -



The project objectives were clearly stated. However, their achievement required reforms cutting
across numerous government entities, creation of significant governmental institutions, and
support and cooperation from these as well as other entities at the level of ministries, cabinet and
the presidency. This complexity substantially increased the risks of achievement of project
objectives.
3.2 Revised Objective:
not applicable
3.3 Original Components:
Reforms supported by PSRMAL covered four broad components:
(i) Administrative Restructuring of the Republican Government and the Development of a Civil
Service;
(ii) Reforms in Budgetary Processes (relating to government procurement, budget coverage and
disclosure of basic financial information, financial control);
(iii) Strengthening the Public Sector Investment Process (through economic and financial
evaluation of projects, policies on external borrowing, preparing a medium-term macroeconomic
framework as a financing plan for the public investment program, and preparing a multi-year
public investment program); and
(iv) Reforms in Housing and Related Utilities (in terms of ownership, pricing, and safety nets
provided to the vulnerable population).
The components were closely linked to the objectives. The first three components directly
supported the primary objective of the project i.e. to improve the effectiveness of resource
mobilization by the government and the efficiency with which resources are used. The fourth
component supported the secondary objective to reduce the burden that housing and related
utilities were placing on the budget. The project took into account lessons learned from earlier
projects: it was quite focused and had a long time-horizon (three tranches over two years) which
was very important for a project which centered around institutional reforms. Moreover, the
project built on previous economic work, especially the report "Transition of the State". The
project was also closely linked to the provision of technical assistance (funded by other donors
and the Bank's IBTA project) which again is crucial for capacity-building.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was prepared in close cooperation with the government. The concept built on
previously undertaken ESW and a detailed assessment of the institutional capacity and needs. The
Quality at Entry Assessment rated the overall quality to be satisfactory. The rating was based on
the design of the program concept, objectives and approach (i.e. consistency with the CAS, clarity
and realism of development objectives, reflection of lessons of experience, strength of borrower
ownership), consideration of technical and economic aspects, institutional capacity aspects, and
readiness for implementation. All of these were rated to be satisfactory.
- 3 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
PSRMAL's outcome was satisfactory since the project achieved all its major relevant objectives
and is expected to achieve relevant development results. The implementation of PSRMAL has led
to the establishment of significant new governmental institutions (the Agency for Civil Service,
the independent State Procurement Agency) and a functional streamlining of government, the
introduction of many significant structural and procedural reforms in government finance and
budgeting, implementation of a substantial reorganization of government revenue administration,
and realignment of the provision of housing and utilities to the population. Whether all these
positive results can be claimed as direct outcomes of PSRMAL is not clear, but PSRMAL
certainly facilitated their achievement.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Administrative Restructuring of the Republican Government and the Development of a
Civil Service
This part of the project sought to assist in the adaptation of the size and structure of the Republic
Government to what was more appropriate for the public sector in a market economy and to what
was more consistent with fiscal realities of the nation. It also sought to improve accountability,
transparency, and efficiency of government decision-making and to start the establishment of a
civil service which could contribute to administrative capacity and efficient decision-making.
Achievement of this objective has been satisfactory.
The functional review of central budgetary entities and privatization /liquidation of unnecessary
and obsolete functions provided a critical first step in adapting the size and structure of
Government to the market economy. The Government conducted such a functional review early
in the project and used those results in the revised 1998 budget and as it developed and adopted
its 1999 and 2000 budgets. Many Republican and local entities were identified for removal from
budget support through (i) abolition or liquidation of functions; (ii) corporatization into state
enterprises and conversion into joint stock companies; and (iii) privatization /liquidation. The
review encompassed 754 state entities funded by the Republican budget as of September 1999.
Of them, 558 had been converted into state enterprises, 12 into closed joint stock companies, 13
into open joint stock companies, and 4 identified for privatization or liquidation. Only 167 state
entities in the review continued to receive full budgetary support as providers of services essential
to the state. A similar review has been done for entities supported by local budgets; although
complete data are unavailable, more than 2000 formerly state entities have been corporatized.
For corporatized entities, the Government has (i) changed their legal status by re-registering them
as joint stock companies; (ii) taken consequential actions such as promulgating a Regulation
(#105) on the status of budgetary entities; and (iii) amended the Civil Code to better define
budgetary entities and to encompass all new categories of legal persons. A Ministry of Finance
draft report demonstrates that entities identified for discontinued budgetary support have been
privatized or started toward liquidation.
-4 -



A second critical adjustment lies in the development of a professional and meritocratic civil
service. The Government is moving away from the patronage-based nomenklatura system to a
more open and competitively recruited and meritocratic civil service. A census of the civil service
has been completed. Inconsistencies between the census and the payroll data of public emplyees
were addressed during the development of the 1999 budget and the labor law and the law on
public service. Rationalization of the central executive entities brought a reduction in the number
of civil servants by 16 percent at the start of 1999.
Parliament enacted a new Civil Service Law in July 1999. The law is a framework law that states
the overarching principles applicable to the public service, with details being elaborated in
implementing regulations so that the Government has flexible means for dealing with the demands
of transition. New regulations have been issued that include (i) regulations on competitive
recruitment to the civil service; (ii) a decree on a code of ethics for the civil service; (iii)
regulations on disciplinary and grievance procedures; (iv) regulation on attestation for
administrative civil servants; (v) regulations on a personnel reserve for civil service; and (vi)
Presidential decree 138 dated December 29, 1999 determined the list of state empyee positions.
The Government has initiated recruitment of civil servants in accord with the new law.
Significant issues covered by the law and regulations include the following: (i) a clear distinction
has been made in the law between positions for political and administrative state emplyees; (ii) the
law is a framework law, stating overarching principles but leaving the Government flexibility to
deal with changing demands; (iii) an independent oversight agency (the Agency for Civil Service
created in 1998) has a significant role that is being used to good effect for supervision and
regulation in the early life of the process; and (iv) a unified personnel database is being established
for the entire civil service of the country. An interim regulation on competitive recruitment was
promulgated in early 1999. On May 1, 1999, the Agency for Civil Service published an open
advertisement for competitive recruitment for more than 55 positions in the central executive
bodies. Through early December 1999, eight more rounds of competitive recruitment had been
conducted for more than 300 central executive positions.
Reforms in Budgetary Processes
The budget process reforms sought to assist in increasing tax revenue, establish a procurement
system, improve the budget formulation process, and provide better commitment and expenditure
control. Overall, achievement of this objective has been satisfactory.
In the area of tax administration, the PSRMAL program focused primarily on administrative
improvements and there have been numerous successes in making compliance easier and more
transparent for taxpayers and more efficient for the Government. The Tax Committee introduced
simplified value added tax declaration forms with self-assessment and revised filing requirements
for the corporate profits tax. The Committee was reorganized along functional lines with units
for tax registration, analysis, taxpayer assistance, audit, collections, and computer services.
Besides increasing its organized efforts at taxpayer education, the Tax Committee also worked for
introduction of university curricula for specialized education in taxation, and published an
information book of tax regulations and instructions as an aid to taxpayers. Tax identification
- 5 -



numbers and social identification codes for individual contributions to pension funds were unified
to allow compliance cross checks of income tax payments and pension contributions. The Tax
Committee established a large taxpayers unit to focus attention on the largest potential taxpayers
in the country with a computer-assisted monitoring program for the largest 100 taxpayers. It was
hoped that simplification of forms would also extend to the personal income tax, but that has not
yet developed. In October 1998, a Ministry of State Revenue was created to encompass the Tax
Committee, the Customs Committee, and the Tax Police, along with some other committees with
revenue roles (e.g., the Committee for Alcohol Products Turnover and Production Control): a
single organizational focus for all entities involved in revenue administration makes considerable
sense.
Tax revenues have increased significantly in 1999 and the yields continue to be high in early 2000.
Much of this improvement would be the result of higher oil prices and an improved Kazakhstan
and global economy. However, administrative improvements certainly play some role in those
results.
A transparent public procurement system is a crucial element of effective financial management,
since it reduces the cost of government, supports transparency of government operations, and
cuts the burden of corruption on the public. The law on state procurement was amended late in
1998 to (i) enhance transparency and accountability of procurement; (ii) clearly define the
regulatory and oversight functions of the procurement agency; and (iii) bring the law to
substantial conformity with international practices and norms, with the WV1TO agreement on
government procurement, and with the policy and procedures of international financial
institutions. The government is now further revising the law and discussions are underway with
the World Bank on the proposed revisions.
An independent State Procurement Agency to regulate and exercise oversight on public
procurement in Kazakhstan has been established and is in operation: in 1999, 92 billion tenge
passed through its procurement process. The Agency reports estimated cost savings in 1999 of
4.5 billion tenge, an amount that is two hundred fifty times the amount of the Agency's budget.
Hcwever, the agency is not fully staffed and its budget is clearly inadequate. While there are
inadequacies in many budget categories, one critical concern is that its 2000 budget for newspaper
advertisements is virtually exhausted within the first two months of the year. A separate World
Bank country procurement assessment review mission in 1999 has assisted with an action plan for
further strengthening of the process.
More than half of total procurement spending by governments in Kazakhstan occurs at the oblast
level. This makes Agency plans for placing staff in each oblast particularly useful and appropriate.
This intention, coupled with the plan for doubling central office staff, will create a considerable
demand for training. Training also should be provided for ministry personnel with major
procurement responsibilities. The work of this agency is critical for the reduction of official
corruption, as well as for economical governmental operations, so it must be kept functional.
As part of the previously-noted functional review, the Republican government consolidated
extra-budgetary funds (notably the State Center of Pension Payments, Compulsory Medical
- 6 -



Insurance Fund, Social Insurance Fund, Employment Promotion Fund, and the Road Fund) in the
state budget. This makes the budget a more comprehensive statement of Governnent plans and
operations and makes it a more useful medium for fiscal discipline, resource allocation, and
financial control. Also, several special resource funds have been channeled through the treasury
system, an important contribution to financial accountability and control. And the Government
has established a process to ensure that loan guarantees are issued only in accordance with formal
legislation, with a limit in the annual budget law on the amount of new guarantees for the
corresponding financial year. The Government is reviewing existing guarantees and intends to set
up a system for continuous monitoring of the finances of companies to which guarantees have
been issued. The Government is placing an audited statement of the budget before Parliament on
an annual basis; this is also published in summary in mass media. Moreover, since January 1999
the Ministry of Finance has been issuing monthly reports on budget performance at the local and
central government, privatization of state property, debt, and distribution of state securities.
Governments must pay their bills when they are due, whether those obligations are to suppliers, to
employees, or to pensioners. Not only is this necessary to set the environment for a normal
market economy, it is also necessary to prevent a cancerous cycle of non-payment that can cripple
operations of both enterprises and government, as well as create severe financial burdens for the
population. PSRMAL therefore expected an early end to pension arrears (end of 1997) and a
dramatic reduction in other arrears by the end of 1998. The Government expressed an intention
to eliminate all arrears by the end of 1999. Achievement has not met these standards. Pension
arrears - 26 billion tenge at the start of 1997 -- increased somewhat during the first part of 1997,
but were eliminated by the end of November 1997 and none accrued during 1998. Unfortunately,
some pension arrears accumulated in 1999; the Government eliminated them by end December
2000. The program also envisioned a dramatic reduction in other governmental arrears. But that
has not materialized. Rather than having budgetary payment arrears no higher than 50 percent of
their December 31, 1997 level, arrears have almost doubled (from 34.4 billion tenge at the end of
1997 to around 66 billion tenge). However, the program did not envision the collapse of Asian
and Russian markets and of world oil prices in mid-1998. Accordingly, the waiver of this
condition and an agreed reduction path for arrears through 2000 seems a reasonable
accommodation to global economic reality. The considerable increase in world oil prices through
the end of 1999 and 2000 should, by improving the government revenue profile, accommodate at
least the agreed path of arrears reduction. On November 20, 1999 the Government determined
the revised schedule for repayment of arrears. It intends to repay the present arrears if tenge 65
billion gradually over four years.
Robust and well-developed external and internal audit make an important contribution to fiscal
discipline, accountability, transparency, and the fight against corruption. A Committee on
Financial Control has been established in the Ministry of Finance to serve the internal audit
function. Audit standards for these audits have been prepared, reviewed, and should be approved
soon; a law formally providing for these internal audits should be submitted soon and audit
reports have been prepared and reviewed by the audit advisor.
The PSRMAL program did not include direct measures on establishing external audit capacity
since at the time of the preparation of the project the government was very reluctant to move in
- 7 -



this area. However, when the government showed more willingness to address external audit
issues, the project teamn worked closely with the newly created external audit entity. The
Accounting Committee has been established as external auditor for the Republican budget and the
Accounting Committee has applied, with support of the Governnent, to INTOSAI for status as
Supreme Audit Institution for Kazakhstan. A draft external audit law has been prepared, with
assistance from the audit advisor financed from the TA Loan, submitted to the Government, and
approved through the appropriate clearances within the Government. The Accounting Committee
submitted audit reports for all budgetary accounts to Parliament for the 1997 and 1998 budgets.
Such reports, on discussion by Parliament, are public documents. This represents a considerable
achievement in terms of transparency of government operations. Substantial work needs to be
done on external audit, in particular, the Accounting Committee lacks proper staffing and there
are legal complications that need to be resolved before local authorities - bodies responsible for
about forty percent of total government expenditure in Kazakhstan - can be subject to proper
external audit. Nevertheless, the actions that have been taken represent a good beginning to an
appropriate and empowered audit function for Kazakhstan.
Strengthening the Public Sector Investment Process
The project sought to provide (i) more realistic investment programs, (ii) improved financial
management by helping authorities recognize future impacts of current project decisions, (iii)
strengthened project evaluation capability, (iv) improved design of individual projects, and (v) a
better link between investtnent programs and medium term budget plans. Progress on this
component has been satisfactory.
The Government started the PIP development process in 1998. Within two years the basic legal
and institutional frameworks for the implementation of the PIP have been established. The
Government approved the PIP for 1999-2001 in June 1999 and the PIP for 2000-2002 is
currently pending formal approval. The PIP process was determined in the law "On Budget
System" as a three year rolling-out program with the first year disbursements fixed in the law "On
Republican Budget" and indicative disbursements for the other two years. The PIP is developed
on the basis of the long-term external borrowing strategy which in its turn corresponds to the
medium-term macroeconomic forecast. The program includes investment and technical assistance
projects financed with external loans, loans guaranteed by the government, and grants and
investment projects financed from the budget. The Government has succeeded in establishing
formal procedures for project selection and evaluation. Beginning end-1998 all the new entries in
PIP are subject to evaluation of the authorized body (currently the Ministry of Economy).
The process still suffers from a degree of unreality in development of plans. For instance, the PIP
for 1999 could not be fully executed: only two of eight projects planned for completion were
finished. The primary reasons were insufficient co-financing from the Republican budget which
delayed funds from external sources and poor coordination between governmental bodies. The
main objectives for the Government for the next year or two would be: (i) establishing monitoring
and evaluation procedures for on-going projects, strengthening discipline in implementation; (ii)
determining clear institutional ownership of external assistance coordination and improving
interagency coordination; (iii) in determining the investment budget, shifting from the residual
principle to one based on sector development programs; (iv) integrating the PIP as part of the
- 8 -



Government medium-term expenditure framework; and (v) extending project selection and
evaluation activities to the regional level.
Reforms in Housing and Related Utilities
The project sought to reduce the budget burden from prevailing utility and housing practices,
create a regulatory framework for divested utilities and housing, implement a satisfactory
regulation for communal service pricing, and establish an effective safety net for housing
expenditure burdens. Significant reforms and restructuring have been accomplished under the
program and progress has been satisfactory.
Housing maintenance organizations (zheks) have been dissolved and competitive markets exist for
most services to apartment blocks.  Cooperates of apartment owners were established.
State-owned energy providers conduct tenders for raw materials and the Law on Natural
Monopolies strengthens the legal basis for enforcing the requirement. A methodology and
process for determination and regulation of tariffs in the power sector and for comrnunal services
have been implemented. Metering for electricity, heat, and water service to public buildings,
including hospitals and secondary schools, has been undertaken, with installation by the natural
monopolists with the amortized cost recovered through tariffs. Amounts budgeted for housing
allowances have been increased and a revision of utility tariff privileges has been undertaken.
Problems remain, however. A Housing Reform Commission established in 1998 is inactive, but
the Anti-Monopoly Commission continues efforts in consumer protection, including housing.
Progress on housing allowances has become entwined in the broader question of the general
overhaul of social assistance, an issue to be addressed in a possible adjustment loan targeted at
social protection. Also, amounts budgeted at the central level for such allowances must be
executed at the local level and such execution has not necessarily followed the central intent; the
intergovernmental fiscal system currently in place allows local authorities considerable flexibility
in how they spend their resources.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Inistitutional development impact:
The project has substantially improved the country's institutional capability to make more effective
use of its financial and human resources. New institutions like the State Procurement Agency and
Agency for Civil Service Reform, necessary for a functioning market economy, have been created.
These institutions have been very fundamental and quite effective in moving the reform agenda
forward in the respective areas and institutionalizing new procedures. Transparency and control in
the budget process has been improving. Budget execution is now subject to internal and external
audit and the capacity for both internal and external audit is being built up. Human resource
development and utilization has been enhanced through new institutions and processes. Overall
-9-



coordination in policy making and policy implementation at the central level has improved with a
leaner and more accountable structure of the central government.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The program was ultimately successfully implemented, but not without some problems. Some
important difficulties emerged from factors outside the operation of the program. The program
was complicated by economic and fiscal shocks that diverted the attention of the government and
made achievement of certain PSRMAL objectives more difficult. In the middle of 1998, the
country was hit by shocks from the financial crisis in Asia, followed by the crisis in Russia in
August and the collapse of world oil prices. - On top of all of that, the country suffered a severe
drought. These unexpected developments broke the path of economic progress in Kazakhstan,
causing deterioration in fiscal conditions.
5.2 Factors general,!y subject to government control:
Rather early in the project, the government chose to move the national capital from Almaty to
Astana. This disrupted the operations of government agencies, brought changes in personnel
critical to the project, and diverted government attention from the needs of the project. Project
delays resulted. Governmental reorganization, an important element of reformn, created confusion
for a while about responsibilities and assignments. For a program involving public sector
management reform, this confusion made for difficult progress.
One critical factor was related to the project itself. The lack of a clearly responsible single
counterpart for some time for all components made for confusion in achieving progress in the
work. Once an appropriate counterpart (the First Deputy Prime Minister at taht time) was
established, the program moved properly. The importance of defining the right counterpart -- in
terms of level and scope of authority -- cannot be underestimated and should not be ignored in
future endeavors. Indeed, in the first half of 1998, implementation progress of the project was
rated as unsatisfactory. The problems were resolved fairly expeditiously when the appropriate
counterpart was defined, thereby permitting good progress through the remainder of the program.
The project required difficult institutional reforms, some of which necessitated considerable
change in administrative operations. Work was also delayed because the Government was slow
to obtain technical assistance in areas of administrative reform (particularly in regard to the
functional review and civil service reform). Progress was made when proper advice and
assistance was fully in place.
Without the eventual determination of the government to achieve the objectives of the project and
to obtain the considerable improvement in the management of public resources for the benefit of
the population, the project could have ended unsatisfactorily even with the generally high quality
and competence of higher administration of the Government.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Not applicable
- 10-



5.4 Costs and financing:
Not applicable
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project's achievements is likely. There is a new Parliament anid a new
government from elections in fall 1999 and the intent seems to be to continue with the
institutional reforms. The economic problems of 1998 seem to have been left behind and the
government has completed the move from Almaty to Astana. There are some excellent signs that
significant reforms have become permnanently installed. A state procurement agency is staffed
(although probably inadequately), operational, and has a demonstrated early record in improving
procurement efficiency. A civil service process has been established, a civil service agency is in
operation, and testing and hiring based on qualifications is working. Neither of these institutions
could be easily dislodged. An external audit unit is in operation and an internal audit unit is being
created in the Ministry of Finance. Improvements in utility pricing are in progress and housing
has been rationalized with some changes in allowances to mitigate the most severe social
problems of the rationalization. More work needs to be done, particularly in terms of passing a
legal framework for audit and in reforming housing and utility pricing, but appropriate technical
assistance has been supported by several donor groups and more is promised.
Indeed, a follow-up adjustment operation (PSRMAL II) and an accompanying TA project are
under preparation to provide further assistance with keeping the reform and restructuring process
moving. The follow-up operation will continue and expand the activities under PSRMAL.
6.2 Transition arrangenment to regular operations:
Not applicable
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Banks performance on project preparation and identification was satisfactory. Bank staff
worked with Kazakh officials for approximately one year prior to presentation of PSRMAL to the
Board, discussing institution building and policy reforms to be supported by the program.
Overall, project preparation was thorough, and the project built on previous ESW. The project
preparation team included staff with substantial experience in the selected areas and there was
high staff continuity during project preparation.
The project was a key component of the country assistance strategy (CAS) and consistent with
the government's development objectives.
The team adequately evaluated the commitment to the project. Areas in which government
commitment was not evident at that point in time were excluded from the project (such as
external audit or intergovernmental finance reform). The team identified that the implementation
of an ambitious set of institutional and policy reforns might exceed the institutional capacity of
- 11 -



the government. The team closely coordinated with other relevant donors i.e. the IMF,
multilateral and bilateral agencies especially on the issue of technical assistance. The TA program
implemented was a combined and well functioning effort between different donor agencies
(UNDP, EU-TACIS, USAID).
The team also rightly identified that the reform program would take several years to implement
and the project was designed to span several tranches and years.
7.2 Suipervision:
The Bank's supervision was satisfactory since it provided for extensive supervision over the
period of the PSRMAL program. Nine supervision missions were undertaken within two years.
Supervision was timely through the several supervision missions occurring about every three to
four months and through work of the resident mission. There was a high level of continuity in the
team with a change in task manager after board presentation but basically the core team stayed
intact. Project implementation progress was adequately reported and problems in implementation
were identified and addressed pro-actively. Supervision reports regularly rated project
implementation satisfactory except when the move to Astana led to delays and disruptions.
Working relations with the Government were very good. The supervision missions provided
detailed and systematic feedback to the government of project implementation and made
suggestions on how to address identified problems. The project team effectively monitored the
implementation of the policy measures, interacted very closely with other project teams working
in the country and was effective in processing the tranche releases. The resident mission also
played a crucial role in monitoring developments on a daily basis.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall performance was satisfactory for all stages of project development and supervision.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory. The Borrower was very much
involved in project preparation and actively provided comments and perspectives from the central
and local government levels and key parliamentary committees. The Borrower also developed
several alternative scenarios for administrative restructuring which formed the basis for
discussions with the preparation missions. The Borrower also actively promoted the coordination
of technical assistance form different donors to assist in implementation of the reform agenda.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
A substantial degree of commitment is present in Kazakhstan. PSRMAL was a difficult project to
implement because so many governmental entities -- in different ministries and independent
agencies -- were responsible for implementing the reform program. When the appropriate prime
counterpart was in place the program proceeded smoothly. His responsibility was broad enough
that he could call on all responsible entities. During a period when a clear prime counterpart was
not available, the program lagged. Overall, the Government showed determination to implement
the program, which it saw as its own programn. It managed to fulfill the primary institutional legal
actions despite the complications of regional financial crises, the fall in global oil prices, and the
- 12 -



move of the capital from Almaty to Astana. This could only have been managed with strong
support to the program by all levels of the Government.
Government capacity played a key role in the ability to implement the complex set of institutional
reforms. The capacity of technical and working level counterparts was generally found to be
excellent, as was the ability of the various concerned agencies to implement policy decisions once
they were taken.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Not applicable
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's performance overall has been satisfactory. The Borrower has shown strong
commitment to the Program. Reforms of the structure of governmental institutions required
considerable borrower commitment on two levels: (i) the government needs to be committed to
go beyond discrete policy changes and must see the change as a continued and continuing process
and (ii) commitment must go beyond fulfillment of tranche release actions if the process is to be
successful. Technical fulfillment of tranche release actions can only address the start of
implementation process, which can easily be reversed if ownership and commitment are lacking.
A waiver of condition was required for release of the third tranche of the loan but this failure to
constrain budgetary arrears was the result of external factors (the East Asian and regional crises
and the fall in world oil prices) that were neither predictable nor controllable by the Government.
8. Lessons Learned
The implementation of PSRMAL provides some interesting lessons:
Reform Targets
Ambitious but realistic reform targets can be an important stimulus for supporting reform
initiatives, borrower commitment and participation in a range of areas and sectors in a SAL. The
public sector reforms comprised a large work program for the government to achieve which
despite some delays the government successfully implemented. The lesson is that less ambitious
targets would have led probably to less progress in the end.
Importance of Appropriate Counterpart
Satisfactory progress in implementing a set of complex institutional reforms requires an
appropriate counterpart in terms of scope and level of authority, as well as continuous and
publicly-declared top-level political support. When counterparts change or when their scope of
authority does not encompass all entities involved in program operations, progress can easily stall.
Stable Assignments
In respect of the personnel and the entities through which the reforms are implemented, this also
means that trained and professional civil servants should not be subjected to frequent and
- 13 -



unplanned changes of assignment, and that if the entities in which they work are required to be
restructured, such actions should be carefully planned and executed so that disruption of work is
minimized.
High-Quality Technical Assistance
Extensive, long-term, focused, and specialized technical assistance is necessary for successful
implementation of institutional reforms, because such reforms are difficult to implement, are
complex in nature, and are of long duration. They require changes in systems, processes, and
ways of thinking. The technical assistance must help civil servants acquire new and unfamiliar
skills to be able to function professionally in the changed environment. This was in place in case
of the PSRMAI program, financed mostly by donors (such as EU-TACIS, the European
Expertise Service, UNDP and USAID), and donor coordination was very good.
Donor Coordination
Effective donor coordination is critical for provision of timely, high-quality technical assistance
for institutional reforms. For this project, the clear focus of the Government in Kazakhstan on the
kind of assistance needed and its timing has been a valuable asset. Donor partners have
responded effectively to this clarity of intent.
Execution Focus
Actions which comprise the reform program (including actions specified in legal documents)
shotild be based on execution rather than plan to the greatest extent possible, and entities with
responsibility for fulfillment of specific actions should have control over their execution. As part
of the reform program supported by the PSRMAL, a housing allowance condition was based on
budgeted, not executed, amounts. While the Republican budget provided funds for the allowance
and the funds could be controlled at the center, their actual execution was by local authorities.
Republican-level entities could not control the actual extent to which households got the benefit
of budgeted allowances.
Time Horizon
PSRMAL was a long-term adjustment operation with three tranches spanning over two years.
This has added substantially to the feasibility and success of the program because institutional
reforms take time to implement. Many elements (legal framework, operational procedures,
development of personnel, etc.) contribute to the reform process and those elements must be
nurtured over time; there will not be a quick fix if the intent is to make a long-term reform.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/im,plementing agency:
To: Mr. Kioshi Kodera
Director of the Central Asian Countries Div.
Europe and Central Asia Department
- 14-



World Bank
June 23, 2000
Dear Mr. Kodera,
I would like to thank you for the report about the completion of the PSRMAL project
implementation. The Government has considered the report and in general agreed with the
evaluations and conclusions made in the document. Remarks and comments about the text of the
report are given in the enclosure.
The main objectives of the project duly reflected both strategic and present priorities of the
Government's activity and included: i) reform of the administrative structure of the Republican
Government and the development of the public service; ii) reforms of the budget processes
connected with tax collection, public procurement, budget structure, its forming, implementation,
and financial control; iii) strengthening of the government investments through economic and
financial evaluation of the projects, external borrowing policy, preparation of the medium term
macroeconomic base as a basis for public investments program (PIP) and preparation of the long
term PIP; and iv) reform of the housing and utility sector.
The project implementation along with the support of the Government's budget needs made
possible to conduct the wide-ranging program of institutional and political reforms, leading to the
efficiency of mobilization and utilization of state resources.
The following reforms were implemented by the Government as part of the project:
* functional analysis of organizations financed from the central budget with abolition of
unnecessary and out-of-date functions was performed;
* the census of the civil servants was completed, the Law of the Public Service was developed
and passed through the Parliament which gave the Government flexible mechanism for
adapting the system of the public service to the demands of the transitional period;
* the reorganization of the tax administration was performed, which gave the opportunity to
simplify the procedure of tax collection and to increase the tax revenues in the budget;
* the amendments were made to the Law of the Public Purchases, the Agency of Public
purchases was established and is active now. The size of purchases through the Agency made
up 92 billion tenge in 1999, the conditional saving constituted 4.5 billion tenge;
* the Committee of Financial Control was founded at the Ministry of the Finance to perform the
functions of internal audit, the draft of the Law of external audit was prepared;
* three year PIP was developed, the procedures of selection and evaluation of projects were
confirmed;
* reform of public utilities sector was performed.
In spite of some objective delays during the initial stage, the Government considers successful the
work on project implementation performed by the concerned government bodies.
It is necessary to mention the high professionalism and reliability of the World Bank team
members, who worked for the project. The success of the project in many respects has to be
- 15-



attributed to their efforts to unify and coordinate activities of a whole range of donor
organizations. In general, the PSRMAL project implementation can be considered as a sound
example of effective cooperation between the World Bank and Kazakhstan in the reforms
implementation.
In conclusion I would like to thank you and your colleagues for the excellent work and to express
a hope for the further cooperation.
Respectfully,
Yerzhan Utembayev,
Deputy Prime-Minister.
Republic of Kazakhstan
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable
(c) Olher partners (NGOs/private sector).
Not applicable
10. Additional Infornation
Not applicable
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
L - indicato_.Mt  P,-ject  in last                             . -
The Borrower has fumished to the Bank a                                     Condition met.
report on the functional aspects of all entities
supported by the Borrowers state budget
and, on the basis of such report, prepared
and published an implementation plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, providing for the
discontinuaton of budgetary support to
entities identified for privatization or
liquidation.
The Borrower has furnished to the Bank a                                    Conditon met.
report on the completion of the census of all
employees of all ministries and agencies of
the central executive branch of the Borrower
including an analysis of the census results
and an action plan to eliminate the identified
inconsistencies, if any, between the census
results and Borrowers civil service payroll.
The Borrower has enacted a law on state                                     Condition met.
procurement and issued implementing
regulations, all satisfactory to the Bank.
-The Borrower has furmished to the Bank a                                   Condition met.
report demonstrating to the satisfaction of the
Bank that: (i) the Borrower has eliminated all
arrears of the Borrowers pension fund; and
(ii) there is no increase of the aggregate
amount of non-pension arrears accumulated
by the central and local governments of the
Borrower and the extra-budgetary funds, as
compared with the aggregate level of such
arrears as of December 31, 1996.
The Borrower has furnished a report to the                                  Condition met.
Bank demonstrating to the satisfaction of the
Bank that the Borrower's Ministry of
Economy and Trade has prepared a
database of all public investment projects
proposed by the Borrowers line ministries
and local govemments for inclusion in the
Borrowers public investment program for the
years 1999-2001.
The Borrower has issued regulations                                         Condition met.
satisfactory to the Bank establishing a
comprehensive methodology and procedures
for the determination and regulation of tariffs
in the power sector and for communal
services, which shall include a schedule for
their implementation.
The Borrowers state budget for 1998, as                                     Condition met.
enacted, provides, in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank, for the revisions of the privileges
currently effective in respect of utility tariffs to
be supported by the state budget, and for the
provision of adequate resources for the
housing allowance program.
The Borrower has taken all measures as                                      Condition met.
shall be consistent with the recapitalization
plan, agreed upon with the Bank, in respect
of Bank TuranAlem.
- 17 -



The Borrower has furmished a report to the                                    Condition met.
Bank demonstrating to the satisfaction of the
Bank that the entity or entities responsible for
regulating natural monopolies is setting
communal services tariffs in conformity with
the regulations.
The Borrower has fumished to the Bank a                                      Condition met.
report demonstrating to the satisfaction of the
Bank that the entities identified for
discontinuation of budgetary support in the
report referred to in paragraph 1 of Section I
of this Schedule have been privatized or their
liquidation has been initiated.
The Borrower has enacted a civil service law                                 Condition met.
and/or regulations satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnished to the Bank a report
demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Bank
that the Borrower has initiated the
competitive recruitment of civil servants in
accordance with the civil service law.
The Borrower has furnished to the Bank a                                      Condition met.
report demonstrating tc the satisfaction of the
Bank the implementation of the procedures
and awards of publicly financed contracts
under the law and regulations on state
procurement, including a description of
problem areas encountered in the course of
such implementation and an action plan to
overcome such problem areas, if any.
The Borrower has submitted to the                                             Condition met.
Parliament and published in the official
gazette of the Borrower an audit report
covering all the accounts and expenditures
made under the 1997 republican budget.
The Borrower has furnished to the Bank a                                     Condition not met. Is currently being
report demonstrating to the satisfacion of the                                addressed. Revised schedule envisages new
Bank that the aggregate amount of all arrears                                reduction path.
accumulated by the central and local
governments of the Borrower and the
extra-budgetary funds do not exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the aggregate level of such
arrears as of December 31, 1997.
The Borrower has finalized its public                                         Condition met.
investment program (covering the years 1997
through 2001) in accordance with the
Government of Kazakhstan Resolution No.
528, entitled On the Procedures of
Preparing, Implementing and Monitoring of
Projects Included in the State Investment
Program, dated April 10, 1997, and furnished
to the Bank a report demonstrating to the
satisfaction of the Bank that all new
investment projects to be initiated from
January 1, 1999, until December 31, 2001,
have been properly evaluated, and that the
public investment program is consistent with
the associated external borrowing program
and the macro-economic framework.
- 18 -



Output Indicators:
_IdicatorlMatix                 Projected in last PSR             ActUllLatest Estimate
Not applicable.
End of project
- 19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Not applicable.
- 20 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)       Implementation       Development
Month/Year      Count        Specialty                          Progress            Objective
Identification/Preparation
06/96                            1    1 economist
9/96                             7    2 economists, I public sector
management specialist, I budget
specialist, I public finance
specialist, 1 housing / utilities
specialist, I research analyst
12/96                            1    1 economist
02/97                            5    1 economist, I public sector
management specialist, I public
finance specialist, I housing /
utilities specialist, I research
analyst
Appraisal/Negotiation
05/97                            I      economist
Supervision
10/97                            4   1 economist, I public sector             S                   S
management specialist, I
budget specialist, I public
finance specialist
03/98                             4   1 economist, 1 public sector            S                   S
management specialist, I budget
specialist, I public finance
specialist
07/98                             4   1 economist, I budget specialist,       U                   S
I public sector management
specialist, I utilities / housing
specialist
10/98                            3   1 economist, I public sector             S                   S
management specialist, I utilities
/ housing specialist
12/98                            5   1 economist, I public sector             S                   S
management specialist, 2
procurement specialists, I public
finance specialist
02/99                             3   1 economist, I public sector            S                    S
management specialist, I public
finance specialist
05/99                            4   1 economist, I public sector             S                    S
management specialist, I public
finance specialist, I utilities /
housing specialist
- 22 -



09/99                            4   1 economist, I public sector            S                   S
management specialist, I'public
finance specialist, I utilities /
housing specialist
12/99                            2   1 economist, I public sector            S                   S
management specialist
ICR
02/2000                         4    1 economist, I public sector            S                   S
management specialist, I
public finance specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                USs (,000)
Identification/Preparation                 108.3                          351.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                      16.75                           44.8
Supervision                                67.25                          154.1
IC R                                         4.4                           12.7
Total                                      1 96.7                         563.5
-23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=l1igh, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
NMacro policies                           O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
NSector Policies                          O H  * SU OM  O N  O NA
N Physical                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Iinancial                                O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
N Inistitutional Development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
N Environmental                           0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
N Gender                           O H O SU O M O N * NA
N Other (Please specify)           0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
N Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
P'ublic sector wanagement                0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
N Other (Please specify)                  0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
M Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
I Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
X Overall                                            OHS OS  O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
? Preparation                                        OHS OS  OU  O HU
* Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
X InMplementation agency performance                 O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS OU O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Second tranche release memo, December 15, 1998, and third tranche release memos, November 22, 1999
PSRs, 10/24/97, 2/18/98, 05/26/98, 10/26/98, 01/13/99/, 06/30/99, 11/23/99, /12/03/99
Back-to-office report and Aide Memoire of the ICR mission, April 20, 2000
- 26 -



