Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7152-KZ
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED PUBLIC SECTC)R RESOURCE MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$230 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
JULY 31, 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Tenge
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Tenge per US$1
1994          1995           1996
36.10         61.37          67.'76
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AMC           -      Anti-Monopoly Comnittee
CAS           -      Country Assistance Strategy
CiS           -      Commonwealth of Independent States
DFI           -      Direct Foreign Investnent
EFF           -      Extended Fund Facilty
EU-TACIS      -      European Union Technical Assistance to the CIS
GDP           -      Gross Donestic Product (at market prices)
MIF           -      International Monetary Fund
KCK           -      Homeowners' Associations (Russian)
NBK           -      National Bank of Kazakbstan
PIP           -      Public Investment Progrnm
PSRMAL        -      Public Sector Resource Management Adjustment Loan
USAID         -      Agency of International Development
VAT           -      Value Added Tax
FISCAL YEAR
January - December
Vice President:         Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Acting Country Director: Kadir T. Yurukoglu, ECA
Sector Leader:          Robert J. Anderson, ECSPE
Task Manager:           John A. Holsen, EICSPE



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BArNK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
PUBLIC SECTOR RESOURCE MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN [PSRMALJ
TO THE  REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
[PROJECT I) KZ-PE-340931
CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ...........................                    i
I. INTRODUCTION.1
II. MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE.                                         2
III.  STRENGTHENING PUBLIC SECTOR RESOURCE MANAGEMENT  .4
A. Administrative Reform.                                         6
B. Reform of Budgetary rocesseso.                                 6
C. The Public Investment Program.                                 8
D. Reforms in Housing and Public Utilities .10
IV. FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT .12
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement .12
B. Description of the Loan .12
C. Disbursement .12
D. Monitoring and Repoirting on Program Implementation .12
E. Actions Taken before Board Presentation .13
F. Agreements Regarding Second and Third Tranche Disbursements . 13
G. Arrangements for Technical Assistance .15
H. Benefits and Risks ..............                             15
I. Recommendations ..............                                16
ANEXES
Annex A      Letter on Public Sector Resource Management Policies
Annex B      PSRMAL Policy Matrix
Annex C      Technical Assistance to Support PSRMAL Implementation
Annex D      Selected Economic Indicators
Annex E      Timetable for Key Steps in Loan Processing
Annex F      Status of Bank Group Operations
MAP          IBRD No. 28007R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






- i -
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
PUBLIC SECTOR RESOURCE MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN [PSRMAL]
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower/Beneficiary: Republic of Kazakhstan
Amount:             US$230 million equivalent
Terms:              20 years, including 5 years grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Commitment fee 0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances beginning 60 days
after signing less any waiver.
Loan Objectives:    This PSRMAL will support an ambitious and wide ranging program  of
institutional and policy reforms. The primary objectives are to improve the
effectiveness of resource mobilization by the government and the efficiency with
which government resources are used. A secondary objective is to support a set
of policies concerning housing and related utilities which should largely eliminate
the heavy burden these activities have, in the past, placed upon government
budgets.
Loan Description:    The loan will be disbursed in three tranches, providing support for the annual
budgets in 1997, 1998 and 1999. Thus it will provide temporary support for
the budget during the period in which the government is putting in place the
institutional and policy reforms which are necessary for a more permanent
solution.
Benefits:           Over the last several years, during which real output declined significantly and
priority was given to financial stabilization objectives, a large decline took
place in the real level of government expenditures - including government
consumption expenditures, investments in social and economic infrastructure,
and transfers to the rest of the economy. As a result essential functions have
suffered. The institutional and policy reforms supported by this loan will help
bring about the restructuring of government and public finances that is
appropriate for a market-oriented economy, thus enabling a smaller
government to more effectively meet the needs of the population and the
economy.
Risks:              The main risks, are a possible slacking in the political will to persevere with the
wide range of institutional and policy reforms that are needed - which could
result in part from the short-run costs of the reforms involved and from the not
clearly foreseeable difficulties that will almost certainly be encountered given
the complexity of the many changes involved.
Cofinancing:        No cofinancing is involved.
Poverty Category:    The direct imipact upon poverty will be through more adequate resources for
social protection programs and strengthening the housing allowance program.
Rate of Return:     Not applicable.
Map:                IBRD No. 28007R1






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXEC'UTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
PUBLIC SECTOR RESOURCE MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
1.    I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendations on a proposed Public
Sector Resource Management Adjustnnent Loan (PSRMAL) to the Republic of Kazakhstan for the
equivalent of US$230 million. The Loan would be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, with
a maturity of 20 years including a five year grace period. This operation will be the fourth
adjustment loan for Kazakhstan and is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy for Kazakhstan
which is being discussed in conjunction with this proposed operation. The most recent Economic
Report on this country is Kazakstan -- Transition of the State (Report No. 15353-KZ) which was
distributed in July 1996.
I. INTRODUCTION
2.    The proposed Public Sector Resource Management Adjustment Loan (PSRMAL) to Kazakhstan
will support an ambitious and wide ranging program of institutional and policy reforms. The primary
objectives of these reforms are improving the effectiveness of resource mobilization by the government
and improving the efficiency with which governnent resources are used. A secondary objective is to
support a set of policies concerning housing and related utilities which should largely eliminate the
heavy burden these activities have, in the past, placed upon government budgets. The primary objective
is supported by a set of reforms in three areas - administrative reform, reform of the budgetary process,
and development of a public investment program. The secondary objective is supported by reforms
related to both housing and public utilities.
3.    This loan will serve as a catalyst for the adoption of important institutional and policy reforms.
Kazakhstan is fortunate to have a large group of qualified officials who are anxious to move ahead with
reform, and each of actions in the prcgram has the support of senior officials in the concerned units of
the government. However, there is a need for a disciplined framework if this ambitious program of
policy and institutional reform is to be carried out promptly and in a satisfactory manner. The proposed
loan provides such a framework. The loan will also provide badly needed additional financial resources
for the budget, and additional real resources for the economy, which will help meet essential public
sector expenditure requirements.  Both government revenues and expenditures have, in real terms,
declined sharply during the last several. years. Budget deficits (measured on a cash basis) have been held
to modest levels in part by arrears in pension payments and public sector wages. Investments in
economic and social infrastructure have been drastically reduced and the backlog of unfulfilled needs is
growing. Thus there is an urgent need for steps which will both improve public sector resource
mobilization and contribute to the more efficient use of the resources that are available.
4.     The PSRMAL would be the fourth adjustment loan for Kazakhstan.  It follows the
Rehabilitation Loan which was approved in FY94, the Structural Adjustment Loan approved in FY95,
and the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan approved in FY96. The proposed loan for US$230 million



-2 -
would be disbursed in three tranches, one each in 1997, 1998 and 1999. Thus it will be a relatively
slowly disbursing adjustment loan. This approach of three tranches over three years reflects the time
necessary to implement institutional reforrns and to begin to see some results from the actions taken.
The first tranche would be for US$80 million; the second and third would be for US$75 million each.
II. MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
5.    Kazakhstan's fiscal and monetary policies have been successful in reducing inflation (as
measured by the increase in retail prices over the level of the prior year) from 1,881 percent in 1994 to
39 percent in 1996. A further decline in inflation, to about 20 percent, is expected in 1997. Although
real gross domestic product fell by 41 percent between 1990 and 1995, a "bottoming out" has now
taken place and recovery seems to have begun. Growth in real GrDP during 1996 is estimated at 1.1
percent and further growth of 1.5 percent is projected for 1997.
6.    The balance of payments situation is relatively comfortable. Exports, in current dollar terms,
grew at an average rate of 14 percent per annum between 1993 and 1996, while imports were growing
at an average rate of 11.5 percent per annum. The fact that imports were growing relatively rapidly
while real GDP was declining can be explained in large part by the 122 percent appreciation in the real
exchange rate between 1993 and 1996. Some domestic producers are reportedly now having an
increasingly difficult time competing with imported goods, which often seem to be both cheaper and
better than their domestic similars. Exports, especially those based upon the country's wealth in
natural resources, have continued to grow despite the appreciation of the Tenge. The net result in the
BOP current account was an easily manageable deficit of 3.7 percenit of GDP in 1996.
7.    Direct foreign investments (DFI) have made a major contribution to the balance of payments
and to the economy in general. The inflow of DFI during 1996 is estimated at US$1,214 million.
This is equivalent to nearly 6 percent of GDP and was sufficient to finance about one-third of total
fixed investment expenditures during the year. The outlook is for continued large DFI inflows,
especially into the non-ferrous metals and energy sectors where Kazakhstan has a strong natural
resource base. Despite large outward transfers by departing migrants (estimated to total over US$600
million during 1995-1996), net foreign exchange reserves have been increasing. Official gross
international reserves (which include gold from domestic sources) were a comfortable 4.0 months
imports at the end of 1996. In these circumstances Kazakhstan has not found it necessary to draw upon
the Extended Fund Facility (EFF) Arrangement that was negotiated with the IMF in July 1996.
8.    Given the monetary expansion resulting from the increases in net international reserves, tight
limits on net domestic credit have been necessary to keep total money supply and inflationary pressures
under control. The outstanding stock of monetary system credit to the government was 2.5 percent of
GDP in 1994 and has since declined to 1.3 percent of GDP. And the stock of credit to the "rest of the
economy" peaked at 16.8 percent of GDP in 1994, but dropped to only 4 percent at the end of 1996.
Monetary system credit to both government and the "rest of the economy" actually declined in nominal
terms during 1996. At this point some growth in the real level of c.redit to the rest of the economy is
important if the modest recovery now underway is to be sustained anid strengthened.
9.    Trends in the general government budget have been both a cause and an effect of
macroeconomic developments. Government receipts (including those of the Pension Fund and other
extrabudgetary funds) dropped from 37 percent to 22 percent of GDF between 1993 and 1996. During
the same period current expenditures declined from 29 to 25 percent of GDP, while capital
expenditures were cut from 8 percent



-3-
Table 1: Kazakhstan: Selected Economic Indicators for 1993-1997
…-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - -
Actual 1993-1996                   Proiected
1993         1994         1995         1996          1
Trend in Real GDP
Index 1990 =100                                 78.5          64.5         58.8         59.4         60.3
% change from prior year                           --      -17.8%        -8.9%          1.1%         1.5%
GDP (mil US$ at current prices & X-rates)     $11,412       $11,842      $16,616      $21,018      $22,653
GDP per capita (in 1994 US$)                   $1,732        $1,440       $1,309       $1,310        $1,316
GDP deflator (% change from prior year)       1248.4%      1651.2%       164.3%         38.2%        20.4%
Retail prices % change from prior year)       1313.2%      1881.0%       121.8%         39.1%        20.4%
General Government Finances
Receipts (% of GDP)                            36.6%        26.5%        25.9%        22.3%         25.3%
Current expenditures (% of GDP)                28.8%        25.8%        25.1%        25.2%         26.7%
Capital expenditures (% of GDP)                 8.4%         7.9%         3.3%          0.2%         2.7%
Total expenditures (% of GDP)                  37.2%        33.7%        28.3%         25.4%        29.4%
Deficit ( (% of GDP)                           -0.6%        -7.2%        -2.5%         -3.1%        -4.2%
General Gov't. Finances (Index Real 1993 =100)
Receipts                                         100          59.5         52.9         46.2         53.1
Current expenditures                             100          73.5         65.2         66.8         71.3
Capital expenditures                             100          77.3         29.1           1.8         24.6
Total expenditures                               100          74.4         57.1         51.8          60.8
Balance of Payments (million US$)
Exports IG + NFS)                             $4,249        $4,246       $5,732       $6,278       $6,689
Imports (G + NFS)                             $4,999        $5,468       $6,162       $6,926       $7,799
Resource balance                               -$750       -$1,222        -$431        -$648       -$1,110
Current account balance                        -$715       -$1,175        -$518        -$768       -$1,406
Current balance as percent of GDP             -6.3%        -9.9%        -3.1%         -3.7%        -6.2%
Net capital Inflow                            $1,081        $1,386         $663         $822       $1,640
[of which direct foreign investment]            $473         $820          $895       $1,214       $1,250
Increase in net foreign exchange reserves (+)   $366         $211          $145          $54         $234
Gross reserves in months imports                 1.8          2.8          3.2          4.0           4.3
Exchange Rate (annual average)
Tenge per US$                                   2.58         35.76        61.37        67.80         76.90
Index real X-rate (1993=100)                  100.00        121.84       173.27       222.34       232.15
From Monetary Survey
Growth in broad money (%, Dec.-Dec.)          690.5%       716.7%       114.0%         13.8%        25.8%
Credit to government as % GDP                  -0.3%         2.5%         2.0%          1.3%         1.4%
Credit to rest of economy as % GDP             13.9%        16.8%         6.0%          4.0%         4.1%
Broad money as % of GDP                         6.0%         8.4%         9.8%          8.5%         8.9%
Sources: Historical data are based on Goskomstat, Ministry of Economy, National Bank of Kazakhstan and IMF sources.
Budget data for 1996 include a substantial statistical discrepancy and may be revised; the 1997 projections are based upon
the program agreed with the IMF for the budget and Bank staff estimates for the extrabudgetary funds. Budget data are on
a cash basis and thus do not include changes in budgetary payments arrears. Stocks of money and credit as a percent of
GDP were calculated using estimated annual rate GDP at year end. The change in net foreign exchange reserves excludes
gold; however, gold is included when calculating gross reserves in months imports. Real exchange rates were calculated
using the GDP deflator for Kazakhstan and thet Bank's MUV index for world prices.



-4 -
to less than 1 percent of GDP. Because GDP declined significantly during the 1993-1996 period, in
real terms the declines in government receipts and expenditures were even more dramatic. With the
corresponding 1993 level equal to 100, the indices in 1996 were 46 for receipts, 67 for current
expenditures, and 2 for capital expenditures. The general government budget deficit, measured on a
cash basis, exceeded 7 percent of GDP in 1994, but was limited to 3.1 percent of GDP in 1996.
However, the cash budget deficits have been held down in part by payments arrears, particularly in
wages and pensions. Even after the substantial efforts to reduce arrears which were made late in 1996,
government payments arrears at the end of the year were approximately 80 billion Tenge (about
US$1,060 million and equivalent to 5 percent of 1996 GDP). Arrears in the payment of pensions
accounted for about 36 billion Tenge. The balance consisted of the arrears of local governments in the
payment of wages and utility bills.
10.   These trends in government receipts, expenditures, and payments arrears, clearly indicate the
urgency of action needed to improve government revenues and to improve the fiscal situation to make
more efficient use of the limited funds that are available and reflect a strong case for adjustnent
lending on fiscal grounds. The proposed PSRMAL is needed because it will provide additional
financing that can help in the short run and because it will be a catalyst for timely implementation of
the reforms needed to provide solutions for the medium and longer terrn.
m. STRENGTHENING PUBLIC SECTOR RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
11.   The policy and institutional reforms to be supported by the proposed PSRMAL cover four
broad areas: (1) the reform of the administrative structure of thie Republican Government and the
development of a civil service; (2) reforms in budgetary processes relating to taxation, to government
procurement, to budget coverage and disclosure of basic financial information, to budget formulation
and execution, and to financial control; (3) strengthening the public sector investment process through
economic and financial evaluation of projects, policies on external borrowing, preparing a medium-
term macroeconomic framework as a "financing plan" for the public investment program (PIP), and
preparing a multi-year PIP; and (4) reforms in housing and related utilities.
12.   The administrative reforms supported by the PSRMAL serve two basic objectives. The first is
to adapt the size and structure of the Republican Government to what is necessary in a market oriented
economy and also is consistent with present fiscal realities. The second objective is to improve the
accountability, transparency and efficiency of government decision-making. The reform program
includes the development of a civil service which should contribute significantly to administrative
capacity and efficient decision-making.
13.   The policy actions related to reform of budgetary processes should support the achievement of
a number of objectives, beginning with the need to increase tax revenues. Other objectives include
establishing a state procurement system, improving the budget formiulation process, establishing better
control of commitments and expenditures, and achieving greater accountability and improved decision
making through both fuller public disclosure of basic financial information and greatly strengthened
auditing of public sector accounts. In addition to the Republican Budget, reform measures supported
by the PSRMAL concern the main extrabudgetary funds (primarily concerned with social protection)
and territorial (oblast and rayon) governments.
14.   The preparation of a realistic public investment program (PIP) is a key part of improving
public sector financial management, particularly in that it will assist the authorities in taking into
account the effects upon future years of decisions to start new projects (often financed by borrowing) in



the current budget year. Strengthening project evaluation capacity should lead to improved decisions
on expenditure priorities as well ,as better designed individual projects.  The macroeconomic
framework, which will serve as the "financing plan" for the PIP, will also contribute to analysis of
medium-term budgetary, financial and economic developments. Improving policies and procedures
related to external borrowing, both by and guaranteed by the government, are included in this part of
the reform program.
15.   Although perhaps less obvious than the previously mentioned three areas, for transition
economies such as Kazakhstan the reforms related to housing and public utilities have important
budgetary implications (as well as broader social implications). Housing, including heating and other
utilities, traditionally had been heavily subsidized in the Soviet Union. Enterprises, increasingly
privatized, are now divesting themselves of the housing they previously had provided their employees
and of the related responsibilities for maintenance and utilities.  Unless and until appropriate
arrangements have been made for the private sector to take over these responsibilities, they tend to fall
upon local governments (or maintenance goes undone and utility bills go unpaid). Moreover, there is
an essential role for government in creating the appropriate institutional and regulatory framework.
These new responsibilities cover a range of areas, including (1) demonopolization where feasible and
regulation of natural monopolies where they are expected to continue, (2) the development of private
"homeowners associations" which can take over responsibility for multi-family housing (and thus
relieve the government of responsibilities in this area), and (3) establishing an effective housing social
safety net to mitigate problems arising as subsidies are eliminated and greater financial responsibilities
are placed upon private households.
16.   The Government's program of institutional and policy reforms is presented in the "Letter on
Public Sector Resource Management Policies" included as Annex A. It is also summarized in the
remainder of this Part m as well as being presented in the "Policy Matrix" in Annex B. The reforms
to be supported by this PSRMAL are divided into three groups -- (1) those that have been implemented
prior to Board presentation, (2) those expected to be done before the second tranche is released, and
(3) those expected to be done before the third tranche. The program has been designed on the
assumption that the second tranche would be disbursed in the third quarter of 1998, so actions prior to
the second tranche are expected to be completed by June 30, 1998. The program design also assumes
that the third tranche will be disbursed in the second quarter of 1999, so actions prior to the third
tranche are expected to be completed by March 31, 1999.
17.   The dates for completing specific elements in the program which are mentioned in the
following sections A to D (and also those mentioned in the "Letter on Public Sector Resource
Management Policies" and shown in the "Policy Matrix") are dates by which the Government now
expects to be able to complete the various steps in the program. The Bank staff believes that this
timetable is reasonable and appropriate, but there can be no certainty that everything will be completed
on exactly this schedule. As is discussed below (section IV.F), some "key" elements in the program
have been identified, and the completion of these "key" elements will be a precondition for
disbursement of the second and thiud tranches. Delays in the completing these "key" elements would
result in corresponding delays in The release of the second and third tranches. In addition, these
tranche releases will depend upon reasonably satisfactory progress in implementation of the program as
a whole.



-6-
A. Administrative Reform
18.   Streamlining the Republican Government. Reducing the size and improving the organization
of the Republican Government are recognized needs. Supported by technical assistance from EU-
TACIS, plans are being prepared and the first steps have been taken. Thus, in March 1997, the
number of ministries was reduced from 21 to 14 and the number of cabinet level state committees was
reduced from 13 to 3. In addition, agreement has been reachLed on the terms of reference for a
functional review covering all entities funded by the State Budget. The aim of this review will be to
identify which entities should continue to be funded from the budget and which should be privatized or
simply abolished.
19.   A number of important steps are to take place prior to the release of the second tranche.
These include completion of the functional review followed by preparation of an implementation plan
(to be made effective as part of the 1999 budget) to discontinue budgetary support for entities which
were identified for elimination in the functional review. Other actions which are expected to be done
before the second tranche is released include drafting regulations for, and having in place, the
restructured central executive organizations. Prior to the third tranche it will be necessary to have
actually discontinued budgetary support for all entities that had been identified for elimination.
20.   Civil Service Reform. A Commission on Civil Service Re-form has been established under the
Prime Minister, with the First Deputy Prime Minister as Vice-Chairman. But most of the substantive
work remains to be done. Agreement has been reached on terms of reference for (1) a census of all
employees paid from the State Budget, (2) a comparator pay study, (3) a personnel information
network which will be linked to a post management system (which, for each budgetary entity, will
authorize the number of positions at each level), and (4) preparation of an integrated training program.
The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice, working with guidance from the Commission of
Civil Service Reform, have begun a review of existing civil service laws and regulations; this review
will result in proposals for the changes necessary to ensure a professional, competitively recruited, and
reasonably paid civil service with adequate security of tenure.
21.   Prior to second tranche release Phase I of the census of government employees is to be
completed and the results analyzed. This first phase will cover all employees of the ministries and
agencies of the central executive branch plus, in two oblasts, those in the health and education sector.
Among other things, these census results are needed as inputs for the personnel roll and the post
management system. The first part of the comparator pay study (covering Apparat employees) is
expected to be completed, as are proposals for a revised civil service pay policy which would take into
account the need for wage decompression and for the monetization of appropriate non-wage benefits.
Also, the integrated training policy, including its implementation schedule, is expected to be completed
and announced. The new or amended civil service law should be in place, along with necessary
amendments to other laws and related regulations, should be in place at the start of 1999 and
competitive recruitment for the civil service should begin in the first quarter of 1999. Other actions
which are expected prior to the third tranche include establishment of a complete personnel roll and
implementation of the post management system for employees in the ministries and agencies of the
central executive branch plus those in the health and education sectors.
B. Reform of Budgetary Processes
22.   Taxation. A new tax code has been introduced and a December 1996 resolution calls for the
preparation of a set of measures to improve tax administration. A tax policy unit has been established



in the Ministry of Finance and a program to improve tax administration has been announced. Targets
for tax collections, by taxes and oblasts, are now prepared. Measures to improve tax administration
which should be taken before the second tranche disbursement involve a number of specific steps,
including (1) completion of a national database of taxpayers and assignment of taxpayer identification
numbers; (2) preparation of simplified tax forms and an accompanying taxpayer education program;
(3) programs to identify and assess non-filers and to extend tax audits, and (4) strict controls on tax
write-offs and on granting concessions and exemptions. In addition, the functions of assessment,
collection and tax audit activities are to be separated at the oblast level. Also, before the start of 1998,
targets for tax collection, in aggregate and in detail, are to be established and a system of monitoring
performance is to be introduced.
23.   Effective with the start of the 1999 budget year, and thus before the third tranche, simplified
tax forms and taxpayer educational materials are to be introduced and widely distributed to VAT,
personal and corporate income tax payers. Also, beginning in 1999, taxpayers are to be required to
include their taxpayer identification numbers in appropriate official documents. By March 1999 a
report is to be issued which compares actual tax collection performance with then targets established
(by tax and oblast) for 1998 and which makes recommendations for corrective actions (as may be
desirable to improve the targets as well as the actual tax collections).
24.   State Procurement. The "Law on the Budget System", which was passed in December 1996,
requires orders for works and services to be placed competitively. However, the institutional, legal,
and regulatory arrangements needecl to make this a reality are not yet in place. A step was taken in
February 1997, when a unit for domestic procurement was established in the Ministry of Economy. A
new law on state procurement has, been drafted and was submitted to Parliament in May 1997.
Measures to be taken following passage of the law, and completed before the second tranche, include
the issuance of all appropriate regulations necessary for the implementation of the new law.  In
addition, the program calls for the issuance of tender documents, and the awarding of a number of
substantial contracts, under the new procedures before the second tranche is disbursed. Before the third
tranche is released, all necessary regulations, procedures and systems relating to public procurement
are to be in place, with standard bidding documents used and contracts awarded in accordance with the
new law and regulations.
25.   Budget Coverage and Disclosure of Financial Information. The December 1996 "Law on the
Budget System" established the general structure of the budget system, and provided for preparation of
statements covering the Republican Budget, local government budgets, and extrabudgetary funds. On
June 9, 1997, the Government issued Resolution 941 which specifically provides for the publication in
appropriate mass media of information on the cash execution of the Republican Budget, local budgets,
and the extrabudgetary funds. The program includes the annual publication of (1) a statement of
financial balances showing the annual revenues, expenditures, surpluses (or deficits and their
financing) of the Republican budget, the consolidated local government budget, and the accounts of the
four main extrabudgetary funds ancl the Road Fund; (2) statements on payment arrears for each of the
above; (3) a statement of liabilities and contingent liabilities of the Republican Government arising
from government borrowing and the issuance of loan guarantees; and (4) a statement of amounts held
in government bank accounts, whether in Kazakhstan or elsewhere (but excluding amounts in escrow
accounts that are not freely available to the government). These financial data are to be included in an
Economic Report which is to be published annually about the same time as the budget is submitted to
Parliament. The first such report should be published in September 1997. Also, the coverage of the
budget is to be extended in 1998 to include all expenditures in connection with the transfer of the
capital to Akmola and also to include the non-budgetary sources of income ("special resources") of



-8-
budgetary agencies.
26.   Budget Formulation and Execution. A commnitment accounting system has been planned as
part of the Treasury Modernization Project which is being supported by the Bank. In addition to the
measures discussed in this section, it should be noted that investment expenditures portion of the
annual Republican Budget will be based upon the multi-year Public Investment Program. This should
assist greatly in taking into account the effects on expenditures in future years of the commitments that
are undertaken in the current budget year. The Government has announced a series of measures
including (1) establishing a high level commission to monitor budget formulation including setting
realistic expenditure ceilings within which budgetary entities will prepare their proposed budgets, (2)
improved revenue forecasting and cash management, and (3) the introduction of procedures for
medium-term budgeting,
27.   In terms of outcomes, perhaps the most important targets to be fulfilled are those related to the
reduction in the government's payments arrears. At the end of Mlarch 1997 these arrears amounted to
about 5 percent projected 1997 GDP. Progress in reducing an-ears will be a good indicator of the
improved management of the general government budget that is supported by the PSRMAL. The
government has already announced its intention to eliminate all Pension Fund arrears by the end of this
year. In addition, the total of other arrears will not be allowed to exceed their aggregate level at the
start of 1997. It is the governmuent's intention to eliminate all remaining payments arrears during 1998
and 1999. It has adopted, following consultation with the Fund and the Bank, a target for 1998 which
call for a reduction in the total arrears by the end of 1998 to not more than 50 percent of the level
existing at the end of 1997.
28.   The budget for 1998 is to incorporate steps to improve the efficiency of resource allocation in
the health and education sectors. There will be improvements in Lhe per capita funding norms for
budget expenditures on health, covering territorial budgets and transfers to the Compulsory Medical
Insurance Fund for the supply of services to the non-working population. In addition, revised funding
formulas (based on per student capitation) are to be used for territorial education budgets. Regarding
improving cash management, in implementing the 1998 budget a specific target of at least six weeks is
established for the average duration of funds releases.
29.   Financial Control. Ministry of Finance Order No. 18'2 of June 20, 1997, describes the
government's approach to strengthening auditing and financial corntrol for all accounts included in the
Consolidated Financial Balance of the State. Responsibility for developing modem audit standards has
been assigned to the Department of the Treasury. A complete draft of the proposed new standards is to
be ready by December 1998 and they should be adopted by March 1999. A unit for internal audit of
the Treasury system is to be established by September 1998. Once the new audit standards are in
place, audits will be conducted for all of the amounts included in the Consolidated Financial Balance
(Republican Budget and the budgets of the local governents and the extrabudgetary funds). Thus the
first "complete" audit using the new standards would cover 1998 accounts and be completed in 1999.
However, in the case of the Republican Budget, an audited financial statement will be prepared for the
year ending December 31, 1997, and will be placed before Parliament and published in the Official
Gazette before October 1998 (i.e., well before the anticipated date of the third tranche disbursement).
C. Public Investment Program (PIPM
30.   A first effort at the preparation of a Public Investment Program for Kazakhstan was made in
1996 and the results were presented to the Aid Group Meeting which took place in Tokyo in



- 9 -
November. This initial PIP provided the basis for the investment expenditures portion of the State
Budget for 1997. However, the original PIP was overly ambitious and had to be reduced substantially
before it could fit within the budget parameters. On April 10, 1997, the Government issued Resolution
528 "On Procedure for Preparation, Implementation and Monitoring of Projects Being Included in the
Public Investment Program". The revised PIP now being prepared will cover the current year, the
previous year, and three subsequent years. The PIP is to include investment activities (including
technical assistance directly related to project implementation) which are financed from the State
Budget or by foreign loans and grants. It will also include investments financed by state enterprises
and joint stock companies in which the state share exceeds 50 percent, and by credits which are
extended to these firms under Government guarantee. The resolution includes provisions for project
appraisal (beginning with the need to strengthen project appraisal capacity) and implementation
monitoring. The Ministry of Economy and Trade is responsible for reviewing project proposals from
ministries and other government entities, and for preparing the program. It is also responsible for a
quarterly monitoring of the implementation of the PIP. The approach set forth in the April 10
Resolution represents a good start in preparation of a revised PIP and the development of the capacity
to prepare and implement programs for public sector investments and their financing.
31.   Economic and Financial Evaluation of Projects. The Ministry of Economy and Trade has
established and staffed a unit which will fix standards for project analysis and provide technical support
to line ministries and other government entities preparing project analyses. This unit will also provide
quality control of the evaluations for all projects proposed for the PIP. Prior to the second tranche,
government entities wishing to propose projects for inclusion in the PIP will prepare project
evaluations, and the Ministry of Economy and Trade will complete reviews of these evaluations, for all
projects proposed as "new starts" in the Republican Budget for 1999.  By the end of 1998 project
evaluations are to be prepared, and to be reviewed by the Ministry, for all projects proposed as 'new
starts" in the PIP for 1999-2001.
32.   Exteral Borrowing By, and Guaranteed By. the Govenment. A new "Law on External
Borrowing and Managing the External Debt" was approved on April 10, 1997. The law provides that
the Republican Budget will each year set a ceiling on the borrowing by the Government and also a
limit on the total amount of non-government loans that may be guaranteed by the Government. Both
direct Government borrowing and the granting of Government guarantees are to be managed by the
Ministry of Finance. No other public sector entities are allowed to contract external loans, with the
exception of the NBK (central bank) which is authorized to undertake foreign borrowing as long as the
total liabilities do not exceed half of the NBK's assets in the form of gold and foreign exchange. The
law provides for the registration of non-guaranteed loans with the NBK and for the preparation of a
long-term external borrowing program by the Ministry of Finance.
33.   The new  law  also specifies procedures regarding applications for, and granting of,
Government guarantees for non-government loans. In the past, inadequate controls on issuance of
Government guarantees led to a situation where payment of debt service on guaranteed loans for which
the ultimate borrower had defaulted became a significant item in the budget. Earlier this year the
government established an inter-ministerial committee to review cases where the government has had
to take over debt service on guaranteed loans; this committee is seeking satisfactory settlements,
including by taking legal action where this is appropriate.
34.   For 1997 the government has placed a ceiling of US$1,600 million on the contracting and
guaranteeing of medium and long--term non-concessional external debt during the year. In addition,
there is a sub-ceiling on maturities of 1 to 5 years (of US$300 million excluding the anticipated issue of



- 10-
5-year Eurobonds which will be used to help finance the elimination of Pension Fund arrears).
Ceilings on external borrowing for 1998 will be included in the State Budget for that year. By June
1998 the Finance Ministry will have completed a external borrowing program covering 1999-2001
which will be coordinated with the macroeconomic framework and Public Investment Program for
those years.
35.   Multi-year Macroeconomic Framework. Staff in the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of
Economy and Trade, and the National Bank of Kazakhstan have initiated work on a medium-term
macro economic framework that will serve as a "financing plan" for the PIP and also help meet other
needs such as the development of medium-term budget projections. This work will be further
developed and a complete macroeconomic framework, with estimates for 1998 and projections for
1999-2001, will be completed by June 1998. This macro framework includes projections of the
consolidated government budget, the balance of payments, and the monetary accounts. Work of the
framework will be linked to the Ministry of Finance's work on medium-term budget projections as will
as the external borrowing plan and the PIP.
36.   Multi-year Public Investment Program. The recently approved Resolution 528 provides the
necessary assignment of responsibilities in connection with preparation of the Public Investment
Program. The Ministry of Economy and Trade is now preparing recommendations, on the basis of
appropriate revisions in the 1996-1998 PIP, for the projects to be included in the investment portion of
the 1998 budget. The Ministry of Economy and Trade will monitor the implementation of the PIP on
a quarterly basis. In the second half of 1998, a complete PIP is to be prepared covering actual 1997,
expected 1998, and projected 1999-2001. This PIP will cover both the investment portion of the State
Budget and those extrabudgetary public sector investment expenditures that are specified in the recent
Resolution. The PIP will be supported by project evaluations for all "new starts" proposed for 1999-
2001 and as well as being consistent with the External Borrowing Program and the macroeconomic
framework.
D. Reforms in Housing and Public Utilities
37.   Demonopolization of Utilities and Communal Services and Regulation of Natural Monopolies.
The Anti-Monopoly Committee (AMC, which, in the March 1997 administrative reorganization,
became part of the enlarged Ministry of Economy and Trade) has recently taken a number of steps to
introduce greater competition where this was feasible and to strengthen regulation of monopolies where
they were expected to continue. It has issued instructions on tender procedures for procurement by
cities of maintenance, capital repair and non-monopoly communal services which are financed from
the budget. It has also introduced a standard format for regional AMCs to report on the cost structure
of regulated power providers.  State-owned power providers are now required to undertake
procurement by tender for raw materials used for the generation of electricity and heating. In addition,
a program and timetable has been prepared for the installation of electricity, heating and water meters
in all budget-financed institutions. While the housing maintenance organizations (zheks) owned by
municipalities are being privatized, in many cases a private monopoly is replacing the state-owned
organization. Prior to the second tranche the AMC is to complete the break-up of the zheks into units
that compete with each other (rather than be individually assigned areas within which they may have,
in practice, a monopoly upon housing maintenance).
38.   At the present time there seems to be little rationale for the extreme variations between regions
in the prices for power and communal services (particularly heating). The prevalence and at least
temporary tolerance of payments arrears have perhaps made pricing issues seem less important. The



- 11 -
Kazakh authorities have agreed thal. the reform program supported by the PSRMAL should include
elements designed to bring greater order and rationality in to pricing policies and regulations. By the
end of 1997 the government expects to pass a legal enactment defmning the regime for regulating tariffs
(at the wholesale, import, export and retail levels) in the power and communal services sectors, at both
the national and oblast levels. Also, before the end of 1997, the government expects to approve
revisions to residential consumption norms for non-metered services (based on the results of regional
AMC studies). By January 1998 it expects to approve a methodology, and also to issue an
implementation schedule, for revised standard procedures for cost analysis and tariff regulation for
power and communal services. This will be followed by training seminars on cost analysis and pricing
principles for all central and oblast staff engaged in tariff regulation. Before the end of the first quarter
of 1999, the regulating authorities for natural monopolies should be setting approved tariffs on heating
and electricity in all oblasts accorcling to the revised standard procedures. Also, by this time the
government expects to have complet.ed the installation of meters for electricity, heating and water in at
least 80 percent of public hospitals and secondary schools.
39.   The Housing Social Safety &L Subsidies for utilities and housing maintenance were for many
years a non-wage benefit, but now are being eliminated. However, money wages on average have
fallen in real terms rather than risen to compensate for the loss of these subsidies. Even though the
dwelling units themselves may have been transferred without cost to the new owners, many households
are finding themselves without the income needed to cover the costs of housing maintenance and
utilities. Although in the longer run it may be desirable to make the housing social safety net part of a
broader and carefully targeted general safety net, for the immediate future it is essential to make the
existing housing safety net more effective.
40.    Decrees 437 and 587, both issued in 1996, established the legal framework for means-tested
housing allowances. However, outside the communities where a pilot program was implemented with
USAID support, the program has moved relatively slowly. An operational manual for housing
allowance offices was completed in April and has been distributed to the oblasts. Also, the Ministry of
Labor and Social Protection and the Ministry of Finance are cooperating in the preparation of
proposals for revisions in the existing system of "privileges" (subsidized utility rates for particular
groups of consumers which are financed from the budget). The budget for 1998 is expected to
inplement revisions in utility privileges and, partly financed by the savings from these revisions,
provide more adequate resources for housing allowances.
41.   Creation and Operation of Homeowner Associations (KCRs). The success of the transition
from enterprise and municipal responsibility for housing, to a largely privatized system, will depend
upon the effectiveness of Homeowner Associations (KCKs). Decree 647 on the "Promotion of
KCKs" has contributed to this process. Also, in April 1997 a new law "On Housing Relations" was
approved. Other recent actions include (1) dissemination of information on tendering procedures for,
and on model contracts for agreements between KCKs and providers of, utilities and communal
services, (2) public information campaigns in important cities on the rights and responsibilities of
members and management of KCKs, and (3) preparation of plans for training courses for core staff of
KCKs. By the end of 1997 the government expects to approve a resolution clarifying the juridical
status of KCKs; this will include definitions of rights and responsibilities related to land surrounding
housing blocks and will also enumerate the KCK activities which are considered commercial and non-
commercial. In collaboration with, regional associations of KCKs, by January 1998 the Ministry of
Economy and Trade (Agency for Construction) will initiate training courses in each oblast for KCK
core staff; these courses will cover budgeting, service agreements, administrative procedures, and
issues related to capital repairs.



-12-
IV. FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement.
42.   The proposed PSRMAL in consistent with, and is part of, the Bank Group's assistance strategy
for Kazakhstan as outlined in the "Country Assistance Strategy Memorandum" being discussed by the
Board in conjunction with this proposed operation. As indicated in this CAS, the Bank Group's
assistance strategy will focus on the following four areas: (1) sustaining private sector-led growth, (2)
restructuring agriculture, (3) rehabilitating basic physical infrastructure to support private sector-led
growth, and (4) mitigating transitional poverty and promoting social service sustainability. Underlying
these specific objectives is a continuing concern with the modernization of the state, i.e., helping enable
the state to play its necessary and appropriate role in a market-oriented economy. As noted in the CAS,
the FY98 lending program includes two projects which support the modernization of the state. The
PSRMAL loan is one of these. The other is the Legal Reform Project which will support the
implementation of a comprehensive medium-term program to strengthen the country's legal and judicial
system.
B. Description of the Loan.
43.   The borrower is the Republic of Kazakhstan as represented by the Ministry of Finance. The
loan amount is US$230 million. It would be made on standard Bank terms for Kazakhstan (20 years
maturity including a 5-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate). Although the
loan amount is not large relative to the Kazakh economy, it is believed that it would be sufficient to
both make a meaningful contribution to the general government budget and serve as a catalyst for the
policy decisions and other government actions needed to supporit what is admittedly an ambitious
program to strengthen public sector resource management. The disbursement of US$80 million in 1997
would amount to no more than 1.5 percent of general government expenditures and only 1 percent of
imports. With the growth of the economy and the slight reduction in disbursements, these percentages
would be even smaller in 1998 and 1999.
C. Disbursement.
44.   The PSRMAL would be disbursed under the new simplified procedures for disbursement of
adjustment operations. Disbursements will be made by payments to an account of the Ministry of
Finance in the National Bank of Kazakhstan. It would be disbursed in three tranches of US$80 million
in 1997, US$75 million in 1998, and a final US$75 million in 1999. The first tranche would be
released as soon as possible after the loan becomes effective. Assuming the conditions are fulfilled
(see paragraphs 48 - 51 below), the second tranche would be released shortly after June 30, 1998, and
the third tranche would be released shortly after March 31, 1999. The funds disbursed under the loan
are expected to be sold in the foreign exchange auction market and, in this way, generate non-
inflationary financing for the budget.
D. Monitoring and Reporting on Program Implementation.
45.   The Ministry of Finance will be responsible for monitoring and reporting to the Bank on the
implementation of the institution building and policy reforms supported by the PSRMAL (as they are
outlined in the "Letter on Public Sector Resource Management Policies" included as Annex A). The
Ministry will submit semi-annual reports to the Bank (through the office of the World Bank Resident



- 13 -
Representative in Ahnaty) on the implementation of the program, including problems encountered as
well as progress made. The first such report will be due in January 1998 and will cover the period
ending December 31, 1997.
E. Actions Taken Before Board Presentation.
46.   During the approximately one year that Kazakh officials and Bank staff were discussing the
institution building and policy reforms that would be supported by the PSRMAL, the government has
taken many steps which contribute to the objective of strengthening public sector resource management.
These actions are described in the "Letter on Public Sector Resource Management Policies" (Annex A).
Included are three important laws. The Law on Budget System was adopted in December 1996, while
the Law on External Borrowing and Managing External Debt, and also the Law on Housing Relations,
were adopted in April 1997. Also included in the actions which have recently been completed are a
number which had been identified as prior actions for Board Presentation. These include the following:
Government Resolution No. 528 of April 10, 1997, outlining steps to be taken in preparation of
the Public Investment Program, including strengthening project analysis.
Government Resolution No. 940 of June 9, 1997, outlining the next steps in the program of
administrative reform and appointing a high level commission to oversee the process.
Government Resolution No. 941 of June 9, 1997, providing for publication in appropriate
media of information on the execution of the Republican Budget, and the budgets of local
governments and the extralbudgetary funds.
Ministry of Finance Order No. 182 of June 20, 1997, regarding preparing new audit standards
and strengthening government audit.
Other "prior actions" that have been completed are the establishment of a Tax Policy Unit with the
Ministry of Finance and preparation of terms of reference for studies related to administrative reform
and the civil service. These studies cover a functional review of all entities funded from the Republican
Budget, a census of employees, a comparator pay study, a personnel information network, and an
integrated training policy.
F. Agreements Related to Second and Third Tranche Disbursements.
47.   As is apparent from Part [II above, the program supported by the PSRMAL includes a great
many actions and a number of targets related to administrative reform, reform of budgetary processes,
preparation of the public sector investment program, and also concerning housing and related utilities.
A limited number of "key actions" or "key results" have been selected to serve as conditions which must
be fulfilled before disbursement of the second and the third tranches. However, the Bank will also
monitor what takes place regarding the other actions in the program being supported. The Loan
Agreement for the PSRMAL specifies that the second and third tranche disbursements are conditioned
upon: the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework is consistent with the objectives of the
Program; the Borrower's carrying out of the Program outlined in the Government's 'Letter on Public
Sector Resource Management Reform Policies' as well as the specified disbursement conditions. In
monitoring the overall program, particular attention will be given to the measures related to
strengthening tax administration.



- 14 -
48.   The following "key actions" or "key results" are preconditions for release of the second tranche:
(1) The Borrower is to furnish the Bank a report on the functional review of all entities
supported by the State Budget and, on the basis of such report, prepare and publish an
implementation plan, satisfactory to the Bank, providing for the discontinuation of budgetary
support to entities identified for elimination.
(2) The Borrower is to prepare, and furnish to the Bank, a report on the completion of Phase I of
the census of government employees, including an analysis of the census results and an action
plan to eliminate the identified inconsistencies, if any, between the census results and the
payrolls.
(3) Enactment of the new Law on State Procurement and issuance of required implementation
regulations, all satisfactory to the Bank.
(4) Elimination of all Pension Fund arrears by the end of 1997 and no increase in the aggregate
amount of arrears accumulated by the central and local governments and extrabudgetary funds
(other than the Pension Fund) as compared with the aggregate such arrears as of December 31,
1996.
(5) The Borrower is to furnish a report to the Bank demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Bank
that the Ministry of Economy and Trade has prepared a database of all investment projects
proposed by the Borrower's line ministries and local governments for inclusion in the
Borrower's Public Investment Program for the years 1999-2001.
(6) The Borrower is to issue revised procedures for the regulation of tariffs in the power sector
and for communal services (electricity and heating), which shall include a schedule for their
implementation and which are satisfactory to the Bank.
(7) The State Budget for 1998, as enacted, provides for the revision of the utility privileges
currently effective, and for provision of adequate resources for the housing allowance programs,
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
(8) The Borrower is to furnish a report to the Bank demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Bank
that the Borrower has made satisfactory progress in implementing the technical assistance
program related to the reform policies referred to in the Program.
(9) The Borrower has taken all measures as shall be consistent with the recapitalization plan,
agreed upon with the Bank, in respect of Bank TuranAlem.
49.    The following "key actions" or "key results" are preconditions for the release of the third
tranche:
(1) The Borrower has prepared and furnished the Bank with a report demonstrating to the
satisfaction of the Bank that the entities identified for elimination in the functional review have
either been privatized or that their liquidation has been initiated.
(2) The Borrower has enacted a new Civil Service Law and/or regulations satisfactory to the
Bank, and has furnished the Bank a report demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Bank that the



-15-
Borrower has initiated competitive recruitment procedures of civil servants in accordance with
the civil service law.
(3) The Borrower has furnished the Bank a report demonstrating, to the satisfaction of the
Bank, the implementation of the procedures, and the awards of publicly financed contracts,
under the Law on State Procurement, including a description of problems encountered and an
action plan to overcome any such problems.
(4) The aggregate amounts of the arrears of the central and local governments and the
extrabudgetary funds does not exceed 50 percent of the aggregate level of such arrears as of
December 31, 1997.
(5) The Borrower has submitted to Parliament and published in the Official Gazette an audit
report covering all of the accounts and expenditures made in respect of the 1997 Republican
Budget.
(6) Completion of the Public Investment Program (PIP) (covering actual 1997, estimated 1998,
and projected 1999-2001) in accordance with Resolution 528. The Bank is to be furnished with
a report, demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Bank, that all investment projects proposed for
initiation in 1999-2001 have been properly evaluated and that the PIP is consistent with the
associated external borrowving program and the estimated future macroeconomic framework.
(7) The Borrower is to furnish a report to the Bank demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Bank
that the entity responsible for regulating natural monopolies is setting tariffs for heating and
electricity in all oblasts in conformity with the revised regulations referred to in item (6) of
paragraph 49.
G. Arrangements for Technical Assistance.
50.   It is recognized that there will be significant requirements for technical assistance in connection
with the implementation of the institutional and policy reforms to be supported by the PSRMAL. The
requirements, as agreed between the Bank and the borrower during loan negotiations, are summarized
in Annex C on "Technical Assistance Needed to Support PSRMAL Implementation". The government
has been receiving substantial technical assistance from both USAID and EU-TACIS on matters related
to budgetary management and administrative reform. The Government is understandably reluctant to
pay for technical assistance which could be obtained without cost from other donors. Consequently the
Government intends, insofar as is possible, to mobilize the needed technical assistance from grant
sources. When this is not possible, the needed assistance will be financed from the government's own
budgetary resources. With this approach, the government will be responsible for contracting the
necessary assistance. As indicated in item (8) of paragraph 49, satisfactory progress in implementation
of this program is a condition of second tranche disbursement.
H. Benefits and Risks.
51.    Benefits. The proposed loan will make a significant contribution to adapting the role of the
state in Kazakhstan to better meet the requirements of a market-oriented economy. More specifically,
the institutional and policy reforrms supported by the loan should help strengthen the effectiveness of
public sector resource mobilization and improve the efficiency with which public sector financial
resources are used. The PSRMAL has served as a catalyst for the design of the program outlined in this



-16-
President's Report and also for the initial steps in its implementation. The approval of the loan and its
subsequent disbursements in 1997, 1998 and 1999 should provide a disciplined framework for the
implementation of this program. In addition, the loan would provide non-inflationary financing for
budgetary expenditures during the interval before the reforms supported by the loan are providing more
permanent solutions to public sector resource management concerns.
52.   Risks. The risk of policy slippage will never be totally absent, but in this case it is minimized by
the high degree of ownership of the program by the officials that must carry it out. There is also an
unavoidable risk that the implementation of the ambitious set of institutional and policy reforms will
exceed the institutional capacity of the government entities involved; this risk, however, is reduced by
the agreements with respect to the provision of technical assistance. There is also little doubt that the
population of Kazakhstan suffers from a kind of "reform fatigue" after several years of declining output
and income. The economic situation has now begun to improve, but many sectors of the population
remain in very difficult circumstances. Unless this improvement in output and incomes can be sustained
and strengthened, and unless the social protection programs can reach those who are suffering most from
the transition process, it will be increasingly difficult for the political leadership to continue
implementing this and other reform and restructuring programs.
I. Recommendation.
53.    I am satisfied that the proposed Loan will comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Ban,k
and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Caio K. Koch-Weser
for
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Annexes
Washington, D.C.
July 31, 1997



ANNEX A - Page I of 8 pages
KA3AKCTAH                                               EIPABHTEAbCTBO
PEC1YBAHKACMHMI                                                  PECEYEASR
YKIMETI                                                 KA3AXCTAH
August 1, 1997
Mr. Jamnes D. Wolfensohn
President, The World Bank
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1.            Kazakhstan is continuing its efforts to both establish financial stability and implement
structural reforms. Although ve have passed through several very difficult years, we are now
beginning to see substantial results from our efforts. The rate of inflation has been brought down from
nearly 2000 percent during 1994 to only 28 percent during 1996. This year we expect to reduce the rate
of inflation to about 17 percent. Although Kazakhstan's gross domestic product fell by over 40 percent
between 1990 and 1995, that trn,d has now been reversed. We achieved modest real growth in 1996
(about 1 percent) and some further improvement is expected during 1997. The consolidated public
sector budget deficit was held to 3.1 percent of GDP in 1996, and this was financed almost entirely by
borrowing from either external or non-bank domestic sources. The government's debt to the banking
system was actually reduced during the year. This enabled us to limit the growth in the money supply to
only 15 percent during the year. Our eamings from merchandise exports have increased from $3.8 billion
in 1994 to $5.6 bilion in 1996. This, combined with an inflow of external capital from both loans and
private investments, has permitted us to meet our needs for imports and build our gross international
reserves to the equivalent of four months imports. We are making good progress in privatization of
previous state enterprises, although much of the dtfficult task of restructuing individual enterprises still
remains to be done.
2.            However, these gains were not accomplished without substantial sacrifices.
Government revenues fell from 37 percent of GDP in 1993 to only 24 percent in 1996. In the same
period real GDP fell by nearly 25 percent. Consequently public sector revenues in 1996 were, in real
tenns, cnly 50 percent of their 1993 level. Even though the deficit was allowed to rise substantally, the
reduction in expenditures was a]lso severe. Public sector expenditures fell from 37 to 28 percent of GDP,
which means that in real terms expenditures in 1996 were only 57 percent of their 1993 level. The
reduction in capital expenditures was particularly severe. In 1996 governnent capital expenditures were
only 2 percent of GDP and, in real terms, only 18 percent of the 1993 level. These figures do not take
into account payments arrears, particularly of the Pension Fund and in wage payments to government
workers. Although we were able to clear almost all central government arrears at the end of 1996, at
that time the combined arrears of the Pension Fund and the local governments amounted to about 6
percent of 1996 GDP.



ANNEX A - Page 2 of 8 pages
3.            The changed role of the public sector in a market-oriented economy is permitting a
substantial reducton in pubic sector expenditures. Nonetheless, if we are going to meet the urgent needs
of the population and provide the social and economic infrastructure necessaiy to renew and sustain
economic growth, we will have both to improve public sector resource mobilization and to make more
efficient use of the resources we are able to mobilize.
4             We are requestng the World Bank to support our eflforts with a Public Sector
Resource Management Adjustment Loan (PSRMAL) for US$230 million equivalent. This loan would
be disbursed in three tranches, one each in 1997, 1998 and 1999. In this way it would be used to help us
finance budgetary expenditures wile we are puttng in place the policy and institutional changes
necessary to achieve a more permanent solution. The foreign exchange provided by this World Bank's
loan would be sold in the foreign exchange auction market, and the Tenge received from these sales
would provide non-inflationary financing for the budget.
5.            The requested loan would support policy and institutional reforms in four broad areas.
These are (1) the reform of the administrative structure of the govemment and the development of a civil
service; (2) reforms in budgetary processes relating to taxation, to government procurement, to budget
coverage and disclosure of basic financial information, to budget formation and execution, and to
financial control; (3) strengthening the public sector investment process through economic and financial
evaluation of projects and the preparation ofthe a medium-term Public Investment Program (PIP)
consistent wrth our foreign borrowing strategy and medium-term macroeconomic framework; and (4)
reforms related to housing and related utilities. For each of these four areas we have worked out a
detailed series of concrete steps, and also a time-table for their implementation, which are summarized
below.
Administrative Reform
6.            Streamlining the Structure of Government. We are introducing major changes in the
administrative structure in order to improve the efficiency of government and adapt it to its role in a
market-oriented economy. In March of this year we reduced the number of ministries from 21 to 14,
while the number of state committees reporting to the government was reduced from 13 to 3. Important
changes in the structure of territorial govemments were made in May when some admintrative districts
were consolidated and the number of oblasts was reduced from 19 to 14. We have recently issued a
Resolution No. 940 (dated June 9, 1997) which outlined the next steps in our program of admiinistrative
reform, appointed a high level commission which will oversee the process, and designated the Ministry of
Finance to lead the plamning and implementation ofthis program.
7.            We have agreed on the terms of reference for a functional review of all entities funded
by the State Budget. This review will identify which entites should continue to be funded by the budget,
and which should be abolished or privatized. This functional review is expected to be completed, and
regulations indicating the responsibilities and authority of each proposed executive body issued, by
March 1998. Drafting of procedural manuals (which are to specify appropriate provisions for standards
of service, service delivery, client response, transparency and easier public access) is to begin in 1997
and we expect to issue them in final forn by June 1998. Bythat same date we expectto have completed
an Implementation Plan, with time-tables to be made effective in the 1999 budget, for discontinuing
support to those entities identified for elimination. By March 1999 we intend to discontinue all
budgetary support for entities that had been identified for privatization or abolition.



ANNEX A - Page 3 of 8 pages
8.            Civil Service Reform. A Commission on Civil Service Reform has been established
under the Prime Minister. Recently we have agreed on the terms of reference for several important next
steps in this process. These cover (1) a census of all employees of ministries and agencies of the central
executive branch; (2) a comparator pay study; (3) implementing a personmel information network which
will be linked with a post management system; and (4) preparation of an integrated training policy
including a schedule for its implementation. We are also beginning a review of civil service laws and
regulations; its objective is to make proposals for the changes needed to ensure a professional,
competitively recruited, and reasonably paid civil service with adequate security of tenure. The Ministry
of Finance and the Ministry of Justice, working with guidance from the Comnission on Civil Service
Reform, will be responsible for these activities.
9.            We intend to carryout the census of employees in two phases. The first phase will cover
employees of the ministries ancl agencies of the central executive branch in Kazakhstan and employees in
the health and education sectors in Kustanai and Pavlodar oblasts. This first phase should be completed
by June 1998. A second phase, covering health and education sector employees in the remainder of the
oblasts should be completed by June 1999. In each case, we expect by the indicated dates to analyze the
results and rectify anomalies (such as differences, at the time of the census, between those included on
the payroll and those actually working). We also intend to complete by June 1998 the first phase of the
comparator pay study (covering employees of the mmistries and agencies of the central executive
branch) and draft recommendations for a revised civil service pay policy which will include appropriate
wage differentiation and monetization of appropriate non-wage benefits. Also, by the middle of 1998,
we expect to announce plans and an implementation schedule for our integrated training program. The
new or amended civil service 1ZLw, as well as appropriate amendments to other laws and related
regulations, should also be in place by January 1999. A complete personnel roll is to be established by
September 1998, and the post managernent system should be implemented for employees in ministries
and agencies of the central executive branch and health and educaton sector employees by March 1999.
We also anticipate that, by the latter date, we will have determined a central training unit and our
training program will be under implementation. Competitive recruitment for the civil service, on the
basis of the revised legislation and regulations, should begin inthe first quarter of 1999.
Reform of Budgetarv Processes
10.           Taxation. A number of important steps are being taken to improve tax revenues. The
Tax Code introduced in mid-1995 established a limited number of broad based taxes with reasonable
rates and few deductions or exemptions. Consequently our present emphasis is upon improving tax
administration rather than revising tax rates. Government Resolution 1533 of December 1996 called for
a complex of measures to strergthen tax administration. More recently we established a tax policy unit
in the Ministry of Finance and outlined a program of measures to improve tax administration. This
program includes measures to organize the Tax Service along functional lines, to detect non-filers, to
simplify filing and payment requirements, to collect delinquent accounts, to impose reasonable penalties
and interest on delinquent accounts, to provide an appropriate appeal process, to improve tax payer
services, and to computerize tax administration.
11.           We now prep2are targets for tax collections by tax and by oblast. In 1998 we intend to
strengthen our system for momtoring performance compared to these targets. Before March 1999 we
will issue a report on performance compared with targets, including recommendations for corrective
actions (to both improve the targets and the actual tax collections). By the middle of 1998 we expect to
have (1) completed a national data base of taxpayers and assigned taxpayer identification numbers, (2)
prepared simplified tax forms and a taxpayer education program to accompany their introduction, (3)



ANNEX A - Page 4 of 8 pages
introduced programs to identify and assess non-filers and to extend tax audits. By the beginning of 1999
we will require tax payers to include their taxpayer identification number in applications for permits,
licenses, passports and similar official documents. Also, by the beginring of 1999, the simplified tax
forms and educational materials will be widely distributed to VAT, personal and corporate income tax
payers. The functions related to tax assessment, tax collection, and tax audit are to be separated at the
oblast level by June 1998 and at the rayon level (except in the cases of very small offices) by December
1998. By June 1998 we will have in place strict controls on tax write-offs and on granting tax
concessions and exemptions.
12.           In order to improve the climate for investment in Kazakhstan, Parliament approved a
new law in February 1997 "On State Support of Direct Investments" designed to clarify the rules and
regulations governing direct investments (both foreign and domestic) and to provide government
guarantees to protect the interests of investors. The law also strengthens the coordinating role of the
recently established State Committee on Investments as the agency to which potential investors may turn
for information, assistance and support, thus simplifying the bureaucratic process. In addition, it
authorizes the Committee to grant a variety of tax concessions for nevw investments (in plant and
equipment) in designated priority sectors of the economy not related to exploking natural resources.
While these concessions will be approved on a case-by-case basis, they will be based upon clear and
transparent rules applicable to all investors and be set at levels such that the impact upon the fiscal
situation and efforts to strengthen resource mobilization will not be undermined. In this connection, and
in consultation with the staff ofthe World Bank, we intend to monitor the implementation of these
policies and procedures on a quarterly basis - with particular reference- to their effectiveness, clarity and
transparency, and fiscal impact - and, if necessary on the basis of experience during the next few
months, to modify them accordingly to improve the investment climate in Kazakhstan. Moreover, since
we recognize that tax incentives are only one factor among many that aire important for promoting
investment, we intend to complete by March 1, 1998, a comprehensive analysis of other meas  that
may be needed to strengthen further the climate for investment. In this connection, we welcome, and
plan to seek the advice and experience of appropriate international agencies, including the World Bank
Group.
13.           State Procurement. The "Law on Budget System" passed by Parliament in December
of last year requires that orders for works and services be placed competitively. In February of this year
a unit for domestic procurement was established in the Ministry of Economy and Trade. Parliamentary
approval of a new law on state procurement should take place in the next few months. By the mniddle of
1998 we expect that tender documents will have been issued, and contracts will have been awarded, in at
least six large procurements each worth at least T 750,000. By the encd of 1998 all necessary
regulations, procedures and systemns relating to public procurement should be in place, with standard
bidding documents used and contacts awarded in accordance with the new law and regulations.
14            Budget Coverage and Disclosure of Financial Information. The December 1996 'Law
on Budget System" also established the structure of Kazakhstan's budget system. To reflect major
trends in budget policy and to assist in the management of the fiscal resources of the state, it defines the
Consolidated Financial Balance of the State as including consolidated Republican and local level budgets
and the extrabudgetary funds. Resolution No. 941 of June 9, 1997, provides for the publication in
appropriate mass media of information on the cash execution of the Republican Budget, local budgets
and extrabudgetary funds. We also intend to publish annually a report showing the annual revenues,
expenditures, surpluses (or deficits and their financing) ofthe Republican Budget, the consolidated local
government budgets, and the extrabudgetary funds. This report will also (1) include statements on
payments arrears for each of the above, (2) a statement of liabilities and contingent liabilities of the



ANNEX A - Page 5 of 8 pages
Republican Government arising from goverunent borrowing and from the issuance of loan guarantees,
and (3) a statement of the amounts held in govermment bank accounts (whether held in Kazakhstan or
elsewhere, but excluding amounts in escrow accounts which are not freely available to the Government).
These financial data will be included in an Economic Report which is to be published annually at about
the same time as the budget is submitted to Parliament. The first such report is expected to be published
in September 1997; the second annual Economic Report will be published a year later.
15.           Beginning with the 1998 budget, we will extend the coverage of the budget to include
(1) expenditures in conmection with the transfer of the capital to Akmola and (2) the non-budgetary
sources of income ("special resources") of budgetary agencies.
16.           Budget Formulation and Execution. We have recently taken a number of steps to
strengthen the processes of fornuflatng and executing the Republican Budget. We have established a
commission, which includes representatives from the National Bank and the Ministry of Economy and
Trade as well as the Ministry of Finance, to monitor the preparation of the budget. This commission will
establish expenditure ceilings for spending entites which are consistent with our macroecononic
manageinent objectives and within which these entities will prepare their budget requests. At the start of
this process there will be a reserve fund which, as the budget preparation process is being completed, can
be allocated to meet the most urgent needs that cannot be covered within the initial expenditure ceilings.
We are also introducing procedures for medium-term budgeting, in which the improvement of our Public
Investment Progam will be an important part, and are taking steps to improve both our revenue
forecasting and cash management. We will continue to refine budgetary allocation mechanisms in the
health and education sectors. Budgetary allocations for local health budgets, and transfers to the
Compulsory Medical Insurance Fund for the non-working population, will be based upon a per capita
funding formula. Allocations for local education budgets will be based on per student capitation. All of
these steps are being implemented in connection with the preparation and execution of the State Budget
for 1998. In implementing this budget we intend to increase the average duration of funds releases, by
the Ministry of Finance to the spending entities, to at least six weeks.
17.           The reduction, and then complete elimination, of payments arrears is one of our
important objectives. As noted earlier, Republican Budget payments arrears were almost eliminated at
the end of 1996. We will not allow the increase of such arrears during 1997 and, before the end of 1997,
we intend to eliminate all Pensionl Fund arrears. However, since total payments arrears at the end of the
first quarter of 1997 exceeded Tenge 80 billion, or about 5 percent of projected 1997 GDP, the complete
elimination ofthese arrears will take additional time. Our target for 1998 will be to reduce the level of
arrears, by the end of 1998, to no more than 50 percent of the level at the start of that year. The
remaining arrears should be eliminated by the end of 1999.
18.           Financial Control. Government Resolution 1533 of Decenber 1996 proposed new
methods of financial control and audit for local governments. Ministry of Finance Order No. 182 (dated
June 20, 1997) sets forth our intention to reform and strengthen government audit of all of the accounts
which are included in the Comsolidated Financial Balance of the State and assigned responsibility for
preparing audit standards for the public sector to the Department of the Treasury. A draft of the new
public sector audit standards is to be ready by December 1998 and should be adopted by March 1999.
We also are establishing a unit for itermal audit of the Treasury system, which should be in place before
the third quarter of 1998. Once the new audit standards are in place, audits will be conducted of all the
accounts that are included in the Consolidated Financial Balance. Aucit reports covering the 1998
accounts of the extrabudgetary fimds will be publicly issued in the course of 1999. Audit reports
covering individual oblast and rayon budget results for 1998 will be prepared during 1999 and will be



ANNEX A - Page 6 of 8 pages
provided to local media and representative bodies before the end ofthat year. In the case ofthe
Republican Budget, we will prepare an audited financial statement for the year ending December 31,
1997, which will be placed before Parliament and published in the Official Gazette within nine months of
the end of the financial year. Although the new audit standards will not be adopted until after the 1997
Republican Budget accounts are audited, the experience during 1998 should assist in the final design of
the new standards. When the Republican Budget accounts for 1998 are audited in 1999, the newly
adopted standards will be applied.
Public Investment Program
19.          Our Public Investmnent Program (PIP) is intended to be a multi-year investment budget
for the public sector that will contribute to our medium-term financial planning and assist us in making
more efficient use of our public sector savings and borrowing capacity. An inital PIP, covering 1996-
1998, was prepared last year, and the investment expenditures portion of the 1997 Republican Budget
was based upon projects selected from that PIP. Resolution 528 of April 10, 1997, outlines the steps we
are taking to strengthen project analysis and our Public Investment Program.
20.           Project Analysis. A unit has been created within the Ministry of Economny and Trade
that will fix standards for project analysis, provide technical support to lime ministries and other
government entities, and provide quality control of evaluations for all projects which are proposed for
inclusion in the PIP. As some time will be needed to build our capacity for project analysis, during the
coming year the primary objectives will be strengthening that capacity and ensuring that evaluations for
all projects proposed as "new starts" in the 1999 budget are prepared by Fhe entity proposing the project
and are reviewed n the Mintry of Economy and Trade. By the end of 1998 project evaluations are to
be prepared, and to be reviewed by the Ministry, for all projects proposecl as "new starts" in the PIP for
1999-2001.
21.           External Borrowmg Policy A "Law on External Borrowing and Managing Externa
Debt" was approved in April 1997. This law provides for ceilings for govenument borrowing, and also
for government guarantees of borrowing by others, which are to be specified in the annual Republican
Budget prepared in the Ministry of Finance. For 1997 ceilings on contracting and guaranteeing medium
and long-term external debt are contained in our understanding on macroeconomic policies with the IMF.
The Finance Mnisty will prepare, by June 1998, an extrnal borrowing program covering at least
1999-2001 which will be coordinated with the macroeconomnic frameworkc for these same years. In the
past the Government has experienced serious difficulties with loan guarantees and has had to take over
debt service on many of these loans. Earlier this year we established an irnter-ministerial committee that
is reviewing these cases and initiating appropriate action to recover government funds which have been
paid out to honor these guarantees. By June 1998 this conmittee will prepare a report on progress
made, including recommendations for any necessary further actions.
22.           Muliyear Macroeconomic Framework. Staff of the Ministry of Finance and the
National Bank of Kamkhstan have been preparing a macroeconomic framework covering actal 1996,
expected 1997 and initial projections for several future years. This work will be further developed and a
complete macroeconomic framework, with estimates for 1998 and projections for 1999-2001, will be
completed before June 1998. The macroeconomic framework will include projeetions of the
consolidated govemrnment budget, the balance of payments, and the monetary accounts, and will be
related to our work on medium-term budget projections. The framework will be revised and extende as
is found appropriate.



ANNEX A - Page 7 of 8 pages
23.           Public Investmrnt Program (PIP). Resolution 528 assigns responsibility to the
Ministry of Economy and Trade for coordinating the preparation of the PIP. This ministry is to review
project proposals received from sector ministries and other govenmment entities, and recommend specific
projects for inclusion in the PIP. The level of external borrowing in the PIP is to be consistent with the
foreign borrowing strategy prepared in the Ministry of Finance. The extent of other financing from the
Republican Budget will also be agreed with the Ministry of Finance. The PIP will normally be
submitted to the Government by August 1 of each year. It will be a "rolling" multi-year public sector
investment budget, prepared annually, and including the results for the previous year, estimates for the
current year, and projections for three subsequent years. Implementation will be monitored by the
Ministry of Economy and Trade on a quarterly basis. During 1998 first priority will be given to the
program and budget for 1999. Because ofthe time it may take to complete the analysis of all of the
projects proposed as "new starts" in 1999-2001, it seems likely that the completed multi-year PIP will
not be available until after August 1, 1998. However, it will be completed before the end of 1998.
Reforms in Housing and Utilities
24.           Demonopolization of Utilities and Communal Services: Regulation of Natural
Monopolies. In the March 1997 administrative reorganization the functions of the Anti-Monopoly
Committee were transferred to the Ministry of Economy and Trade. We will continue to encourage the
competitive provision of communal and maintenance services which are not natural monopolies. In the
case of natural monopolies, our regulatory framework will encourage the efficient provision of services
by regulating tariffs on the basis of appropriate principles of economic pricing. Instructions have been
issued on tender procedures for procurement by cities of housing maintenance, capital repair and non-
monopoly communal services which are financed from the budget. However, these procedures are not
yet filly in effect, and their application will have to be monitored. We have also introduced a standard
fonnat for regional offices to report on the cost structure of regulated power providers. We have
approved a resolution requiring that procurement by state-owned providers be done by tender. In
addition, we have approved a timrletable for installation of electricity, heating and water meters in all
budget-financed institutions.
25.    Before the end of 1997 we expect to complete the break-up of municipal housing maintenance
organizations (zheks) into units that compete with each other. We will monitor the conduct of tenders for
raw materials by state-owned poaer providers; we expect that all of them will have conducted at least
one such tender by or during the first quarter of 1998. A number of steps are planned with respect to
regulation of utility tariffs. By the end of this year we expect to pass a legal enactment defining the
regime for regulating tariffs (at wholesale, import, export, and retail levels) in the power and communal
services sectors, at both the national and oblast levels. Before the end of 1997 we will approve revisions
to residential consumption norms, for non-metered services (based on the results of regional AMC
studies). By January 1998 we expect to approve a methodology for, and issue an implementation
schedule for, revised standard procedures for cost analysis and tariff regulation for power and communal
services. This will be followed by training seminars on cost analysis and prcing principles for all central
and oblast staff engaged in tariff regulation.
26            Before the end of the first quarter of 1999 we expect that all state-owned energy
providers will be conducting all purchases of raw materials by tender. Also, by this time, the regulating
authorities for natural monopolies should be setting approved tariffs on heating and electricity in all
oblasts according to our revised standard procedures. We expect to have completed the installation of
meters for electricity, heating ancl water in at least 80 percent of public hospitals and secondary schools
by March 1999.



ANNEX A - Page 8 of 8 pages
27.           The Housin- Social Safety Net. In order to insure an effective and fiscally sustainable
social safety net, we need to improve the targeting of our social assistance programs. Decrees 437 and
587 established the legal framework for means-tested housing allowances, but the systemn is not yet fully
effective. An operational manual for housing allowance offices was completed in April is has been
distributed to the oblasts. Also, the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection and the Ministry of Finance
are cooperating in the preparation of proposals for revisions in the existing system of privileges for
utilities. The budget for 1998 is expected to implement revisions in utility privileges and, partly financed
by the savings from these revisions, provide more adequate resources for housing allowances.
28.           Creation and Operation Homeowner Associations. The success of the transition from
enterprise and municipal responsibility for housing, to a largely privatizecd system, will depend upon the
effctiveness of Homeowner Associations (KCKs). Decree 647 on the ";Promotion of KCKs" has
contributed to this process. Also, in April of this year a new law "On Housing Relations" was
approved. Other recent steps include (1) dissemination of information on tendering procedures for, and
on model contracts for agreements between KCKs and providers ot utilities and commnunal services, (2)
public information campaigns in oblast centers on the rights and responsibilities of members and
management of KCKs, and (3) preparation of plans for training courses for core staff of KCKs.
29.           By the end of 1997 we expect to approve a resolution clarifying the juridical status of
KCKs; this will include definitions of rights and responsibilities related to land suronding housing
blocks and will also enumerate the KCK activities which are considered cammercial and non-
commnercial. In collaboration with regional associations of KCKs, by Janjary 1998 the Ministry of
Economy and Trade (Agency for Construction) will initiate training courses in each oblast for KCK cor
staff, these courses will cover budgeting, service agreements, adminisatie procedures, and issues
related to capital repairs. Before the end of 1997 we intend to issue a resolution and instructions on debt
enforcement for households with defined levels of arrears on utlities and conmmunal services.
30.           Conclusion: As you can see frorn the specific measures discussed above, the
Government of Kazakhstan is undertaking an amnbitious program of institutional reforms and economic
policies to strengthen public sector resource management. It goes beyond the directly related measures
concerning budgetary processes and the preparation of the Public Investment Program, to include the
less closely related but very important reforms in administrative structure, housing and related uilities.
The Public Sector Resource Management Adjustment Loan which we have requested fiom the Bank will
assist us in implementing this program.
A. Kazhegeldin
Prime Miister of the Republic of Kazakhstan



Kazakstan: Public Sector Resource Management Adjustment Loan [PSRMAL]
Summary of Reform Program to Be Supported by PSRMAL
Objectives              Measures Prior to 1 Dec 96      To Be Done Before Board    To Be Done Before Second Tranche  To Be Done Before Third Tranche
[Note: Dates shown in columns four and five are the dates by which the indicated actions are expected to be completed.)
A Administrative Reform
Adapt the size and structure of                               A high level commission has
the public administration to                                  been established (Resolution 940
conform to the appropriate role                               of June 9, 1997) to oversee the
of the state in a market-oriented                             process of administrative reform.
economy and to fiscal realities.
Improve the accountability,
transparency, and efficiency of
government decision-making.
1. Streamlining the Government
Reduce the size and improve the   Draft administrative reform  As an initial step in the     Functional review completed by    Discontinue by 3/99 all budgetary
organization of the central    program prepared and under     administrative reform, in March    March 3/98. On the basis of  support to entities identified for
administration. For that purpose:  consideration.             1997 the number of ministries  functional review, announce     privatization abolition.
was been reduced from 21 to 14   Implementation Plan, with time-
Reorganize entities into       EU-TACIS requested to extend    and the number of cabinet level   tables to be made effective in the
functional departments and     its technical assistance project    state committees has been  1999 budget, for discontinuing
ministries, and eliminate      on "Strengthening Public       reduced from 13 to 3.          budgetary support to entities
duplication of responsibilities.  Administration".                                           identified for elimination. [By
Terms of reference have been   6/98]
Systematize and standardize    Workshops and seminars held    agreed for a functional review of
government procedures.        for policy makers and officials to  all entities funded by the State  Draft regulations for each
discuss and disseminate        Budget. This review will identify   proposed central executive body
Improve institutional capacity  reforms.                      which entities should continue to  completed by 12/97 and issued
and coordination mechanisms for                               be funded from the budget, and   in final form by 3/98.
policy formulation,                                           which should be abolished or   Restructured central executive
implementation and evaluation.                                privatized.                    organs to be in place by 3/98.
Eliminate [abolish or privatize]                                                             Drafting of procedural Manuals
entities which are unnecessary,                                                              begun before the end of 1997
and strengthen those functions                                                               and Manuals issued in final form
which are needed for the role of                                                             by 6/98. Manuals to include
the state in a market-oriented                                                               satisfactory provisions for
economy                                                                                      standards of service, delivery,
client response, transparency
and easier public access.
ANNEX B - Page 1 of 9 Pages



Ob1ives                 Measures Prior to 1 Dec 96     To Be Done Before Board     To Be Done Before Second Tranche  To Be Done Before Third Tranche
2. Civil Service Reform
Enhance administrative capacity   Presidential Edict on State  Agreed terms of reference for:  Complete Phase I of census of    Establish complete personnel roll
and increase efficiency in     Service issued. Related                                       government employees (covering  by 9/98.
decision making.               legislation and rules either issued  la] census of all employees paid   employees of the ministries and
or being prepared.            from the State Budget, including   agencies of the central executive  Implement the post management
Establish effective institutional                             employees of all Apparats and in  Branch plus those in the health    system for employees in the
arrangements for the           Commission on Civil Service   the health and education sectors;  and education sectors in two  ministries and agencies of the
management of the civil service   Reform established under Prime                             oblasts) and complete analysis   central executive branch plus
through strengthening the agency  Minister, with First Deputy Prime   [b] comparator pay study;  of census results and rectification  health and education sector
primarily responsible, refining the  Minister as Vice-Chairman                               of anomalies by6/98.           employees. [By 3/99]
division of responsibilities                                  [c] implementing a personnel
between such agency and other   Public sector employee salaries   information network and linking it  Complete Phase I of comparator  Satisfactory implementation of
entities, establishing competitive   de-linked from minimum wage.    with a post management system;  pay survey (covering all Apparat  training policy, including
merit-based recruitment, and                                  and                            employees). Propose revised     establishment of central training
integrating the personnel      Presidential Decree of Oct. 29,                               pay policy for civil service,   unit and integrated use of
management and fiscal          1996, mandated a reduction in   [d] an integrated training policy   including appropriate wage  training facilities. [By 3/99]
management systems.           the number of government        and implementation schedule.    decompression and monetization
employees by 1/1/97 of 20% for                                of appropriate non-wage        Begin competitive recruitment to
the central government and 10%   Begin review of civil service laws  benefits. [By 6/98]     civil service on basis of new or
for local government.          and regulations, which will result                            amended civil service law and
in proposals for changes       Announce integrated training   related regulations. [By 3/99]
Changes in system for          necessary to ensure a          policy and implementation
determining pay for some       professional, competitively    schedule. [By 6/98]            New or amended civil service
categories of employees (such    recruited, and reasonably paid                              law, as well as appropriate
as doctors) formulated so as to   civil service with adequate                                amendments to other laws and
provide an element of incentive    security of tenure. The Ministry                          related regulations, are in place.
pay over and above the normal    of Finance and the Ministry of                              [By 1/99]
salary.                        Justice, working with guidance
from the Commission on Civil
Preliminary training needs     Service Reform, will be
assessment done, and training of  responsible for these activities.
trainers initiated, with technical
assistance from TACIS.
ANNEX B - Page 2 of 9 Pages



Objectives               Measures Prior to 1 Dec 96     To Be Done Before Board    To Be Done Before Second Tranche  To Be Done Before Third Tranche
B. Reform of Budgetary Process
1. Taxation
Increase tax revenues.         New tax code introduced which    Government Resolution calls for   Completion of national database   Taxpayers obliged to include
established a limited number of   complex of measures to improve  of taxpayers and assignment of   their taxpayer identification
broad based taxes with        tax administration. [Resolution    taxpayer identification numbers.   numbers in applications for
reasonable rates and few       1533 of Dec. 1996]             [By 6/98]                      permits, licenses, passports, etc.
deductions or exemptions..                                                                   [111/99]
Tax Policy Unit established in  Preparation of simplified tax
Ministry of Finance. Program of   forms and an accompanying   Simplified tax forms and
measures to improve tax       taxpayer education program. [By  taxpayers educational materials
administration outlined.       6/98]                          widely distributed to VAT,
personal and corporate income
Programs introduced to identify   tax payers. [By 12/98 for taxes
and assess non-filers and to   to be paid beginning 1/1/99.]
extend tax audits. [By 6/98]
Assessment, collection and tax    Report issued on tax collection
audit activities to be separated at  performance compared with
the oblast level. [By 6/98]    targets established (by tax and
by oblast); report will include
Strict controls in place on tax  recommendations for corrective
write-offs and on granting tax  actions (to both improve the
concessions and exemptions.    targets and the actual tax
[By 6/98]                      collections). [By 3/99 for 1998]
2. State Procurement
Establish a system of state                                   Article 17 of the Law on Budget   Parliamentary approval of the  All necessary regulations,
procurement which is open,                                    System requires orders for works  new law on state procurement.    procedures and systems relating
competitive and free from                                     and services to be placed      [before 12/97]                 to public procurement to be in
corruption.                                                   competitively. Dec. 1996]                                      place, standard bidding
Tender documents issued and    documents used, and contracts
Unit for domestic procurement    contracts awarded in accordance  awarded. [By 12/98]
established in the Ministry of  with the new law for at least six
Economy & Trade. [Feb. 1997]   procurements worth at least
Tenge 750,000 each. [By 6/98]
Law on public sector procure-
ment submifted to Parliament.
[May 1997]
ANNEX B - Page 3 of 9 Pages



ObOdWuves               Measures Prior to 1 Dec 96     To Be Done Before Board   To Be Done Before Second Tranche  To Be Done Before Third Tranche
3. Republican Budget Coverage and Disclosure
Achieve fuller public disclosure of Govemment has introduced a  Law on Budget System passed    Inclusion of the information  Publication of second annual
matters of significance for   budget classification system  establishing structure for budget  specified in [a] to [d] in the  Economic Report (containing
financial decision making and  based on IMF recommendations   system, including preparation of   previous column in an Economic  information indicated in [a] - [d]).
accountability.               and has been disclosing more  a consolidated statements     Report which is to be published   [By 9/98.]
information in its annual budget   covering the Republican Budget,  annually at about the time the
proposals.                   local budgets, and             budget is submitted to         An audited financial statement
extrabudgetary funds. Dec. 1996]  Parliament. [First report ready in  for the Republican Budget for the
September 1997]               year ending 31 Dec. 1997 is to
Resolution 941 of June 9, 1997,                             be placed before Parliament and
provides for the disclosure of  Extend coverage of the budget by  published in the Official Gazette
financial information. It will  inclusion of [a] expenditures in    within 9 months of the end of the
cover annual publication of [a] a   connection with the transfer of    financial year. [By 9/98.1
statement of financial balance    the capital to Akmola and [b] the
showing the annual revenues,    non-budgetary sources of income
expenditures, surpluses (or  ("special resources") of
deficits and their financing) of the  budgetary agencies. [in 1998
Republican budget, the        budget.]
consolidated local govemment
budget, and the accounts of the
extrabudgetary funds; [b]
statements on payment arrears
for each of the above; [cl a
statement of liabilities and
contingent liabilities of the
Republican Government arising
from government borrowing and
from the issuance of loan
guarantees; and [d] a statement
of amounts held in government
bank accounts, whether held in
Kazakstan or elsewhere (but
excluding amounts in escrow
accounts not freely available to
the Government.
ANNEX B - Page 4 of 9 Pages



Objectives              Measures Prior to 1 Dec 96     To Be Done Before Board   To Be Done Before Second Tranche  To Be Done Before Third Tranche
4. Budget Formulation and Execution
Improve the budget formulation    Commitment accounting has  A high level commission (with  Spending agencies to have    Reduce, by 12/31/98, all
process.                      been planned as part of the   representatives from the Central   prepare their proposed 1998  remaining government payments
Treasury Modernization Project.   Bank and the Ministry of  budgets within the ceilings    arrears to no more than 50%
Economy and Trade as well as    established by the high level  percent of the level on 12/31/97.
Improve expenditure control.                                from the Ministry of Finance) has  commission. [For 1998 budget]   (The Government has indicated
been established to monitor                                 its intention to eliminate the
budget formulation including  The average duration of funds  arrears still remaining by the end
Improve allocation of resources                             setting realistic expenditure  releases-is to be extended to at   of 1999.)
in education and health sectors.                            ceilings within which spending    least six weeks. Medium-term
agencies will prepare their   budgeting is initiated. [June
proposed budgets.             19981
Government announces          Pension Fund arrears (28.4
intention, beginning with the  billion tenge on March 31, 1997)
preparation and implementation   eliminated by the end of 1997
of the 1998 budget, (1) to    No reappearance of Republican
improved revenue forecasting  budget arrears during 1997.
and cash management and (2) to
introduce procedures for      Improve per capita funding
medium-term budgeting.        norms for budget expenditures
on health, covering territorial
budgets and transfers to the
Compulsory Medical Insurance
Fund for supply of services to the
non-working population.
Introduce revised funding
formula for territorial education
budgets based on per student
capitation. [In 1998 budget.]
S. Financial Control
Improve accountability and                                  Ministry of Finance Order No.                                Establish unit for internal audit of
control by strengthening auditing.                          182 of June 20, 1997, sets forth                             the Treasury system. [By 9/98.]
the Government's intention to                               Complete draft of new audit
reform and strengthen                                       standards by 12/98 and adopt
government audit for all accounts                           new standards by 3/99. [Work
included in Consolidated                                    will begin in 1999 on audit
Financial Balance of the State                              reports, which will conform to the
and assigns responsibility for                              new standards, and which will
preparing public sector audit                               cover the execution of the
standards to the Department of                              Republican Budget, local
the Treasury.                                               government budgets, and the
extrabudgetary funds in 1998.
ANNEX B - Page 5 of 9 Pages



Objectives              Measures Prior to I Dec 96     To Be Done Before Board   To Be Done Before Second Tranche  To Be Done Before Third Tranche
C. Public Investment Program (PIP)
1. Economic and Financial Evaluation of Projects
Contribute to the efficiency with   Training of some government  Resolution 528 of April 10, 1997,  Line ministries will prepare  Line ministries and other
which public resources are used   and Exim Bank officials in project outlined steps to be taken by the   project evaluations, and the  government entities proposing
through economic and financial   evaluation techniques.     Ministry of Economy and Trade    Ministry of Economy & Trade will  projects for inclusion in the PIP
evaluation of all projects which                            to strengthen project analysis  complete review of these     to have prepared, and the
are proposed for inclusion in the                           work.                          evaluations, for all projects  Ministry of Economy & Trade to
investment budget or for which a                                                           proposed as "new starts" in the    have reviewed, project
government guarantee of                                     A unit has been established and   investment budget for 1999. [By  evaluations, for all projects
external borrowing has been                                 staffed in that Ministry which will  6/98.]                  proposed as "new starts" in the
requested.                                                  fix standards for project analysis,                          projected PIP for 1999-2001. [By
provide technical support to line                           12/98.]
ministries and other govemment
entities, and provide quality
control of evaluations for all
projects proposed for inclusion in
the PIP.
2. Policies on External Borrowing By, or Guaranteed By, the Government
Establish indicative limits on both  External debt unit established in  A "Law on External Borrowing  Finance Ministry will prepare an
government and government     Ministry of Finance.          and Managing External Debt'    external borrowing plan covering
guaranteed external borrowing at  Responsibility for granting  was approved in April 1997. Law   at least 1999-2001 which is
levels which will provide     government guarantees placed in  provides for ceilings (specified in  consistent with the PIP and the
additional resources to finance    this ministry, with tight controls   the annual budget) on both  macroeconomic framework.
Kazak investments, but which  on new government guarantees.   government borrowing and
are also consistent with sound                              government guarantees of       The i-,..ministerial commi,..ee
balance of payments and                                     borrowing by others.           reviewing cases where the
external debt management.                                                                  government's guarantee has
A limit on total state medium and  been called issues a report on its
long-term borrowing and state    accomplishments (including
guarantees of private borrowing   recommendations for any
has been established for 1997;    necessary future action).
there is a sub-ceiling for loans of
1 to 5 years maturity
An inter-ministerial committee
has been established to review
cases when the Government has
had to honor a guarantee
because the private borrower
failed to meet its obligations.
ANNEX B - Page 6 of 9 Pages



Obtves                  Measures Prior to 1 Dec 96     To Be Done Before Board   To Be Done Before Second Tranche  To Be Done Before Third Tranche
3. Multi-year Macro Economic Framework
Prepare a consistent macro-                                 Staff in Ministry of Finance and    Complete macro economic  Revise macro economic
economic framework and a                                    in the National Bank of       framework covering actual 1997,  framework as necessary to be
financing plan for the public                               Kazakstan have initiated work on  estimated 1998 and projected  consistent with the PIP, the
sector investment program which                             macroeconomic framework.      1999-2001. [By 6/98.]          medium-term budget projections
includes the basic economic                                                                                              and also the foreign borrowing
management accounts (budget,                                                                                             program. [By 12/98.]
BOP and monetary survey), and
which is based upon targets for
both real growth and control of
inflation.
4. Multi-year Public Investment Program (PIP)
Improve the efficiency with which  An initial public investment  Resolution 528 of April 10, 1997,  Ministry of Economy and Trade    Full PIP prepared for 1999-2001.
budgetary resources and the   program (PIP) was prepared in   assigns responsibility for  completes recommendations for   PIP will include project
nation's external borrowing   connection with the Aid Group  preparing the PIP to the Ministry  projects to be included in the  evaluations for all new starts
capacity are used by preparing a  Meeting in Tokyo in November    of Economy and Trade.   investment portion of the 1999    proposed for 1999-2000, will be
PIP covering the investment   1996.                                                        budget. [By 6/98.]            consistent with the Foreign
portion of the regular budget                               This ministry is to review project                           Borrowing Strategy, and with the
(including capital transfers as  The investment component of the  proposals and recommend                                medium-term macro economic
well as direct investment) plus    Republican Budget for 1997  specific projects for inclusion in                        framework. While the PIP is
any extrabudgetary government   consisted of projects selected  the PIP. The level of external                           normally to be submitted to the
investment and also govemment  from those included in the PIP.    borrowing in the PIP is to be                          Government by August 1, it is
guarantees of external borrowing.                           consistent with the Foreign                                  recognized that completion of the
Borrowing Strategy prepared in                              program for the full 3-year period
Contribute to improving                                     the Ministry of Finance. The                                 may not be completed before the
budgetary management                                        extent of other financing from the                           end of 1998.
(including elimination of                                   Republican Budget should also
payments arrears) by taking into                            be agreed with the Ministry of
account the implications for                                Finance. The final program will
subsequent years of the projects                            be submitted to the Government
initiated in any one year.                                  for approval.
ANNEX B - Page 7 of 9 Pages



Objectives              Measures Pror to 1 Dec 96      To Be Done Before Board   To Be Done Before Second Tranche  To Be Done Before Third Tranche
D. Reforms in Housing and Utilities
1. Demonopolization of Utilities and Communal Services, and Regulation of Natural Monopolies
Encouraging competitive       Competitive tendering has been   Functions of the Anti-Monopoly   AMC to complete break-up of  Complete installation of meters
provision of communal and     conducted in a number of cities.   Committee (AMC) consolidated    municipal housing maintenance   for electricity, heating and water
maintenance services which are                              in Ministry of Economy and    organizations (zheks) into units   in at least 80% of public
not natural monopolies.       Monitoring of regional prices by   Trade as part of the March 1997  that compete with each other.  hospitals and secondary schools.
the Anti-Monopoly Committee    reorganization.              Report to be issued on break-up   [By 3/99.]
Encouraging efficient provision of                                                        of zheks. [By 12/97.1
services with natural monopoly                              Instructions issued on tender                                All state-owned energy providers
characteristics.                                            procedures for procurement by    All state-owned energy providers  to conduct all purchases of raw
cities of housing maintenance,    are expected to have conducted   materials by tender. [By 3/99]
Regulation of tariffs of natural                            capital repair and non-monopoly  at least one tender for supply of
monopolies (based on principles                             communal services which are    raw materials. [By 4/98.]     Regulating agency for natural
of economic pricing).                                       financed from the budget.                                    monopolies is setting approved
Pass legal enactment defining    tariffs on heating and electricity
A standard format has been    regime for regulating tariffs (at   in all oblasts according to the
introduced for regional AMCs to   wholesale, import, export and  revised standard procedures.
report on the cost structure of    retail levels) in the power and  [By 3/99]
regulated power providers.    communal services sectors at
the national and oblast level. [By
Resolution approved requiring  12/97.]
that procurement by state-owned
providers be done by tender.  Approve revisions to residential
consumption norms for non-
Timetable approved for        metered services, based on
installation of electricity, heating   results of regional AMC studies.
and water meters in budget-  [By 12/97.j
financed institutions.
Approve methodology for, and
issue implementation schedule
for, revised standard procedures
for cost analysis and tariff
regulation for power and
communal services. [By 1/98.]
Conduct training seminars on
cost analysis and pricing
principles for all central and
oblast staff engaged in tariff
regulation. [Starting Immediately
after methodology approved]
ANNEX B - Page 8 of 9 Pages



Oqeuws                 Measures Prior to I Dec 96     To Be Done Before Board    To Be Done Before Second Tranche  To Be Done Before ThNrd Tranche
2. The Housing Social Safety Net
Ensure an effective and fiscally    Decrees 437 and 587 establish    An operational manual for  Budget for 1998 implements
sustainable social safety net  the legal framework for means-   housing allowance offices was    revisions in utility privileges and
tested housing allowances,    approved in April and has been    provides more adequate
Improve targeting of social                                  distributed to oblasts.       resources for housing allowance
assistance programs and more                                                                programs. [In 1998 budget.]
effectively meet social needs in a                           Ministry of Labor and Social
manner consistent with                                       Protection and Ministry of
budgetary constraints.                                       Finance are cooperating in
preparing proposals for revisions
in existing system of *privileges'
for utilities.
3. Issues Related to the Creation and Operation of Homeowner Associations [KCKs
Facilitate the formation and  Decree 647 on the "Promotion of  Law on Housing Relations    Approve resolution clarifying
effective operation of        KCKs" (homeowner               passed by Parliament in April    juridical status of KCKs,
homeowners associations.      associations).                 1997.                          including definition of rights and
responsibilities on land
Preparation of draft law "On  Dissemination of information on   surrounding blocks, and
Housing Relations"            model contracts for agreements   enumeration of KCK activities
between KCKs and providers of   considered commercial and non-
utilities and communal services.  commercial. [By 12197.]
Public information campaigns  In collaboration with regional
initiated in all important cities on  associations of KCKs, the
rights and responsibilities of  Ministry of Economy and Trade
members and of management of  (Agency for Construction)
KCKs.                         initiates training course in each
oblast for KCK core staff in
Plans prepared for training   budgeting, service agreements,
courses for core staff of KCKs.    administrative procedures, and
issues related to capital repairs.
Resolution and instructions
issued on debt enforcement for
households with defined levels of
arrears on utilities and
communal services.
ANNEX 8 - Page 9 of 9 Pages



ANNEX C - Page 1 of 2 Pages
Republic of Kazakhstan
Public Sector Resource Management Adjiustment Loan
Technical Assistance Needed to Support PSRMAL Implementation
[as outlined in the Agreed Minutes of Loan Negotiations]
A. Administrative and Civil Service Reform
Advisor on Administrative Reform
Resident Advisor for 15 months
Functional Review of Budgetary Entities
National consultants for 12 months
Census of Budgetary Employees
National consultants for 24 months
Personnel Information Network
Short term expatriate consultants for total of 5 months
National consultants for 8 months
Comparator Pay Study
Expatriate consultants for 6 months
Review of Laws and Preparing Regulations related to Civil Serice
Short term expatriate consultants for total of 3 months
National consultants for 3 months
Seminars, training materials and equipment
For conduct and analysis of census - approximately US$515,000 aluivalent
To support other components of program - approximately US$150,000 equivalent
B. Reform of Bud2etarv Processes
Auditing and Financial Control
Resident advisor for 12 months
National consultants for 3 months
Budgeting Procedures
Resident advisor for 12 months
National consultants for 3 months
[Continued on NeNt Page]



ANNEX C - Page 2 of 2 Pages
C. Public Investment Program (PIP)
Project Analysis
Resident advisor for 8 months
Local consultants for 20 months.
Seminars and equipment - approximately US$160,000 equivalent
Preparation of PIP
Short-term expatriate consultants for total of four months
Equipment - approximately US$20,000 equivalent
D. Reforms Related to Housing and Utilities
Tariff Regulation and Economic Pricing Policies
Resident advisor for 12 months
Six regional seminars for oblast staff - approximately US$36,000 equivalent
Preparation of training materials - approximately US$25,000 equivalent
Equipment - approximately US$50,000 equivalent
Support for Implementation of Housing Reform Program
Resident advisor for 8 months
Local consultant for 8 months
Training seminars for core KCK oblast staff - approximately US$72,000 equivalent
Preparation and printing of training materials - approximately US$50,000 equivalent



ANNEX D - Page 1 of 2 Pages
Kazakhstan -- Key Economic Indicators
Actual for 1993-1996     Estimate  Proiections for 1998-2000
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
National Accounts
M% GDP at current market prices]
Gross domestic product [mp]       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture [at factor cost]     16.4    14.9    12.3    11.9    11.6    11.9    11.8    11.5
Industry [at factor cost]        37.0    38.7    29.5    24.6    24.2    23.7    23.5    23.7
Services [at factor cost]        40.5    41.0    56.4    60.5    57.6    57.4    57.4    57.1
Total consumption                  86.6    91.8    82.6    86.9    90.0    89.2    87.8    85.7
Gross domestic fixed investment    20.0    22.6    22.0    19.1    19.4    20.0    20.6    20.8
Government investment             3.2      3.2     1.0     0.2      1.0     1.7      1.8     1.9
Private investment (incl. stocks)  16.8    19.4    21.0    18.9    18.4    18.3    18.8    18.9
Exports (GNFS)                     37.2    35.9    34.5    29.9    29.5    29.8    29.8    30.9
Imports (GNFS)                     43.8    46.2    37.1    33.0    34.4    34.6    33.7    32.8
Gross domestic saving              13.4    12.3    19.4    16.0    14.5    15.2    16.7    18.9
Gross national saving              13.7    12.7    18.9    15.5    13.2    13.5    13.8    14.3
Memorandum items
GDP (current US$ millions)      $11,412 $11,842 $16,616 $21,018 $22,653 $24,046 $25,914 $27,939
GNP per capita                   $1,732  $1,440  $1,309  $1,310  $1,316  $1,352  $1,392  $1,425
[Atlas method, in constant 1994 prices]
Real annual growth rates (calculated using 1994 prices)
Gross domestic product             ---   -17.8    -8.9      1.1     1.5     3.8      5.0     5.0
Gross domestic income              ---   -17.7     1.2      1.5    -0.3     4.4      4.3     6.3
Real annual per capita growth rates (calculated using 1994 prices)
GDP at market prices               ---   -16.6    -8.7      0.5     0.9     3.2      4.4     4.4
Total consumption                  ---   -18.5    -4.5     4.3      2.0     2.8      0.8     0.9
Private consumption                --   -20.7    -4.6      7.4      3.8     0.2      0.4     0.5
Balance of pavments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)                   $4,249  $4,246  $5,732  $6,278  $6,689  $7,175  $7,713  $8,636
Merchandise FOB                 4,249   3,819   5,197   5,617   5,975   6,401   6,886   7,753
Imports (GNFS)                    4,999   5,468   6,162   6,926   7,799   8,331   8,733   9,161
Merchandise FOB                 4,668   4,805   5,202   6,017   6,790   7,231   7,547   7,883
Resource Balance                 -$750 -$1,222   -$431   -$648 -$1,110 -$1,156 -$1,021   -$525
Net factor income                 -20      -51    -147    -247    -346    -451    -800  -1,326
Net current transfers             -75      96       59     127      50       50      50       50
Current account balance           -$715 -$1,175   -$518   -$768 -$1,406 -$1,557 -$1,771  -$1,802
Net private foreign investment    $473    $820    $903  $1,214  $1,250  $1,300  $1,350  $1,400
Long-term loans (net per DRS)       337     461     670      624     664     514      531     519
Official creditors                166     334      489     387     338      221     315      347
Private creditors                 171     127      181     237     326      293     217      172
Other capital (net, incl. E&O)      271     106    -910  -1,016    -274       -78      -8       -8
Change in net international reserves  $366    $211    $145   $54    $234    $179    $103    $109
[ + indicates increase]



ANNEX D -- Page 2 of 2 Pages
Kazakhstan - Key Economic Indicators
Actual for 1993-1996        Estimate  Promections for 1998-2000
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Balance of Payments (continued)
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% GDP w. pri)       -6.6   -10.3      -2.6    -3.1    -4.9    -4.8    -3.9         -1.9
Current acc't. bal. (% GDP ew. prki)  -6.3    -9.9    -3.1       -3.7    -6.2    -6.5    -6.8    -6.4
Real annual growth rates (1994 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)             ---   -15.1      5.3      7.3    12.1       6.0     8.0       8.9
Primary products                   ---    -9.3      -7.0      6.9    10.7    18.2    10.0    12.8
Manufactures                        ---   -17.7     11.4      7.4    12.7       1.1      7.0      7.0
Merchandise imports (CIF)             ---    -2.3      6.3    13.5    12.4        6.2     3.0       3.0
Public finance [general government]
1% of GDP at current market prices]
Current revenues                     33.9    26.1      25.1    20.1    23.7    22.5    22.7    22.9
Current expenditures                 28.8    25.8    25.1    25.2    26.7    22.6    22.4    22.3
Budgetary saving                     6.1      0.4      0.1    -5.1    -3.0    -0.1        0.3       0.6
Capital revenues                      2.7       0.3      0.7      2.2      1.6     0.5      0.1      0.0
Capital expenditures                  8.4       7.9      3.3      0.2      2.7     3.7      3.8      3.6
Deficit (-)                          -0.6    -7.2    -2.5    -3.1    -4.2    -3.3    -3.3            -3.0
Foreign financing                    2.8      3.6      4.0      2.7      2.3      1.3      1.2      1.1
Domestic financing                  -2.2      3.6     -1.6      0.5      1.8      2.0     2.1       1.9
Monetary Indicators
M2 as % of GDP (at current prices)    6.0      8.4       9.8      8.5     8.9      9.5    10.2    11.1
Growth of M2 1%)                    69C.5   716.7   114.0    13.8    25.8    21.3    16.8    18.1
Increase private credit as percent of  102.3    85.1    16.8   144.5    69.9    54.3    75.9    80.4
increase in net domestic credit
Price Indices 11994= 100)
Merchandise export prices            94.4   100.0   129.2   126.9   120.0   121.1    124.4   128.6
Merchandise import prices            94.9   100.0   101.8   103.6   104.0   104.4   105.8   107.4
Merchandise terms of trade           99.5   100.0   126.9   122.6   115.4   116.0   117.5           19.8
Index real exchange rate (US$/LCU)   82.1    100.0   142.2   182.5   190.5   190.6   190.5   190.5
Real interest rates                   n.a.     n.a.     n.a.     n.a.     n.a.     n.a.     n.a.     n.a.
Consumer prices (%  erewm ewpduryr.)    1,3113   1,881  122       39       20       --       --       ---
GDP deflator c% br.moverpuriyr.)    1,248    1,651      164       38       20       13        5        3
Notes: Historical data based upon information provided by Goskomstat, the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank of
Kazakhstan, and the International Monetary Furnd. Budget data for 1996 are preliminary and subject to revision.
Projections for 1997-2000 are Bank staff estimates. Budget projections for 1998-2000 do not take into account
elimination of payments arrears and effects of Ihe proposed reform of the pension system.



ANNEX E
Republic of Kazakhstan
Public Sector Resource Management Adjustment Loan
Timetable for Key Steps in Loan Processing
Time to prepare:               14 months
Project prepared by            World Bank and Government of Kazakhstan
Identification Mission         May 20 - June 5, 1996
Preparation/Pre-Appraisal      September 16 - Octoter 4, 1996
December 4 - 17. 1996
February 3 - 20, 1996,
Appraisal Mission              May 19 - 30, 1997
Loan Negotiations              June 23 - 27, 1997
Board presentation             August 26, 1997
Expected effectiveness         September 10, 1997
This report is based on the work of World Bank missions which visited Kazakhstan in May, September and
December of 1996, and again in February and May of 1997. The Task Manager for the Bank was John A. Holsen.
For the Government of Kazakhstan the work was coordinated by Zannat Er tlesova, Deputy Minister of Finance.
Bank headquarters staff participating in the preparation missions included Peter Dean (budget reforms), Amitabha
Mukherjee (administrative reform), Philip O'Keefe (housing and utility regulation), Barbara Ossowicka
(macroecononic framework) and Sergei Shatalov (external debt). David Pearce and Zhanar Abdildina, of the
Bank's Resident Mission in Almaty, participated in the work of the preparation and appraisal missions. Gennady
Pilch has been the lawyer of the PSRMAL. Messrs. Kadir T. Yurukoglu and Yukon Huang were, respectively, the
managing Division Chief and Department Director during the preparation, appraisal and negotiation of this
operation.



Status of Bank Group Operations in Kazakhstan
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between               Last ARPP
Original Amount in USS Millions                              expected                 Supervision Rating bt
Loan or   Fiscal Year                                                                                                                                       and actual        Development       Implementation
Protect ID     Credit                              Borrower                         Purpose             IDRD          IDA          Cancellations     Undisbursed       disbursements at       Objectives         Progress
No.
Number ofClsed Lone,edits: 2
KZFPE4501       L37440        1994      REPUBLIC OF KAZAKCHSTAN              PElTOLEUM TA                      15.70         0.00               0.00            10.06                   9.16         S                 S
KZ-PE485I I     L37250       194       REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN               URBAN TRANSPORT                   40.00         0.00               0.00             4.49                   4.49         S                 S
KZ-PE-8504      L36420        1994      REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN               TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE             38.00          0.00               0.00            15.83                  15.85         S                 U
KzIPE4t506      L38960        I99S      REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN               SOCIAL PROTECTION                41.10          0.00               0.00            33.30                  -1.20         S                 S
KZ.P508         1.38670       1995      REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN               FINANCE & ENT. DEVEL              62.00         0.00               0.00            58 47                  50.89         S                 U
KZPE-35762    LA0510          1996      REPUBLICOFKAZAKHSTAN                 FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJ             180.00         0.00               0.00            90.00                  90.00
KZ-PE4510       UA0410        1996      REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN               IMRIG. & DRAINAGE                 80.00         0.00               0.00            76.41                   .239         S                 S
K&F-PE46044   iLi460          iw7       tWUBtLIORtIKAZAKUHSTAN               REALESTATEREGPLT                  10.00         0.00               0.00            1000                    000
KZ-PE45303    L41290          1997      REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN               PILOT WATER SUPPLY                 7.00         0.00               000              700                    0.00
KZ-PE-37960    L40770         1991      REPUBLIC OF KAZAKIISTAN              TREASURY MODERN                   15.80         0.00               000             1460                    2 10
KZ-PE4507       LA0610        1997      REPUBLIC OFKAZAKHSTAN                UZEN OIL FIELD RFIIAB            109.00         0.00               0,00           10K.68                   368
Total                                                                                                         598.60         0.00                0.00          428.86                  172.58
AQdvo Loans          Closed LAmi siQl
Total Disbursed (18RD and IDA):                          169.74                 359.99                 529.73
of which has been repaid:                              0.00                   0.00                    0.00
Total now held by IRD and IDA:                          598.60                  359.99                 958.59
Amount sold          :                                    0.00                    0.00                   000
Of which repaid     :                                    0.00                   0.00                   0.00
Total Undisbursed     :                                 428.86                    0.00                 428.86
a. Intended disbursements to date minus atcual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4; see OD 13.05. Annex D2. PreparatIon of Implementation Summasy (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio perfo,^nance (ARP'). a letter                                               >
based system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory. U - unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory): sce proposed Inprovements in Project and                                                    z
Portfolio Perfonmance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901). August 23, 1994.                                                                                                                                             Z
X
x
Note:                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n^.
Dishusemen daa I updated at the end of the    week of the month.                                                                                                                                                    .
to
5)
0
Otnerated by tho Opcrations Information Systcm (OIS)~~~~



ANNEX F - Page 2 of 2 Pages
IFC PORTFOLIO
IFC Approvals
Project Name            Sector       Approval Date  Project Size             IFC             Participants
Million USD   Loan  Equity QE* GSR$* Loan  Equity
ABN-AMRO Kaz          Banking Institutions   9/16/93         10         2      2      0    0       0      0
ABN-AMRO Kaz- CL   Banking Institutions      6/29/95         17.5       7.5    0      0    0      10      0
Kazakh GF             Banking Institutions   6129195        40          0      0      0   16    24        0
Akshabulak            Oil/Gas Exploration    3/28/96       266.9        0      0.13  65.6   0      0      0
and Production
CA Leasing            Non-Bank Financial     10/16/96       23          5      0.32   0    0       5      0
Institutions
SEF KazRegistry        Securities Market     11/4/96          0.1       0      0.02   0    0       0      0
Institutions
Kazkonmertsbank       Banking Institutions   2/26/97         30         10     0      0    0    20        0
SEF Kosmis               Agribusiness        5/27/97          3.6        1     0      0    0       0      0
391.1      :25.5   2.47 66   16    59         0
Note:
* QE= Quasi Equity
* GSR- Guarantee, Standby and Risk Management
Technical Assistance
Project Name        ProjectDescription              Project Start Date
Capital Market      Review of capital markets for   Dec-95
Development         proposed IBRD FSAL
Leasing Legislation    Drafing and implementing leasing  Jul-96
I ____________ _ _'_ legislation and taxation



IBRD 28007R1
60'                                     To  c7-'-                                           oTh=x  ,                                         0
<50^   >      60 a                        (           Tyamen;                  <                                        S            ThssmopwsaproNcodby h e Mopa=gn ofTheWodd8sn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/JO,oo 's 'adc. b ls OopO~.g tO,,FTs oH
\g To Cheh,zam5k gSohurgo k \ FO 0leT.NCvosib-ksT.
.-OF E D    R A  T I        N                                                      NO                                                                                     J    ,,,
f          sk                 t        r  GAI            *t    KAR4GANDA                                             IPAL411NS -~KA  . B.-
TKfl,                                                                                     STAA       A     KTYUBIS  H'-A0   
0~~~~~~t,-  UA'                                                                                                                    AKMOLAX 
C * i                                                                                    '                                                                                                 ~4^ > * 5 Basht,, p-  -  M / BONGOA do
2   Q    tS                          l            />                         ><~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8>     >                               K A Z A K S T A  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E AL S  ES
To ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~.
WESTTUZARTGA ATYUBNSus A RKAL                                                                                   KS TIAT 3 T
I                KARALANDA
AoOok00O(  ~~~  ATYRA                 AKTYUJBINSK
01 100 200 300 d                  O00 0  f  , --INTRAN                                                                                                                                   -   SLATBOUNDARIES
0       100       200       300 40 5      00         600                                                         FHNSAN             z      
l   MILES                                /                                     |        S      *                                                                        NOVEMeER 1996~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEME 19









IMAGING
Report No.: P       7152   KZ
Type:     PR



