             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                              87203
                      International Development Association
                        International Finance Corportation
                    Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                            EDS97-324
                                  CONFIDENTIAL                              August 26, 1997

  Board Meeting of August 26, 1997
  Statement by Brian Crowe
   on behalf of Jan Piercy

      Kazakhstan: Country Assistance Strategy and Public Sector Resource Management
                                    Adjustment Loan


  1.     First, we would like to welcome Mr. Kodera back to the Bank. We look for-Ward to
  working with him in his new capacity as Country Director for Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, and
  Turkmenistan. We commend Bank staff on the quality of the joint Country Assistance Strategy
  for Kazakhstan. This is a truly integrated ffiRDIIFC product and we strongly agree with the
  emphasis on private sector development and social sector reform.

  2.      We would like to commend the Government of Kazakhstan for the economic reform steps
  taken to date, and encourage the GOK to continue along this path. Continued reform provides
  the best assurance that sustainable growth will resume and living standards improve. We would
  like to make special note of the GOK's efforts to institute international accounting standards in
  Kazakhstan, the first country within the NIS to take this important step.

  3.      We are pleased that the Public Sector Resources Management Adjustment Loan is being
  considered along with the CAS. A streamlined and more effective public sector, following
  practices of good governance, will provide an important context for continued economic recovery
  and growth. Vigorous efforts to ensure consistent adherence to transparent legal and regulatory
  processes is vital to promote private sector confidence. We are pleased to note that USAID is
  tackling the issue of corruption through its work on legal reform. We urge the GOK to establish
  a systematic approach to implementing laws. We are also pleased that work on a strong
  procurement law for public goods is being undertaken in the Bank's proposed loan.

  4.      We believe transparency and maintaining a level playing £eld for investors will be critical
  to the ability of Kazakhstan to continue to attract the foreign investment needed for economic
  expansion. Therefore we are very concerned about the provision within the State Support for
  Direct Investments Law which introduces a highly discretionary case by-case system for granting
  tax incentives to investors in certain sectors. As noted in the CAS, this provision weakens
  transparency, introduces distortions into the tax structure, results in potential losses of needed tax
  revenue, and presents potential opportunities for corruption. Furthermore the benefits of tax


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

                                                                                                           -   -·-----   ..-----
                                                 2


exemptions in actually attracting foreign investment are unclear. This provision represents a step
backwards from Kazakhstan's sound general tax code, adopted in 1995.

5.      We agree that it will be important to promote balanced growth so that economic benefits
flow beyond the extractive industries sector. The Bank's efforts to focus on development of
agriculture and small and medium enterprises, as a means of promoting balanced growth, are well-
advised. A strong push toward policy and institutional reforms in the agricultural sector, such as
revision efland ownership and use rights and creation of the legal basis for the collateralization of
agricultural loans, are critical to meaningful agricultural restructuring.

6.      We also encourage continued attention to the environment, and in particular to the Aral
Sea crisis. Last week's loan to Uzbekistan highlights some of the difficulties and challenges which
need to be addressed in a regional context.
