CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1151 BR
Loan Agreement
(CSN Steel Expansion Project-Stage III)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
COMPANHIA SIDERURGICA NACIONAL - CSN
DATED AUGUST 4, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1151 BR
Loan Agreement
(CSN Steel Expansion Project-Stage III)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
COMPANHIA SIDERURGICA NACIONAL - CSN
DATED AUGUST 4, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 4, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and COMPANHIA SIDERURGICA NACIONAL - CSN (hereinafter called the
Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "IDB" means' Inter-American Development Bank.
(b)   "IDB loan" means the loan in an amount equivalent to $63,000,000
made by IDB to the Borrower for purposes of the Project, and "IDB loan contract"
means the agreement providing for the IDB loan.
(c)   "Memorandum of Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Bank and IDB providing, inter alia, in respect of the Project, for
coordination between them with regard to procurement of goods and services,
disbursement of funds from the Loan and the IDB loan, supervision procedures
and exchange of information.
(d)   "Estatutos" means the statutes of the Borrower dated April 9, 1941,
as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(e)   "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by the Borrower or by any one or more subsidiaries of the Borrower
or by the Borrower and one or more of its subsidiaries.


﻿4
(f) "First Stage Expansion Project" means the expansion project of the
Borrower carried out during the years 1970 through 1975 by the Borrower and
the purpose of which was to increase the production capacity of the Borrower
from about 1.4 million metric tons per year of raw steel to about 1.7 million
metric tons per year in order to produce about 1.27 million metric tons per year
of flat and non-flat steel products.
(g)   "Prior CSN Steel Expansion Project" means the expansion project of
the Borrower presently being carried out by the Borrower and the purpose of
which is to increase the production capacity of the Borrower from about 1.7 million
metric tons per year of raw steel to about 2.4 million metric tons per year in
order to produce about 1.9 million metric tons per year of flat and non-flat steel
products.
(h)   "Prior Loan Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and
the Borrower dated February 8, 1972 and designated No. 797-BR for the Prior
CSN Steel Expansion Project.
(i)   "COSIPA" means Companhia Sider'rgica Paulista - COSIPA.
(j) "USIMINAS" means Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais S.A. -
USIMINAS.
(k)   "Steel Companies" means the Borrower, COSIPA and USIMINAS.
(1)   "SIDERBRAS means Siderurgia Brasileira S.A. - SIDERBRAS, the
holding company of the Guarantor for the public steel sector, established and
operating in the form of an empresa de economia mista pursuant to Lei No. 5919
dated September 17, 1973, as amended by Lei No. 6159 dated December 6, 1974,
of the Guarantor.
(m)   "BNDE" means Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico
(BNDE), an empresa publica of the Guarantor established and operating pursuant
to Lei No. 5662 dated June 21, 1971 of the Guarantor.
(n)   "Project Funds Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and SIDERBRAS and BNDE whereby SIDERBRAS and BNDE
agree, inter alia, to undertake certain obligations in respect of the provision of
funds to the Borrower.
(o)   "FINAME" means Agencia Especial de Financiamento Industrial
(FINAME), an empresa publica of BNDE established and operating pursuant to
Decreto No. 59.170 of September 2, 1966, Decreto - Lei No. 45 of November 18,
1966, and Lei No. 5662 of June 21, 1971 of the Guarantor.


﻿5
(p)   "CONSIDER" means Conselho de N4o-Ferrosos e de Siderurgia, the
council for non-ferrous metals and steel of the Guarantor, established and operating
pursuant to Decreto No. 66.759 dated June 19, 1970 as amended by Decreto
No. 74.361 dated August 2, 1974, of the Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to ninety-five million dollars ($95,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such later date
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
March I and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.


﻿6
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall punctually pay to the Guarantor the fee
referred to in the second Whereas clause of the Guarantee Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, financial and
administrative practices.
(b) The Borrower shall make its best efforts to obtain credit to finance
the cost of goods and services required for the Project and not financed under
the Loan Agreement or the IDB loan contract or as required under the Project
Funds Agreement or out of the Borrower's own resources, such credit to be on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(c)   The Borrower covenants that: (i) all goods required for the Project
and not financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the IDB loan shall be consistent
with design criteria and other technical specifications which are appropriate to the
Project; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, such goods shall be
acquired on the basis of international competition among suppliers eligible to utilize
the credit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and the funds provided
under the Project Funds Agreement.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the engineering
design, procurement, approval of manufacturers' drawings and specifications,
inspection and expediting of delivery of the equipment, supervision of construction
and erection, start-up and initial operations of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ specialized firms or experts with appropriate qualifications and experience.
Section 3.03. In carrying out the civil engineering, building and erection work
required for the Project, the Borrower shall employ qualified and experienced
contractors; provided, however, that, if at any time local contractors are unable
to meet the Project execution schedule, shown in the Annex to Schedule 2 to
the Loan Agreement, on reasonable terms, the Borrower shall take all steps
necessary or advisable to utilize the services of contractors (including foreign
contractors) who shall be able to provide such services for the Project on reasonable
terms and in accordance with such Schedule.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the


﻿7
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain recolds adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c)
of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine all
plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of the Borrower
and any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times carry on its operations,
manage its affairs, plan the future development of its business and undertaking,
and maintain its financial position all in accordance with appropriate engineering,
financial and administrative practices, and under the supervision of experienced
and competent management.
(b)   The Borrower shall inform     the Bank when making any personnel
changes at the senior management level (including, inter alios, all Vice Presidents
and those Superintendents responsible for the execution of the Project).


﻿8
(c)   The Borrower     shall  operate and    maintain its plant, equipment,
properties and facilities and make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all
in accordance with appropriate engineering practices.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall duly perform its obligations under the IDB
loan contract and shall not, without the prior consent of the Bank, take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of assigning, revoking, suspending,
cancelling or changing such contract, or amend or waive in whole or in part, any
provision of such contract.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not, without the consent of the Bank,
sell, lease, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or assets which
shall be required for the efficient carrying out of its business and undertaking,
including the carrying out of the Project.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall at all times take all steps necessary to
maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on its operations, including
the Project, and shall, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take all steps
necessary to acquire and to retain such land, interests in land and properties, and
to acquire, maintain and renew such licenses, consent., franchises or other rights,
as may be necessary or useful for the construction and operation of the Project
and the conduct of its business and undertaking.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
obtain title to all goods financed in whole or in part with the proceeds of the
Loan and the IDB loan free and clear of all liens.
Section 4.07. In order to ensure that the execution and operation of the
Project are carried out with due regard to ecological and environmental factors,
the Borrower shall install adequate air, water and noise pollution controls, including
suitable measurement devices, and monitor emissions to maintain them within
acceptable limits.
Section 4.08. In view of the modernization of the Borrower's plant and the
increase in production resulting from its planned expansion, the Borrower shall
take all such steps as shall be necessary to improve the efficiency of its labor
force and shall establish reasonable yearly targets to achieve that purpose.


﻿9
Section 4.09. In view of the need to safeguard its competitive position, the
Borrower shall not, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, consume any low grade
coking coal to an extent that the resulting coking coal blend will significantly
lower the productivity of the Borrower's iron and steel making facilities.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain and shall cause each of its
Subsidiaries to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices, its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries
to: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
in any case not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited, (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested, and (C) conformed copies of the said financial
statements and auditors report; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
(including quarterly financial information) concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt, except as disclosed
in writing to the Bank.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any of its assets as security
for any debt, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the Bank; and
(ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower as security
for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent
lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing provisions
of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the


﻿10
time of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred; or (C) any lien on commercial goods to secure
a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred and to be paid out of the proceeds of sale of such commercial goods;
or (D) any lien in favor of BNDE, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, the Borrower and BNDE, and by its terms expressly subordinated to the
claims of the Bank hereunder, which is created to secure obligations of the Borrower
to BNDE arising out of BNDE's provision of loans as required by the Project Funds
Agreement.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if the Borrower shall
directly or indirectly pay or otherwise settle for a consideration, before maturity,
part or all of the IDB loan, or any other outstanding long-term debt of the
Borrower, the Borrower shall prepay a proportionate part, or all, as the case may
be, of the Loan. For the purposes of this Section, "long-term debt" means debt
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date of its incurrence.
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, incur any debt, if after the
incurring of such debt: (i) the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its
Subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than the consolidated
equity of the Borrower and all its Subsidiaries; or (ii) the consolidated internal
cash generation of the Borrower and all its Subsidiaries for the twelve-month period
next preceding the incurrence of such debt, excluding any debt incurred as
permitted under this Agreement and the Project Funds Agreement, would be less
than twice the estimated maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding
fiscal year on the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its Subsidiaries,
including the debt proposed to be incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   "Debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries maturing more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (1) under a loan contract or
agreement on the date and to the extent it is drawn down pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement on the date the
agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c)   "Consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its Subsidiaries" means
the total amount of debt of the Borrower and all its Subsidiaries but excluding


﻿11
debt owed by the Borrower to any of its Subsidiaries or by any of its Subsidiaries
to the Borrower or to any other Subsidiary.
(d)    "Consolidated equity of the Borrower and all its Subsidiaries" means
the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of the
Borrower and all its Subsidiaries not allocated to cover specific liabilities after
excluding therefrom such items as shall represent equity interests of the Borrower
in any Subsidiary or of any Subsidiary in the Borrower or in any other Subsidiary.
(e)    "Consolidated internal cash generation of the Borrower and all its
Subsidiaries" means gross income of the Borrower and all its Subsidiaries from
all sources less all operating and administrative expenses, of the Borrower and all
its Subsidiaries, excluding depreciation of assets and interest and other charges on
debt.
(f)    "Debt Service" means the aggregate amount of amortization (including
sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(g)   Whenever it shall be necessary to value in terms of Cruzeiros in
currency of the Guarantor debt payment in another currency, such valuation shall
be made on the basis of the prevailing rate of exchange as determined by the
Banco Central do Brasil.
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, before January 1, 1981: (a)
invest in its Subsidiaries or other business entities in excess of an aggregate total
of $4,000,000 equivalent in each fiscal year; (b) lend or advance money to its
Subsidiaries or other business entities in excess of an aggregate total of $4,000,000
equivalent at any one time outstanding; or (c) guarantee debt of its Subsidiaries
or other business entities in excess of an aggregate total of $12,000,000 equivalent
at any one time outstanding.
Section 5.07. Except for expenditures and commitments for expenditures
to carry out the Project and the Prior CSN Steel Expansion Project, the Borrower
shall not make any expenditures or commitments for expenditures (including
expenditures or commitments for expenditures in its Subsidiaries or other business
entities) in excess of the equivalent of $18,000,000 in each fiscal year of the
Borrower for fixed or capital assets or for any project or development (including
normal replacements and supplemental investments to the Prior CSN Steel
Expansion Project and the First Stage Expansion Project), unless such expenditures
or commitments for expenditures shall be made for a purpose, and in accordance
with a financial plan, acceptable to the Bank.


﻿12
Section 5.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not: (i) declare any dividend (other than a dividend payable in stock of the
Borrower or a dividend on the preferred stock of the Borrower issued in accordance
with the Estatutos) or make any other distribution with respect to its share capital,
except when, after such dividend has been paid or other distribution has been
made, the consolidated current assets of the Borrower and all its Subsidiaries would
equal or exceed 1.3 times the consolidated current liabilities of the Borrower and
all its Subsidiaries; or (ii) purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for a consideration,
any shares of stock of the Borrower or of any ;Subsidiary. For the purposes of
this Section:
(a)   "Current assets" shall include cash, accounts receivable due within
twelve months, inventories convertible to saleable goods within twelve months,
pre-paid expenses, and all other assets which could, in the ordinary course of
business, be converted within twelve months into cash.
(b)   "Current liabilities" shall include accounts payable within twelve
months, customer advances, income taxes, dividends, bonuses and all other liabilities
(including long-term debt) which will be due and payable or could be called for
payment, within twelve months.
(c)   "Consolidated current assets" and "consolidated current liabilities"
mean the aggregate of current assets and current liabilities of the Borrower and
all its Subsidiaries after eliminating all inter-company items and all other items
which should be eliminated in accordance with sound accounting practices.
Section 5.09. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
maintain a ratio of consolidated current assets to consolidated current liabilities
of not less than 1.1 to 1. For purposes of this Section, the terms "consolidated
current assets" and "consolidated current liabilities" have the same meanings as
in Section 5.08 set forth.
Section 5.10. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not issue new preferred shares if as a result of such issue the total par value of
outstanding preferred shares shall exceed the total par value of outstanding common
shares.
Section 5.11. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
on its part to enable:
(a)   the Guarantor to perform all of the covenants and agreements in the
Guarantee Agreement contained; and


﻿13
(b)   SIDERBRAS and BNDE, respectively, to perform all of the covenants
and agreements in the Project Funds Agreement contained.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank; Amendments to
Prior Loan Agreement
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a)   The right of the Borrower to utilize the IDB loan shall have been
suspended or cancelled in whole or in part.
(b)   The right of the Borrower to utilize the funds provided under the
Project Funds Agreement shall have been suspended or cancelled in whole or in
part.
(c)   A substantial change in the Estatutos shall have been made without
the agreement of the Bank.
(d)   A Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by the Borrower without the agreement of the Bank.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   The IDB loan, the funds provided under the Project Funds Agreement,
or any other indebtedness for money borrowed by the Borrower with an original
maturity of one year or more shall have become due and payable before its agreed
maturity in accordance with the terms thereof.
(b)   The event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
(c)   A Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by the Borrower, without the agreement of the Bank, and such
situation shall not have been corrected within sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
Section 6.03. (a) Sections 5.05, 5.06, 5.07, 5.08, and 5.09 of this Agreement
are incorporated into the Prior Loan Agreement and replace the sections bearing
the same numbers therein.


﻿14
(b)   All other sections of the Prior Loan Agreement not expressly amended
by this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Terminati'n
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   All necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given
by the Guarantor, its political subdivisions or agencies or by any agency of any
political subdivision or otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize
the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform all of the
covenants, agreements and obligations of the Borrower in the Loan Agreement
and the IDB loan contract contained (including the obligations thereof relating
to procurement of goods and services for the Project), together with all necessary
powers and rights in connection therewith, shall have been performed or given.
(b)   The Loan Agreement and the IDB loan contract shall have been duly
registered by Banco Central do Brasil.
(c)   All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IDB loan contract
shall have been fulfilled, subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
(d)   The Memorandum of Agreement shall have been executed and delivered
on behalf of the parties thereto.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)   That the Borrower is duly organized and existing under the laws of
Brazil and has full power and authority to construct and operate the Project, to
own the properties and to carry on the business which it owns and carries on
and proposes to own and carry on; that all acts, franchises, concessions, consents
and approvals necessary therefor have been duly and validly performed or given;
and that with such exceptions as the Bank may have approved, all easements,
licenses, consents, franchises or other rights or privileges as may be necessary or
requisite therefor have been duly obtained.


﻿15
(b)   That the IDB loan contract (i) has been duly executed and authorized
by all necessary corporate and governmental action; (ii) constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of the respective parties thereto in accordance with its terms;
and (iii) is, subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement if such be the
case, in full force and effect.
(c)   That all acts, consents and approvals referred to in paragraph (a) of
Section 7.01 of this Agreement, together with all necessary powers and rights in
connection therewith, have been duly and validly performed or given and that
no other such acts, consents or approvals are required in order to authorize the
carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform all the covenants,
agreements and obligations of the Borrower in the Loan Agreement and in the
IDB loan contract contained (including the obligations thereof relating to
procurement of goods and services for the Project).
(d)   That the Project Funds Agreement has been duly authorized by all
corporate and governmental action and constitutes a valid and binding obligation
of SIDERBRAS and BNDE, respectively, in accordance with its terms.
(e)   That the Loan Agreement and the IDB loan contract have been duly
registered by Banco Central do Brasil.
Section 7.03. The date November 4, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿16
Cable address:                               Telex:     440098 (ITT),
248423 (RCA) or
INTBAFRAD                                         64145 (WUI)
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Companhia Sideru'rgica Nacional - CSN
Avenida 13 de Maio, No. 13
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Cable address:                               Telex:     021-23025
SIDERURGIA
Rio de Janeiro
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s / Adalbert Krieger     Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
COMPANHIA SIDERURGICA NACIONAL - CSN
By /s / Plinio Reis de Cantanhede Almeida
Authorized Representative


﻿17
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Equipment for                  13,000,000               60%
expansion of raw
materials handling
and preparation
facilities, includ-
ing No. 4 sinter
plant and Nos. 3
and 4 calcining
kilns (including
spare parts there-
for)
(2)  Equipmet for                  13,500,000               60%
expansion of BOF
steelmaking and con-
tinuous casting
shops (including
spare parts there-
for)
(3)  Equipment for                  8,200,000                60%
improvements and
expansion of rol-
ling and finishing
facilities (includ-
ing spare parts
therefor)


﻿18
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4)   Cranes and hoists             18,400,000                60%
(including spare
parts therefor)
(5)   Utility and elec-             16,300,000                60%
trical equipment
(including spare
parts therefor)
(6)   Equipment for found-           7,300,000                60%
ry, maintenance
shops and construc-
tion (including
spare parts there-
for)
(7)   Locomotives and                8,300,000                60%
rail cars, coil
transfer cars and
mobile equipment
(including spare
parts therefor)
(8)   Unallocated                   10,000,000
TOTAL         95,000,000
2.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage


﻿19
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise .have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
I.    The purpose of the Project is the expansion of the Borrower's existing steel
production facilities (in place or under construction) from about 2.4 million metric
tons of raw steel per year to about 4.5 million metric tons of raw steel per year
in order to produce about 3.5 million metric tons per year of flat and non-flat
steel products, and the addition of finishing capacity, primarily for the production
of flat steel products.
II.   The Borrower's increased production will be achieved by expanding the Casa
de Pedra iron ore mine and Arcos limestone quarry in the State of Minas Gerais
and by expanding, and adding equipment to, the Volta Redonda plant in the State
of Rio de Janeiro, as follows:
A.    Installation at Casa de Pedra iron ore mine of:
(1)   primary, secondary and tertiary crushing facilities
(2)   blending and reclaiming system
(3)   wet screening facilities
(4)   sizing and classification system
(5)   desliming system
(6)   product stockpiling and railroad loading facilities
(7)   water and power supply facilities
(8)   distribution facilities
B.    Installation at Volta Redonda plant of:
(1)   two batteries of coke ovens (No. 4 with 52 ovens and No. 5
with 51 ovens)
(2)   rebuilding of blast furnace No. 1 (3,000 tons/day)
(3)   one sintering plant (No. 4; 4,600 tons/day)


﻿21
(4)   a third 200-ton vessel to the Basic Oxygen Furnace steel plant
(5)   two calcining kilns (Nos. 3 and 4; 400 tons/day each)
(6)   one oxygen plant (No. 4; 1,100 tons/day)
(7)   two continuous slab casting units (Nos. 2 and 3)
(8)   improvements to existing blooming and slabbing mill
(9)   one 66" semi-continuous hot strip mill (No. 2) with four 250
tons/hour walking beam slab reheat furnaces, five roughing and
seven finishing stands, and three down-coilers
(10) one hot strip finishing line (No. 2)
(11) one plate finishing line (No. 2)
(12) two continuous pickling lines (Nos. 3 and 4)
(13) one   66" six stand    tandem   cold strip mill (No. 3) and
improvements of the two existing cold strip mills
(14) three coil transfer cars
(15) batch annealing facilities (84 bases and 42 furnaces)
(16) two continuous annealing lines for sheet (Nos. I and 2)
(17) three continuous annealing lines for tinplate (Nos. 2, 3 and 4)
(18) two temper mills (Nos. 4 and 5) and increase of power for one
existing temper mill (No. 3)
(19) two cold strip finishing lines (Nos. 3 and 4)
(20) one continuous galvanizing line (No. 2)
(21) one painting line
(22) one coil preparation line (No. 4)


﻿22
(23) two electrolytic tinning lines (Nos. 5 and 6)
(24) two roll shops (Nos. 6 and 7)
(25) equipment for maintenance shops and foundry
(26) realignment and extension of existing road and rail lines, rail
and other mobile equipment
(27) two low pressure boilers and steam lines
(28) one additional 138 kV substation and alterations of the existing
substations
(29) equipment for water, air, gas and sewer systems
(30) construction equipment
The Project also includes all corresponding production and service facilities
needed to support the expanded plant capacity, including engineering and Project
management.
The construction work is expected to be completed by the end of 1979
and the operation of the additional capacity is expected to commence in early
1980 substantially as provided in the Annex hereto.


﻿23
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
1974      1975       1976      1977       1978      1979
Quarter   Quarter    Quarter   Quarter    Quarter   Quarter
Description                1234       1234      1234       1234      1234       1234
Coke Plant -                 **
Battery No. 4
Coke Plant -                 **                                                 **
Battery No. 5
Sinter Plant No. 4           **
Blast Furnace No. 1           *       ****      ****       ****
(rebuilding)
BOF Shup -                   **       ****                 ****
3rd vessel
Oxygen Plant No. 4           **                            ****
(1100 tpd)
Calcining Plant              **       ****      ****       ****
Slab Caster - 2nd            **                 ****       ****
and 3rd machines
Blooming - Slabbing          **                            **
Mill (improvements)
Hot Strip Mill No. 2         **                            ****      ****       **
Hot Strip Finishing          **                                      ****       **
Line No. 2
Plate Finishing Line         **                                                 **
No. 2
Continuous Pickling          **                            ****      ****       **
Line Nos. 3 and 4
Cold Strip Mills Nos. 1                                    ****      ****
and 2 (improvements)
Cold Strip Mill No. 3        **                            ****      ****       **
Coil Transfer Cars           **                                      ****       **
Batch Annealing -                     ****      ****       ****      ****       **
Area 3
Continuous Annealing         **                            ****      ****       **
for Sheets No. 1
Continuous Annealing                                       ****      ****
for Sheets No. 2
Continuous Annealing         **                            ****      ****      **
for Tin Plate No. 2.
Continuous Annealing                            ****            ****      ****
for Tin Plate Nos. 3
and 4


﻿24
1974      1975       1976      1977      1978      1979
Quarter   Quarter    Quarter   Quarter   Quarter   Quarter
Description                1234      1234       1234      1234      1234      1234
Temper Mill No. 3                      **                 **
(power increase)
Temper Mill No. 4            **                                               **
Temper Mill No. 5
Cold Strip Finishing         **                                               **
Lines No. 3 and 4
Continuous Galvanizing       **                                               **
Line No. 2
Painting Line                **
Coil Preparation             **                                               **
Line No. 4
Electrolytic Tinning         **                                               **
Line No. 5
Electrolytic Tinning
Line No. 6
Roll Shop Nos. 6 and7        **                           **
Electrical System            **                                               **
Alteration
Utilities                    **                                               **
Low Pressure Boilers                                                          **
Railroads and Roads                               **                          **
Rolling Stock and                                  *
Vehicles
Foundry                      **      ****       ****      ****      ****      **
Maintenance Shops            **      ****       ****                ****      **
Construction Equipment                           ***      ****      *
Casa de Pedra Iron            *      ****       ****      ****      **
Ore Project


﻿25
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)*
September 1, 1979                                     2,515,000
March 1, 1980                                          2,625,000
September 1, 1980                                     2,735,000
March 1, 1981                                          2,850,000
September 1, 1981                                     2,970,000
March 1, 1982                                          3,100,000
September 1, 1982                                     3,230,000
March 1, 1983                                          3,365,000
September 1, 1983                                     3,510,000
March 1, 1984                                          3,660,000
September 1, 1984                                     3,815,000
March 1, 1985                                          3,975,000
September 1, 1985                                     4,145,000
March 1, 1986                                         4,320,000
September 1, 1986                                     4,505,000
March 1, 1987                                         4,700,000
September 1, 1987                                     4,895,000
March 1, 1988                                         5,105,000
September 1, 1988                                     5,320,000
March 1, 1989                                         5,550,000
September 1, 1989                                     5,785,000
March 1, 1990                                         6,030,000
September 1, 1990                                     6,295,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿26
Prem'iums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years                           1-1/2%
before maturity
More than three years but not                       2-3/4%
more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                         5-3/4%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                          7%
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years                            8-1/2%
before maturity


﻿27
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Contracts shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    Bidders shall be prequalified or postqualified as described in part 2.2 of the
Guidelines.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the f.o.b. (port of shipment)
and c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for
domestically-manufactured goods; and (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
on imported goods, including merchant fleet renewal and port improvement taxes,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded.
2.    Goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that such goods contain components manufactured
in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the complete
goods.
(2)   Group B: bids offering any other goods.


﻿28
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes (including
merchant fleet renewal and port improvement taxes) on goods to be imported
and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of each group
shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding (1) to the c.i.f. bid price of goods
in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of goods offered in such group B bid, or (ii) 15% of the
c.i.f. bid price of such goods; and (2) to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of (i)
the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be levied on
the goods offered in such group B bid if they originated from the same foreign
country as the bid included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties
and other import taxes, or (ii) 15% of the ex-factory bid .price of such goods;
provided, however, that if any group B bid offers goods, which, if offered in a
separate bid, would be classified as a group A bid, the Brazilian portion of the
bid price attributable to such goods shall be treated as a group A bid and the
foregoing increases shall not be added to said portion. If, as a result of this
comparison, the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes
of award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined above,
shall be selected for purposes of award.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and
of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification shall be
furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments before the applicants
are notified, and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or
modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.


﻿29
With respect to all contracts for plant, equipment and construction materials
and associated services estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on  the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.    The Banco Central do Brasil rates of exchange will be the rates used for
bid comparison purposes.


