Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20511-RU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 60 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FOR THE
MOSCOW URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
January 12, 2001
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Russia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2000)
Currency Unit = Ruble (Rb)
100 Rb = US$3.56
US$1 = 28.07 Rb
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCATIP            Comprehensive Central Area Traffic Improvement Programme
CPS               Chief Procurement Specialist
CSO               Civil Society Organisation
DEP               Economic Policy and Development Department
EA                Environmental Assessment
EMP               Environmental Management Plan
EPA               Environment Protection Agency (of the USA)
ERR               Economic Rate of Return
GIBDD             Moscow City Traffic Police
IAS               International Accounting Standards
MCG               Moscow City Government
MKAD              Outer Ringroad in Moscow City
NBF               Not Bank Financed
NGO               Non Governmental Organisation
NPV               Net Present Value
PIU               Project Implementation Unit
RFP               Request For Proposals
SOE               Statement of Expenditures
Section for Study and Implementation of Overseas Technology in
SSI               Traffic Enforcement
T&C               Department of Transport and Communication
TA                Technical Assistance
TC                Transport Commission
TMC               Traffic Management Centre
TOT               Training of Trainers
UNDP              United Nations Development Programme
Vice President:   Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:   Julian F. Schweitzer, ECC1O
Director:    Ricardo Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Manager    Eva Molnar, ECSIN
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Richard C. Podolske, ECSIN



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MOSCOW URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                    2
2. Key performance indicators                                                       2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                       3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices               6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    9
3. Benefits and target population                                                   9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                       10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                         12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                     13
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                        14
2. Financial                                                                        16
3. Technical                                                                       16
4. Institutional                                                                    17
5. Environmental                                                                   18
6. Social                                                                          21
7. Safeguard Policies                                                              22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  23
2. Critical risks                                                                  23
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  25



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           25
2. Other                                                                             25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         27
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        27
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         28
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        37
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  38
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              40
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      41
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    62
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  63
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 64
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           66
Annex 11: Decree Establishing the Traffic Management Center                             68
Annex 12: Urban Transport Policy Letter                                                 70
Annex 13: Financial Management Assessment Summary                                       73
MAP(S)
Moscow Location Map



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Moscow Urban Transport Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSIN
Date: February 6, 2001                           Team Lesdez" Richard C. Podolske
Country Manager/Director: Julian F. Schweitzer   Sector Director: Ricardo A. Halperin
Project ID: ,P046061                             Sector(s): TU - Urban Transport
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[Al Loan    [ I Credit    [1 Grant    [ I Guarantee    [ I Other
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$60 million
Proposed Tenns:
Grace period (yearm): 5                              Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Sourl                                   LoalForei n                   oa
BORROWER                                                     58.40          4.80         63.20
lBRD                                                          7.50          52.50         60.00
Total:                                                       65.90          57.30        123.20
Borrower: RUSSLAN FEDERATION
Responsible agency: CITY OF MOSCOW
Project Implementation Unit
Address: 29, Prospekt Vernadskogo, #804
Moscow 117331, Russian Federation
Contact Person: Ekaterina Popova
Tel: (7-095) 138-23-80              Fax: (7-095) 133-40-39              Email: mutpgrp~dol.ru
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):
Annual    2.80       17.80 1 2.01         1,01       45
CumulaUve    2.80       20.60 | 42.60 | 55.S0 | _60.00
Project Implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 05/06/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex I)
The principal project objective is to improve the nstitutionl capacity of the city of Moscow to plan,
design, implement operate and enforce traffic magement meaures so as to improve surface
transport mobility in Moscow.
This is to be achieved through (a) strengthening traffic management in the city by creating and
strengthening a Traffic Management Center (TMC) as well as investment in sekcted high priority physical
works which demonstrate the value of improved traffic management, (b) stengteig traffi enforcement
through training and equipment and (c) enhancmg the planning of surface public transport operations.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key development objective performance indicators for selected project corridors are:
* increased vehicular and person-trip throughput on selected corridors
*  Reduced number of total accidents, and reduced accidents that involve personal injury and deaths,
on selected corridors
*   Reduced number of pedestrian injuries and deaths on selected corridors
*   Increased passenger trips by surface transit
*   Reduced concentrations of hazardous emissions on selected corridors
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number. R99-229/1 (IFC/R99-198/1)      Date of latest CAB discusion: 12/22/99
The Russian Federation Country Assistance Strategy (December 1999) identifies infrastructure as, among
other sectors, a key supply side constraint in relation to the foundations for growth and poverty reduction.
The project is linked to the Bank Group's strategic priorities, which have been confirmed in the 2001 CAS
Progress Report, as follows:
(a) Public Sector Institutional Reform. The project will help improve governance in a key sector for the
city through (i) clarifying roles and responsibilities in the transport sector and therefore strengthening
accountability and (ii) encouraging wider and more meaningful participation of stakeholders in the decision
making process.
(b) Economic Management. Transport is a major component of Moscow city public expenditure (R21.7
billion in 1998 or approximately $3.4 billion equivalent using the July 15, 1998 exchange rate), as well as
the receiver of large transfers from the Federal Budget and the Regional Road Fund (in total R12 billion in
1998). Through providing more emphasis on lower cost traffic management techniques and helping
establish a sustainable framework for public transport, the project will contribute to more effective and
efficient public expenditure in this important sub-sector.
(c) Private and Financial Sector Development. The project will contribute under this heading by
advancing international competitive bidding in the provision of infrastructure and equipment.
-2 -



(d) Environment and Natural Resources. The CAS refers to the Bank's Environmental Strategy Note
which recognizes air pollution in urban areas, caused by tranwportation among other things, as one of the
most cntical environmental problems facing the country.  Moscow  is currently developing an
Envirounmental Action Plan as part of its citywide Transport Strategy and this project will contribute to its
implementation through congestion relieving measures that reduce polluting emissions. Bank collaboration
with the United States Environmental Protection Agency has resulted in the US EPA providing a grant to
the Moscow city Government to assist the city in developing an improved mobile source abatement
strategy.
2. MIn sector Issues and Government strategy,
A. Sector Issues
Background
Moscow city is among the largest urban agglomerations in Europe with a population of about 8 million
within its administrative boundaries and over 13 million within the urbanized metropolitan area. It is by far
the most important governmental, commercial, educational, and cultural center in the Russian Federation.
It is responsible for a high portion of GDP and generates approximately 40%/o of federal tax revenue. The
population of Moscow is highly mobile given its current level of economic development. The mobility rate
in the city was 3.3 trips per resident per day in 1997 - as high as many German cities. The public
transport system has historically accommodated over 85% of all motorized trips in the city, with the metro
maling up more than a third of that volume. This is an unusually high proportion for a public transport
system in a modem industrialized city, and is an asset that the city should strive hard to maintain.
Structural Problems
The Moscow city Transport Strategy, financed in part by UNDP, identifies a number of structural
problems in the sector. These are:
* Poor traffic management and monitoring
* Poor traffic enforcement
* Highly subsidized public services, especially in public transport, primarily due to lack of incentives
on transport managers to deliver services efficiently and effectively
X Poor financial and economic analysis of competing investments or strategies
* Inadequate and sometimes inappropriate sources of finance for new investment and service
operation
* A patchy legislative framework, often caused by constitutional changes
* Outdated planning standards
* Lack of key planning and evaluation data due to an inadequate collection system
In addition, the Strategy notes that the overarching issue impacting on the sector is the explosive growth in
car ownership and use. Private vehicle ownership has increased from about 800,000 vehicles in 1990 to
over 2.2 million today. The modal share taken by cars in passenger tumover has increased from 11.7% in
1990 to 21.6% in 1997, with the total transit passenger volume remaiing almost constant during the
period. Car ownership has increased by over 250%/e over the period 1991 to 1998. In 1997, it stood at 190
passenger vehicles per 1000 inhabitants - compared with an EU average of 454 for 1991 and Central and
Eastern European Country average of 212, (according to the European Commission Transport website).
190 vehicles per 1000 is very close to the EU average in 1970.
-3 -



Three of these structural problems are especially critical, namely:
Poor Traffic Management. The traffic management function is scattred across a number of entities either
within or closely associated with the Moscow city government. These include the traffic police (GIlBDD),
the city roads department (DORINVEST), a traffic institute (Mosgottransniproject) which is associated
with the operating surface transit company (Mosgortrans), the Transportation and Communications
Department, and Genplan (the master planning institute associated with Moscow Architecture Committee).
No single entity has a sufficient range of responsibilities, authority, or staff capabilities to conceptualize,
design, implement, operate, and maintain a traffic management program for the city. This is a major
deficiency which must be addressed to assure the long-term ability of Moscow to address traffic
management problems and issues. Moreover, htasportation pbnning in the city exhibits a capital intensive
infrastructure focus with no cear overall strategy of optimizing investments m relation to available
resources. In particular, the city's transport planners do not appear to be giving due regard to devising
strategies to managing travel demand in relation to the supply of transportation infrastructure.
Poor Traffic Enforcement Moscow, like many major cities, suffers from poor road safety, particularly for
pedestrians. Excessive speed, dnmk driving and inadequate analysis of accident trends contribute to this
poor road safety record. The traffic police force (GIBDD) is primarily responsible for trying to improve
this situation. Yet the GIBDD does not have a poor public image. This is partially due to poor pay levels
and practices by the on-street force that do not appear to many to be addressing the primary traffic
enforcement functions of enhancing safety and managing traffic incidents. Moreover, the traffic police are
heavily involved in maintaining and operating the traffic signal system and other traffic management
activities that typically would be the responsibility of a civilian engineering operation in most western
market-economy cities. A substantial reorientation of the traffic police mnission and focus is required.
Unsustainable Delivery of Public Transport Services The biggest surface public transport operator, the
public company Mosgortrans is a considerable drain on city resources. Cost recovery has been declining
during the last ten years. On the fare revenue side, according to figures quoted in the Transport Strategy,
only 20%/o of Mosgortrans passengers paid for the bus, trolleybus or tram service in 1997 as opposed to
50%o in 1991. This decline is due to increased Federal and city fare exemptions, increased operating costs,
and widespread fare evasion. Hence, operating subsidies to Mosgortrans have been increasing dramatically
and were predicted to be R2.5 bilion or $100 million in 1999, with another S40 million equivalent in
subsidies being given to the metro system.
Effects of Structural Problems on Surface Transport
The rapid growth in private vehicle ownership and structural weaknesses outlined above have resulted in a
decline in the surface transport "experience! in terms of the following five criteria:
* Traffic congestion has become worse in terms of (a) longer peak periods and (b) the number of
routes affected. Travel speeds have halved on some routes, and traffic backups spurred by traffic
incidents are becoming more frequent.
* Surface transit operations are suffering, largely as a result of deteriorating traffic conditions.
These may be deteriorating faster than the general traffic flow due to the lower maneuverability of
transit vehicles and the lack of special on-street provisions for the fleet.
*   Road safety is declining in terms of an increasing number of total accidents. The number of
accidents involving injuries is also increasing. Approximately two-thirds of all road accident
deaths are pedestrians.
*   Negative air quality effects are growing with approximately 80% of the of air pollution in the city
estimated to be attributable to surface transport The majority of this is produced by private cars.
-4 -



* An increasing drain on fiscal resources is being posed by transport in two key areas, (a) the urban
road network where the city has been spending sevea hundred million dollars annually durng the
1990s (over $1 billion equivalent in some years) and (b) surface public transport where
Mosgortrans the largest operator, has received an increasing subsidy each year since 1991 (up by
12, 15 and 190% respectively for the period 1997-1999) and stands at $100 million in 1999. The
metro system, by contrast, receives only about $40 million in operating subsidies per year).
B. Government Strategy
To date the Moscow city Government has embarked upon an ambitious road transport infrastructure
investment program entailing the expenditure of hundreds of millions of dollars equivalent annually to
address transport problems. The city has spent a high proportion of available funds on completing a major
upgrade of the outer ring road (MKADI) that encircles most of the administrative area of the city. Now that
this major project is completed, the city is currently focusing on constructing a "Third Ring" road which
lies between the outer ring and an inner ring road called the Garden Ring. This Third Ring is eslimated to
cost several billion dollars. Conversely, the city currently is not devoting enough attention and resources to
traffic management measures, to improving the performance of the surface transit fleet, and to the full
development of its traffic engineering and transportation planning institutions. In short, until now the
Moscow city Strategy has been one of attempting to build its way out of the problem through the supply of
expensive transport infrastructure. There is an increasing awareness, however, that this approach alone
will not succeed; and that more attention must be directed to better utilization of existing resources through
traffic management schemes, surface transit pnority measures, and demand management through traffic
restraint measures.
This road oriented capital intensive approach towards addressing the emerging congestion to date has been
possible as Moscow has accessed substantial Regional Road Fund revenues as well as significant Federal
Budget transfers. Experts agree that much of this expenditure has been sub-optimal, in part because
decision making has been made on the basis of out-of-date capacitybased project planning and limited
reliance on economic assessment of altemative investments. Moreover, the reliance on lower cost traffic
and demand management techniques has been minimal and poorly implemented. An example of this is the
extensive introduction of left turn bans throughout the city which has aggravated traffic conditions by
causing considerably more vehicle-kilometers of travel.
Hlowever, the city has commissioned a Transport Strategy, funded in part by the UNDP. The
implementation of the strategy's recommendations will allow the city to address more comprehensively the
transport sector constraints by delivering improved services through a program of prioritized investments
and reforms over the next 20 years This project will contribute to the eady implementation of some of the
key elements and foundations of this strategy.
The Transport Strategy suggests two outline funding plans for the years 2001 to 2005 based on minimum
and maximum funding scenarios - R140 and R181 billion respectively (approximately $5 billion and $6.5
billion equivalent). The plans are built up using different assumptions about the Regional Road Fund and
the city's own capacity to fund urban transport. The city itself is envisaged to provide from R12 to 16
billion ($430 to $570 million) from its own resources apart from Road Fund sources. The maximum
scenario assumes a large public transport revenue increase through better fare collection rather than above
inflation fare increases, as well as additional multi-lateral development assistance. Both plans includes
investment from the private sector equal to about 9%/e of the maximum transport budget scenario for the
more commercially oriented transport investments such as railway linking the city with the intemational
airport
-5-



3. Sector Issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project focuses on surface road transport due to:
* The rapid pace at which the surface transport situation is deteriorating
* The large levels of investment being directed to towards capital intensive surface transport
infrastructure with a concomitant lack of investment and attention on lower cost traffic and demand
management measures and on improving surface transit operations
* The lack of adequate institutional arrangements to address the problem
* The comparative efficiency of the underground metro system (which carries more passengers than
any metro in the world)
This project has been developed to address in the short term (over five years) some of the key constraints in
surface trasport identified in Section 2 above, namely (a) traffic management, (b) traffic enforcement, and
(c) the financial sustainability and service levels of the surface public transport system.
lnstitutional Development for Traffic Management. The most important project component from the
standpoint of project sustainability witl be the establishment of a Traffic Management Center (TMC) which
will have the authority, staffing, and budget required to plan, design, implement and operate traffic
management schemes for the city. The TMC is expected to increase the city's awareness and emphasis on
traffic and demand management measures to address traffic problems in a more cost efficient manner. It is
intended that the TMC will, over time, consolidate all traffic management functions within the city
government. Appropdate mayoral decrees establishing the TMC have been executed (see Annex 11). In
addition, the value of traffic management measures will be demonstraed through detailed preparation of
and/or investment in a number of high priority physical works. These are:
*   Comprehensive Corridor Traffic Management Schemes and Low Cost Spot Improvements. The
Varshovskoye and Schelkovskoye corridors will receive this comprehensive treatment from the
inner Garden Ring to the MKAD encircling the city. Another corridor and spot improvements will
be identified and improved under the project
X A Comprehensive Central Area Traffic Improvement Program. A traffic plan for treating this
complicated central city area and feasibility studies will be compkted, and detailed designs will be
undertaken pursuant to physical implementation that will be completed outside the framework of
this project Construction within the Central area under the project will be confined to a single
pedestrian underpasses already under construction.
*  Donbasky Bridge and Associated Works. A new and widened road over rail bridge and a tram over
and road bridge will be constructed along with associated traffic management measures to remove
a critical traffic bottleneck along the Varshovskoye corridor.
Traffic Enforcement. The principal objective of the traffic enforcement component is to strengthen the
ability of the traffic police (GIBDD) to enforce traffic laws in order to improve traffic safety and to better
manage congestion causing traffic incidents. Central to this initiative will be a traffic enforcement program
focusing on practical training and equipment to assist the traffic police in these enforcement functions. An
important feature of this project component will be to emphasize the role of the traffic police in traffic
enforcement as opposed to their current wider roles in the engineering aspects of traffic management as
well as traffic signal operations; both of which are typically handled by civilian organizations in major
cities. More specifically, this component is designed to assist the traffic police to progressively shift
enforcement from stationary deployment of officers to more reliance on mobile units. There is also a need
-6-



to initiate a shift from checking driver documents to checking driver behavior, especially in relation to
enforcing speed limits and drink driving laws.
Surface Transport Strategy. City officials recognize that the surface transit system (autobuses,
trolleybuses, and trams) could play a more substantial role in accommodating travel demand in Moscow.
For this reason a study will be conducted under the direction of the Transportation & Communications
Department The principal study objectives will be to make recommendations that would lead to: (a)
improving the level of service and operational efficiency of the surface transit system in Moscow, and (b)
improving the financial sustainability of this system with a view to reducing over time the subsidies to this
system The study would: (a) present a comprehensive picture of the current surface transit urban
passenger situation through the coliection and analysis of prmiary and secondary data, then based on these
findings, present strategic options taking into account local conditions and cunrent international experience
to a designated study committee and to the city's Transportation Commission; and then (c) based on the
strategic option (or options) chosen, prepare detailed short term (5 year) operational plans for improving
the situation. These plans would, in parficular, focus on (a) the role of the private sector in providing
surface transport services in the city, (b) the role and composition of the regulatory body, and (c) a
business plan incorporating specific measures to improve the service efficiency and financial sustainability
of Mosgortrans as the prmary surface transport provider in the city.
The table below shows how the components of this project relate to the longer term strategy of managing
the city's overall transport system.
Outline Moscow City Transport Strategy (Project Components Shown in Italics)
Stage/       Traffic Management         Demad Maagemat Pubic Tranport                   System Expans
stnlegy                                                       Opentio 
Short term    * Consolidation of trarfic  *Parklng regulation &  *Institute bus priorities on   *Removing road system
(0-5 years)    managanenefinctions in a   enforcement          selected conidors         bottknecks
single Traffic Management                       eSurface Public Tranport   *Provfrion of facilities
Center                                           Strategy study. including    to better serve and
*Comprehensive trffc                              review offare collection  protct pede strans
corridor and spot traffic                        and optionsfor impovwd   sInvestmet in lisht rail,
imprOvments to improve                          swrices                    ril to airport, and smal
traffic operations                             *Reappraisal of fare        bore metro
*Refocusing of traffic police                     exdons                   eConstuction of third
resources towards mobile                        o Separation of policy and  ring road
enforcement of driver                            panning, regulatmy and
beJavior                                         opeational responsibility
*Inprowd traffic and data                        *Pousibk route restructuring
coliection and analysfs
Medium       *City-wide applicadon of taffic oParing pricing  oFare collecion           *Increased road capacity
term          management measures        *Land use controls    improvements              especially inter-radial
(5-1i years)   Appliation of new                              *Public transport operations   links
innovations to traffic                           on commercial basis     *Enhanced private sector
management                                      oConcessioning of surface    investment
tmnsit services         * Constuction of new
metro & lightril lines
Long tem                                 *User charges as a                             *Increased road and rail
(10-20 years)                             urffic nagement                                system capacities
mieasure
#Creatc local traffic
cels and car fiee
Note: The table above has been adapted from Moscow city Transport Strategy - Traffic Management, 02/2000 as
well as Draft Stage 3 Repoct 12/1999, Domier SystemConsult and GIBB 0212000, UNDP
- 7-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Note: Taxes and duties estimated at $23 million are included in the cost esfimates.
A. Traffic Management Center      Institutional      11.60       9.4       7.20      12.0
(Technical assistance, training, and  Deveipment
equipment)
B. Comprehensive Corridor         Urban Transport    47.60      38.6      18.70      31.2
Improvement Program (Varshovskoe
Corridor including 3 pedestrian
underpasses, Schelkovskoye Transit
Priority Corridor, and Unspecified
Corridor and Low Cost Spot
Improvements)
C. Comprehensive Central Area Traffic  Urban Transport  6.20     5.0      3.30        5.5
Improvement Program (feasibility
studies and design for the
comprehensive scheme and
construction of I pedestrian underpass)
D. Construction of Donbasky Bridge    Urban Transport    39.00  31.7      14.70      24.5
and Associated Works
E. Traffic Enforcement (Training and   lnstitutional  10.30      8.4       8.20      13.7
Equipment for the Moscow City     Development
Traffic Police)
F. Surface Transit Study          BR                  2.00        1.6      1.60       2.7
G. Strategic Advice through Special    MV             0.90       0.7      0.70        1.2
Project Feasibility Studies
H. Project Management (Operations                     2.50       2.0       2.50       4.2
and Work Program for the Project
Implementation Unit)
1. Unallocated                                        2.50       2.0      2.50        4.2
Total Project Costs                122.60      99.5      59.40      99.0
Front-end fee                   0.60        0.5      0.60       1.0
Total Financing Required                  123.20     100.0     60.00     100.0
Note: Totals may not match due to rounding.
-8 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key reform to be sought under the project would be the consolidation of traffic management
responsibilities under one agency - the Traffic Management Center - within the city government, and the
concomitant strengthening of that entity along with developing improved lines of communication and
coordination with all agencies concerned with traffic and transportation in the city. Pursuant to this
objective, a Traffic Management Center has been established by a decree of the Mayor dated December 7,
1999, and subsequently augmented by another decree on May 6, 2000 establishing in more detail the
functions, staffing, and authority of the Center (See Annex 11). The chief of the Center is appointed, the
division heads are nominated and further staff are being recrtited. Office space is being secured in the
building occupied by the Transport and Communications Department. The TMC will be able to occupy
this space from late October after refurbishment
A secondary institutional reform will be the redirection of the traffic police function from the engineering
aspects of traffic management towards (a) a greater emphasis on traffic enforcement, (b) improved safety,
and (c) better response to traffic incidents that cause traffic congestion. Pursuant to this objective, the
traffic police will create a section for Study and Implementation of Overseas Know-how in Traffic
Enforcement (SSI) within the existing Moscow Traffic Police Training Center.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project is not designed to benefit specific target populations. The project is designed to help mitigate
or reduce the level of traffic congestion and its attendant side effects caused by the increasing level of
motorization in the city. More specifica1ly, as compared with the "do nothing" alternative, it is expected
that the project will provide higher vehicle carrying and passenger throughput capacities along selected
corridors. This will be accomplished through relatively low cost measures aimed at providing a consistent
level of road capacity in the corridors through reducing or eliminating traffic bottlenecks. lt is also
expected that traffic congestion levels will be reduced at kast over the short term, until traffic demand
grows, with consequent increases in traffic speeds and reduced mobile source pollution. Finally, vehicular
and pedestrian safety should be improved through introduction of traffic management measures, the
introduction of safer at-grade pedestrian crossings, and the physical construction of several pedestrian
underpasses.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Overall responsibility for project management will rest with the Foundation Moscow Project
Implementation Unit (FMPIU). The Foundation includes as departments within it the PlUs for both this
project and the ongoing Bridge Rehabilitation Project The FMPIU will be principally responsible for all
project monitoring and reporting to the Moscow city Govermment, the Russian Federation Govemment, and
the Bank- It will also be responsible for procurement and financial management under the project
The FMPIU will prepare and submit Project Management Reports for Bank review on a quarterly basis.
The formats of PMRs have been agreed with the Bank. The PMRs will not be used for disbursement
purposes.
The project financial statements for Bridge Rehabilitation Project are being audited annually by a
competitively selected independent auditor in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA).
The Moscow Urban Transport Project and the Foundation will be audited in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing by the same independent auditor. Current auditing arrangements are in full
compliance with Bank requirements. The management of the Foundation will submit to the Bank the
-9-



audited annual financial statements not later than 6 months after the end of reporting period. The format is
set out Annex 13. The audits are to be paid for through the loan.
It is confirmed that the project was certified 4-B as it satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements.
It is expected that the traffic management components, (A, B, & C above), will be managed by the Traffic
Management Center (TMC) as its staffing and staff capability increases, with some assistance from the
PIU. Other city departments will be involved, inchAding the city roads department (Dorinvest) for
construction supervision of the traffic management components, Moscaptstroi for implementation of the
Donbasky Bridge component, the traffic police (GIBDD) for the Traffic Enforcement Program, and the
Department of Transport & Communications and the city surface transport department (Mosgortrans) for
the Surface Transit Study. It is expected that as the TMC, as a permanent body within the Moscow city
government, will become the primary traffic organization in the city as it gains experience and stature
under the project. Conversely, the PIU, which has been established as a temporary body to assist in the
preparation and management of the project, is not envisioned to have any role in traffic and transportation
in the city after completion of the project
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reaons for rejection:
Representatives of the Moscow city govermment approached the Bank during October 1996 with a proposal
to finance a portion of a proposed "Third Ring Road" - a corridor which lies between an existing Garden
Ring Road that encircles the traditional medieval core and an outer ring road (MKAD) which encircles
most of the urbnized area admhinered by the city of Moscow. The estimated cost of this facility is
several billion dollars equivalent and the portion originally proposed for Bank financing was about $400
million. The initiating mission declined on the grounds that this investment would need to be examined in
the context of an overall transport strategy and investment program for the city.
As an alternative, a project was proposed focusing on traffic management measures as well as selected high
pnority infrastructure within existing rights of way that would remove key traffic bottlenecks. At the same
time, the Bank offered to finance a transport strategy study that would provide as outputs a short and
medium term (5 and 10 year) program for investments, policy initiatives, and organizational rationalization
and strengthening. This approach was accepted by the Moscow authorities and project preparation
commenced. Subsequently, the Strategy Study was conducted separately under a UNDP funded grant with
no Bank supervision. This study is completed and some of the findings have been presented in the
"Strategic Context" section of this document
The possibility of addressing urban passenger transport was also examined under the project. While this
would have been a worthwhile alternative to consider, the Moscow city govermment did not indicate any
interest in Bank involvement in this sub-sector at the initiation of project preparation. However, after
project preparation was well underway, Bank assistance in financing a possible major Automatic Vehicle
Location (AVL) system for the city surface transit organization Mosgortrans was requested. Considerable
work went into preparing this component, but it was dropped from the project due to a number of technical
reasons. These included severe limitations on available communications frequencies within Moscow and
problems in reaching agreement on a cost effective AVL system that would use both US sponsored GPS
and Russia GLONAS satellite systems. There were also serious questions regarding the priority of
-10-



introducing this technology while other more pressing improvements to the surface transit system were
apparent.
As an outcome of the Transport Strategy Study, the Bank has been asked to finance under the project a
major study aimed at improving surface transit operafions in the city and this study is included under the
project.
Preparation of the Project has been difficult with seve  sebaccks encountered during the process. Lackdng
a traffic management unit within the Moscow city Govenment skucture, project preparation started in a
city organiion dealing with special projects. Once project peparation was well underway and the nature
of the project was more fully undstood by Moscow aulhoritie, responsibiity for the project was shifted
to another city entity under new management. This resulted m concomitant problems due to a lack of
staffing continuity.  Both sets of consultants deployed to prepare the project were not successful in
producing traffic management schemes that were satisfactory to Moscow city officials and to the Bank.
This was caused in part by the inability of the consultants to work closely with city authorities, possibly
due in part to the fragmented nature of the traffic management function within the city govemment.
Subsequently, the city engaged local consultants with city funds to prepare the proposed schemes. The
designs prepared by these consultants only partially address the comprehensive traffic management
treatments proposed for development under the project. The lack of suitable staffing in the PIU to
adequately handle the wide range of components orginally proposed for the project also was a problem.
As a result of these difficulties, the September 1999 Bank mission, with the concurrence of senior level
Moscow authorities, substantially reduced the proposed project scope to less than half of the scale
planned. The project now focuses principally on establishing and strengthening the Traffic Management
Center and on the development of a traffic management program under the Project managed by this Center.
A secondary focus of the project aims at strengthening the traffic enforcement functions of the traffic
police.
2. Major related projects ffnanced by the Bank and/or otber development agencles (completed,
ongoing and planned)
1<                      .
Bank-financed                                                  ProWm (F )   Obeciw (DO)
Lead agency lacked suitable powers to  Jabotabek (Jakarta) Urban   S             S
manage project; lack of suitably trained Development I (Urban
traffic engineers; bus lanes not suitably Transport) [Completed]
implemented; delays in traffic signal
procurement
Questionable commitment to traffic    Guangzhou Urban Transport    S             S
management; borrower wants major   Project [Ongoing]
infrastructure investments
-1 1



Fragmented transportation and traffic  Shanghai Metropolitan      S             S
management responsibilities; lack of   Transport 11 [Ongoing]
commitment to traffic management
Shifing balance away from mass   Budapest Urban Trnsport          S             S
transit and toward private vehicles;    Project (Ongoing]
poor parking enforcement;
Disageement with the Bank over fares
policy
Lack of an adequate traffic      Beirut Urban Transport Project
management mstitution, poor public   [Under heparation
tranmsport system; poor parding
enforcement; poor air quality
Slow payments to consultants and  Russia Bridge Rehabilitation    U             S
contractors (Moscow component    Project (Moscow Component)
performing better than overall project) [Ongoing]
Several cities unable to repay loan due Russia Urban Transport Project  U       S
principally to substantial Ruble  [Ongoing]
devaluation; Procurement problems
Other development agencies                 _..........
IP/DO Raings: HS (Higly Sadsfactory), S (Satisfatory). U (Unsatsactory). HU (Hghly Unsatsfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected In the project desig:
The proposed project will be the first in Russia focusing on urban traffic management and the first project
focusing solely on the city of Moscow. (The ongoing Russia Bridge Rehabilitation Project has a $50
million component directed at Moscow). Moreover, there are currently no projects in the ECA region
focusing principaLly on urban traffic management. The Budapest Urban Transport project has a small
component focusing on implementing a paring control policy. This is a small universe within the ECA
region on which to gain lessons for project design.
However, the Bank has had extensive experience in other regions with projects that have an urban traffic
management focus, and a number of additional projects are in the development stage. Almost without fail
the principal project problems revolve around the establishment of suitable traffic management
organizations with adequately defined powers and responsibilities. Typically the traffic management
function is fragmented across several institutions, staff levels and funding are inadequate, and staff lack
adequate training and experience. While these problems have been recognized at the outset of project
preparation activities, the required institutional changes have been difficult to bring about within the time
frame of Bank supported projects.
To counteract this potential institutional problem under the proposed Moscow Project, a number of
measures were instituted as follows:
- 12 -



a. "Up front" study tours involving senior Moscow Officials traveling to Helsinki, Finland and to five
United States cities were arranged during the project preparation period. The study tours were also
intended as a basis for exhibiting the meits of and means of implementing parking, bus lane, and
advanced traffic signal programs.
b. The general consultant responsible for project preparation was required to propose specific
institutional recommendations.
c. Finnish advisors (grant funded) deployed during the project preparation period provided
institutional recommendations based on their practical experience. The current Director of the Helsinki
Traffic Planning Department was in residence in Moscow during a 16 month period.
d. Several Bank missions also offered specific institutional recommendations
e. A Mayoral decree established the Traffic Management Center on December 7, 1999 and a
subsequent decree on May 6, 2000 on "Measures for Further Improvement and Development of the
Traffic Management Center" established its functions, staffing, and authority.
f. A consulting advisory services contract providing two internationally qualified traffic engineers
plus additional short term specialist advisors will be financed for the first two years of TMC
operations.
Based on past experience in Russia and on other traffic management oriented projects, procurement also
can be expected to be a significant problem. Competitive international procurement is stil a relatively new
phenomenon in Russia, and procurement of equipment from intemational suppliers when a Rusian
alternative is available remains controversial. The procurement of traffic signal equipment has to be
undertaken with special care as the selection of the operating philosophy and design standards can result in
providing a significant competitive advantage from particular suppliers. To reduce this possible bias,
qualified experts from Italy, France, UK, and the United States have been involved in either preparing or
reviewing the technical specifications. Moreover, a qualified procurement team has been established within
the Project Implementation Unit
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Senior level Moscow officials have been involved in the project since the inception of its preparation. This
included originally the head of the city's Department of Unique Projects, and more recently the Deputy
Mayor in charge of Economic Policy. The Head of the Transportation and Communications Department
has held regular weekly meetings on the project. Mayoral decrees creating the Traffic Management Center
have been executed and the TMC chief has been appointed. Beyond these measures, the city has already
committed a substantial amount of its own resources to project preparation. Finally, construction of a
major pedestrian underpass is underway having used Bank procurement guidelines pursuant to seeking
retroactive financing under the project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank can provide substantial value added in support of the proposed project, including the following:
a. Institutional Development. The Bank has had extensive worldwide experience in preparing and
implementing urban transport projects in major urban areas that have multiple agencies concerned with
- 13 -



traffic and transportation problems. The Bank is accustomed to working across these institutional
boundaries under a smgle project framework and in providing a catalytic role in bringing together al
concerned agencies to meet project objectives. This activity has been and will continue to be
particularly important in the current project.
b. Economic Analysis Including investigation of Alternatives. The Bank also has bad extensive
expenence in assisting borrowers in exploring alternative solutions to complex traffic and tnrasport
problems. Preparation of the proposed project has required numaous choices to be made in meeting
the project objectives. This kind of economic analysis is not well developed in Russia.
c. Transportation Planning. The Bank has assided many bortwers in designing and undertkng
urban transportation plans, and is aware of the pitfalls of this type of undertaking. Particularly
important is the importance of sekcing and gaining broad stakeholder commitment to the planning
process to assure the practical implementation of plan proposals. The Bank is also experienced in
relating planned expenditures to available resources and in broadening the plan perspective to include
demand management, policies, and institutional considerations.
d. International Procurement. Competitive international procurement is still relatively new to Russia
and to Moscow. This is particularly true with regard to procument of sophisticated equipment like
traffic signals proposed under the project. The Bank can provide valuable guidance and advice in this
aspect of the project.
e. Catalyst for Donor Assistance. The Bank has and continues to be of assistance in obtaining and
coordinating donor assistance for the project To date the Bank has assisted in securing grants from
the UNDP, and agencies of the French, Finnish, Amercan, and British govemments worth over $2
million.
f. International Exposure. Beyond the financial benefit of donor assistance, the Bank can assist the
city m gaining important and relevant international exposure to important organizational and
technological innovations that could be applied in the city. Senior Moscow officials have already
traveled to Helsinki, Paris, Brazil and the United States on carefully designed study tours.
g. Demonstration Potential. By virtue of its widespread operations in Russia and in other countries
which have historically related to Russia, the Bank is well positioned to spread the demonsuaion
potential of the proposed project to other mid-to-large sized cities in the region. The opporAmities in
this case are particularly noteworthy as Moscow has traditionally been viewed as leader within the
region.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. EcoBomIc (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$24.6 million; ERR = 31 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The project consists of three general sets of expenditures for which economic analysis applies as follows:
(1) Significantfree standing infrastructure inchlding: (a) the Donbasky Bridge, and (b) pedestrian
undepasses. An IRR of 31% and NPV of $24.6 million (see Annex 4) are estimated for the Donbasky
- 14 -



Bndge, which comprises most of the free standing infrastucture under the project Economic rates of
return have been completed for some of the pedestrian   pase and others wil be completed prior to
Bank approval of these components. Benefits for all free standing investments are being computed based
on standard cost benefit analysis. This includes analysis of travel speeds, vehicle operating costs, travel
time savings and other relevant indicators. These components, in aggregate, account for about $50 million
or about 40% of the total project cost.
(2) Comprehensive coridor improvement schemes involving minor civil works and traffic signal
equipment along 35 kdlometers of city streets are partialy prepared but require additional planing and
design work. It is expected that these schemes wil have very high rates of retun, most likely exceeding
30% ERR based on standard cost benefit analysis covering the traffic impact for the entire corridor. The
design of these schemes and their economic rates of return will be completed under the project under the
direction of the Traffic Management Center. These components, estimated to cost m aggregate
approximately $47 million equivalent, represent about 38% of the total project cost
(3) Other components for which economic analysis does not apply. These include (a) creation
and operation of the Traffic Management Center, (b) the traffic enforcement program, (c) the surface
transit study, (d) special feasibility studies, and (e) staffing and operational costs of the Project
Implementation Unit. These components costing $27 million represent about 22% of the total project cost
Economic rates of return for these project components will not be computed as the benefits are not easily
quantifiable. However, these items can be shown to be highly cost effective. For example, the total cost of
the TMC component over five years represents 0.3% of the annual cost of travel time in Moscow. For
every one klometer per hour decline in average speed for cars and surface public transport, there is an
additional cost in time lost of $180 million per year. If the TMC can prevent just a fraction of one
kilometer hour decline in average speeds it will have a positive NPV. The overal economic rate of the
return of the project is expected to be substantial (exceeding 20%/. ERR) even if the costs of these
components were assumed to have no benefits and were assumed as part of the costs of the above two sets
of expenditures.
Non Ouantifiable Project Benefits
The project will be the first attempt to introduce western style traffic management in a large Russian city.
The central purpose of the proposed project is both to establish and strengthen the Traffic Management
Center (TMC) as a permanent city body with the authority and ability to plan, design, implement, and
operate traffic management schemes in the city. The traffic mgement schemes proposed are aimed
principally at demonstrating to city officials the benefits of weJl designed schemes, and to provide the staff
of the TMC a karning and professional growth experience. Assuming project success, and the preeminent
position of Moscow, the lessons learned are likely to be widely copied in other cities in Russian and the
ECA region.
Benefits as Part of Project Preparation. The project preparation process has already provided some benefits
including: (a) the establishment of a regular technical wodring group that meets weekly to address traffic
problems in the city, (b) the initiation of a traffic survey in the city center and another larger survey to
determine traffic patters in the city, (c) the initiation of a UNDP supported Transprtation Strategy Study,
inclusive of traffic modeling, to provide the tools to assess current investments and transport policies in the
city, (d) the initiation of a mobile sources strategy program with US EPA grant assistance, (e) an increased
appreciation of thorough feasibility studies as the basis for making efficient traffic investments, (f)
initiation and appreciation of the procurement procedures used by the Bank, and (g) most importantly, the
formal creation of the Traffic Management Center.
- 15-



Poject lnvestment Benefits. As descnried above, the proposed comprehensive corridor improvement
schemes are likely to have very high rates of return. The replacement of the narrow Donbasky bridge
located along the Varshovskoye comdor is expected to provide substantial benefits. Beyond these tangible
benefits, we expect that the traffic enforcement progrm will result in considerable improvements in traffic
conditions with consequent improvements in traffic safety and reduction of traffic incidents that cause
traffic delays. The surface transit study ought to result in increased efficiencies in the provision of transit
services, and the special project feasibility studies should result in more efficient allocation of
transportation investments within the city.
Longer Terms Benefits. The largest and most important benefits to be derived from the project are
expected to come from the creation and strengthening of the Traffic Management Center (TMC). Short
term project-specific benefits will be limited to those generated by the physical sub-projects, but the
longer-term impacts should be much larger. As the TMC becomes the focus of traffic management in the
city, benefits will come from improved traffic management investments and traffic policies undertaken
outside of the project investment framework. It is expected that as these traffic management measures gain
more credibility, the city will begin to focus more on these lower cost measures rather than capital intensive
works as a more cost effective means to address increasing transport demand.
2. Fluancial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The project is focusing on the provision of physical traffic management measures and selected traffic
related infrastructure, as well as technical assistance and training, all of which is to be provided on a
budgetary basis to non-revenue earning entities. Since these expenditures represent a small share of total
Moscow city budget allocations, counterpart finding should not present a significant project
implementation problem as long as the city views the project as having a reasonable priority within its
overall expenditure program.
Fiscal Impact:
The inapct of the project on Moscow city fiances wiU be minimal as it is small in relation to overall city
expenditures. For example, average annual project expenditures over an assumed 4 year implementation
period will be about $31 million equivalent as compared to the 21.7 billion rubles (equivalent to about $US
3.4 billion based on July 15, 1998 exchange rates) the city spent on all transport capital improvements and
operating subsidies during 1998, the last year for which expenditures are available. The project represents
only about 4% of estimated transport expenditures (as set out in the Strategy Study) over the next five
years and a much smaller part of total city expenditures. The city has been subject to a financial
assessment commissioned by the Ministry of Finance which demonstrates the capacity of the city to repay
the subloan.
3. Technical:
Comprehensive Traffic Manement Schemes. The Moscow city government has not, as a matter of
practice, planned and implemented a comprehensive set of traffic management measures as a package along
its major travel arteries. These measures could include, inter-alia, the following: (a) minor civil works to
improve the geometry of intersections, (b) traffic signalization, (c) signing and road marking, (d) selective
road widening, (e) provision of barrier medians, and (f) addition of several at-grade pedestrian crossings,
and (1) construction of grade separated pedestrian crossings at a few critical intersections. The lack of a
- 16-



comprehensive approach to improving traffic corridors became evident during the project preparation
phase, and will need to be corrected during dte detiled egineering phase of the work to be conducted
under the direction of the Traffic Management Center. Traffic experts with intemational experience will be
posted in the Traffic Management Center for about two years to assist in developing the traffic
management skills, including comprhensive traffic management packages.
Traffic Si"nal System. The TMC should, during the course of the project, assume overall responsibility
for the planning, design, procurement, and operation of the traffic signal system in the Moscow. There are
numerous technical issues regarding the selection and procuramt of traffic signal technology. These
include a wide range of choices among proprietary and open-architecture trffic signal systems, the degree
of traffic demand responsiveness, the type of central vs decentralized controL  and the type of
communication between controllers on-street and centrl control stations. Beyond the selection of
appropnate technology, there are also procurement issues. The technical specifications will need to be
performance oriented to provide for reasonable intemnational competition. This might require a two stage
bidding process. (Equipment for the central control room will be procured without Bank assistance as
much of the equipment is currently provided by particular suppliers and it would not make practical sense
to provide altemative additional equipment that might not be compatible.) Due to the complexity of traffic
signal systems and their procurement, one of the advisors posted to the Traffic Management Center will be
an expert with extensive traffic signal experience.
Donbasky Bridze and Pedestrian Undernasses.   The Moscow city govermment has had extensive
experience in constructing bridges and pedestrian underpasses. ln addition, the PIU which is managing the
Moscow component of the Russian Bridge Rehabilitation Project, and which is part of the same legal entity
as the PIU which is responsible for this project, will be able to provide assistance with the procurement and
management of this component. Due to its large scale and complexity, consultants will be hired to assist
with the construction supervision of the Donbasky Brdge complex.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Foundation Moscow Project Implementation Unit (FMPIU) will be responsible for overall project
management including procurement, project financial management, agency coordination, and reporting to
the Moscow city Government, the Russian Federation Government, and the BanL. The newly established
Traffic Management Center (TMC) will assume responsibility for the planning and design of the
Comprehensive Corridor Improvement Program, the Comprehensive Central Area schemes, and for
conducting various traffic monitoring and management studies. The FMPIU will provide procurement
oversight for all project components including those delegated to the Traffic Management Center.
Dorinvest (essentially the city roads department) will handle construction supervision of the traffic
improvement schemes. It is expected that the TMC will gradually assume full operational control of the
traffic signal system. Moscapstroi (the city bridge department) will oversee and contract out the
construction supervision of the Donbasky bridge.
A secondary but important institutional objective under the project will be the strengthening of the traffic
enforcement function. This will require some changes in the operational procedures and in some cases
reorganization of enforcement teams and assignments. Supporting these changes a substantial amount of
enforcement equipment will be procuredl For these reasons, detailed operational plans will be required for
the use of this equipment prior to Bank "no objection" to proceed with procurement of equipment under the
project. This plan must detail what units of GIBDD will receive this equipment and what specific
operational and institutional changes will be undertaken to effectively use this equipment.
- 17-



4.2 Project management:
The PIU for this project was established within the "Foundation Moscow Project implementation Unit"
(FMPIU) in early 1998 and has been responsble for the preparation of the project and relations with the
Bank to date. It currently manages project preparation and the ongoing Transport Strategy for the city. It
has a staff of eight persons, consisting of a Director, two technical professional staff, two accountants, a
procurement expert, and two support staff. The PIU staff will be strengthened by the time of loan
effectiveness to provide an adequate project financial managemet system.
The Foundation is an autonomous non commercial organiation founded by the Economic Policy and
Development Department of the Moscow Goverment The Foundation includes the PIU for the Moscow
city component of the Bridge Rehabilitation Project. See Annex 13 for a chart showing relationships.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Contracts for works and goods to be financed under the Loan will be procured in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under JBRD Loans and IDA Credits, (dated January 1995, revised
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); consultants will be hired in accordance
with the Guidelines - Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrower, ( dated
January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. Major project elements, their estimated costs
and proposed procumment methods and packages are shown in Annex 6. Bank standard bidding
documents will be used.
All procurement under the proposed project will be carried out by the FMPIU, which reports to a Deputy
Prime Minister of Moscow who is in charge of the Department of Economic and Development Policy. A
procurement capacity assessment of the agency was conducted November 1999. A summary assessment is
provided in Table B2 of Annex 6 and a detailed assessment is provided in the Project Files.
In their policy letter, shown in Annex 12, the Moscow city Government confirms its commitment to use
competitive procedures to procure civil works, goods and services under all projects in the sector.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial Management Capacity: The financial management capacity within the Russian Federation is
currently the subject of a Country Financial Accountability Assessment which will be prepared in FY2001.
Primarily because of other implementation consideration, any wealnesses that may exist in the financial
management capacity in Russia have been mitigated for this project by the use of an existing PIU for
project implementation, including financial management, drawing on its experience on projects of this
nature and of auditors selected from the list of auditors eligible to conduct audits on Bank assisted projects.
Special Account: Following the financial crisis of August 1999, the Govemment of Russia reduced the list
of financial institutions eligible to house IBRD Special Accounts. The Government and IBRD continue to
monitor the performance of the financial sector. The PIU will open a Special Account in one of the
available eligible financial institutions that meets the criteria set out in the Bankes Disbursement Handbook
dated January 2000.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for enviromnental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
After some assistance from a Bank mission during the second half of 1999, the Borrower began work on
preparing two EMPs: one for the project as a whole, and a second and more detailed one for the Donbasky
- 18 -



Bridge complex, which is by far the biggest single component under the project Environmental criteria
were included as the basis for evaluating several design options for this bridge and in the selection of the
preferred design. Spetzmoststroi a state owned bridge constuction company, carried out the studies.
These documents have been approved by the relevant Moscow authorities (see below).
The works included under the Project are for reconstruton or limited upganding of road transport
infrastructure. The Project is rated as category B, as its negative impacts are not considered to be
significant, numerous, major or diverse. No irrevesible negative impacts are envisaged. With respect to
construction, the impacts are expected to be confined to the immediate vicinity and will primarily involve
(a) generation of noise and dust that will affect adjacent properdes, (b) limited damage to local vegetation,
(c) possible production of mateTials contamined with clevated concentrations of pollutants through
cleaning of drainage works and removal of excavated soils, and (d) some local disuption to vehicle and
pedestrian traffic flows during construction. In addituon, the realignment of the tram line adjacent to the
Donbasky Bridge will require the removal from public land of approximately 40 prefabricated garages,
where established city compensation procedures, acceptable to the Bankl are to be invoked.
Positive longer term environmental impacts are anticipated for both the works and technical
assistance/studies being funded under the Loan. The traffic management measures to be implemented
along the Varshovskoye and Schelkovskoye corridors, and the schemes prepared under the project for the
Central Area of the city will result, other things being equal, in improved traffic conditions - and
consequently unproved envirommental conditions - as compared with the no project option. The project
includes funds for undertaking studies on these impacts. There wiUl be opportunities arising from these
studies to influence polcies and strategies that directly relate to improving environmental conditions in the
city.
There are minor health and safety issues relating to the implementation of all the physical works (e.g
working at height, working close to active train lines or roads, access of the public to construction sites).
These are adequately covered through city legislation and contract law. The works themselves will have
negligible negative social impact either durng construction or operation.
The Project is part of the implementation of the Moscow city Transport Strategy. This includes a
comprehensive sector Environment Management Plan (in addition to the two project EMPs) which is
prioritized and budgeted for in the city's short and longer term transport investment plans. The city
Transport EMP covers measures to improve air quality, noise, waste reduction, and carbon dioxide
emissions as well as sets out the legislative, financial and institutional changes required to enhance
performance in this field.
Consultation has taken place as detailed in para 5.4 below.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The project EMP identifies (a) possible environmental and socio-economic impacts in both the constuction
and operation phases, (b) measures to mitigate these impacts, (c) authorities responsible for implementing
the mitigation measures, (d) monitoring requirements, and (e) authorities responsibk for monitoring and
enforcement activities. The recommendations of the EMP are supported and reflected in project design and
implementation (including economic analysis and design alternatives for the Donbasky bridge).
The implementation of mitigation measures is included in individual construction contracts and their costs
included as part of individual components. The measures will include (a) noise and dust - limiting
working hours, noise suppression equipment, watering (b) vegetation - mniumizing damage and employing
-19-



standard compensation procedures where damage is essential, (c) waste materials - testing, analysis,
obtaining disposal permits, safe handling and disposal at designated sites, (d) traffic - prepaing interim
traffic management plans and providing alternative access for adjacent propeies as necessary, (e)
relocation of private property - using established city procedures acceptable to the bank and (f)
archaeological finds - obtaining construction permits forno the Moscow city Protection of Monuments
Department, and adopting standard procedures on unearthing a relic.
The cost of implementing the Donbasky Bridge EMP, available in the project files, has already been
estimated and budgeted for at $1.3 million, or 3.4%/ of the total cost of the works.
Moscompriroda will provide the majority of staff required to supervise the implementation of the EMP. It
is a competent and professionally staffed environmental agency with an established record.
A covenant regarding implementation of the EMP is included in the loan agreement.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: April 24, 2000
The EMP for Donbasky Bridge and the Project EMP are now completed and are approved by the relevant
Moscow authorities. Usual city practice is for public notification of the existence of the final EMP to take
place only after formal approval by the State Committee for Moscow for Environmental Protection
(Moscompriroda). This organization gave its written approval on April 12, 2000 for the Project EMP and
the detailed EMP for the Donbasky Bridge Component. The EMP was available from April 25, 2000 in
the local district public libraries and advertisements have been placed in local newspapers to inform
constituents of their existence. A "right to reply" has also been provided.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed envionment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The public opinion service Vox Populi conducted a survey at the end of 1999 under contract to the
Moscow government The main objective of this survey was to understand public opinion on proposed new
road construction, including the Donbasky bridge and the 3rd and 5th ring roads, more general
environmental and tranwsport problems, and on the city authoritys activities in this field. Interviews were
conducted by phone and in person with pensioners, office workers, engineers, workers and students. The
consultations included discussion of proposed new investments; their duration of construction; preservation
of existing green plantations iD the area; predicted noise levels; predicted atmospheric conditions; and
guarantees of compensation for the private property (40 x garages) to be demolished. The consultations
influenced the final design of the Donbasky bridge and associated tram flyover. In addition, there have
been direct discussions with representatives of the garage owners association.
Broader sociological surveys in the South Administrative District were caied out at the end of 1998
and beginning of 1999 by the Center of Ecological Surveys and Projects and local branches of
Moskompriroda. Their main objective was to develop recommendations for rational land use in the
interests of municipal engineering and inhabitants of Moscow.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The EMP for the project and detailed EMP for the Donbasky Bridge, available in the project files, both
give the mechanisms for monitoring and evaluating the impact of the project on the environment. District
level offices of Moskompriroda take primary responsibility for observing and controlling activities that
-20 -



have an environmental impact. In addition, the Association of Administrton and Works lnspectorates of
Moscow and the State Sanitary and Epidemiological Inspecdon Center all have roles to play in monitoring
compliance with specific city standards and regulations.
The detailed project specifications inchlded in each of the road or bridge works contract documents will
state what actions need to be taken by the contractor and how and by whom compliance will be measured
and monitored. The contract documents wiU only be produced after Board approval. They wil be subject
to Bank review and/or no objection before the documents are finally approved by the Department of
Economic Policy and development on behalf of the city. The PIU, as the clien's representative, will be
legally responsible for ensuring compliance with the contract specifications.
For major works such as the Donbasky bridge, residents' monitoring groups wiU be established. These will
include representatives from local residents, the client and contractor. This wil provide a mechanism for
monitoring implementation of the EMP on the ground, bringing concems to the fore and resolving any
disputes. The Bank will supervise the functioning of these groups.
Due to the difficulty with disaggregating causes and effects in air quality changes, the project wiU use
average travel speeds through the corridors where the project is financing traffic management measures as
a proxy for the impact on vehicle emissions and therefore on air quality. Other things being equal, reduced
travel times would imply reduced emissions and therefore improved air quality.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The key social development issues might be summarized under three main categories:
(a.) Service Delivery - the level of consumer satisfaction with traffic management measures to reduce
traffic congestion and with initiatives to improve public transport services
(b) Targeting of Public Resources - the portion and amounts of the city budget used to finance major road
investments, to finance lower cost traffic management measures, and to subsidize public tranwsport; the
relationship of these costs to the direct and indirect charges and taxes levied on citizens.
(c) Public Sector Accountability - the degree of user and citizen participation in decision making and
monitoring of transport impacts, the amount of representation by heterogeneous groups like "taxpayers" or
"accident victims", and ability of public transport users to bring poor service to account.
The desirable social outcomes to which the project will strive are:
*   Better protection of vulnerable road users, especially pedestrians
*   Stop or at least slow down the current shift from public to private transportation
*   Through the public transport study, provide the right information to decision makers such that they
can improve targeting of available subsidies to those who need it
* Increased participation of the general public in decision maling in the sector
The proper management and mitigation of the negative impacts of possible unemployment brought about
through public transport operation restucturing will be included in the surface public transport strategy
review being funded under the project
-21 -



6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The regularly scheduled meetings of the Transportation Commission headed by the First Deputy Mayor
involve all key public sector agencies and institutes in the city concened with urban transport issues. No
transport investments of significance are funded by the city govemment or major policy initiatives
undertaken without first passing through the full Commison and its technical committees. Through the
Commission, these organizations have been and will continue to be involved in project design and
implementation. In addition, a number of stkebolder workhops were conducted during the process of the
overall Tranport Strategy development where broad public sector representation was achieved.
The level of citizen, NGOs and commercial participation in both the development of the Strategy and this
project has been limited to date. There are currently very few NGOs operating in the urban transport
sector in Moscow. For the project, representatives of the Rayons (sub-city governmental units) have been
actively involved in reviewing the traffic management plans for the two transport corridors in the project
The environmental section above also discusses the social surveys undertaken as part of the Environmental
Assessment. The level of participation by non government and Rayon stakeholders is expected to increase
substantially during the project. More specifically, these organizations will become involved in reviewing
the proposed schemes prepared by the Traffic Management Center and in providing input to the Surface
Transit Study.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Project Design - To date there has been limited consultation with professional organizations, research
institutes, NGOs and business representatives, chambers of commerce and industry, and trade unions.
However, since much of the project remains to be designed to a detailed level the TMC will seek the
participation of these groups.
Project Implementation - The TMC will endeavor to work with Civil Society Organizations (CSO) in a
number of areas including dissemination of traffic data and road safety infonnation. The Department of
Transport and Communications will seek CSO input during the surface public transport strategy study.
Project Monitoring - CSOs will be actively involved in annual public consultation workshops to be
conducted by the TMC with assistance of the PIU.
6.4 What institutional armgements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
To ensure more inclusive participation in planning and decision making, the project will include the
following mechanisms: (a) project launch workshop with city government stating desired social
development outcomes, (b) strengthening /creation within goverment (especially the TMC) of the capacity
to foster improved dialogue, and (c) freer access to public documents.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in tenns of social development outcomes?
Some of the social development outcomes are explicitly cited as indicators in the logical framework in
Annex 1, including pedestrian accidents and stakeholder satisfaction with process. The data will be
generated by the concerned government bodies plus independent audits conducted by the PIU or its agent as
necessary.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
- 22 -



Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitat (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0Yes * No
Citurd  Property (OPN 11.03)                                    O Yes * No
Tndlgenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    O Yes * No
TIvoluntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              O Yes   No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes   No
Projects In International Waters (OP 750, BP 7.5, GP 7.50)      0 Yes 0 No
Projects In Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
See environmental section above.
F. Sustalnability and Risks
1. Sustainablity:
The project has been prepared with an emphasis on establishing a permanent Traffic Management Center
within the Moscow city govermment. The central goal of the project is to create and strengthen this entity
so that it wil have the authority and ability to plan, design, and budget for the implementation of traffic
management schemes, as well as the authority to operate and maintain the traffic signal system. Project
sustainability wiUl accordingly be dependent upon the early establishment of the Traffic Management
Center with suitably defined authority, staffing, and budget both to assist in implementing the proposed
project, and to carry out the overall traffic management function for the city of Moscow. Along with the
establishment of this entity, substantial inter-organizational cooperation wil be required to assure project
sustainability. Decrees establishing the TMC and spelling out its functions have been signed by the Mayor
of Moscow. The chief of the TMC has been appointed, staff are being recruited and office space is being
secured.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
.**.*......,*.*...*.*.*.*&...*...~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........
From Outputs to Objective
City political commitment to a strong       S         A budget and work program for the TMC wiU
TMC with adequate authority                           be agreed during negotiations. Traffic advisory
consultants wiUl be assigned to the TMC for the
first two years to establish organizational
competence and credibility. Annual workshops
wiU be used to include all stakeholders in the
review process. This will help build support and
legitimacy.
-23-



City devotes adequate counterpart funding  N       Moscow city Government has traditionally
and recurrent budget to surface transport          funded road construction and maintenance at
infrastructure assets.                             adequate levels. Establishment of adequate
project accounts should ensure adequate
counterpart funding. Supervision missions will
monitor maintenance practices.
Moscow refocuses traffic police on        H        A monitorable and time-bound operations plan
mobile enforcement of driver behavior              for improved mobile enforcement of driver
rather than static inspection of documents         behavior will be required before equipment is
procured under this component.
Political will to address cost recovery and  S     A time bound action plan to improve quality of
operational efficiencies of surface transit        services and reduce subsidies will be an output
system                                             of the Surface Transit Study. The Study will be
prepared with widespread collaboration from all
stakeholders and with public stakeholder
meetings. This should make its findings and
recommendations hard to ignore.
PIU remains fully staffed with adequate   N        Staffing of the PIU will be reinforced by a legal
authority                                          covenant.
From Components to Outputs
Trained staff remain in TMC               M        A full complement of 20 TMC professional staff
are to be in place during the first year of project
implementation and maintained as required by a
dated covenant. Staff retention should be
enhanced by an interesting work program and
domestic and intemational staff training
Traffic Management Center given           M        Decrees establishing and spelling out TMC
adequate responsibility to manage                  functions and authority have been signed by the
planning and design of works components            Mayor.
Adequate construction supervision of      M        Construction supervision consultants are to be
major Donbasky Bridge complex                      secured for assisting in construction supervision
Police management support of changing     M        The goals of the traffic enforcement program
enforcement priorities                             and on the use of technical assistance and
tRining funds to prepare an operational program
for use of enforcement equipment to be procured
under the project have been agreed with police
management.
MCG agreement to surface transit study    M        Study terms of reference are prepared. Final
objectives                                         agreement of TOR is to be reached at or before
loan negotiations.
-24-



Locating Special Account in a              M        Country Office working with GOR to resolve
commercial bank conflicts with GOR                  systemic conflict
Budget Code preventing opening and/or
use of account
Overall Risk Raung                         M
Risk Ratig - H (High Risk), S (Substarial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(NeglbiWe or Low Risk)
The project is rated as having a substantial risk at this time as the Traffic Management Center is a new
organization that is not fully staffed, and other organizations within the Moscow city government currently
handle parts of the TMCs proposed functions. This stuation will need to be carefuUly monitored during
the first year of implmentation during which time the TMC will need to establish competence and
credibility.
3. Posdble Controversial Aspects:
During the September 1999 preparation mission, the project was substantialy trimmed with the
concurrence of Moscow city officials from a more comprehensive original formulation. This has resulted in
the shedding of components that were either controversial or which did not have reasonable prospects for
adequate preparation and implementation within the proposed project time frame. Since the TMC is a new
entity which will be assuming responsibilities that have traditionally been held by other Moscow city
organizations, it is possible that its authority and range of responsibilities wiU be challenged by existing
organizations. This can only be addressed over time and by establishing a TMC that is recognized as
competent
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness ConditionField Deflinition: Summarize the conditions for loIcredlt effectiveness
_  The Moscow city Government has opened a Project Account in a bank with an initial deposit in
local currency equivalent to at least $150,000.
o  A subsidiary loan agreement has been executed by the Borrower and the Moscow city Government.
*  An auditor for the project, with qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, has
been appointe.
*  Advisors to the TMC have been contracted.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Dibursement Condition:
* Equipment for traffic police to be procured after the adoption of a monitorable operational plan for
use of the equipment including staff to receive the equipment, methods and procedures for
equipment usage, and organizational and operational changes required to effectively utilize the
equipment
-25-



Other Loan Conditions:
*   The Borrower shal cause the city to: (i) open a Project Account in a bithan   initial deposit in
local currency equivalent to at least $150,000; (ii) naintain said Project Account, during execution
of the Project, with a minimum balance adequate to finance Project expenditures as and when they
become due; and (iii) use the funds of said Project Account exclusively for financing the Project.
*  The Borrower wil on-lend the total amount of the loan to the city of Moscow on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
* The Borrower shall cause the city to have its records, accounts, and financial statements as
specified by the Bank audited each year according to standards acceptable to the Bank, and will
furnish within 6 months after the end of each fiscal year an audit in such scope and detail as
requested by the Bank.
*   The Borrower shall cause the city to maintain the PIU, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, with adequate staff, resources and facilities to carry out the project efficiently until its
completion.
*  The Borrower shall cause the city to have in place at least 20 professionatly qualified staff in the
Traffic Management Center by July 31, 2001 and maintain the Traffic Management Center with
satisfactory staff and funding over the life of the project
*  The Borrower will cause the city to prepare and submit to the Borrower and the Bank, starting in
March 2001 and not later than 30 days after the end of each quarter, quarterly reports on the
progress of project implementation.
*  The Borrower shall cause the city to furnish the Bank by October 30, 2002 a report on the results
of ongoing monitoring and evaluation activities to assess the progress made in carrying out the
project and achievement of project objectives. The Borrower will further cause the city to review
with the Bank by December 31, 2002 this report, and based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the report and the views of the Bank on the matter, take all measures required
to ensure the efficient completion of the project and achievement of the project objectives.
* No withdrawals may be made for expenditures prior to the date of the Loan Agreement except
those in aggregate which do not exceed $1.6 million on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after January 1, 2000 (retroactive financing provision).
*   The Borrower shall cause the city to undertake all measures required to carry out the
Environmental Management Plan.
*   The Borrower shall cause the city to conduct an annual stakeholders meeting with the assistance of
the PIU to review the adequacy of traffic management components and progress toward meeting
the social objectives of the project.
*  The Borrower shall cause the city to furnish the Bank within 6 months of the Credit Closing Date a
plan for future operation of the project.
-26-



H. Readiness for Implementation
[l 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first yeaKs activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implmentation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0I 4. The foliowing items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The first year program will focus principaUy on the establishment and strengthening of the Traffic
Management Center and in advancing its work programs, as well as preparing the training and procurement
progms for the traffic police and initiating a major surface transit study. Detailed design work wil be
advanced during CY 2001 on the Donbasky Bridge and on the Varshovskoye and Schelkovskoye corridors
with bidding commencing during late 2001.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project compLies with aU applicable Bank policies.
I] 2. The foliowing exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approvaL The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Richard C. Podolske              Ricardo   Halperin               JlanF. Schweitzer
Team Leader                      Sector Dir.ct.(                 Country Manager
-27 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Moscow Urban Transport Project
Sector-relabd CAS Goal:   Sector Indicaton:      SedoI country reports:   (from Goal to Bank bUsslon)
Facilitate sustainable      * Improve the          * Supervision missions    *  Economic growth
economic growth in             institutional       * TMC reports               contributes to poverty
Moscow city                    capacity of the city                           reduction
of Moscow to plan,  * Independent polls
design, implement,
operate and enforce
traffic management
measures
* Cost of congestion
reduced
* Passengers satisfied
with surface
transport situation
Project Development     Outcome I Impact         ProJect reports:         (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:              Indicator:
Improved surface mobility    * Increased vehicular    * TMC monitoring     *  Political continuity
in Moscow                    and person-trip         reports               * Equitable economic
throughput on major                             growth
selected corridors
* Reduced number of   * TMC monitoring          0 Metro system
total accidents, and   reports                  continues to meet
reduced accidents                               demand
that involve personal                        * Economic stability
injury and deaths, on
selected corridors
* Reduced number of    * Police accident reports
pedestrian injuries    and TMC monitoring
and deaths on          reports
selected corridors
* Increased passenger   * T&C monitoring
trips by surface       reports
transit
* Reduced               * Annual reports of
concentrations of        environmental
hazardous emissions      authorities
on selected corridors
-28 -



Output from *ach         Output IndlcatoProjct r--p--r-t---               (from Outputs to ObJective)
Component:
t . Establishment of    1.1I TMC filly staffed with *   Quarteriy reports  a..  City political
iniproved traffic       a complimaent of at least 20 *   Supervision mission s ... commiitment to a
management arrangements professionals             * Consultants' services     strong TMC with
adequate authority
* Annual stalceholder
* Any necessary future
1.2. Positive assessment of  workshop                legal changes made to
traffic management decision  * TMC annual reports     permit the TMC to
making practices and traffic  An sk l                 operate effectively
management quality by     * Annual stahop holder     opte  efe
professional stakeholders    Wofhop                    or* City manages demand
and nongovernmental  .. TMfor private vehicle use
organizations             0 TMC  reports              more proactively
Qua.rl re   * Adequate air quality
1.3 TMC traffic monitoring  * Supervision missions    data supplied by
system providing adequate                             Moscompriroda and
data and analysis to permit                           other concerned city
rational project design and                           agencies
evaluation
2. improved implementation 2.1 Minimization of costs    * Quarterly reports  * City devotes adequate
efficiency of transport  and strict compliance with    * Supervision missions  counterpart funding
network development      implementation schedules    * Post construction ERR   and recurrent budget
investment projects      and established quality      calculations             to surface transport
(comprehensive corridor    standards                                           infrastructure assets
and spot improvements)
2.2 ERR for selected
investments at least 25%
-29-



3. Improved traffic     3.1. Completion of         * Quarterly reports      *  City devotes adequate
management efficiency in   approved plans and      * Supervision missions      counterpart funding
the Central Area        feasibility studies for    * Post construction ERR     and recurrent budget
opbimizing taffic            calculations             to surface transport
management into and within                           infrastructure assets
the central area, including,
inter-alia:
(a) a parking plan for the
Central Area including,
on-street paring, parking
lots, and interceptive
parking.
(b) a plan for restricting
vehicular traffic into and
through the central area
(c) a plan for optimizing
public transport opeations
into and within the Central
Aea incluhding the metro
system.
4. Cost effective       4.1 Works completed on     * Quarterly reports      * City devotes adequate
construction of Donbasky   time, budget and quality  * Supervision missions    counterpart funding
Bridge                   4.2 ERR for selected      * Post construction ERR     and recurrent budget
investmenb at least 20%      calculations             to surface transport
infrastructure assets
5. Traffic Police better    5.1 End of training course    * Quarterly reports  *  Police force
trained and equipped to    evaluation reports      * Supervision missions      adequately funded
refocus on mobile               .           .      * Tmffic Police annual
enforcement of driiver   5.2 Monitorable operathons    eprs*  Necessary legal
e .rcemen of driver plan for improved mobile                              changes to permit
behavior, rather than static  enforcement of driver                            more effective traffic
enforcement and mspection  behavior                                            enforcement
of documents
5.3 Improved traffic
enforcement
- 30 -



6. Improved planning for  6.1 Time bound and     * Quartely reports      * Political will to
surface public transport    monitorable action plan to    * Supervimion missions  address cost recovery
improve quality of service                          and operational
and improve financial                               inefficiencies
swtainability                                    * Action plan used in
timely and effective
manner to inform
decision making
* Necessary regulatory
changes made for
private sector
participation in public
transport
7. Improved strategic  7.1 Indicators to be      * Quarterly progress    * MCG timely
decision making         determined based on agreed  reports                  agreement to these
design of this program   * Supervision missions     studies
8. Implementation of    8.1 PIU fully staffed with    * Quartery progress  * PIU remains fully
effective project       adequate budget by          reports                  staffed and with
management              12/30/2000                * Supervision missions     adequate authority to
8.2 Client satisfaction with                        manage the project
project                                           * Decision on location of
special account does
not delay effectiveness
Projet Components I     Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:    (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                      Outputs)
1. Traffic Management    *$11.6 million          * Quarterly reports &    * Trained staff remain in
Center                                              supervision missions     TMC
*  Disbursement reports   * TA adequately
transfers skdlls
* Adequate recurrent
funds for project
monitoring and
evaluation
2. Comprehensive Corridor *$47.6 million          * Quarterly reports &   * Traffic Management
Improvement Program                                 supervision missions     Center given adequate
* Disbursement reports    responsibility to
manage planning and
design of this
component
- 31 -



3. Comprehensive Central  *$6.2 million            0 Quarterly reports &    * Traffic Management
Area Traffic Improvement                              supervision missions     Center given adequate
Program                                            0   Disbursement reports    responsibility to
manage planning and
design of this
component
4. Construction of      *$39.0 million             * Quarterly reports &    * Adequate construction
Donbasky Bridge                                       supevision missions      supervision
* Disbursement reports
5. Traffic Enforcement  *$10.3 million             * Quarterly reports &    * Police management
Program                                               suvision missions        support of changes in
* Disbursement reports     enforcement priorities
* Trained staff stay in
right department
* Equipment adequately
maintained
6. Surface Transit Study    *$2.0 million          * Quarterly reports &    * MCG agreement to
supervision missions     study objectives
* Disbursement reports
7. Special Project      *$0.9 million              * Quarterly reports &    * MCG agreement to
Feasibility Studies                                   supervisiotn missions    study objectives
* Disbursement reports
8. Project Management   *$2.5 million              * Quarterly r eports &
(Project Implementation                               supervisiotn missions
Unit)                                      _          Disbuwsement reports
-32 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Moscow Urban Transport Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$11.60 million
Trffic Management Center. A Traffic Management Center (TMC) with at least 20 professional staff
wil be created and strengthened under the project The TMC wil be responsible for the planning and
design of traffic management schemes under the project as well as the opeation and maintenance of traffic
signals. It is also intended that the TMC wil be responsible for the planning and design of the entire city
traffic management program as it gains saffing and expeience. Beyond these tasks, the TMC will be
responsible for (a) traffic studies and a traffic counting and monitoring program, (b) development of traffic
models, (c) a city-wide area traffic control study, (d) parking studies, and (e) a public information
dissemination program. Two full time consultant advisors plus short term specialists wil be provided to
TMC for a period of two years to assist in start up activities and to train staff. Loan finds wil be used to
finance technical assistance, training, traffic and transport studies, equipment, and library materials.
Project Component 2 - US$47.60 million
Comprehensive Corridor Improvement Program A comprehensive range of traffic and safety
enhancing improvements will be undertaken along the Varshovskoye and Schelkovskoye corridors both of
which radiate from the Garden Ring in the city center to the Outer Ring Road (MKAD) encircling Moscow.
An additional traffic corridor to be determined wiUl be planned, designed, and implemented under the
Project as well as numerous spot improvements to be identified. These improvements wil include,
inter-alia, minor civil works to improve intersection geometrics, traffic signal installations, medians to
improve traffic flow and safety, selected road widening, at grade pedestrian crossings, road signing and
marking, and pedestian underpasses. Bus priority lanes wiU be provided to enhance surface transit
ridership in the Schelkovskoye corridor. Three pedestrian underpasses wil also be constructed on the
Varshovskoye Corridor.
Project Component 3 - USS 6.20 million
Comprehensive Central Area Traffic Improvement Program Feasibility studies begun for the Garden
Ring and the Central Area of the city durng the project preparation period will be completed under the
Project. Once the feasibility studies are completed and approved, Project finance will be provided to
complete detailed engineerng for schemes in this 20 Square klcometer area Project funds for construction
in this area of the city will be limited for financing one pedestrian underpass along the Garden Ring.
Project Component 4 - US$39.00 million
Donbasky Bridge Construction. The current 4 lane Donbasky Bridge located along the Varshovskoye
corridor needs to be widened to accommodate 8 lane roadway approaches on either side of the bridge. In
addition, the existing tram track bridge will be replaced to eliminate an at grade crossing of the
Varshovskoye corridor in that location. Both improvements are expected to substantially reduce traffic
congestion at this critical bottleneck location.
Project Component 5 - US$10.30 million
Traffic Enforcement Progrm. The primary intent of this component is to improve the methods and
procedures of the traffic police with the aum of increasing their effectiveness in traffic enforcement and
management The expected outcomes are i.) increased road safety through discouraging poor driver
behavior and better documenting and analyzing traffic accidents as well as ii.) reducing delays caused by
traffic incidents. The component includes procurement firsdy, of traiinig and advisory services to assist in
-33-



improving procedures and secondly, of modem equipment for use in gathering evidence for illegal driving
and for managing post accident incidents. The proposed list of goods and services under the component is
shown below.
The component will proceed incrementally to ensure proper training of staff and the implementation of an
appropriate operational plan to maximize the impact of the proposed new procedures and equipment The
following basic steps are anticipated:
* First, a study tour would be conducted to better define the training of trainers program and to
refine the proposed equipment list.
* Second, training of trainers would commence at one or two international locations under terms of
reference agreed with the Bank. Upon compktion of this training, the trainers would train other
trainers in the Moscow Traffic Police Training Center.
* Third, a training program for operational officers designated to use the equipment would be
conducted by the Moscow Training Center.
* In parallel with conducting the training program (Step #3 above), operational plans for effectively
utilizing the equipment would be prepared in cooperation with an international police advisor(s)
financed by the Bank. The advisor would both work to establish the program and to monitor its
implementation.
O The equipment would be procured in three tranches as follows:
(i)    Equipment for the training center,
(ii)    A first tranche for operational police, and
(iii)   A second and larger tranche learning from the experience of the first
None of the equipment other than that for training purposes will be procured until a satisfactory operational
plan is approved by the senior officer in charge of the Traffic Police and the Banlk This operational plan
would need to include at least (i) the staff to receive the equipment, (i) the methods and procedures to
utilize the equipment, and (iii) the organizational and operational changes to utilize the equipment. The
operational plan would be carefully monitored by the police advisor as the equipment procured under the
first tranche is utilized.
- 34 -



Item                               No. units              Rate                 Cost
_ _ _ _ _  _  _       _   _             _  _       _$                                S
Se ces ....... ........    ........................................ .......... ... . .   . . ....................................... .....
Studytou  and tran          of tranr           ..   _                                 150,000 S  ..         150,
Advisory services                                                1                   440,000                 440,000
Equipment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~........................................... ......... ...  ................   ................................ ......  _....I........................................  .................................................
Mobile t n units                                                2                     190,000                380,000
Vehicle mounted video cameras                                  300                     12,567              3,770?
................ ......                      ...................................... .. ...................... .......................  ...................................
Hand held laser speed.recordm. instrunents                     300                     12,567              3,770,0
sAs                                                            25                         75018,7
Accident warning displays                                      200                      4,100                820,000
............................. .  ... . .........p .........................................................  .....  ...................   ................................ ,................
Accident naln  equipment                                       200                        300                 60,000
Accident investigaion devices                                   25                     30,40                 760,000
Teaching aides                                                   5                      6 000                 30,000
Office equipment for SSI                                         1                     80,000                 80,
.__________________________________ ..             ___...   ____.                To               10
Project Component 6 - US$2.00 million
Surface Transit Study. City officials recognize that the surface transit system (autobuses, trolleybuses,
and trams) could play a more substantial role in accommodating travel demand in Moscow. For this reason
a study wil be conducted under the direction of the Transportation & Communications Department. The
principal study objective is to make recommendations that would lead to: (a) improving the level of service
and operational efficiency of the surface transit system in Moscow, and (b) improving the financial
sustainability of this system with a view to reducing and better targeting over time the subsidies to this
system. The study would: (a) present a comprehensive picture of the current surface transit urban
passenger situation through the collection and analysis of primary and secondary data; then (b) based on
these findings, present strategic options taking into account local conditions and current international
experience to a designated study committee and to the city's Transportation Commission; and then (c)
based on the strategic option (or options) chosen prepare detailed short term (5 year) opeational plans for
improving the situation. These plans would, in particular focus, on (i) the role of the private sector in
providing surface transport services in the city, (ii) the role and composition of the regulatory body, and
(iii) a business plan incorporating specific measures to improve the service efficiency and financial
sustainability of Mosgortrans as the primary surface transport provider in the city.
Project Component 7 - US$0.90 million
Special Project Feasibility Studies. At the project identification stage it was agreed that the Bank would
support a review of the existing transport strategy for the city, with a view toward preparing short-term
proposals for transport investments, policies, and institutional strengthening. This exercise, funded under a
UNDP grant, is completed. As an output of this exercise, special project feasibility studies, including the
surface transit study described above, has been recommended for Bank financing under the Project. These
studies will be identified and carried out during project implementation.
-35-



ProJect Component 86- US$2.50 million
PDroject Implementation Unit. Project funds will be provided fot overall project management which will
be handled by dhe Project Implementation unit. This will include technical assiEstnce to the unit, equipment
required by the tunit, staff salaries, and miscellaneous other operational costs.
Project Component 9 - US$2.50 mnilin
Unallocated. Loan finds unallocated at this stage.
-36 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Moscow Urban Transport Project
A. Traffic Management Center (creation, operations, and work  7.30      4.00         11.30
programn)
0.00
B. Comprehensive Corridor Improvement Program:
(i) Varshovskoye Coffidor                               4.00          2.90          6.90
(ii) Shelkovskoye Corndor                                7.60          6.70        14.30
(iii) Unspecified Corridors and Low Cost Spot           10.80          9.00        19.80
Improvements
C. Comprehensive Central Area Traffic Improvement Program:  3.90         1.90         5.80
(construction of I underpass and feasibility study and design for
comprehensive scheme)
D. Construction of Donbasky Bridge and Associated Works   18.10        13.90         32.00
E. Traffic Enforcement: Equipment and Training for the     2.00         8.00         10.00
Moscow City Traffic Police
F. Surface Transit Study                                   1.20         0.70          1.90
G. Special Project Feasibility Studies                     0.40         0.50          0.90
H. Project Management: Operations and Work Program for the  2.00        0.20          2.20
Project Implementation Unit
1. Unallocated                                             0.60          1.90         2.50
Total Baseline Cost                                       57.90        49.70        107.60
Physical ContIngencIes                                    4.40         3.80          8.20
Price Confingencies                                       3.60         3.20          6.80
Total Project Costs             65.90         56.70        122.60
Front-end fee                    0.60          0.60
Total Financing Required              65.90         57.30       123.20
Goods                                                       3.30          13.30        16.60
Works                                                      44.60          34.10        78.70
Desigin & Construction Supervision Services                 4.40           0.80         5.20
Technical Assistance 8 Trainingi                             1.00          2.00          3.00
Studies                                                     7.30           4.50         11.80
Salaries & Operational Costs                                4.70           0.10         4.80
Unallocated                                                 0.60           1.90         2.50
Total Project Costs    65.90          56.70        122.60
Front-end fee                    0.60          0.60
Total Financing Required     65.90          57.30       123.20
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 123.2 (USSrn). Therefbrc,the project cost sharing ratio is 48.7% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 37 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Moscow Urban Transport Project
A detailed cost benefit analysis has been performed by Spetsmostroi Bridge Construction Company on The
Donbassky bridge and associated works - the major construction component representing 35% of the total
project cost. The works include a road bridge spanning over a major rail link and an adjacent tram flyover
crossing both the railway and road. The table below presents a summary of the data.
Cost Benefit Analysis for comprehensive corridor improvement schemes and pedestrian underpasses
representing a further 43% of the total project cost will be prepared for these components before they are
accepted for Bank financing under the project Their rates of return are likely to be of the same order or
higher than the Donbassky Bridge as they are much less capital intensive and are expected to generate
substantial benefits.
[For projects with benefits that are measured In monetary terms]
NBenefits:                 52,615
$ OOOs
CoSta:0                    27,948
IRR:                           31
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The economic analysis of the Donbassky bridge replacement and associated works was undertaken using
the following methodology. The detailed report and spreadsheets are available in the project files.
The main benefits that the bridge will bring are in savings of transport users' time and vehicle operating
costs. These have been given monetary values using the assumptions below. In addition to these
measurable benefits, the component can be expected to have other economic but difficult to measure
benefits such as the reduction of road accidents and expensive emergency repairs. These have not been
included in the analysis. The available data for traffic flows on the road and tram bridges allows for
reasonabfy accurate forecasting of future traffic flows and for modeling the effects of different traffic
management regimes.
On the costs side, the estimated capital costs for both the road and adjacent tram bridge and the annual
maintenance of those structures were considered. The costs were built up using standardized and regularly
updated unit rates used by Spetsmostroi. The existing structures have recently been inspected by city
Engineering Authorities and are considered to be fully depreciated. They have restricted working loads and
-38-



for their continued safe functioning they need to be replaced at the eariest opportnity. However, the
feasibility study does not recommend a straight "like for like" removal and replacement to the same
standard. Rather it recommends widening of the existing road bridge from four to eight lanes to remove the
current bottleneck (the approach roads are currently eight lanes on either end) and grade separation of the
existing tram/road crossing through the construction of a trm flyover spanning both the road and railway.
The figures given above assumed that the "no project" option was therefore a "ike for like" replacement
which was to be compared to the recommended option of replacwmet by a wider bridge and tram flyover.
Main Asumpftons:
The figures stated in the table above were generated usng the following  mpbons
* 12% discount rate, 20 year forecast
* taxes removed from the costs and benefits at a rate of 21.3%
* the value of one person hour is $2
* there are 1.5 people per car and 40 people per tram
* on average, vehicle operating costs are $7 per hour
* no traffic growth
* capital costs from standard unit rates and include contingencies at 12% and design and supervision
at 5%
* maintenance costs of the road bridge are $35/square meter/yr. and for the tram bridge $30
* the existing tram and road bridge are fully depreciated and must be replaced, so the cost of their
straight replacement by equivalent structures is viewed as a "benefit", as is the cost of maintaining
these structures over time.
Sendtvity analysis / Switching values of critical Items:
Sensitivity analysis was cafried out as follows and showed the Donbassky bridge and associated works to
be economically viable under any reasonably foreseeable circmstances. The speadsheets for the various
scenarios are available in the project files.
I If capital and operating cost increase by 30%/o, then NPV is $16.2 million and IRR is 21%.
I If capital and operating costs increase by 600/o, then NPV is $7.9 million and IRR is 16%.
I If the "no project" option is no replacement of existing stuctures whatsoever, then NPV is $11.4
million and IRR is 18%.
I If half the benefits are realized from both time savings and vehicle operating costs, then NPV is
$5.2 million and IRR is 17%/a.
-39 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Moscow Urban Transport Project
Years Ending
December 31
Year  I I Y"r 2      Year 3      Yewa 4     Yar 5       Year6   Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            3.0       11.0      45.9       40.5       18.1        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0        1.1        1.1        1.1        1.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           3.0       12.1      47.0       41.6       19.1        0.0       0.0
Front-end f"      0.6        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0 .0
Total Financing               3.6      12.1       47.0       41.6       19.1        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   1.4        7.1       23.5       19.3        8.7       0.0        0.0
Government                 2.2        5.0       23.5       22.3       10.4       0.0        0,0
Central                                                                      0.0        0.0
Provinclal             2.2        5.0       23.5       22.3       10.4       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficlaries    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      3.6       12.1      47.0       41.6       19.1       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Based on Procurement Plan
-40 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Moscow Urban Transport Project
Procurement
1.    Procurement Guidelies. The procurement of goods and works and related services financed by
the Bank would be conducted in accordance with the Banks "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" of January 1995, revised January 1996, August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999. Procurement of consulting services would foUow the Bank's "Guidelines for Selecion and
Employment of Consultants by Wodd Bank Borwes" of January 1997, revised September 1997 and
January 1999. Project components not financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with the
national regulations.
2.    Project Management and Procurement Arraguet. Te Projecation Unit (PIU)
within the "Foundation Moscow Project Implementation Unit" (FMP1U) will be responsible for overall
project management including procurement and coordination. The PIU was set up in early 1998 and has
been responsible for the preparation of the project and relations with the Bank to date. A procurement
capability assessment has been undertaken and the PIU is being restuctured to manage project
implementation (see para 3 and Table B2). As part of its implementation function, the PIU will provide
guidance to other specialized agencies on the preparation of specifications, drawings, bills of quantities and
draft bidding documents suitable for procurement following the Bank's guidelines and using the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents. The PIU will be responsible for ensuring that the bidding documents meet
the Bankes requirements prior to their submission to the Bank for its no objection. The PIU has prepared an
Operations Manual, that is shordy to be approved, that will include internal processing and procurement
procedures that will meet the Bank's procurement guidelines. For contract execution, the PIU will be acting
as agent for the Moscow city Govermment's Department of Economic Policy and wiU be the contractual
Purchaser, Employer or Client as the case may be. For construction supervision of minor civil works and
using terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, the PIU wiU contract with Dorinvest - the agency
responsible for the repair and maintenance of the streets of Moscow. For construction supervision of the
pedestrian underpasses and under the same arrangements as with Dorinvest, the PIU will contract with
Moskapstroi - the Moscow city Government's agency responsible for major civil works. Construction
suprvision for these contracts wil not be Bank-financed. Implementation responsibilities are detailed in
Table B4.
3.    Procurement Capacity Asseument. A procurement capacity assessment was undertaken focusing
on the PIU as the sub-borrower's implementing agency. A summary of the assessment and an Action Plan
is given in Table B2. In brief, the PIU has been restructured to manage project implementation. As part of
the Action Plan, an experienced Chief Procurement Specialist (CPS) has been employed on the PIU staff to
manage project procurement. The CPS was formerly Deputy Director of the Dorinvest of the Federal
Highway Administration and was procurement specialist responsible for prourement under a previous
Bank-financed project. The Bank has reviewed the CV and has given its no objection to his appointment.
In addition, two experienced civil engineers, both currently employed by the PIU on a UNDP-financed
project, will be responsible for managing individual work contracts. The PIU staffing chart is shown in
Table B5. Bank-financed procurement will be monitored by the Bankes procurement unit in the Country
Office in Moscow. The Bank will also take part in a project launch seminar, date to be determined during
negotiations, during which significant time will be given to procurement. The PIU procurement capacity
and arrangements are deemed satisfactory.
With s cownnioen to the Masow city Govaummt Doriveic dw - Dwevar bcuni _ a m*auhwg qgmY for inmus_t in romb
-41 -



4.    Procurement Plan. The project elements and their procurment methods are summaized in Table
A I of this Annex. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the procurement
actions is presented in Table B3 of this Annex. All other procurement information including the capability
of the implementing agency, dates of publication of the GPN and the Banks review process are presented in
Tables B2 and B3. All estimated costs include applicable Russian Govemment taxes and duties.
Procurement Methods (see Tables A and B3)
5.    Chlv Works (US$78.66 milion). There will be a total of 35 civil works contracts of which 21 are
proposed for Bank-financing. The Bank-financed contacts are for (i) the constuction of three pedestrian
underpasses on the Varshovskoye Corridor, (ii) a comprehensive improvement plan for the Schelkovskoye
Corridor, (iii) unspecified corridor and low cost impovements; (iv) as part of a Comprehensive Central
Area Traffic Improvement Program, the constuction of one pedestrian underpass on the Garden Ring
(contract already awarded); and (v) the reconstruction with widening of the Donbasky road-over-rail bridge
with associated works that will include construction of a tram bridge over rail and road. Some civil works
construction will require the relocation of utilities. Given the classified nature of some of the utilities, the
Moscow city Govemment (MCG) requires that utilities relocation be undertaken by contractors registered
with and approved by the city for this purpose. This work is therefore considered reserved procurement and
will not be Bank financed. This arrangement is acceptable.
6.    For civil works contracts above USS10.0 million equivalent, contractors will be prequalified
following Bank procedures and bids will be invited following International Competitive Bidding (contracts
totaling US$60.0 million). Contractors were prequalified for the first Garden Ring underpass and a
contract has been awarded. Similarly significant works on the unspecified corridor will be put to ICB.
Civil works contracts less than US$3.0 million equivalent (totaling US$7.8 million) located on the
unspecified corridor will be procured following NCB procedures. Low cost spot improvements with
estimated contract values of less than USS100,000 equivalent (totaling US$670,000) are expected to be
carried out under contracts awarded under minor works procedures. ECA sample bidding documents for
minor works and NCB would be used. In addition, there is USS10.2 million of non Bank financed civil
works.
7.    Goods (US$16.65 million). There will be a total of 39 contracts for goods, all of which are
proposed for Bank-financing.  The goods contracts comprise: (i) traffic signal equipment (US$6.54
million); (ii) traffic police equipment (US$9.59 million); (iii) traffic management center equipment
(US$390,000) and iv.) PIU equipment (US$120,000). International Competitive Bidding will be followed
for contracts estimated to cost more than USS100,000 (totaling USS16.0 million) with International
Shopping procedures followed for contacts estimated to cost less than USS100,000 equivalent but more
than US$50,000 (totaling US$ 460,000). National Sbopping procedures will be followed for contracts
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 (totaling US$150,000). There are many separate items making up
the traffic signal and traffic police equipment. Where compatibility is technically necessary, items will be
packaged as single contracts as shown in Table B3. On the other hand, where compatibility is not a
requirement, contracts for items will be put to bid simultaneously with discounts invited for the award of
more than one contract (up to a maximum of three contracts). For the Traffic Management Center,
procurement of technical literature and software will be through International Shopping with furiture
procured locally following National Shopping. For the traffic police eluipment, the main items will be
procured in three tranches (as shown in Table B3). The first tranche is for the training establishment (SSI)
to train with, the other tranches are for progressive rollout across the city police force after approval by the
Bank of the corresponding operational plan for their use.
8.    Services (US$20.1 million). The project includes 57 service contracts, 23 of which are proposed
for Bank financing. Table A2, A3 and Table B3 give the details.
-42 -



9.    All Bank-financed assignments above the vale of US$200,000 equivalent (totaling US$13.22
million) have been listed in the General Procurement Notice and expresons of interest will be invited in
the United Nations Development Buiness. Modt consultants for Bank-financed services contracts will be
selected following Quality and Cost Based Selction (QCBS) procedres. Quality-Based Selection (QBS)
procedures are proposed to select a contract to provide technical assistnce services to the Traffic
Management Center (US$1.88 mrilion). This is primarily for two long term advisors (2 years each). The
reason for selecting this option is the overiding imnportance of these individuals in strengthening the TMC
and the strong and understandable desire of the TMC Dirotor to have fiul confidence in them. The basis
for selecting the preferred firm would be the CVs of the two principal advisors and the interviews of these
advisors. The rating of the individuals will be based on the CVs for 900/0 and only 10%/9 for the interview.
The Police overseas training will be managed by an individua consultant whose contract will be less than
US$50,000.
10.   The Bank will review and give its no objecons to the terms of reference and capability of entities
proposed to undertase non Bank-financed project assignments.
11.   Operating Costs (US$ 4.8 million). The Traffic Management Center has been set up as an
integral part of the Moscow city Govemment. As such, the staff will be part of the MCG civil sevice and
their salaries will not be eligible for financing. All operating expenses for the TMC including
accommodation, utilities and materials are to be met by the MCG. No Government officials are to be
employed by the PIU and staff salaries will be financed 100%/ for the project period. As with other
Bank-supported PlUs, the MUTP PIU will be dissolved on completion of the project.
12.   Prior review thresholds are given in Table Bl.
Disbursements
13.   Allocation of loan proceeds is given in Table C of this Annex. The proposed project is expected to
be disbursed over a period of five years, and the expected closing date of the Loan would be December 31,
2005.
14.   Special Account and Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)  To facilitate disbursements against
eligible expenditures, the PIU will establish in a financial institution (meeting the criteria for such
institutions laid down in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook) a Special Account (SA) to be operated by the
PIU. Initially the allocation would be limited to USS500,000 until aggregate disbursements have reached
the level of US$3,000,000, at which time the full authorized allocation of US$1,000,000 could be claimed.
Applications for replenishment of the SA would be submitted monthly or at least quartely and be
accompanied by full documentation for all items except those for disbursements on the basis of Statements
of Expenditures (SOEs).
15.   Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOE)s The following disbursements would be made against
certified SOEs: (a) goods under contracts costing less than USS 100,000 each; (b) civil works under
contract costing less than US$ 100,000 each; (c) services under contracts less than US$ 100,000 each for
consulting firms, and less than US$ 50,000 each for individual consultants and (d) incremental operating
costs, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify. Supporting documentation for SOEs
would be retained by the PIU and made available for review by the auditors and by visiting Bank missions.
If the right to use SOEs is withdrawn, because of continued non-compliance with audit covenants, the Bank
reserves the right to reject withdrawal applications for reimbursement of expenditures falling within defined
SOE limits, even if supported by full documentation
-43 -



16.   MInaimu  size of Applkations for Direct ?anymemt and issuance of the IBRD  Specdal
CommitmentL  The minmum applications size for payments directly frm the Loan Account, or for
issuance of the IBRD Special Commitments is 200/ of the current SA authorized allocation, i.e. USS
100,000 for the initial stage of the project implementation, and USS 200,000  after aggregate
disbursements have reached the level of USS 3,000,000.
17.   Retroactive financing (US 1.6 miUlon). Retroactive financing will be provided for eligible
expenditures for all categories up to an aggregate of US$1,600,000. Such expenditres will include the
expenditures for the near completed Garden Ring pedestrian underpass contract (US$720,000), furniture,
equipment, advisory services, and the equipment and salaries of the PIJ (US$100,000), as well as police
training (US$150,000) and the initial costs of the CCATIP prefeasibility study (USS 110,000). Expenses
incurred after 1 January 2000 are for eligibility of retroactive payments. All contract wili comply with the
loan agreement and Bank procedures.
18.   Advance Contracting: (US$4A milon). Contracts include those for Garden Ring pedestrian
underpass Nos. 3, and furniture, equipment and advisory services for the Traffic Management Center,
prefeasibility study for the CCATIP, police training and for the financial management system for the PIU.
All advance contracting is being undertaken in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines.
-44 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table Al: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$ million equivalent)
Total Cost
Expeaditure Category             Proeuren  _t Method               (including
ICB      NCB        Other      N.B.F    Contingencies
1. Works
1.1 Iarrastrueture        60.0       7.8       0.82       10.2        78.7
(25.3)     (3.3)     (0.3)                  (28.9)
2. Goods
2.1 Equipment and         16.1                 0.6'                    16.7
machinery                (12.8)               (0.5)                   (13.3)
3. Services (see Table
A2)
3.1 Studies                                   1 1.5        0.8         11.7
(9.2)                   (8.7)
3.2 Eng. & supervision                         4.1         3.2          5.3
(3.3)                   (1.3)
3.3 Technical                                  2.5                      2.5
Assistance                                    (2.1)                    (2.1)
3.4 Training                                   0.7                      0.7
(0.6)                   (0.6)
Total Services                                18.6'        4.2         20.1
(15.2)                  (12.6)
4. Miscellaneous                               4.6         2.5          7.1
(4.6)                   (4.6)
5.. Front Ead Fee                             (0.6)                    (0.6)
Total                     76.1       7.8      22.8        16.6        123.2
(38.2)     (3.3) Il8.S)           _ -60.0)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel
cofinancing procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved
procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement
arrangement for the items listed under 'Other' and details of the items listed as
'N.B.F." are explained in footnotes to the table or in the text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
'Project costs included taxes and duties. Figures may not match due to rounding.
Minor works (8 small contracts) US$670,000
'Accident site marking equipment. IS, US$60,000.
Police teaching aids. IS. USS30,000
TMC furniture, 2 contracts, NS. US$74,000
TMC office equipment, 4 contracts, IS. US$250,000.
TMC books, 4 contracts, IS. US$62,000
PIU financial mgt. system, IS. US$12,000
PIU office equipment, 2 contracts. IS, USS62,000
PIU furniture, 2 contracts, NS. US$25,000
PIU vehicle, I contract, NS US$25,000
'See Tables A2 and B3 for detailed list of services.
- 45 -



Table A2: Coasultant Selection Arrangements
(USS mUllio  equivalent)
Consultant Servkes                                        Total Cost
Expeaditure Category     QCBS    QBS    Other  N.B.F.  (Incinding
co-tingene
____             les
A. Firms                    13.83    1.88            4.15      19.86
(10.77)  (1.50)   _                (12.27)
B. Individuals                               0.35'              0.35
(035 -)           (0.35)
Totals                      13.83    1.88    0.35    4.15      20.21
(10.77)  (1.50)  (0.3 5)           (12.62)
QCBS = Quality and Cost Based Selection; QBS = Quality Based Selection
Comprises four individual consultants contracts in the PIU ($200,000) and the police overseu training
component. The police training individual consultant's contract will be less than less than USS50,000.
US$100,000 is estimated for trainee travel and subsistence costs, material, etc. These latter costs are
included in the table for consistency.
-46 -



Table A3
Details of Services
Service                  Number of   EsL Cost         Flnanced by   Selection
contracts     USS millu                  method
_______ ___  eq ivalent
Vashovskoye
Feasibility study        1             0.06           MCG
Undepass design                        0.15           MCG           __
Constr. supervision      1             0.40           MCG
Schelkovnskoye                                        _         _
Feasibility study        2             0.10           MCG
Design                   1             0.20           MCG
Constr. supervision      2             0.40           MCG
Uospecifled
Feasibility sbodies      4             0.60           MCG
Desipn                   8             0.40           MCG
Constr. supeavision      8             0.80           MCG
CeDtra Area
Undapass design          10.04                        MCG
Upass. Constr.spn.       1             0.06           MCG
Feasibility study        1             0.11           Bank          QCBS
Feasibility Study        1             1.56           Bank          QCBS
Design                   1             1.50           Bank          QCBS
Donbasky bridge
Feasibility study        1             0.04           MCG
Design                   1             0.65           MCG
Constr. supervision      1             0.50           MCG
Environmental Monitoring   1           0.05           MCG
Traffic Mgt Center                           _
Tech Asst to TMC         I             1.88           Bank          QBS
Training                 1             0.50           Bank          QCBS
Traffic studies          3             1.87           Bank          QCBS
Parking Studies          3             1.89           Bank          QCBS
Traffic Control Study    I             2.50           Bank          QCBS
Special Project          3             0.93           Bank          QCBS
Feasibility Studies                                              _
Enforcement                      _      _
Training                1             0.15          Bank          IC
Adviy services         1             0.44           Bank          QCBS
Surface Transit Study    1             2.03           Bank          QCBS
nuV TA.                  4             0.2            Bank          IC
Audit services           I             0.13           Bank          QCBS
Totl                     57            20.21
-47 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B1: Thresholds for Procurement Metbods and Prior Review
Expenditure        Contract Valae(CV)       Proem_t            Contracts Subject to
Category             (Ibresbld)             Mothod          Prior Revlew/Estmated
Total Value Subject to
Prior Review
1. Works
>3,000,000              ICB              ARl contracts
aggregate CV:USS60.Om                       (Aggregate value
USS60.Om)
<3,000,000             NCB               All contracts
aggregate CV:USS7.8m                        (aggregate value
US$7.8m)
<100,000               MW                First two contracts
aggregate                                   (aggregate value
CV:US$670,000)                              US$ 170.000)
2. Goods
>100,000               ICB              All contracts
aggregate CV:USS16.0m                       (aggregate value
USS16.0m)
<100,000                IS              First two contracts
aggregate                                   (aggregate value
CV:US$460,000                               USS(1 60,000)
<50,000                NS                   None
aggregate
CV-USS150,000                 _
3. Senices
Firms                   >200,000             QCBS               All contracts
aggregate                                   (aggregate value
CV:USS 13.22m                                  USS13.22m)
>200,000                 QBS              All contracts
aggregate                                 (aggregate value
CV USSI.88 m                                   USS1.88m)
Individuals                >50,000                                All contracts
Aggregate                                  (aggregate value
CV:US$0.35m                                    US$0.35m)
4. Miscellaneous
PCU operating costs                                               Monitored quarterly
annual budget subject
to prior review.
Traffic Management                                                        As above
Center operating costs
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    US$99.6m
-48 -



Ovenr  Procurement Rk Assesmen:
mgh
AWrJp
LAvwe
Frequency of procurement spervldod  miuions proped: One every 4 monlha
(includos Special procum    superviaon fbr post rviow/audits).
Also, regular procurement supervision will be providod by the Moacow Oflice
Procurement Team
The Consultant Gidelines, Appendix I paagraph 4, apply in rdation to post review.
-49-



Table B2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency In Procurement and Technial Assistance
Requirements
Background: The project has been under preparation for three years and during this period, a PIU was created,
funded under a Bank project for preparation of investment projects. The PIU tasks have been mostly concerned
with project preparation but the PIU has also gained experience in the selection and management of consultants -
both Bank and Grant financed and is also cunrently manang the execution of a UNDP financed Transport
Strategy Study for Moscow. Although the Bank is not formaly associated with the Study, the PIU followed the
Banrs selection procedures in selecting the consultants. The UNDP financed project is nearing completion and
appears to have been managed satisfactorily. Under close supervision by the Bank and following Bank procedures,
the PIU has also prepared and procured a civil works contract (a pedestrian underpass, contract award in
November 1999). As part of the procurement, the PIU satisfactorily conducted a prequalification process. Staff of
the PIU, particularly the Director, have been in continuous contact with the Bank with the goal of ensuring that all
actions taken by the PIU are acceptable to the Bank. The project is now moving from the preparation to the
implementation stage with the pace of procurement about to pick up shaiply.
Procurement Cavacity Assessment: A procurement capacity assessment has been undertaken focusing on the
PIU and its ability and capacity to undertake the procurement under the project. As a result of this assessment, the
PIU will be restructured moving from managing peparation activities to procurement and project management
The Director also recognizes that the structure of the PIU needs to be changed and put on a project management
rather than preparation footing. The restuctuing will include adoption of the Bankes financial management system
and the formation of a two person prouemet unit. The payoff from the Bankes association with project
implementation is now beginning to be felt and experienced procurement staff are now becoming available from
other redundant PlUs. The PIU is employing one of these people as Chief Procurement Specialist and his
appointment has been subject to the review and no objections by the Bank. The CPS was a foamer Deputy
Director of the Federal Roads Dorinvest and is well experinced in Bank-procurement procedures for goods works
and services having been responsible for procurement under three previous Bank-financed highway and bridge
projects (3706-RU, 3990-RU and 4472-RU).
Two experienced civil engineers currently employed on the UNDP financed Transport Strategy Study will also be
employed by the PIU as contract managers and coordinators. The proposed PIU staffing chart is attached. Bank
financed procurement will also be monitored by the BankSs Procurement Unit in the Bank's Country Office in
Moscow. The Bank will take part in a project launch seminar during which significant time will be given to
procurement.
Action Plan: The action plan follows from the above and is:
Prior to negotiations ( note the following has already been agreed but wiU be formalized in a letter to the Bank)
(i) adopt the revised staffing plan to include two procurement specialists and two project managers
(ii) employ the Chief Procurement Specialist; Within one month of negotiations.
(iii) draft procurement section of Operations Manual and submit to Bank for review and no objections; By Loan
effectiveness
(iv) employ second procurement specialist.
Also, host a Project Launch Seminar at a time to be agreed with the Bank
- 50 -



A Country Procurement Assessment Report Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions for the
has not been prepared for Russia; will be    frst year ready by negotiations? The following will be ready by
available in June 2000.                  negotiations: Bidding documents for the TMC furiture, office
equipment and first list of library material, and PIU office
equipment. The RFP for the TA to the TMC will be ready as will
the draft individual's consulting contract for police overseas
training. The following will be prepared in late 2000 for the reasons
stated. The RFP for the Special Project Feasibility Studies needs to
wait until the possible Special Projects identified through the
UNDP-financed Strategy Study are agreed by the MCG. Similarly,
finaization of the police enforcement equipment and the terms of
reference for the police advisers will wait until the completion of
the police overseas training program. Also, finalization of the RFPs
for the first round of TMC managed traffic and Parking studies will
await the arrival of the TMC TA personnel.
_______________   Traiwnin  Inomtion and Development onProcurement __________
Estimated date of  Estimated date of   Indicate if there is  Domestic      Domestic Preference for
Project Launch    publication of   procurement subject to   Preference           Works:
Workshop:     GPN.: Update of    mandatory SPNin         for Goods:             No.
TBD         GPN issued:       Development Business:       Yes
1/30/00           Yes (pleae see
I Procurement Plan)
Retroactive Financing: Yes (US$1.6 millon)     Advance procurement: Yes (USS 4.4 millon)
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: Monitoring will take place internally through a computer - based
monitoring system that will also be part of the Bank required financial management system. Audits will be conducted by
the Moscow City Govermment and, as part of its on-lknding arrangements, by the Federal Govcrnment. A PIU
Operations Manual will establish office and procurement procedures and record keeping.
Co-Financing: All procurement carried out under Trust Funds and joint co-financing will be carried out in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines.         _
Indicate Name of Procurement Staff or  Explain briefly the expected role of the Resident Mission in procurement.
The Moscow Offmce Procurement Unit will carry out procurement
Bank 's part of Task Team responsible for review
the procurement in the Project: Karl     w.
Skansing and the Moscow Office
Procurement Unit.
-51 -



Table B3    Procurement Plan
Prequal I 8L  FInzato
ofU   RFP
1. hvwin      1.Dak  to    t.Ii wltabn
GPNISWIL.dBank           GmpI/wLocal
2. Opinin     2. No          2. OpenMg
obctions  _
vprovel r_ Ucuuer mand                              .
No.      Description      No. of  EsL cost  Pr.c                                4 Awwd               Confract    ConAact
cen o       ntn.   nhd                                                     sgnature      conp.
uso      _   _        ___                     __
A WORKS                                                                 _
I Varahovskoys
Corridor                                          ____
1(a) 3 Pedestrian           1       4.88    ICa   1. 1/1lO1 (SPW) 1. 31101      1. 4/15101         911/2001       0231/03
underpasses                                 .
Prequafcation
2. 2V15'01    2. 4/14101     2. 6/1/01
______          3. 3/14101                   3. 711101
_ 4. 8/1101
(bl Ulties rekocation      1       2.37     NBF                 _
Sub-total (works,      2       7.25
_ _Varshovskoys)                _ _ _              _ _ _ _ _                                      _ _ _ _
1- 
c2 Scrlkoaowy-
I     Corrldor         1         1        1_1_1
2(a) Cl works                1      6.64    lOs   1. 9t/01 (SN) 1. 8/1510       1. 9151            2/1/2002      8131/2003
PrequBMalfiDan
___i__ ri 2. 7/15101  2. 9/14101     2. 11/1101
____ 1 f:;    f  w =  j:1 =  3. 8/11401      3. 1V21/01         _
______                          ._________   4.  1/10)02
2(b) Minor civil wor        4        3.55    NCB                       TBD      TB       D           2002          2003
2(c) Utilties relocation    5       2A1      NSF
Subtota (works,        10      12z.
Shokovskoy          )    .
3   Unspecdfid Corior
and low cost
improvements
3(a) Civi works              1      11.66    ICs        u              TBD            TBD            2002          2004
3(b) Minor Civi works       3       4.20    NCO   Postqualloln         TBD            TBD            2002          2003
3(c) Minor Civi worb        8       0.67     MW    Post_uati_n                                       2D02          2003
3(d) Utiltiss rebcation     4        1.50    NBF
Sub-tl Unspr_ld    16          18.02  _
4 ComprehwcrIve
Central Area Traffic
lnmprovement
Program (CCATIP)
41a) 1 Pedestrian underpass          1.90    ICB  _Letd                                             12VVp99      9/30/2001
4(b) Utilities relocation    1       1.02    NBF
Sub tot (CCATIP)       2       2.93
works
-52-



S   Donbasky brid
Indcudng a tram
bM
5(a)  CMI w                        1        34.90      lCB    1. U1U51(SPN) 1. 112101             1.12/15101            5/1/2002         11/3012004
2. 10M1/01       2. 12V14101       2. 2/1102                  _
3. 11/11M                          3. 3/1V02
4. 4/1902                  _
5(b)  UtiMiss recaton              2        2.87       NBF
sub-tot  Donbasky           4         37.77
brddge  achm  e                                 I__   _  _  _  _  _  _  _    _  _  _  _  __                           _  _
sub-tol, TMC office          I        0.09       NBF
refurtm ient
Sub-Total -                 35       7.66
Works
B GOODS                                           _                                                                  _
7   Traffic signal system.
7a   Shelkoyse                     1         3.19      ICB        f       f      t 1. 8/1t 1. 9116/01(SPN)               21/2002          7/30/2003
__   _ _  _  _  _  __     _  _  _     __  _ _   _ _  _    _ _  _  _ _  _   2.  911101       2.   11/1101           _  _  _           _ _  _  _
=______     _______    ______                                      3.  1211101
4. 1/1102
7(b)  Unspeclfied                  1         3.35      I8      Post              1. 411/02        1. 6/15/02 (SPN)       10/1/02            2004
2. 5/1102        2. 7/01102
3. 8/1102
_ _______________        _______    ______     ______                                       4.   9/1/02
Sub-totl Traffic            2         6.55
signal wytem                                   _
8   Traffic Police
Equipment                                                                                                         _
8(a)  Vieo cameras                 3         3.77      ICS    Potqu       en   1. 2/3 01         1. 3/15/01 (SPN)       7/15/01          911512001
(lx SSI, 2                                        2. 3/14101       2. 5/5101
x rol ouA -
fist only                                                         3. 6/2101
4. 7/15101
8(b)  Laser instrurnents           3         3.77      IC0                          As above
T                 I ~~(see  8(a))         __  __ T_                       _  _  _ _ I_     _  _  _  _ _  _ I     __
8(c) Screening devices             2         0.02      ice                          As above      _     _
8(d)  Displays - veIde             3         0.82      Ica                          As above
mounted
(see 8(a))
8(e)  Photogramrnstic              3        0.76       ICB                          As above
accident Investigation
devices                                         _    __                          _    _        _    _    _   _        _
________ _______  (ss 8(a))              _ _  _                       _  _  _  _ _     _  _  _  _ _  _  _     _  _            _ _  _  _
8(f)  Ofrce equipment for         5         0.08       NS                           As above
ssI
8(    Mobile trainag units         1         0.38      108                          As above
8(i)  Acident site marwing         1        0.06        IS                                        1. 3/15/01 request     5/1501           7/28/2001
equiprent                                                                                   for
______          ___________         ~~3   qxu torak u    _  _
=_____                       ___________ 2. NA _
.___________    1   ____________  3.   4/151.
______  _____  __________   j  _ _ _   4.  5/01/01
0   Teaching aids                 1         0.03        IS                          As above
Sub4otal (equlpment,        22        9.59
aflc pole)
-53-



9   Trac Management
Center (TMC) aqulpt                                                                                       _
9(a)  Fumiture                   3         0.08       NS           NA         1. 1V215/00      1. 12)2100            1/15/01         3/31)2001
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _              _  _  _  _  _    _  _  _  _ _~~  ~ req ue tf r_           _    _
2. 12p20 -          3quiot
_  2. NA
_______   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ____________ 3.    12 /2 8/0  __ _ _ _ _     _  _ _  _
_ 4. 12/3r0_ _
9(b)  Office equipnent            3        025        IS           NA         1. 12/15U00      1. 12121/00           1/15/01         3/31/2001
u_ 3qut
2. 12J20/00 -  2. NA
=________  3. 12/28L00
______                  __________   ~~~4.  12/31/00            _   _  _  _
9(c)  Software and tedmincal     4         0.06       is           NA         1. FPht ht       1. 12/1/00 ft         1/31/01         31/22001
Bterabjre                                                               12/1/00       _  req.
_12/3 2.   1/14s00_   3
_   2. NA                  ____=
______  ______                     ___________ 3. 1/1501 _1_
_______ ______   _____   _ __    4.  1/30101
Sub-tot1   - (goods,       10        0.39
TMC)                                                                                   _
10  PIU_
10(a) Fin. Mgt. System            1        0.01       IS           NA         1. 10/01/00      1. 107/00             11/7/00         11/29/2000
I_ I     _   __ !              _     __   mrequest for
I_I_1_1_I _T_ L                         _      3prpoesa
2. 1/06/00 _ 2. NA
_  3. 10/21/00
_ 4. 11/05.00
10(b) Ofrce equipment             2        0.06       NS           NA         1. 1/01m0        1. 10/07/00           11/3/00         11/2000
__   quct for
(may be cmbied wth2 __3_quot 2. 1tk0                                                  3 2
9(b) above)                                                                             2.    NA
______   ____________   ____________    3.  10/21/00
______    ___________                    -  4.  10/29/00                 _
10(c) FurrJtue                   2         0.03       NS           NA         1. 10/01/00      1.10/07/00            10/1/00         11120/2000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   -mqued   for             _     _    _   _     _
(may be comfbied wihh                                                   2. 101W00           3 quo.atks
9(a)                                                                                    _
above)                                                                                   2.    NA
_ 3. 10/21/00
_ 4. 10/25/00
10(d) Vehcle                      1        0.02       NS           NA         1. 10/01/00      1.10/0700             10/1/00         1013112000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _    rem qu es     for                     _     _
2. 10/06/00         3 2 q t
2.    NA
_______     _______    ______                                  -  3.  10/21/00
_ 4. 10i25/00&
St b-tota - (goods          5        0.12
Sub-total,                 39       16.65
Goods
C SERVICES
11 Varshovskoys
Corr___
11(a) Feasiblity Study            1        0.06      NBF                     _
11(b) Underpasses design          1        0.15      NSF
11(c) Und      _ pase             1        0.40      NBF
supevso
Sub-totl                    3        0.61
Varshovskoye
- 54 -



12  Sdwkovkoye
Corrkor
12(a) Feasibilt Sy dy         2        0.10     NSF
12(b) Dsign                   1        0.20     NSF
12(c) Construction            2        0.40     NSF
_ supevmn
Sui4btaI                 5       0.70
Schelkovakayu
13  Unsel_e Co"idor
and bw cost spot
Inprovenurnts___                                                                                                          _
13(a) Feasibilty studies      4        0.60     NBF
13(b) Design                  8        0.40     NBF
13(c) Constbu                 8        0.80     NSF
supervsion
Sa-tal umpcfled         20       1.80
__and spot Irnp.
14  CCATIP
1a) Underpa  desian           1        0.04     NSF
14(b) Underpas                1        0.06     NSF
costruction .                      ____
14(c) Prefeashilty stdy       1        0.11    QCBS  1. NA             1. 1115/01     1. 2/1U01           6/10101       10122001
2. NA          2. 2113/01     2. 3/15/01
3. NA                         3. 4/15101
i                             ___________ =_______       _    4.   5/3 01
14d) Feasbilty Study          1        1.56    QCBS  1. 7/1101 (EOI)  1. 9/15'01      1. 10101/01         2116/02       8130/2002
I  j    l                      (b~~~~~~~(0agrecdSL)
2. NA          2. 101W01/1    2. 11/15/01
3. 9114101                    3. 12/11501
_ _ _ _ _ ____   4. 01302
No<) Design                   1        1.50     CBS  1. 6/15/02 (EOQ  1. 1011502     1. 11/01/02         31/2003        8/31/2003
(toageed SL)
_ ___________  _____  _____  ____ 2. NA                          2 10/2m0       2. 12/15/02
= _______________    _______    ______   ______   3.  8/14/02                   3.  01/15/03
= _______________    _______    ______   ______   ___________     __________    4.   02115/03                     ____40 1S
Sub-totl svIcs           5       3.28
CCATIP
15  Donbaskyldg
lndudlng bwn br das
15(a) Feessbity study         1        0.04     NBF
I (b)  Design                  1       0.65     NBF_
15(c) consno                  1        0.51     NBF
superisbn
15(d) Env*oniental            1        0.05     NBF
moniatxh
Sub-totW (servcs,        4       1.26
Donbsy
16  Traflkc lanagamwnt
1 a Technical Assistance      1        1.88     QBS   1. 131/00 (EOI) 1. 7/1500       1. 8/100            12/1/00       12131/2002
(toagnd SL)
______ __   _ 2.  NA     2. 7/31/00     2. 9115100
____ ____ ____ _  _ I           1 _   3.  3/14100              1 3.  10115/0        _             _
_   _                                            14. 11/15100
16(b) Training                1        0.50    OCBS  1. 1/1/01 (EOI)  1. 316/01       1. 4/1/01           8/15/01        7/28/02
-55 -



1   1      l         l        l                l              | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(b agrsd SL)        i 
T ___________ T         ____ T     ____ T    _   _ 12. NA           2.3/31/01       2. 51U/01           T_TI
_____________      _ T_T_T_T                      _13. 315U01 5                      3.6/15M 1 01T                            _    I
____________ r____               _____ T___ T__I            __ I__T4.7/1U01
16(c) Trafic sudies and         3        1.87    QCeS  1. 1/1/01 (EOI)  1. 3/1/01         1. 31501             7/15/01        7/15/2002
couniting   pfoarm     _   _  _   _  _  _   _  _      _   _  _  _      _  _
(one per yow - dwualon                                                                 111a_ lb   SL)
about rNne fonths                                   2. NA           2. 3/14/01      2. 4/2101
each_                        ______                                                    ___                                       _
first only shown)                                       3. 2    1                     _ 3. 5/15101
=_____    ___________                   4. 6/15001
16(d) Parking studies           3        1.89    QCBS I          abow            b      _     - abo            as abow         as abow
(One per year - one
shown)                                                                           _
16(e) Central Traffic Contml    1        2.50    OCBS  1. 401/01 (EO) 1. 6/1)01           1. 6J15U01           101101         9/3012002
Study
=__                                              ______ 2. NA             2. 6/14/01      2. 7/01/01
3. 5/31/01                      3. 8/01/01
____     ________         ________       4.  9/01/01
Sub4total (TMC            9        8.64
serves                                                                     _
17  Sp.clalProject          Seveal    0.93    OCBS  1. 2115/01(EOI) 1. 4/16/01           1. 5/1101            5/15/01         9/1/2001
Feasibility Studes       (3?),
timing oyf                                                     (to agiued SL)
first                                    _
ror ory                     2.   NA          2. 4/3001       2. 3/15/01                       _
shown                       3.  4/111 _1I_    3. 4/1Y01
_  4. 51/01
S  Polik  - Training and
Advisory Seces                                      _
18(a) Training (study tours +   1        0.15     Ind           NA              NA        Bank no o4ecdions    9/1/2000       11/30/2000
TOT                                         cons. I                                                  _
ivth ind consultant)                        _         __T_
18(b) Advlsoy Services     l    1        0.44    CQCBS  1. 2/1/01         1. 411/01    _  1. 5/1/01            9/1/2001        8/31/2002
~~~~~~(bIld    SL)
~~~__  .~R~    _
2. NA           2. 4/30101      2. 6/1/01
i______    ______            3. 3/31/01                      3. 7/15/01
4. 6/15/01
Sub-total                 2        0.59
Polki-rlad
services                                                                                             _
19  Surface Transt Study       1        2.03    GOcS  1. 61S50 (EOI) 1. 101150           1. 11/15/0           2/11/2001      5/31/2002
_    (to eaned SL)
2. NA           2. 11/14/00     2. 12/3r0__
3. 10/15/0             _        3. 1/30/010
4. V30101
20  Technical AssisL to        4        0.20     Ind.
PIU                                         cons.                                                    _
(as and when requred)                                                                                _
21  Audit Services             1        0.13     OcBS  1. NA             1. 8130100      1. 91U/O to          12/1/00        12J1512004
_agreed SL- bcl
_ ______________  ______                           2. NA            2 9/10/00   _ 2. 10/15/U
_3. NA                        _ 3. 10/30_                        _        _
_ _____________       =_____    _  ____    =____    __________       _________-   4.  11/15/00UOO_______                _______5
-56 -



Sub total              5       20.15
_ _ services           _  _  _                      _ _ _  _ _     _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _     _ _  _ _
D OPERATING
COSTS
22  Prd
hkpemnstaon Unit
_ P___
22a Offie operatn cats               0.70
2     Sabtle.                        1.40
SLub tol(PIJ                    29                                                                            end 2004
o                                                            I   ___
23  Trfflc M aemenit
Center.
23(X office operalng                 120      NSF
23(b) Staff solaria                  1.30     NSF                                                          _
Sub-total (TUC                  2.50                                                                          ed 2001
op radng ctst)
Sub-total                       459
Operaing costs 
E UNALLOCATED                       2.50
F   FRONT END FEE                r  0.6     _       _              _                       .
TOTAL |_          L_12314 1                         _
-57 -



___}    _       __   ||S|S             _ lIES      S  ST
1111tRYY                         RiSS_]S       
n  <S  it  EPLI!EA   I I    .SSS    SSm lV
ilifil   I    --- -Sguv ll -s 1- -S - S1  1 - --- -
3__                            aIj Y|$| y|Y  t| +H  IYI1T   
Ipilf1 S Bi                                  ___    II1        e e1       i eB1   3
1iittE ,    1sl         l   sT              sl       SS1 S1T s
____hkbl innIuh  1ulz  r  i~iL  JI_ _                     _8 tt\|2



1. Solid vertical lines indicates required Bank review and no objecdons
2. Utilities relocation to be coordinated by an agency authoridzed by DEP
3. All contracts will be signed by FMPIU President or his reprentative
4. All coniractual payments made by the PIU
5. Evaluation commissions will be established with participants from different agencies.
commission chairperson affiliation only shown
Abbreviations
TMC          Traffic Management Center
DEP          Dept, of Economic Policy and Development
TC           Transport Commission
T & C        Dept. of Transport & Communicaton
MCG          Mr Nikolski or his representative
PIU          The operating unit of the 'Foundation Moscow
Project Implementation Unit"
-59-



Tab BS ProcuremSt Staffing P1a
MOSCOW URBAN TRANSPORT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNfT ORGANISATION
|DIRECIXR    |
Chief                Przqect                Chief Accountant                Suppolt Staff
Pmocuremnt          MaaetStaff                     Filnial
Specialist             (2Stafe t                Managemen
I   n _mt   I                                   rtaxn t         I
I Specialist lll
when reayired an dhil
orhodrt
Lawyef
Tehnical Specialists
-60-



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Civil Works                                 28.90                         42%
Goods                                       13.30              100I% of foreign Expenditures
100%/. of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs)
80X of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consultants Services and Training           12.60          1 00% for TA and overseas training (excl
VAT)
Operating Costs                             2.10           100% of project management costs (PIU
salaries, accommodation and utilities)
Unallocated                                 2.50
Total Project Costs                         59.40
Front-end fee         0.60
Total                                       60.00
-61 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Moscow Urban Transport Project
Time taken to prepne the project (month.)                                     48
First Bank mission (Identification)      _                                    10/01/96
Appraisal mission departure                      07/01/2000                   07/12/2000
Negotiations                                    09/13/2000                    11/27/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    12/31/2000                   05/06/2001
Prepared by:
Richard Podolske
Preparation assistance:
Grant assistance was received from UNDP, Finland, France, United States, and the United Kingdom.
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
Richard Podolske                  Engineer/Planner
John Cracknell                    Traffic Engineering Consultant
Olli-Pekka Poutanen               Traffic Engineering Consultant
Jack Kay                          Traffic Engineering Consultant
Maurice Dickerson                 Procurement and Project Management Consultant
Sven-Olof Hassel                  Traffic Police Consultant
Lawrence Wilson                   Information Technology Consultant
Bernie Baratz                     Principle Environmental Specialist
Irina Kichigina                   Counsel
Clifford lsaak                    Financial Management Specialist
Lydia Petrashova                  Financial Management Officer
Scott Hanna                       Environmental Consultant
James Mackie                      Disbursement Officer
Karl Skansing                     Procurement Accredited Staff
Piers Anthony Vickers             Transport Engineer
Ashot Harutounian                 Urban Specialist
Olga Stchesnovich                 Interpretation and Translation
Coral Bird                        Team Assistant
- 62 -



Annex 8: Documents In the Project File*
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Moscow Urban Transport Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Complete
B. Bank Staff Asessments
1. Comments on project and Donbassky bridge EMPs
2. Draft stakeholder analysis
3. PIU procurement and financial ma_gement capacity audit
4. Economic analysis for Donbassky bridge - spreadsheets
C. Other
1. City Transport Strategy - long/short term investment and implementation program (Dornier System
Consult with GIBB, 12/1999), plus other associated documents
2. City Transport Strategy - i.) draft Environmental Policy for Urban Transport and ii.) EAP (Domier
System Consult with GIBB, i.) 06(1999 and ii.) 01/2000)
3. EMP plus addendums for i.) Donbassly bridge and ii) project
4. Public announcement of existence and loation of project and Donbassky bridge EMPs
5. Official letter from Moscompdrioda granting approval of project and Donbassky bridge EMPs
5. Borrower economic analysis of Donbassky bridge
6. RFP for TMC advisers
7. Draft PIU operational manual
8. Draft subloan agreement
9. Traffic police package for ROC review
10.City of Moscow Decree on measures for further improvement and development of Traffic Management
Center
*Including electronic files
-63 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Moscow Urban Transport Project
Jan-2001
DiDwce b_wen epoded
and adual
Origial Amotu In USS Milors                                   diaburswments
Project ID    FY   Pua IBRD                                                     ID                   GEF    CanoeL    Urndls.        ODg   Fmi Reyd
P053f3o       2000 SUST FORESTRY PILOT                                6KOO        0.00                  0.0        0.o      60.00oo     o.00       o.00
P05685W       200 REG FISC TA                                         30.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00      2920         1.60      0.00
P060487       I1sa  STATE STATS SYST                                  30.00       0.00                  o.0        0.00     29.20       4.20      -036
P046496        1996 SOCPROTIMPL                                       26.6       0o.                    0.00       0.00      18.07      14.82      0.00
P050486        1998 COALSECALN                                       60oo        o00                    o.o        o.0     16f0.00    160.00     160.00
P042720        1997 STFETEMtSUROREHAB                                 31.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      11.32      11.32      0.00
P044200        1007 BUREAU OF ECON POL                                22.60       0.00                  o.0   0   O.         e.28        1.2f      o.00
P008826        1007 EDUC INN#V                                        71.00        .00                  0.00       3.00      6s.e2      136        0.00
P050fSt        1997 ELEC SECTR REF                                    4.00        0.00                  o.0        0.00     40.00      40.00      12.00
P08ss14        1997 HEALTH REFORM PILOT                               660        o00                    0.00       o.0       61.60      32.20      0.00
P036764        199  BfIDGE REHAB                                     360.00       0.00                  0.00     158.00     76.46     m=A          0.00
P036973        1996 ENT HOUSING IVST                                 3C0.00       o.00                  o.00      43.61    22435       141.07    117.97
P042622        1006 CAP MRKT DEV                                      89.00       0.00                  .00       33.75     3874        66.01      0.36
P045622        1996 COAL LAP                                          25.00       QO0                   0.00       0.00      10.62      10.62      6.27
P038571        1996 MED EQUIP                                        27000        0.00                  0.00      37.70     32.01       89.71      o.00
P036761        1996 COMMUNITYSOCINF                                  200.00       0.00                  0.00      43.50     112.16     100.f6     13.16
PC00f01        1996 BIOOVCONSV(GEF)                                    o.00       0.00                 20.10       0.00       7.83      8.36      4117
POOaBoo        19f OaS CONSP PasEOUT (GEF)                             0.00o      0.00                  o.00       0.00     39.13       37.01      .026
POfff31        1996 LEGALREFORM                                       66.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     36.00       36.00      000
POO8637        1906 STANOARS DEV                                      24.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00       6.4        5.84      0.00
P008806        1995 LRBAN TRANSPORT                                  329.00       0.00                  00        55.00     28.10      63.10       0.00
P0O8803        1998 EGY EFF                                          10.60        0.00                  320        0.00      54.0       91.30     66.10
P040409        1996 EMG OIL SPILL MIWIGATION                          99.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      16.42      10.42      0 00
P038572       1995 TAXADb6N                                           16.60       0.00                  0.00       0.00      0.64       0.4        0.84
P008827        1996 HOUSNG                                           40000        0.00                  0.00      30.00    20325      23325        0.00
P008823        1996 PORTFOUO DEVT                                     40.00       0.00                  0.00       1.81      16.67      18.48     18.48
P008821        1995 ENV MMT                                          110.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     59.30      48.00       0.00
P034579        1994 LIANDREFIMPLSUPPORT                               60.00       o.0                   0.00       0.00      50.77     50.77       1.21
POO8839        1904 ENTERPRISE SUPPORT                               200.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     160.10     160.10      0.33
P008828        1994 FIN INSTS                                        200.00       00                    0.00      59.50      66.94     128.44      *.15
POOea1        1994 AGRICREFIIPL                                      240.00       0.00                  0.00     11620       11.17    126.37       3.58
Totl:     4316.50        0.00               83.30       61.08     1710.61    1922.60     376.37
- 64 -



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disburwsd Portfolio
Jan-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Coxmanited                      Disbursed
lFC                            [IC
FY Approval        Company                      Lo1n  Equity   Quasi   Patic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1995              A.O. Volga                   25.36   11.00    0.00   33.28   25.36   11.00    0.00   33.28
1996/98           Alpha Cement                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/99           Aminex                        0.00    0.12    0.WY     0.00    0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00
1999              Bitech-Sihir                  17.50    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00
1998              Borsteklo                     0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1999              Campina                       8.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              DCC                           0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00
1995              DepsonaZ.A.O.                 0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1998              DreVo                         0.00    0.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.89    0.00    0.00
2000               Dukat                        16.50    0.00    0.00   33.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              First NIS Fund                0.00    7.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.73    0.00    0.00
1994              Framlington Fund              0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00
2000              Ikea MOS                      15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              Mosenergo                    20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               OMGC                         10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.20    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              PBCM                         25.00    0.00    0.00   15.00   25.00    0.00    0.00   15.00
1997              PLM Eastetn Hold              0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00
2000              Pan American                   0.00    9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.00    0.00    0.00
1996              Pioneer First                 0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1993              Polar Lights                  4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              RTDC                          0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00
1998              Ranstore                     30.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   30.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999              Rus Leasing Co                0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00
1995              RussTechFnd                   0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1994              Russia Registty               0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1995              SCF                           0.00    4.53    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.53    0.00    0.00
1998              Toribank                      0.00   12.24    0.00    0.00    0.00   12.24    0.00    0.00
1996              UNEXIM Bank                   5.77    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.77    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              ZAO Pakenso                   6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      184.43   97.67    0.00    81.28   132.63   97.66     0.00   48.28
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Cony                             Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
1998              Pakenso                          0.00     0.00   1500.00      0.00
2000              Pan Amedican                     0.00      0.00   3500.00     0.00
1999              Russ Leasing Co               3000.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              SCF - RI                         0.00    273.10     0.00      0.00
2000              SEAF Bakan Fund                  0.00      0.00   5000.00     0.00
2001              Bema Gold                        0.00      0.00   1000.00     0.00
1998              Depository Clear               500.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              Dukat Silver                     0.00     0.00   4900.00      0.00
1998              Elcoteq                          0.00     0.00    100.00      0.00
1998              Gaanti Moscow                 5000.00     0.00   3000.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment      8500.00    273.10  19000.00    0.00
- 65 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Moscow Urban Transport Project
Earep &    Lw
POVERTY end SOCIAL                                Ru"lm      CoRs   miii  _-
Fodwaotio       Asi  lasImee       Deveiaat dlamomd
1993
Population, mid-yer (milGlons)                       146.2       475     2,004                 Lih expacy
GNP per capita (Atas mthiod, USS) /a                 2.250     2,150    11.20
GNP (Atas method, USS blillons) la                   329.0     1,022     2,513
Average annual growth, 1993-90
Population (6)                                        -.3        0.1       1.1
Labor force ()                                         0.0       0.6       1.2     GNP                               Grosc
Most recant stimate (latest yer avalable, 1903-)                                     pi            \ 7riint
capita               e~~~~nrolment
Poverty (t ofpopuhaton below ndonal poverty Wm)        30
Urban population (% of tot popuaton)                   73         67        43
Life xpectancy at birth (years)                         SO         9        so
Infant mortality (per 1,000 ve b&hz)                    16        22        33
Child malnutrition (X of childn wrder 5)                 3         a        1S                Access to saf* water
Access to Improved watrurce (oum of popultlon)                    s..       i
Illiteracy (1 of populatin age 15+)                      1           3      16
Gros primary enrollmont (t of chool-age population)    109       100       114              Ruaan  deratOor
Male                                                109        101       114              Lower-midda-hicome group
Female                                              105         99       116i
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS end LONG-TERM TRENDS
1673    1393       130       100      -_-_______________
GDP (USS billions)                             ..   913.3      277.8     14.6
Gross domestic Investment/GDP                         33.8      157       155                      Tnde
Exports of goods and servicesGDP                      21.9      314       45S7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                            34.7      20.4      32.9
Gross national savings/GDP                                      16.0      26.7
Current account balance/GDP                                      0.3      11.2       o      
Interest payments/GDP                                             14  1.6 tidic +nvadment
Total debt/GDP                                 ..        .      87. 0     96. 8
Total debt srvice/exports                                       10.3      11.6
Present value of debV6DP                                         9 .4
Present value of debt/exports                                  187.6
Indeblidnese
1973943  1980-99     139       199    139043
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  2.8     -6.2     .4.9       3.2       4.3               Rucd  Federatlon
GNP per capita                               -6.6      6.6       0.7       4.8     _Lw                d          roup
Exports of goods and services                 1.7     -2.3       4.0       2.1               L
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1379    18N       1901      13       Groewth of Investamet and GDP
(X of GDP)                                                                        1h
Agriculture                                           1t6.8      54        6.8
Industry                                              50.2      36.4      37.7
Manufacturing                                ..       ..         ..        .. o1
Services                                              33.0      582       65.7    40
Private consumption                                   45.1      6.8       64.5 
General government consumption                        20.1       138      12.6                   Oi    -ODP
Imports of goods and services                         21.0      28.6      28.3
197949  1911111-111111    19"   IN        Orll o t*x*"  ndImports I%)
(average annual growth)                                -
Agriculture                                           -7.0      -13.2      24      20
Industry                                              -9.5      -6.2       8.1
Manufacturing                                ..       ..         .. .
Services                                              -2.3      -2.       -0.1        I
Private consumption                                    14        -26       -6.3
General government consumption                        -0.7       0.1       4.3 
Gross domestic Investment                            -20.5     -26.0       6. 8        -44   ____        -b x
Import of goods and services                          -3.9     -14.8      -29.9 
Gross national product                                -8.8       -6.8      0.2
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (In bold) compared with its Income-group average. i data are miesIng, the diamond wili
be Incomplete.
-66-



Russian Federation
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FNANCE
197    1m    1_                1_    Wklentis
Domsessc pif s'
Consumer prica                                                27J      85.7.
lImpfkt GDP deftor                                           `14.       &3
Govorm_u   _ tse* e
X of GDP, hicAide cu let grant)
Currnt renun.                                                 30e      33.5 e                 a
Currnt budget balance                        ..       ..      -8        1.6                aOId         -   CP
Overall surplusdicl                           ..      ..      -8.3      3.6
TRADE
(US$ mEons)xport NW Impeit leel p15 WA".)
Todl exports (fob)                           ..       ..   74,186   75,306      a.ox
Cnrde oi                                    ..      ..   10.27    14,089
Natural gas                                ..       ..   13,52   11,352        7Mo                          *
MarKfadures                                ..       ..    9,000    6.01             _
Total imports (cif)                          ..       ..   60,438   41,261
Food                                        ..      ..   10,800    8.137       25_ _                    _ _
Fuel and ne..                                       ..    1,654       451
Capital goods                               ..      ..   15,S56   10,167          o
55  94  96  U    ?   a   go
Export pace indox (1995.100)                 ..       ..       83       83
Import pri  ndx (1995100)                    ..       ..       87       88               *Ex          CImnot
Terms oftade (1995-100)                      ..       ..       95        95
BALANCE of PAYM TS
(US$ migse979   1im                                          196      1886      Curnt* accut balane to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and serv                     ..      ..    7,259   84,346    12
Imports of goos nd  sv..                              ..   74,013   52,268
Resoue b                                      ..      ..   13,246   32,058
Nt Inco                                      ..       ..  -11,900  -11,900
Not cunent tansfer                           ..       ..      -409      534
Currnt account balance                       ..       ..      937   20,692              E
Financing  e (nt)                            ..       ..  -11,701  -16,865 D
CAhangn in not srvos*-                                .    10,74   -3,827          ss  ed   a    s   r    go   s
Memo:
rves Including gold (USS miNon)               ..      ..   12,223   12,456
Convewson r  (l/US$)                         ..       ..       9.7     24.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1S7S    1M        iee      ie
(US$ mions)                                                                     Cempoallon of 195 debt 1US$ mill.)
Totl deb ouWanding ad dsbd                    ..      ..  186,114  176,8B6
IBRO                                       ..       ..    6,424    6,800                      A: 6,80
IDA                                        ..       ..        0        0              G:5,335         C1sa
Total dobt wvice paid                        ..       ..    9,100    9,834                                     57
OD                                          .  ..  83  520
IDA                                         .                 0        0
Compoerbon df not resource flows                                                         (I K73I
Ocial cr                                    ..      ..      822      -707                                  as,aa
Privte credIs                               ..      ..    9,657      -200
Forign died invebnt                         *-      *      Z764      746
Porflbloequity                             ..       ..      296      368
Worl Bank program
Commn                                       ..      ..    1,500      430      A- NMD                     E - Bigtra
D       Hsena                               ..      ..    1228        538     B-IDA    0 - Met mu*Sda    F - Prvate
Principal repayments                       ..       ..       66       150I                                 Sho-eM
Nottbof                                     ..      ..    1,162      386
Interst pym                                 ..      ..      317       370
Nelt rafrs                                 ..       ..      845        18
Development Economics and Country Team.                                                                        5
-67 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Decrees Establishing the Traffic Management Center
MOSCOW CITY GOVERNMENT
DECREE NO. 1129, DECEMBER 7, 1199
"On estabUishment of Traffic Management Center"
(Unofficl Translation)
In order to increase the efficiency of traffic management and control in Moscow, to carry out the Decree of
Moscow City Government # 613 dated 6 July, 1999 oOn the program of implementation of measures for
further improvement of traffic conditions in the City in 1999 -2000>, Decree of Premier of the Moscow
City Government # 554-RP dated 29 May, 1997 <<On attraction of IBRI) loan for development of Moscow
transport infrastructure>>, taking into consideration the recommendations of the Intemational Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, the Moscow City Government decrees:
i   To establish within the Complex of City Economy a Traffic Management Center (TMC)
structurally subordinated to the Departnent of Transport and Communications.
2.   To oblige the Department of State and Municipal Assets of Moscow City jointly with the
Department of Transport and Communications to select and to make available to the TMC on
leasing basis non-residential premises of area no less than 200 sq.m.
3.   To deternine the following order of the TMC financing:
3.1. Until the Loan Agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) for the Moscow Urban Transport Project becomes effective, the
TMC will be financed from the Territorial Road Fund of Moscow City. The staff of the
TMC is established in amount of 5 for this period.
3.2. During the two years of operation after the Loan Agreement with the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development for the Moscow Urban Transport Project comes into
effect the TMC will be financed from the IBRD loan within the Moscow Urban Transport
Project, and the staff of TMC will be no less than 20 specialists (which does not include
the technical personnel).
3.3. The costs of the TMC as per para. 7 of the present Decree as well as operational costs,
such as technical assistance, htaining abroad, equipment, office rent and staff salaries, for
the first two years of operation will be financed by mutual agreement of the parties
partially from the IBRD loan for the Moscow Urban Transport Project and partially from
the Territorial Road Fund.
3.4. After two years of operation all financial resources for the TMC operation will be
allocated from the City budget within the funds provided for the Complex of City
Economy.
- 68 -



4.   To oblige the Department of Economic Policy and Development of Moscow to provide for
financing of the TMC in accordance with paras 3.1 - 3.3 of the present Decree.
5.  To oblige the Department of Finance to allocate funds in the City budget for the TMC operations
in accordance with par. 3A of this Decree.
6.  To oblige the Department of Transport and Communications to prepare and approve jointly with
the TMC within a month's period in accordance with the established procedures the TMC
Regulations, organizational structure and staffing table of TMC.
7.  To assign to the TMC the responsibilities and authorities to function as the main City
organization and client for
*  plannng, preparation, co-ordination and organization of street network within the
boundaries of Moscow;
*  development of strategies and proposals for implementation of traffic management and
control systems, including Automatic Traffic  Control System; supervision over
operations of such systems;
*  design of traffic management and control;
* traffic research and analysis;
*  development and implementation of paring policies.
8.  The TMC is implementing its authorities and performing individual tasks either by force of its
staff or by engaging on a contract basis other agencies, institutions and private companies,
selected on a competitive basis.
9. To entrust the control of implementation of the present Decree to B.V. Nikolsky, First Deputy
Premier of the Moscow City Govemment.
Premier of Moscow City Government                    Yu. M. Luzhkov
-69-



Addiffonal
Annex No.: 12
URBAN TRANSPORT POLICY LETTER
GOVERNMET OF MOSCOW
DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER
March 13, 2000
4-30-1285/0
Mr. M. Carter
Country Director for Russia
Europe and Central Asia Region
Dear Mr. Carter,
In keeping with our agreement, I am writing this letter to you outlining our vision as to
how the proposed Moscow Urban Transport Project supports general transport policies and
the approach adopted by the Moscow Government.
The city is undertaking a large-scale road and bridge construction: Small and Big Third
Transport Rings; repair of the main city roads. Reconstruction of the Moscow outer ring road
(MKAD) has been completed. Major fmancial resources are being diverted for these purposes
while implementation of the proposed Moscow Urban Transport Project would make it really
possible to strengthen the institutional structure, improve quality of investment planning in the
road and transport system in 2000-2001, which would eventually lead to improvement in the
overall efficiency of municipal transit system. Besides, loan proceeds of the World Bank
attracted for these purposes would enable to focus municipal budget funds on the ongoing
transport projects. Loan proceeds would be actually disbursed at once. By applying retroactive
funding arrangements, its implementation has actually started.
Traffic Management Institutional Development.
Given the important role of work coordination in the area of traffic management and
quality of investment planning for the road/transport system of the city, we decided to
establish the Traffic Management Center (TMC) within the Moscow City Govermnent. A
decree on establishing the TMC was signed by the Moscow Mayor in December 1999. Now, a
Mayor's directive is being prepared whereby Regulations on TMC are to be approved and its
director appointed. The steps taken show a firm commitment of the Moscow Govermment to
establish the TMC as a standing agency with powers and responsibilities of a leading agency
and a customer for development and implementation of transport strategies, plans, designs and
-70-



systems of management as well as for coordination, experts' review and approval of all the
traffic management measures arranged by other agencies. The TMC wiU submit proposals
regarding budget allocations to provide fmancing in the area of traffic management and
organize comprehensive experts' reviews of the critical projects associated with traffic
management.
In this context, the TMC will also carry out its functions within the framework of
concrete traffic management projects proposed for financing by the World Bank under the
Moscow Urban Transport Project.
Training of Transport Staff
Moscow possesses highly skiled specialists in the transport sector, in the recent years,
however, they had to deal with new challenges caused by sharp increase in the number of
private car owners in Moscow and respective changes in traffic conditions. In this situation, it
becomes especially important to take account of the international experiences and use
contemporary methods in solving similar problems, especially in the area of traffic
management. Due to this, we agreed to include a training program for traffic management and
transportation planning to provide technical assistance to the TMC. The program will be in
three parts: (1) technical assistance to the TMC to provide practical on-the-job training under
specific projects, (2) short term courses and workshops in Moscow to both transportation
planners and traffic specialists, and (3) overseas training of few selected specialists who will be
obligated to work in Moscow for a defined period after completion of their training. The first
part of the program will provide TMC staff with training in traffic management and
twansportation planning both by the example of working on practical projects and by the
delivery of short training sessions and workshops. The second part of the program would
comprise several courses, each of 4-6 weeks in duration and spread over one year, which will
cover such critical areas as scheme preparation through improved feasibility studies, economic
evaluations and setting of priorities for transport investment, traffic management and
applications of new transport planning techniques. The third part of the program would
expose our staff to state-of-the-art process in the traffic and transport field and enable them to
acquire new knowledge and experience to provide a top-level resolution to Moscow transport
problems.
Public Transit System
Moscow has a very strong surface transit system which plays an important social role
and the Moscow Government intends to explore possible ways of obtaining greater efficiency
of its operation. Therefore, we have agreed that, under the project, we will include a study of
the surface public transit system that will have two principal practical objectives: (1) to
improve quality of services offered and (2) to improve the cost recovery of the surface public
transport to reduce the subsidy burden borne by the Moscow Government. We expect that this
study, to be managed by the Transportation and Communications Department, will focus both
on practical measures that can be implemented by the TCD itself and on more strategic
considerations such as the role and function of various modes of surface public transit system
-71 -



and development of the regulatory framework assuming an increased role for the private
sector in the provision of these services.
Transport Planning
While the Moscow Govemment is expanding and improving the urban road network, it
is concerned about the rational use of our resources for transport investment. We recognize an
increased role of traffic management in resolving the transit problems of the city. Besides, a
Transport Strategy study, which has been partially funded by the UNDP, has been
commissioned to establish priorities for transport investment and policies for next 20 years.
This study, which has recently been completed, contains both long term (20 year) and short
term (5 year) program of transport investment in Moscow. We are currently studying these
programs and expect to adopt these proposals with some changes.
An important output of this study was the recommendation to pursue more detailed
feasibility studies of specific proposed projects, some of which would be intended to attract
private sector investments. We support the World Bank's agrement in principle to include
these studies in the Moscow Urban Transport Project. The Moscow Government would use
these as models for undertaking feasibility studies for other investment projects as well.
Procurement Practices
The Moscow Government thinks it would be appropriate to use competitive
procedures to procure civil works, equipment and consulting services under all the projects
ongoing in the municipal transport sector. In this connection, we plan to use the experiences
and knowledge gained with the Moscow Component of the Bridge Rehabilitation Project and
the Moscow Urban Transport Project to improve the bidding procedures adopted in Moscow.
With this aim in mind, we will analyze and review the procurement experience under the
project and plan to prepare a review comparing this experience with the experience of
competitive bidding under other projects in Moscow.
I hope that the city's general transport policies and approaches set out in this letter
assure you that the .Moscow Govemment is serious about improving the efficiency of actions
in response to the challenge of increasing demand for transport services in the city. We are
also convinced that implementation of the Moscow Urban Transport Project will provide an
essential support to our efforts in this area.
Sincerely,
Y.V. Rosliak
-72-



Additional
Annex No.: 13
Summary Financal Management Assm ent
Note: The full report is available in the project files.
Part A Portfolio Risks
The following issues relate to the operation of all projects in the country portfolio:
*  All taxes and duties for loans negotiated or approved after June 19, 2000 are ineligible for
financing from loan funds. Appropriate co-financing amounts need to be allocated to avoid any
delays in project implementation.
*  In accordance with the Tax Code, part two the Social Charges wil be replaced by single Social
Tax starting from January 1, 2001. The Social Tax, being direct, will automatically become an
ineligible expense which should be paid directly to the budget (Tax Authorities). Mandatory
Payments to the Russian budget such as social tax must be co-financed by Russian Govermment
=  in accordance with new budgetary code, all loan funds as well as other budget funds should be held
in the Treasury of the Ministry of Finance. There is a risk that Foundations, as non-govermnmental
institutions, will not be able to authorize payments of budgetary funds and therefore be restricted in
functioning as an implementing agent of the Govemment.
Part B Moscow Project Implementation Unit Foundation (Foundation)
General
The Moscow Project Implementation Unit Foundation is an autonomous, non-commercial organization
founded by the Economic Policy and Development Department of Moscow Government. In accordance
with its Charter, the main objective of the Foundation is to implement projects in Moscow in the
lughway and urban transport fields that are financed by IBRD and UNDP funds. The Foundation
incorporates the PIU for both this project and the PIU for the Moscow component of the Bridge
Rehabilitation Project. In this report the term "Foundation" is used to describe activities and
requirements to the Foundation as a whole (legal entity), while the term "Project Implementation Unit
(PIU)" is used to define the activities and requirements of the unit within the Foundation structure
specifically responsible for implementing the Moscow Urban Transport project.
Governance Structure
In accordance with its Charter, the goveming structure of the Foundation is formed by three bodies (see
chart below).
-73-



Foundation Council.
This has the following major responsibilities:
* Defines the principles of activities and use of funds;
* Appoints the President of the Foundation;
* Approves the General Director and Foundation Directorate;
* Decides on annual audits and appointment of the auditor,
* Makes changes in the charter of the Foundation; and
* Defines the remuneration scheme of the Foundation staff.
Foundation Directorate.
The Foundation Directorate consists of Genaal Director, Directors of the projects and Chief
Accountant. The General Director reports to the President of the Foundation and Foundation Council.
The General Director is responsible for:
* Planning, budgeting and reporting;
* Ensuring compliant disbursement;
3 Supervision of activities; and
3 Ensuring operational compliance with Russian legislation, and the rules of IBRD and UNDP.
Trustee Council of the Foundation
The Trustee Council has the right to control all financial activity of the Foundation, conduct checks in
Foundation premises, and control implementation of Foundation budgets. The members are the First
Deputy Premier of Moscow Government, President of the Foundation, a representative of Government
Office, a representative of Ministry of Finance and Director of the Project Finance Center.
Regulations and Procedures
The activities of the Foundation are governed by Russian legislation. Currently all procedures and rules
of Foundation operations are defined in various documents not summarized under one cover. The
Foundation intends to adopt the project Operating Manual to define ils internal procedures and rules
during project implementation. It was tentatively agreed that the Project Operating manual for this
project wiUl have appropriate sections related to overal Foundation activities.
Organizational Structure and Staffing
The structure of the Foundation will be changed to ensure that the two projects can be managed
successfully. First, the Foundation charter will be amended to permit crnly non-commercial activity of
the Foundation. Second, the Heads of the Urban Transport Project and the Bridge Rehabilitation
projects will now report to the General Director of the Foundation. 'Third, two accountants will be
responsible for maintaining separate project accounts for each project, but both will report to a single
Chief Accountant for the Foundation.
-74 -



The Project Implementation Unit formed within the Foundation consists of the following main
departments:
*  procurement department (2 procurement specialists),
* technical department;
*  administration (office manager, 2 secretaries and a driver) and
*  financial group (senior accountant plus accountant)
Accounting Systems and Reporting Requirements
Cunrently, there is a lack of interface between the two projects and entity financial statements. The
report recommends the restucturing of the financial deparment to ensure proper control. The
outcomes will be i.) procedures detailed in Operating Manual; ii.) introduction and use of upgraded
Inotech accounting software; iii.) the submission by the Foundation to the Bank of its Balance Sheet,
Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement prepared in accordance with International Accounting
Standards; iv.) PMRs submitted on a quarterly basis and v.) a unified accounting policy. The
procedures for preparing entity Financial Statements in accordance with LAS should be properly
disclosed in the Foundation's Operating Manual.
Budgeting and Planning
The Foundation's operating budgets should be approved by the Foundation Council and the Bank
annually. The Operating Manual will state the procedures and clearly show the division of
responsibilities between budget preparation and approval. The annual operating and project budgets
will be approved by Foundation Council. In preparing Project Management Reports, quarterly budgets
will be prepared by the PIU. The project and operating quarterly budgets will be approved by the
Foundation Directorate.
Operating Manual and Internal Controb in the Foundation
The Foundation's Operating Manual will define all the procedures and regulations governing the
activities of the Foundation in implementing World Bank financed projects.
The Draft Operational Manual for the project was submitted for Bank review. The proposed text
requires some further improvements especially in parts related to the internal controls of the project.
The draft is acceptable to the Bank for negotiations purposes.
Project and Foundation Audit
The Foundation management should submit to the Bank audited annual project financial statements not
later than 6 months after the end of reporting period. The following project financial statements will be
prepared by the Foundation, in accordance with the requirements of Project Financial Management
Manual of the Bank:
-75 -



1. Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds;
2. Statement of Uses of Funds by Project Activity;
3. Project Cash Withdrawals;
4. Special Account Statement;
5. SOE Withdrawal Schedule;
6. Notes to Project Financial Statements
In addition to the requirement on audit of project financial statements, the Foundation will submit to the
Bank entity financial statements audited in accordance with Intenational Standards on Auditing.
Part C. Moscow Urban Transport Project
Traffic Management Centre
Like all government agencies working in the Russian Federation, the TMC should comply with rules and
guidelines prescribed by Russian legislation for activities of budgetary institutions. The TMC is a separate
legal body established as an integral part of the Moscow City Govermnment. The staff will be part of the of
the civil service and their salaries will not be eligible for Bank financing.
No financial management capacity assessment was conducted for TMC as no payment or/and receipt of
loan funds will be made by the TMC. The TMC will receive technical assistance (consultants), training,
the products of traffic and transport studies, equipment, and library mateials. However, all procurement,
disbursement and accounting will be handled by the Foundation. For contract execution, the Foundation
(PIU) will be acting as agent for the Moscow City Government and will be the contractual purchaser,
employer or client as the case may be. All supporting documentation for expenditures related to activities of
the TMC will be retained in the Foundation financial department and will be audited as part of annual
project audit.
Traffic Police Component.
The possible reputational risks of this component are acknowledged by tbe Bank and Moscow Government.
From the financial management perspective, risk minimization should be achieved through establishment of
a system to monitor and safeguard the assets acquired, training received and the consulting assignments
contracted during the project life.
Special procedures for monitoring equipment under the project will be established and agreed by the PIU
and GIBDD. The equipment received by the Traffic Police will be registered as owned by the GIBDD.
Assets financed by the Project and transferred to the GIBDD would be attested by a signed document
acknowledging receipt of and accountability for them on their balance sheets. A fixed assets register will
be maintained by the PIU showing name, number, cost of equipment and exact location. This information
is based on the supporting documentation provided by the Traffic Police upon receipt of the equipment The
list of supporting documents required should be agreed by the PIU and the Traffic Police.
-76-



MAP SECTION






IBRD 31064
0 1 1    5                       10                                     RUSSIAN FEDERATION
KILOMETERS                        MOSCOW URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
'>Zj- oe   t      .77,    PROJECT COMPONENTS                     "'57$S    CITY BOUNDARY
5'o 2owi                 ,$<>   >>w gUBUILT- UP AREA
PROPOSED THIRD RING ROAD,                       MAJOR ROADS
INNER AND OUTER SECTIONS              _ .       RIVERS
S : '.i  T"A''                           <,SY:"'ssoS                                             00           
lp~~~~~~~~~~I
i1'~~~~~~\o\    7      'f:  1
S ~ ~~~~ ~~ VA'n                                    X                         N,4(     4       {     J 
'    '; ''  J                             ::_N'-'/
-4-vs                      V                        ;            .:. 4       \         X ,         ,  --  1,_
N       /8o dt                                           _ i;          3C   i                    soDonb^ 
j   /  ~~~~t#~Bridr
/  ...~ =   FINLAND
-9  ,      3'     ~~>>o'             STRUSSIAN
. - >.Nj.Re R A  .  FEDERATION
.1:?VIA
This map was produced by the              -iANAyMoscow
Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                           BELARUS
The boundaries, colors denominations                         .                                               BELARUS  )
and anyother information shownon                >                                                                        (                    2
this map do not imply> an the part of              -       
The World Bank Group> any judgment               .                                                               UKRAINE       -,          -
on the legal status of any territory> or                              :                                                                  ?-KAZAKHSTAN
any endorsement or acceptance of                                                                                             ?i
such boundaries.                                                                                                               4ROMANIA  45  Cospon R
'---->bS k     4,2n j        ST Se0    200
SEPTEMBER 2003



