Report No. PID8318
Project Name                     Russian Federation-Moscow Urban Transport (@).
Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Urban Transport
Project ID                       RUPE46061
Borrower(s)                      RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Implementing Agency
Address CITY OF MOSCOW
Project Implementation Unit
29, Prospekt Vernadskogo, #804
Moscow 117331, Russian Federation
Contact Person: Ekaterina Popova
Tel: (7-095) 138-23-80
Fax: (7-095) 133-40-39
Email: mutpgrp@dol.ru
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                January 29, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         July 2000
Projected Board Date             February 6, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Main Sector Issues.The project will address a number of issues that will
need to be resolved or mitigated to ensure maximum project success. These
are described below.Increasing Traffic Congestion. Traffic conditions are
deteriorating in Moscow and will continue to deteriorate rapidly unless a
number measures are undertaken to counteract the problem. While peak hour
traffic conditions have been poor on several road links radiating from the
center and in the central area of the city for a few years, a more recent
phenomenon is the growing severity of the problem over longer periods of
the day. Travel speeds have halved on some routes, and traffic backups
spurred by traffic incidents combined with heavy traffic flows are
becoming more frequent. Several road links are experiencing substantial
congestion over many hours. As traffic volumes increase and as these road
links reach their practical traffic carrying capacity, this congestion is
likely to increase at a rate greater the proportional increase of traffic
volumes. The project is designed to provide at least a few years relief
to the situation while a more inclusive strategy for addressing the
problem can be devised as part of the project.Poor Road Safety. While
traffic accident data has not been compiled at this time, it is clear from
incidental reports that Moscow is experiencing a high accident rate, both
in deaths and in total accidents. Substantial funding has been devoted to
upgrading the outer ring road (MKAD) and other arteries, including the
provision of barrier medians, partially in response to these high accident
levels. Treatment of pedestrian crossings and pedestrian safety zones in
and around bus and tram stops is also frequently deficient. No systematic
monitoring and assessment of the frequency, cause, and location of
accidents is being undertaken in the city.Fragmented and Weak Traffic
Management Institutions. The traffic management function is scattered



across a number of entities either within or closely associated with the
City government. These include the traffic police (GIBDD), the city roads
departments (DORINVEST), a traffic institute (Mosgortransniproject) which
is associated with the operating surface transit company (Mosgortrans),
the Transportation and Communications Department, and Genplan (the master
planning institute associated with Moscow Architecture Committee. No
single entity has a sufficient range of responsibilities, authority, or
staff capabilities to conceptualize, design, implement, and operate a
traffic management program for the city. This is a major deficiency which
must be addressed to assure the sustainability of the project, and more
importantly, for the long-term ability of Moscow to address traffic
problems and issues.Poor Traffic Enforcement. The traffic police force
suffers from poor morale and a poor public image. This is partially due
to poor pay levels and practices by the on-street force that do not appear
to many to be addressing the primary enforcement functions of enhancing
safety and managing traffic incidents. Moreover, the traffic police are
heavily involved in maintaining and operating the traffic signal system
and other traffic management activities that typically would be the
responsibility of a civilian operation in most western market-economy
cities. A substantial reorientation of the traffic police mission and
focus is required.Inadequate Strategic Transportation Planning.
Transportation planning in Moscow has a tradition of being part of overall
physical planning for the city dominated by architects and civil
engineers. The principal strategic transportation planning function is
handled by Genplan, an institute associated with the Moscow Architecture
Committee. The Transportation and Communications Department also has a
transportation planning function with particular reference to
operationally oriented issues, including regulation of and contracting
with taxis, para-transit, and the public transport fleet. Overall,
transportation planing in the city exhibits a capital intensive
infrastructure focus with no clear overall strategy of optimizing
investments in relation to available resources. Schemes worth several
billions of dollars have been proposed with no clear overall sense of
priorities. The transport planners also do appear to be giving due regard
to devising strategies to management travel demand in relation to the
supply of transportation infrastructure. Taxation, fee, and pricing
measures to restrain private vehicle ownership and use are not actively
being advanced. Moreover, staff in both Genplan and the Transportation
and Communications Department do not appear to have the professional
training and experience to adequately address the scale of problems facing
Moscow.Government StrategyThe Moscow government has embarked upon an
ambitious transport infrastructure investment program entailing the
expenditure of hundreds of millions of dollars equivalent annually to
address transport problems. The City is currently spending a high
proportion of available funds on completing a major upgrade of the
existing outer ring road (MKAD) that encircles most of the administrative
area of the city. The city also wishes to complete a "Third Ring" road
which lies between the outer ring and an inner ring road called the Garden
ring. This third ring is conservatively estimated to cover over $4
billion. Conversely, the city currently does not appear to be devoting
enough attention and resources to traffic management measures, to the
surface transit fleet, and to the full development of its transportation
planning, traffic engineering, and traffic policy resources. In short,
the Moscow City strategy up to the present has been one of attempting to
build its way out of the problem through the supply of expensive transport
- 2 -



infrastructure. There is an increasing awareness, however, that this
approach will not succeed, and that more attention must be directed to the
demand side through traffic restraint measures, and better utilization of
existing resources through traffic management schemes and surface transit
priority measures.
2. Objectives
Moscow City, with a population of about 9 million, and a suburban
population of about 4.5 million, ranks among the largest cities of the
world and is the largest urban agglomeration in Europe. Moscow has one of
the largest and the best patronized metro systems in the world with over 9
million passengers a day. Combined metro and surface transit ridership
exceeds 12 million daily trips. Up to recently the public transport
system accommodated over 85t of all motorized trips in the city. However,
the city is experiencing an explosive growth in private vehicle ownership,
increasing from about 800,000 vehicles in 1990 to over 2 million today.
Travel speeds have declined sharply and this, in turn, has had an adverse
impact on surface public transport operations and environmental
conditions.  Mitigating or reversing these adverse trends is important as
Moscow is by far the most important governmental, commercial, educational,
and cultural center in the Russian Federation. More recently, the City
has become a major banking and service center. This type of economy is
particularly dependent upon a good and reliable transportation system to
enhance and sustain continued economic growth.The city is not well
equipped institutionally to handle the deteriorating traffic situation.
Both the transportation planning and traffic engineering operations are
scattered throughout the city government, and staff are not properly
trained and sufficiently exposed to current planning and traffic
engineering techniques. Current attempts by the city to spend large
amounts on an extensive transportation infrastructure program, will not
resolve the problem.The project objectives are to:(a) Improve the
institutional capacity of transport agencies to (i) comprehensively plan
and program transportation improvements, (ii) design, implement, and
operate traffic management schemes, and (iii) enforce traffic regulations
with a view to enhancing safety and managing traffic incidents;(b) Reduce
traffic congestion in the Central Area on selected road links; and (c)
Improve traffic safety;
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank can provide substantial value added in support of the proposed
project, including the following:(a) Institutional Development - The
Bank has had extensive worldwide experience in preparing and implementing
urban transport projects in major urban areas that have multiple agencies
concerned with traffic and transportation problems. The Bank is
accustomed to working across these institutional boundaries under a single
project framework and in providing a catalytic role in brining together
all concerned agencies to meet project objectives. This activity has been
and will continue to be particularly important in the current project.(b)
Economic Analysis Including Investigation of Alternatives - The Bank also
has had extensive experience in assisting borrowers in exploring
alternative solutions to complex traffic and transport problems.
Preparation of the proposed project requires numerous choices to be made
in seeking to meet the project objectives. This kind of economic analysis
is not well developed in Russia.(c) Transportation Planning - The Bank
has assisted many borrowers in designing and undertaking urban
-3 -



transportation plans, and is aware of the pitfalls of this type of
undertaking. Particularly important is the importance of seeking and
gaining stakeholder commitment to the planning process to assure the
practical implementation of plan proposals. The Bank also experienced in
relating planned expenditures to available resources and in broadening the
plan perspective to include demand management, policies, and institutional
considerations. (d) International Procurement - Competitive
international procurement is still relatively new to Russia and to
Moscow. This is particularly true with regard to procurement of
sophisticated equipment like traffic signals equipment proposed under the
project. The Bank can provide valuable guidance and advice in this aspect
of the project.(e) Catalyst for Donor Assistance - The Bank has and
continues to be of assistance in obtaining and coordinating donor
assistance for the project. To date the Bank has assisted in securing
grants from the UNDP, and agencies of the French, Finnish, American, and
British governments worth over $2 million.(f) International Exposure -
Beyond the financial benefit of donor assistance, the Bank can assist the
City in gaining important and relevant international exposure to
important organizational and technological innovations that could be
applied in the city.    Senior Moscow officials have traveled to Helsinki
and to the United States on carefully designed study tours. (g)
Demonstration Potential - By virtue of its widespread operations in Russia
and in other countries which have historically related to Russia, the
Bank is well positioned to spread the demonstration potential of the
proposed project to other mid-to-large sized cities in the region. This
is particularly the case as Moscow has traditionally been viewed as a
leader in the region.
4. Description
A. Infrastructure - including construction of a wider road over rail
Donbasky Bridge to alleviate a major traffic bottleneck on the
Varshovskoye Road corridor.
B. Comprehensive Traffic Management Schemes --including, interalia,
intersection improvements, traffic signals, and medians along the 18
kilometer Varshovskoye corridor.
C.   Public Transport Priority Demonstration Project - including traffic
engineering improvements to the Shelkovskoye Corridor (about 15 km
radiating eastward from the Central Area to the outer ring road) giving
priority treatment to surface transit vehicles and selected amenities to
transit passengers
D. Traffic Enforcement - including a traffic enforcement training program
supported by related equipment procurement focusing on accident reduction
and efficient management of traffic incidents (accidents),
E. Pedestrian Underpasses - along the Garden Ring Road and the
Varshovskoye and Shelkovskoye corridors.
F. Institutional Development for Traffic Management - creation of a
Traffic Management Center with suitably defined duties and authority,
adequate staffing and facilities, and training programs
G. Planning and design of the Garden Ring and Central Areas schemes
H. Surface Transit and other studies to be determined.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                       63.2
- 4-



IBRD                             60.0
IDA                              0
Total Project Cost               123.2
6. Implementation
A project implementation unit has been established to manage the overall
project. Once the proposed Traffic Management Center has been
established, it is expected that this unit (possibly with the PIU subsumed
within its structure) will assume overall project management
responsibility. It is also expected that the city roads department
(Dorinvest), the  traffic police (GAI), and possibly additional agencies
will share project implementation responsibilities consistent with their
functional responsibilities within the city government.
7. Sustainability
F: Sustainability and Risksl. Sustainability: Project sustainability is
largely dependent upon establishing a Traffic Management Center with
suitable defined responsibilities, authority and staffing both to
implement the project and to carry out the traffic management function for
the City of Moscow.    Along with the establishment of a suitable unit,
substantial inter-organizational cooperation will be required to assure
project sustainability. Sustainability would also be enhanced by
strengthening the transportation planning function within the City
government.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The proposed project will be the first in Russia focusing on urban traffic
management and the first project focusing solely on the City of Moscow.
The ongoing Bridge Rehabilitation Project has a $50 million component
directed at Moscow. Moreover, there are currently no projects in the ECA
region focusing principally on urban traffic management. The Budapest
urban transport project has a small component focusing on implementing a
parking control policy    The Bank, however, has had extensive experience
with projects that have an urban traffic management focus, and a number of
additional projects are in the development stage. Almost without fail the
principal project problems revolve around the establishment of suitable
traffic management organizations with adequately defined powers and
responsibilities. Typically the traffic management function is fragmented
across several institutions, staff levels and funding is inadequate, and
staff lack adequate training and experience. While these problems have
been recognized at the outset of project preparation activities, the
required institutional changes have been difficult to bring about within
the time frame of Bank supported projects. To counteract this problem on
the proposed Moscow Project, a number of measures have been instituted as
follows:(a) "up front" study tours involving senior Moscow Officials
traveling to Helsinki Finland and to five United States cities were
arranged during the project preparation period.     (b) Finnish advisors
(grant funded) were deployed during the project preparation period to
offer institutional recommendations based on their practical experience,
The Deputy Director of the Helsinki Traffic Planning Department was on
assignment for 16 months. (c) The city has prepared draft decrees and
charters establishing a proposed Traffic Management Center
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     No
- 5 -



10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         No major issues
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Richard C. Podolske
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending February 2, 2001.
- 6 -



