                                                                                                                                 87480


                                                                                                                           February 5, 2001
                                                                                                                              08:45:52PM




Statement by Balmiki Prasad Singh
Date of Meeting: February 6, 2001

                 Russian Federation: Country Assistance Stratea:;y Proa:;ress Report
                                      and Moscow Urban Transport Project

       We welcome the discussion on the Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report for
Russia and commend the Staff members for this highly analytical and candid report.

         Since we have discussed the C.A.S. in December, 1999, the political and economic
situation in Russia has undergone tremendous changes. The environment for reforms is more
positive today than ever in the past. The increase in oil prices has brought stability to the economy
with improvement in industrial production and GDP. The government revenue has gone up, fiscal
deficit is reduced, inflation is under control, and the unemployment rate has come down. Though
the increase in oil prices is a major reason for Russia's economic stability, we should also
congratulate the Government for their farsightedness and commitment to continue with the reform
process. As a matter of caution, we would like to add that this stability on both economic and
political front should not lead to any complacency either on the part of Government or on the part
of the Bank. This is the time for the Bank to involve in soul-searching operations and to design a
viable and sustainable strategy for economic development of Russian Federation.

         We welcome a shift in the Bank's program that embraces the plan formulated by the
Government of Russia for all round development of the economy. We urge the staff and
management to devote some time to understand why the Structural Adjustment Loan-3 is a
failure. We have to learn from the past. Various factors which have contributed to this failure
have not been properly spelt out. We take note of the fact that President Wolfensohn's meeting
with President Putin has brought a positive change. Now, it is the responsibility of the
Government of Russia to make sure that the strategy and the reform process succeeds.

        We are pleased to note the impressive analysis and advisory work planned by the Staff for
the next two years. The program of Advisory Services listed in Appendix-3 is really ambitious and
exhaustive. This will definitely contribute a lot to understand the Russian economy and will
provide a road map to achieve the Government's program in the medium term. The role of gender
in Russian economy and the impact of HIVI AIDS also need to be studied in detail.

       It is regrettable to note that the reform in financial sector is going very slow. Before
pushing the reform, the diagnostic work needs to be strengthened and the legal and judicial

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                         2
;




    environment be made favourable for market oriented economy. This may take a long time than
    expected but there is no need to worry as long as the reforms are on the right path.

            We very much appreciate the role played by I.F.C. in Russia in creating an atmosphere for
    private sector development. IFC's continued presence will improve the investor's confidence and
    accelerate growth of foreign investment. Transition from the totally controlled economy to a
    market oriented one is really painful but initial hiccups can be easily overcome if we are cautious
    in choosing the partners and realistic in our objectives.

            IFC should explore the possibility of setting up venture capital fund, particularly in the
    area of new economy- information and bio - technology. This will achieve the twin objectives of
    fmancial markets development as well as private sector development. Has I.F.C. any plan to
    commission a study on the viability of such initiatives? We will be glad to have the comments
    from the Staff.

            Though the unemployment rate has come down, 10 percent of the youth are still
    unemployed. IFC's continued support for the development of small and medium enterprises can
    play a positive role in creating more employment.

            Russia's external debt service continues to be a major risk. Does the Government have any
    contingency plan in case there is sharp decline in oil prices? In fact this is the time for the
    Government to take steps to diversify its exports. Its over dependence on oil will not help to fmd
    a viable solution for sustainable growth.

            Though political and economic stability has returned to Russia, the people of Russia and
    international business community are looking for quality of governance. Determined action from
    government against corruption and organized crime will send positive signals for increased foreign
    investment which is very much needed to modernize Russia's diverse but dilapidated industrial
    base.

    Moscow Urban Transport Project:

             We also welcome the presentation of Moscow Urban Transport Project for Board's
    approval. This project will go a long way in improving the mobility and quality of life in Moscow.
    We are very much impressed by the project's design and its core objective of improving the
    institutional capacity of the city of Moscow to plan, design and implement effective traffic
    management. We extend our support to the project and urge the staff to fmalize the new
    Structural Adjustment Loan quickly in consonance with the Government's program.




    This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
    may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
