Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4595 RU
Loan Agreement
(Moscow Urban Transport Project)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 25, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4595 RU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 2001, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the City of Moscow (the City) with the 
Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to the City the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Central Area of the City" means the area within and including the Garden 
Ring;
(b)
"City" means the City of Moscow, a subject of the Russian Federation (an 
administrative subdivision of the borrower); 
(c)
"Foundation" means the Foundation "Moscow Project Implementation Unit" or 
"MPIU," an autonomous noncommercial organization founded by the Economic Policy 
Development Department of the Moscow City Government pursuant to the Directive of the 
Premier of the Moscow City Government, dated October 28, 1996, No. 1031-RP, and acting 
on the basis of its Charter dated September 2, 1999;
(d)
"Operational Plan" means the plan referred to in paragraph 3(b) of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(e)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established within the 
Foundation, or any successor thereto;
(f)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in paragraph 3 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(g)
"Project Management Report" or "PMR" means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(h)
"Special Accounts" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
Part B of Schedule 1 to(b) of this Agreement;
(i)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the City pursuant to Section 3.01(b)3.01(c) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all 
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(j)
"TMC" means Traffic Management Center established pursuant to the Moscow 
City Government Decrees No. 1129, of December 7, 1999; and No. 491-PM,the Premier’s 
Directive No. 491-RM, of May 6, 2000; and
 (k)
"Traffic Police" means the State Inspection for Traffic Safety under the 
Main Department of Internal Affairs of the City.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to sixty 
million Dollars ($60,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee 
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Page  3
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourth of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05,2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
Page  4
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause the City to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations of the City 
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
the City to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
cause the City to carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to the City (a 
Subsidiary Loan) under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the City, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Bank, including but not limited to the following: 
(i)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid by the 
City in Dollars to the Borrower in equal semiannual installments 
over fifteen (15) years, including a grace period of five (5) 
years;
(ii)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable by the City 
shall be the equivalent in Dollars (determined as of the date, or 
respective dates, of repayment) of the value of the currency or 
currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account or paid out of their 
respective Special Account on account of expenditures for the 
Project;
(iii) the Borrower shall charge interest on the principal amount of the 
Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a 
rate of 200 basis points above the rate payable under Section 2.06 
of this Agreement; and 
(iv)
the terms and conditions specified in paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.  
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, 
works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
Page  5
future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the City to maintain a financial 
management system in respect of the Foundation, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable 
to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its financial condition and to 
register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the City to:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
of the Foundation for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
the City to:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(d)
The Borrower shall cause the City to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (c)(i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a 
Page  6
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the City to prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project management report for such 
period, which:
(a) 
(i)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report, and (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (ii) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The City shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the City will be able to perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that an event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.  
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
a Project Account with an initial deposit in local currency equivalent to 
at least -$150,000 has been opened pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed by the Borrower and the 
Page  7
City of Moscow;  
(c)
an auditor for the Project, with qualifications and terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank, has been appointed; and
(d)
contracts with advisors to the TMC whose qualifications, experience and 
terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Bank, have been entered into.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance [or an authorized Deputy Minister of 
Finance] is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Ilyinka Street 9
103097 Moscow
Russian Federation
Telex:
112008
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By /s/ Yuri V. Ushakov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shigeo Katsu
Acting Regional Vice President
Page  8
Europe and Central Asia
Page  9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
   Dollars
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
  28,900,000
42%
(2)
Goods
100% of foreign
expenditures,
(a) under Part E
   7,700,000
100% of local
of the Project
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
(b) under other
   5,600,000
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants'
  12,600,000
100%
Services,
Training and
Studies,
including Audit
(4)
Incremental
   2,100,000
100%
Operating Costs
(5)
Fee
     600,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
   2,500,000
TOTAL
 $60,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means incremental operating costs 
incurred by the PIU with respect to the implementation of the Project, including 
salaries of the PIU staff (other than Government officials) at the remuneration scale 
agreed upon with the Bank, building rental, utilities, vehicle operation, and office 
goods and supplies.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed an equivalent 
of $1,600,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after January 1, 2000; and (b) payments made under Category (2)(a) unless the 
Bank has received an acceptable Operational Plan for the use of the equipment, 
Page  10
including staff to receive and use the equipment, methods and procedures for equipment 
usage, and organizational and operational changes required to effectively utilize this 
equipment.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (ii) works under contracts not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent; (iii) services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent in case 
of firms and under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent in case of individuals; 
(iv) training; and (v) operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the institutional capacity of the 
City to plan, design, implement, operate and enforce traffic management measures.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Development for Traffic Management 
Assistance with the establishment of the Traffic Management Center (TMC) through 
provision of equipment, library materials and technical assistance.
Part B:
Corridor Improvement Program
1.
Carrying out traffic and safety enhancing improvements along Schelkovskoye and 
Varshavskoye corridors, and other corridors as might be agreed upon between the 
Borrower and the Bank.
2.
Construction of three pedestrian underpasses on the Varshavskoye corridor.
Part C:
Central Area Traffic Improvement Program
1.
Carrying our feasibility studies and detailed engineering for traffic schemes in 
the Central Area of the City.
2.
Construction of one pedestrian underpass along the Garden Ring.
Part D:
Donbassky Bridge
Reconstruction and widening of the Donbassky Bridge and construction of a tram 
track bridge on the Varshavskoye corridor.
Part E:
Traffic Enforcement Program
Provision of equipment, technical assistance and training to the Traffic Police 
to increase their effectiveness in traffic enforcement.
Part F:
Surface Public Transport Study
Carrying out a surface transitpublic transport study to: (a) present a 
comprehensive picture of the current surface public transport situation; (b) present 
strategic options for restructuring the sector; and (c) draw up detailed development 
plans for key sector organizations.
Page  11
Part G:
Strategic Advice
Carrying out further transportation related studies, as agreed upon with the 
Bank.
Part H:
Assistance to the PIU
Provision of equipment, technical assistance, all Project-related audit, 
training to the PIU staff and financing of the incremental operating costs of the PIU.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in Dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 2006
2,500,000
through November 15, 2017
2,500,000
______________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Sections  4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  12
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for works to be procured under contracts estimated to cost more than 
$10,000,000 shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 
and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $3,000,000 equivalent or more each.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(d)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,800,000 equivalent may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $670,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association,Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to 
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who 
has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
3.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
Page  13
aggregate amount not to exceed $460,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. Contracts will be awarded on 
the basis of price quotations obtained from at least three (3) qualified suppliers and 
at least two (2) countries.
4.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. Contracts will be awarded on the basis of 
price quotations obtained from at least three (3) qualified suppliers.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for works to be awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Part C.1; and (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost 
more than $100,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for works or goods to be awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of Part C.2, C.3, and C.4 hereof, the following 
procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section I and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of  Consultants 
by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Page  14
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultant’s services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for design, supervision and preparation of 
bidding documents, estimated to cost less than $200,000
equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for activities under Part A of the Project, in connection with the 
provision of technical assistance for the establishment of the Traffic Management 
Centre,TMC, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bankor Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for services for design, supervision and 
preparation of bidding documents, the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other 
than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
Page  15
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
shall and shall cause the City to maintain policies and procedures 
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
the indicators
Project Monitoring Indicators will be set forth in a Supplemental 
Letter to the Loan Agreement. agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
shall cause the City to prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, not later than October 30, 2002, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
shall and shall cause the City to review with the Bank, by December 31, 
2002, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, shall and shall cause the City to 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
2.
The Borrower shall cause the City: 
(a)
to maintain the PIU within the City Government with adequate staff, 
funds, facilities, and other resources required for carrying out the Project 
efficiently;
(b)
to assign to the PIU the responsibility for the overall Project 
implementation, including: (i) preparation by September 30 of each year, commencing 
from September 30, 2001, of annual work programs and associated budgets for the 
Project, reviewed and agreed upon with the Bank; (ii) preparation of bidding and 
contract documents and the undertaking of procurement procedures under the Project; 
(iii) maintenance of Project records including the Special Account and the Project 
Account, and arranging for the audit thereof; and (iv) preparation and furnishing to 
the Bank of Project Management Reports.
3.
The Borrower shall cause the City to: (i) open a Project Account in a bank with 
an initial deposit in local currency equivalent to at least $150,000; (ii) maintain 
said Project Account, during execution of the Project, with a minimum balance adequate 
to finance Project expenditures as and when they become due; and (iii) use the funds 
of said Project Account exclusively for financing the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall, under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, cause the City, inter 
alia, to:
(a)
declare its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, to carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering and environmental practices, and to provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project;
(b)
within thirty (30) days after the end of each calendar quarter, furnish 
to the Borrower and the Bank a quarterly progress report on the implementation of the 
Project for the previous quarter in form and detail satisfactory to the Borrower and 
Page  16
the Bank;
(c)
duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, not take or concur in any 
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof;
(d)
exchange views with the Borrower and the Bank with regard to the progress 
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan; 
(e)
promptly inform the Borrower and the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by it of its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(f)
by July 31, 2001, employ at least 20 professionals for the TMC, with 
qualifications and experience and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and 
shall maintain the TMC thereafter, adequately staffed and with adequate resources 
during the execution of the Project;
(g)
take all necessary measures to implement the environmental management 
plan for the Project; and
(h)
conduct annual public consultations to review the adequacy of traffic 
management components and progress towards meeting the social objectives of the 
Project.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
Page  17
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligibleEligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
Page  18
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
