                                Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                 Report No: ICR0000503




         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT


                            ON A LOAN
             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$60 MILLION EQUIVALENT



                                     TO THE

                          RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                 FOR THE



                  MOSCOW URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT



                              October 30, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Russia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2009)
                    Currency Unit = Ruble
                    Ruble 1.00 = US$0.03
                    US$1.00 = Ruble 32.6

                        FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 ­ December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CCTV    Closed Circuit Television
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GIBDD   State Traffic Police
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
INT     Department of Institutional Integrity
IRIS    Integrated Records and Information Services
MCG     Moscow City Government
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MKAD    Moscow Ring Road
MPIU    Moscow Project Implementation Unit
MUTP    Moscow Urban Transport Project
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
OPRC    Operations Procurement Review Committee
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
SEC     US Securities and Exchange Commission
SIL     Specific Investment Loan
TCS     Traffic Control System
TMC     Traffic Management Center
TM      Traffic Management
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
VP      Vice-President

                   Vice President:   Philippe H. Le Houerou
                 Country Director:   Klaus Rohland
                  Sector Manager:    Henry Kerali
             Project Team Leader:    Vickram Cuttaree
                ICR Team Leader:     Elena Chesheva
             ICR Primary Author:     Slobodan Mitric
                                    THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                    Moscow Urban Transport Project



                                                    CONTENTS
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 23
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 25
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 29
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 33
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 35
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 36
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 37
  Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................... 50
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 51
  Annex 10. Monitoring indicators .................................................................................. 52
  MAPS IBRD No. 31064 and No.31064R ..................................................................... 59
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Moscow Urban
Country:                Russian Federation      Project Name:
                                                                          Transport Project
Project ID:             P046061                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-45950
ICR Date:               10/31/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          RUSSIAN
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          FEDERATION
Original Total
                        USD 60.0M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 55.5M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 55.5M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Moscow Implementation Unit Foundation
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/06/1998     Effectiveness:                               09/24/2001
Appraisal:            12/01/1999     Restructuring(s):                            11/15/2006
Approval:             02/06/2001     Mid-term Review:                             09/01/2004
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2005        12/31/2008

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Roads and highways                                                    26                  80
Sub-national government administration                                74                  20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Municipal governance and institution building                         50                  50
Other urban development                                               50                  50

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Klaus Rohland                        Julian F. Schweitzer
Sector Manager:            Henry G. R. Kerali                   Ricardo A. Halperin
Project Team Leader:       Vickram Cuttaree                     Richard C. Podolske
ICR Team Leader:           Elena Y. Chesheva
ICR Primary Author:        Slobodan Mitric


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project (as stated in the Loan Agreement) was to improve the
institutional capacity of the Moscow Government to plan, design, implement, operate and
enforce traffic management measures.

  The specific objectives (as stated in the Project Appraisal Document) were to (a) build
up traffic management in the city by creating and strengthening a Traffic Management
Center (TMC), (b) invest in selected high priority physical works which demonstrate the
value of improved traffic management, (c) strengthen traffic enforcement through


                                                ii
training and equipment and (d) enhance the planning of surface public transport
operations.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDOs were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                                Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                  approval           Target        Completion or
                                                documents)           Values        Target Years
                  Traffic Management Center (TMC) created and fully staffed with adequate
Indicator 1 :
                  numbers and quality of staff.
Value             No centralized city wide
quantitative or   traffic management         20 staff minimum n.a.              500 staf
Qualitative)      structure in place.
Date achieved     09/24/2001                 09/24/2001         09/24/2001      12/31/2008
                  TMC was set up well before negotiations. Minimum staff complement of 20
Comments
                  reached before effectiveness, but not fully qualified. At loan closing, staff were
(incl. %
                  600 of which 50 are traffic management professionals. The TMC is fully
achievement)
                  operational. Achieved 100%
                  TMC officially granted adequate authority to plan, design, and implement traffic
Indicator 2 :
                  management measures.
                                             Transfer of                        TMC given
Value                                        authority over                     jurisdiction over
                  TMC initially granted
quantitative or                              signals to TMC;                    signals and
                  cooperating role
Qualitative)                                 TMC appointed as                   appointed as lead
                                             lead TM agency.                    TM agency.
Date achieved     09/24/2001                 09/24/2001                         06/23/2005
Comments          Two mayoral decrees in 2005 gave full authority to TMC. It is now the lead
(incl. %          traffic management agency in Moscow designing and implementing traffic
achievement)      management schemes. Achieved 100%.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                             Formally
                                            Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                           Revised
                                              approval                     Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                             documents)                     Target Years
Indicator 1 : Improved traffic enforcement.
                                         Transfer signal
                                         functions to TMC,
Value           Police manage traffic
                                         focus on moving                 Achieved in
(quantitative   signals, no focus on law
                                         patrols and                     substance
or Qualitative) enforcement.
                                         incident
                                         management.
Date achieved 09/24/2001                 09/24/2001                      01/31/2007



                                                  iii
Comments
               Operationsl plan for dynamic law enforcement agreed and implemented;
(incl. %
               equipment supplied; TMC and Police functions redistributed. Achieved 100%.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
        Date ISR
No.                            DO                           IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1    06/28/2001         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    12/21/2001         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     1.51
  3    06/28/2002         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     3.40
  4    12/24/2002         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     5.67
  5    05/30/2003         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   10.38
  6    10/31/2003         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   14.23
  7    03/05/2004         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   18.71
  8    04/05/2004         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   20.22
  9    09/10/2004         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   24.25
 10    10/29/2004         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   25.42
 11    05/27/2005         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   27.28
 12    01/04/2006      Highly Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory               32.19
 13    03/22/2006      Highly Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory               33.76
 14    12/23/2006         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   50.42
 15    12/28/2006         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   50.42
 16    12/26/2007         Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory            53.07
 17    03/22/2008         Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory            53.36
 18    07/17/2008         Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory            53.70
 19    11/14/2008         Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory            55.01


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     reallocation, cancellation of a
 11/15/2006       N       HS     HS          48.24
                                                     project component




                                             iv
I. Disbursement Profile




                          v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
As Russia started the transformation of its political and economic system in the late
1980s, public transport modes still dominated the transport system of Moscow. Moscow
was served by an extensive metro system, among the best in the world, and a dense,
street-based network of bus, trolley-bus and tram lines. Together, these modes carried
about 85% of all motorized trips, permitting a high level of mobility, above 3 daily trips
per person. Car ownership was low at about 70 vehicles per 1,000 people; and cars
carried less than 12% of the passenger market.1 The urban road network was extensive
but underdeveloped in structural terms, reflecting low reliance on transport by car. Most
notably, it lacked limited-access roads, suitable for longer trips, in both ring and radial
corridors.

In the space of a few years, and in spite of a severe, historically unique recession in the
Russian economy, major changes occurred on the transport demand side in the capital
city. Car ownership and use rose at unprecedented rates. Starting from merely 800,000
vehicles in 1990, the fleet exceeded 2 million by 1996.2 By 1998, there were more than
200 cars per 1,000 people in Moscow and the car share of motorized travel increased to
more than 22%. This modal shift resulted in unprecedented traffic congestion on city
streets, accompanied by conflicts, accidents and air pollution. Stop-and-go operation
became common during peak periods, and peaks lengthened. An especially disturbing
development was that pedestrians, especially children, accounted for about two-thirds of
traffic fatalities. On-street public transport operations, having no protection from
congestion, saw their operating costs rising and levels of service plummeting, with
downstream losses of passengers and an unsustainable demand for operating and capital
subsidies.

The early response of the Moscow City Government (MCG) to rising traffic problems
was essentially pro-automobile, but with a narrow focus, consisting mainly of investing
in major arterial roads, notably ring roads. The sub-arterial street network and on-street
public transport operations received much less attention. The potential of traffic and
demand management ­ a set of engineering and regulative instruments aiming to
optimize the performance of a given transport network in line with social priorities ­ was
neglected. The traffic control system of Moscow was largely out of date. The majority of
traffic signals were of the "isolated" type, precluding the use of traffic-sensitive control
methods with a network-wide scope. The most visible use of traffic management tools
included one-way circulation schemes and left-turn prohibitions at major intersections,
measures useful to maximize flow but known (in worldwide experience) to reduce access.
On-street parking management by time controls and charges was not practiced, and the
subject of charging motor vehicles for the use of urban roads was not on any professional
agenda, much less official ones. No attempts were being made to improve operating


1
    Car ownership data are from World Bank (2002), Europe and Central Asia Urban Transport Strategy.
2
    These numbers are from a reconnaissance mission's back-to-office report dated October 29, 1996.


                                                  1
conditions for street-based transport modes, used by two-thirds of all public transport
passengers, e.g. by provision of reserved lanes and priority at signals. 3 On the supply side,
the regulation of on-street public transport services, provided by the state-owned
Mosgortrans and its private complements, was not seen as a subject of critical importance.

Underlying weak traffic management was the failure of the MCG to develop an
appropriate institutional structure to deal with motorization. Traffic management
functions, such as were pursued, were divided among several agencies, with none in the
lead. There, they either languished as secondary activities, with a low budget-attraction
potential, or got in the way of that agency's primary activities. Traffic police, for example,
were managing the city's traffic control systems, while failing to provide effective, on-
street law enforcement, incident management, and other safety-related functions.

Eventually, some key officials in the MCG realized that large road construction alone
could not do the job. In the late-1990s, the City of Moscow commissioned a transport
strategy study, funded in part by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP). The
study identified many soft spots in the way that the Moscow urban transport system was
managed and planned. These included a patchy legislative framework; outdated planning
standards; low availability of data on both transport demand and supply sides; regulatory
policy for public transport services that placed an unsustainable subsidy load on public
budgets and led to inefficient supply; inadequate analyses for investment decision
making; divorce between plans and sources of funds; and others. The study took a
comprehensive and long-term view, recommending a set of institutional, legal, policy and
investment activities addressing the identified shortcomings. The Bank-funded project
(hereafter the Project) was conceived as a vehicle to implement some key, short-to-
medium-term proposals of this study, and to support further development of other,
medium-to-long term elements.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The objective of the Project, as stated in the Loan Agreement, is to "improve the
institutional capacity of the city of Moscow to plan, design, implement, operate and
enforce traffic management measures."

More operational sub-objectives can be inferred from the statement of instruments cited
in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) in the order of importance: (a) strengthening
traffic management in the city by creating a Traffic Management Center (TMC) within
the city government, and building up its capacity; (b) investing in selected high priority
physical works which demonstrate the value of improved traffic management; (c)




3
  Modal shares in 1994 were as follows: 34% metro; 40.4% buses; 16% trolley-buses; 9.6% trams.
Source: Vladimir Stortchevus, "Sustainable Development of Transportation Systems in Largest Cities
of Russia" presented at Habitat II ­ United Nations Conference on Human Settlements, Istanbul,
Turkey, June 1996.




                                                2
strengthening traffic law enforcement through training and equipment; and (d) enhancing
the planning of surface public transport operations".

The original list of monitoring indicators, reproduced in full from Supplemental Letter
No. 2 in Annex 10 to this Report, is even wider. It has four distinct groups of indicators,
each associated with one or more objectives.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

There were no formal revisions of either project objectives or key performance indicators.
In practice, the original large set of indicators mentioned above was never used. A
smaller, simpler set of indicators was developed, in a joint endeavor by the Moscow City
Government (MCG) and the Bank team. This set evolved as the Project went on, in line
with cancellations and other changes in various project components. The final set, used in
the last three years, was drawn from the final Implementation Status and Results Report:

       Objective                             Indicator

Strengthen traffic management        TMC created and fully staffed
                                     TMC granted primary authority for TM

Improve traffic enforcement          Completion of police training for mobile law
                                     enforcement
                                     Operational plan for equipment prepared
                                     and implemented
                                     Police equipment bought and placed into service

The absence of indicators related to the sub-objectives (b) and (d) cited under Section 1.2
above, i.e. to measure benefits from traffic management improvements and from a
regulatory reform in public transport services, stems from the fact that the corresponding
components had been cancelled. The latest set of indicators does not include an indicator
on the results of the infrastructure investments under the project, which might be
explained by the fact that the team made a focus of the revised set of indicators on the
project objective of institutional strengthening.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries.

With two exceptions, the project was designed to benefit the general traffic, rather than
any specific target population. The first exception involved pedestrians, whose plight in
Moscow included many killed or injured in traffic accidents, as well as risky and time-
consuming walks across exceptionally wide arterial roads in Moscow. The Project
focused on the provision of pedestrian underpasses, with direct, immediate and sizeable
benefits to pedestrians, in addition to more diffuse and downstream benefits expected
from better traffic management and law enforcement. The second exception involved
benefits to passengers of street-based public transport services, some direct and others
diffuse and downstream. Direct benefits were expected from road improvements,



                                            3
especially those involving the tram overpass at Donbassky bridge complex, and at
pedestrian underpasses on radial roads. More diffuse ones were expected from traffic
management improvements, such as exclusive lanes and priority of passage at
intersections. The inclusion of a Project objective aiming to develop a reform strategy for
the provision of street-based public transport services also indicates that this group of
travelers were targeted as beneficiaries, albeit well downstream and outside the life of the
Project.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The Project consisted of the following 8 components, some supporting institutional
development, others being direct investments in road infrastructure and associated
management systems, and yet others involving the preparation of future plans, strategies
and investments:4

      (a)   Traffic Management Center (total US$11.60 million): equipment, library
            materials and technical assistance for the establishment of TMC.
      (b)   Corridor Improvement Program (total US$47.60 million): (B-1)
            Construction of three pedestrian underpasses on the Varshovskoye corridor.
            (B-2) Non-specific traffic and safety enhancing improvements along
            Schelkovskoye and Varshavskoye corridors, and other corridors to be agreed
            during implementation.
      (c)   Central Area Traffic Improvement Program (total US$6.20 million): (1)
            feasibility studies and detailed engineering for improvements to be done in the
            Central Area of the city. (2) The construction of one pedestrian underpass
            along the Garden Ring (at Krasnie Vorota metro station).
      (d)   Reconstruction of Donbassky Bridge complex (total US$39.00 million):
            reconstruction and widening of the Donbassky Bridge (in the Varshovskoye
            corridor) and the construction of a tram track bridge at the same location.
      (e)   Traffic Enforcement Program (total US$10.30 million): Equipment,
            training and technical assistance to the Traffic Police.
      (f)   Surface public transport study (total US$2.00 million): Carrying out of a
            study to: (a) present a comprehensive picture of the current public transport
            situation; (b) present strategic options for restructuring the sector; and (c)
            draw up detailed development plans for key sector organizations.
      (g)   Strategic Advice (total US$0.90 million): Carrying out further transportation
            related studies, as agreed with the Bank.




4
  There being some variation in the description of the project in various documents, this description
follows the text cited in the Loan Agreement. The costs given in parentheses are from the PAD,
Section C. They include physical and price contingencies.




                                                 4
      (h)   Assistance to the Project Implementation Unit (total US$2.50 million):
            provision of operating costs, equipment, training, audits, and technical
            assistance.

1.6 Revised Components

There were major changes in three components:

(b)     Corridor Improvement Program: (i) The pedestrian underpass sub-component
(b-1) was expanded substantially, by adding 2 more underpasses in the Schelkovskoye
corridor: at Cherkizovskaya metro station and at Preobrazhensky street. This was a
complex of 2 underpasses, involving a large-scale investment (just under US$20 million);
(ii) Traffic and safety improvements in Schelkovskoye and Varshavskoye corridors (b-2),
undefined at the outset of the Project, were cancelled at the request of the MCG. Instead,
it was agreed to include a traffic control system for the Third Ring Road, (US$39.9
million), involving vehicle/incidence detection, access control and motorist advisory
information. Changes in b-1 and b-2 were all within the description of Component (b) (as
stated in the Loan Agreement) and contributed to the same primary development
objective, hence no legal amendments were necessary.

(c)     Central Area Traffic Improvements Program: The sub-component (c-1),
consisting of feasibility and engineering studies for Central Area traffic improvements,
was cancelled at the request of MCG, and loan funds were re-allocated to component (b).

(d)     Surface Transport Study was cancelled at the request of the MCG.

A summary table of components as originally envisaged and as implemented, with
corresponding costs, is in Annex 1. A description of components as implemented is in
Annex 2. A more detailed description is in the Borrower's Completion Report. All the
above cited cancellations and additions are discussed together in Section 2.2 below.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)
There were no other significant changes.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The project had a long gestation period, the process having started with MCG
approaching the Bank in 1996 with a proposal to participate in the funding of the then-
proposed Third Ring Road, estimated to cost several billion dollars. This was in line with
MCG's approach to deal with motorization through investments in large-scale urban
roads, with scant attention to managing the use of the existing network. The Bank's



                                                5
counter proposal was to finance smaller-scale traffic improvements while doing in
parallel an urban transport strategy study, which would produce a comprehensive and
consistent framework, and action programs, going well beyond road investments. This
response reflected one of the unchanging pillars of the Bank's global urban transport
strategy, the situation being unusual only with regard to the size of the client city, its high
rate of motorization and relatively strong financial standing. At this stage, MCG went
ahead with the Third Ring Road, financed from the budget. They did not support the idea
of small-scale traffic improvements, but did accept to have a new strategy made ­ by the
UNDP-funded study cited above. The study confirmed the importance of the
management approach, and underlined the imperative of focusing on the street-based
public transport services. It took time for the authorities to absorb this advice and take
initial steps to develop a program of traffic improvements. In addition to the time taken to
reach an understanding of a strategic importance of traffic management, the preparation
of the Project was also hampered by the fragmentation and generally weak level of traffic
and transport planning expertise within the MCG, and a dearth of local consultants with a
combination of the requisite technical and political skills.

The design of the Bank-funded project that ultimately emerged from this process, in year
2000, was unusual in that it combined institution-building in traffic management and law
enforcement with some large-scale and high-visibility infrastructure investments
(Donbassky Bridge complex and pedestrian underpasses). In other words, the main
specific investments included in the Project at the outset were not of the traffic
management type, such as signals, signs channelization, etc. For these, the Project
included a US$47 million envelope (more than 40% of the loan) for unspecified small-
scale traffic management investments and funds to prepare these and similar
interventions. The intent was to define and implement these in line with the rise in
capacity of the newly created Traffic Management Center. In a move consistent with the
size of specific investments, the project implementation unit was not placed inside the
TMC, but set up within an already existing unit (Moscow Foundation). The Foundation
had a superior track record in implementing the Moscow component of the Russia Bridge
Rehabilitation Project, involving large-scale civil works.

The length of the preparation period reflected the difficulty of widening the perspective
of MCG to complement their investment-dominated strategy with other instruments, as
well as the time spent on trying to prepare traffic management investments in an
environment lacking the requisite organization and skills, before adopting the innovative
tactic cited above. Internally, the inclusion of the traffic police component met with
considerable opposition, there being strong reservations against working with an
institution with a difficult history.

The preparation process was led by urban transport Bank staff, assisted by expert
consultants. The team members were well aware of 30 years of often difficult experience
with Bank-funded traffic management projects in developing countries. Consultants
brought in expertise from countries like the US, UK and Finland, with long experience
with the rise of motorization in cities. The team took steps to expose MCG officials to
appropriate international knowledge, including a tour of senior MCG officials to Finland
and the US, to see traffic management in action and the kind of organization this required.



                                              6
This led to the decree establishing the TMC in 1999, months before the Project appraisal.
Grant-funded Finnish advisors, specializing in institution development for traffic
management, stayed over a 16 month period in Moscow prior to the start of the Project.
Direct technical assistance to the TMC for the early phase of Project implementation was
financed from the loan. While the Project included an envelope for investments yet to be
identified and prepared, those specific investments already in the Project were carefully
selected from a much larger list put forward by the MCG. The team anticipated and
provided for problems with police equipment specifications and other procurement
matters. All this notwithstanding, the team understood and made explicit the remaining
risks, especially the risk that the evolution of the TMC might be hampered by the
resistance of organizations that stood to lose jurisdiction, staff and budgets. This risk was
rated substantial, in spite of measures taken during Project preparation to reduce it, and
left to be handled through careful supervision and demonstration of the fledgling TMC's
good performance. In sum, though the Project at entry involved a compromise, the good
project preparation resulted in well thought out project design and selection of activities
to be funded under the project to achieve the agreed DO.

However, the project quality at entry can be criticized for the weaknesses in the
development of the results framework and monitoring indicators, and for the over-
optimistic project time frame, not carefully assessing the time it takes to make
institutional changes and establish functioning new structures. These points are
elaborated further in the ICR. Consequently, the overall rating for quality at entry is rated
moderately satisfactory in the Section 5.1 (a).

2.2 Implementation

Investment components specified at appraisal moved essentially without difficulties and
were implemented on time. The largest single investment, Donbassky Bridge complex,
was completed early and under cost (relative to the contract terms), while reaching a high
quality finished product. All but one pedestrian underpass were constructed with good
adherence to time and cost estimates. The single exception involved the complex of two
underpasses at Preobrazhensky Ploshad, which doubled in cost between the feasibility
study stage estimate and the detailed design. The Bank agreed to include this unusually
high-cost structure because of the high vehicular and pedestrian volumes, and also
because this sub-project was a part of high-density urban redevelopment around the
neighborhood metro station.

A longer-than-expected delay was encountered in the procurement of equipment for the
traffic police, because of its linkage to institutional development objectives. The
procurement was scheduled in two batches, requiring an Operational Plan for the use of
the equipment acquired in the first batch, and a positive evaluation of its results street-
side before the clearance to tender the second batch was given.

The delay in project implementation that required several loan extensions was due mainly
to the part of the Project that had not been fully specified at negotiations. It turned out
that developing a program of traffic improvements on corridors and in the central area of
Moscow could not be done within the time frame of the Project. At that time the TMC



                                             7
was not yet strong enough. It was created well before appraisal (in December 1999), and
its initial complement of 20 staff was hired relatively quickly, but it took too long to get
the relevant jurisdiction from the required agencies (the Roads Department, the Traffic
Police), and the corresponding extra staff and budgets. The relevant mayoral decree
appointing the TMC as lead agency for traffic management did not come until June 2005,
half a year before the original loan closing date, reflecting the difficulty of balancing
gains and losses for various municipal agencies. Yet this marked a key step in
achievement of the DOs and consensus between the MCG and Bank on the importance of
institutional strengthening.

The Bank team worked with technical counterparts to develop an investment program to
substitute for the originally intended traffic improvements. This included an expansion of
the successful program of constructing pedestrian underpasses, always a highly-valued
item in Bank-funded urban transport projects, and adding the traffic control system for
the Third Ring Road. The latter had the advantage of being an effective traffic
management instrument, with both flow efficiency and safety impacts, permitting a full
involvement of TMC in its concept and implementation. It was also sufficiently large-
scale to appeal to MCG's traditional leanings. Unfortunately, this traffic control system
was a complex undertaking, first in the system design and its procurement, and later,
getting work approvals and anything else that required cooperation between multiple
municipal agencies and multiple contractors. The alternative was to terminate the Project
at the end of its originally scheduled life, but that would have involved depriving TMC of
the support just as it was empowered to take on most tasks for which it was created.
Given that the establishment and strengthening of TMC were the primary focus of the
Project, the decisions on investments to include and for how long to extend the loan were
appropriate. Some of the small scale investments were later implemented outside the
Project and were financed by the MCG.

This said, one must recognize that MCG faced some internal and external opposition to
implementing low-cost and policy-laden traffic management measures during much of
the Project life. This was probably due to strong political resistance by motorists, a
politically potent segment in all societies, to measures such as parking charges and
reserved lanes for public transport vehicles. Similarly, the resistance of Mosgortrans, the
public-owned public transport operator, was the likely reason for the MCG to cancel the
study expected to develop a new strategy for organization and regulation of public
transport services. The terms of reference of the study made it clear that its focus would
be to bring private operators and competition into the sector, certainly a threat to
Mosgortrans management This cancellation of the study undermined the prospect of the
Project becoming the catalyst for broadening and deepening the urban transport reforms
in Moscow. The Project team responded by supporting other, less threatening but
important initiatives, such as street priority for public transport vehicles, and parking
regulation.

There was a delay with the completion of the last big contract under the project, the Third
Ring Road Traffic Control System (TCS). While by the end of the project December 31,
2008, all physical works on installation of the system had been completed, the system
was not yet operational. The delay was caused by the complexity of needed integration



                                             8
with the existing Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) systems and the traffic control
systems for the four tunnels on the ring road. During the period of ICR preparation,
January-September 2009, all but one remaining works had been completed; the TCS was
integrated with the existing CCTV systems and the traffic control systems for
Kutuzovsky, Gagarinsky and Suschevsky vehicle tunnels in the Third Ring Road. The
works for integration of the TCS with the Lefortovsky tunnel system were ongoing in
September 2009, at the time of the ICR mission, and were expected to be completed by
the end of October 2009. Overall, the ICR mission confirmed that the system was
operational except for this one tunnel. The system was successfully tested by the traffic
police for more than a month, on average about 12 hours per day, which confirmed that
all elements of the system are now functioning well, including reversible lane traffic
signals, turnpikes, dynamic message boards, variable speed limit signs, variable graphical
warning signs, as well as traffic sensors and controllers. At the end of September 2009
the acceptance committee of the Moscow City government approved the Third Ring
Road TCS for operation. At the time of ICR submission, the Borrower confirmed that the
integration of the Lefortovsky tunnel has been completed.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

As evident from the preceding section on indicators, the M&E design was the weakest
aspect of the Project at entry. The primary development objective was stated very clearly
in the key Project documents (the PAD and the Loan Agreement). This objective,
however, was not elaborated on with sufficient care into a set of operationally specific
and realistic sub-objectives, linked to individual project components, and thence linked
carefully to a small, stable and robust set of measurable performance indicators. Base
values for indicators needed to be given and explicit arrangements for data collection
made with the Borrower. Instead, the legally binding collection of indicators, essentially
the Project Design Summary attached to a Supplemental Letter, had too few relevant and
measurable indicators lost in a confusing plethora of other objectives and indicators (see
Annex 10). The whole set gives little sense of the relative importance of project activities,
and some (especially those related to the public transport strategy study) imply unrealistic
claims regarding delivery and impacts, e.g. promising an increase in passengers of street-
based public transport modes when the only relevant instrument included in the Project
was a strategic study. Little wonder, then, that this initial set of indicators was jettisoned
as soon as the implementation started. A more workable table of indicators was
developed jointly between the Bank team and MCG. These new indicators in turn went
through several changes as the Project took shape, and were reduced to just a few, but
they remained stable in the last three years. It should be noted that, overall, despite the
weakly designed set of monitoring indicators the Bank team remained committed to
institutional development as the primary development objective they were pursuing, and
sustained it throughout the implementation period. However, the indicator changes were
not formalized in a subsequent agreement with the Borrower.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

For a project with several very large works contracts (two approaching US$40 million),
and a large program of studies, its history regarding fiduciary and safeguard dimensions



                                              9
was relatively uneventful. The success is due to an experienced PIU, as well to a general
progress in Russia in domains of tender document and process quality, and mitigation of
environmental impacts of civil engineering works.

The financial management by the PIU was satisfactory throughout the Project, with both
project monitoring reports and audit reports submitted on time and with acceptable
quality. Only one audit required a re-submission, and there were some accountability
issues flagged by auditors early in the Project. Both were handled adequately by the PIU,
and audits in later years did not identify any significant shortcomings.

In the realm of procurement, the PIU performed well on civil engineering works, for
which they had gained considerable and successful experience under the Russia Bridge
Rehabilitation Project, completed in 2003. In the tender for the Donbassky Bridge, a
complaint was lodged by an Italian contractor for being unfairly rejected at the
prequalification stage, but the OPRC accepted the PIU's position. Eventually, the
Donbassky civil works was declared by the MCG to be the best in its category for 2007,
finishing on time and under cost.

The contract No. MUTP/Third Ring/Key (US$32.5 million equivalent) was signed on
November 17, 2005 between the PIU and Siemens A.G and Siemens OOO (the Russian
subsidiary) to design, manufacture/procure, test, deliver, install, complete and
commission the Traffic Control System for the Third Ring road and provide technical
assistance and training of personnel. At the end of 2008, an investigation by German and
US prosecutors into Siemens alleged corrupt practices in its global business was being
carried out. On the basis of publicly available allegations5 that fraudulent practices have
taken place under the Project, including that Siemens has committed bribery and that
Siemens had colluded with another bidder, the Department of Institutional Integrity (INT)
of the World Bank started an investigation into the case. The Bank Project team was
informed about such allegations two weeks before the Loan closing date, and with
approval of Bank management, informed the Borrower that, in accordance with the
Bank's policy on eligibility of expenditures and the then present circumstances, further
payments on the contract (about US$4.5 million) out of the proceeds of the Loan would
be put on hold until the conclusion of an independent investigation of the matter. As
explained in Annex 2, the disbursement period lapsed and the remaining amount of the
loan was cancelled.

At the time of ICR finalization, the final INT report was not yet released. However, in
July 2009 the Bank reached a settlement with Siemens, by which Siemens agreed that
Siemens AG and its consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates would voluntarily refrain
from bidding on Bank business for a period of two years beginning as of January 1, 2009,
its Russian subsidiary Siemens OOO would not contest sanctions proceedings resulting in


5
 Contained in the federal action filed on December 12, 2008, by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) against Siemens Aktiengesellschaft in the United States
District Court for the District for the of Columbia, Case No. 1:08-cv-02167.



                                            10
a debarment of up to four years and establishment by Siemens of a US$100 million fund,
to be disbursed to agreed entities over the next 15 years, to support anti-corruption work
globally. The details of the case are provided in the box in Annex 2. It should be noted
that the works under the contract were completed satisfactorily, albeit with some delays
with integration of the TCS. The system was fully operational by the time the ICR was
completed at the end of October 2009.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The total outlay for improvements financed by the Project represented only a tiny fraction
of Moscow's annual transport budget (more than US$3 billion in 1998), and even though
the facilities in question were large, they are small parts of an enormous network. No
special arrangement for their future operation is necessary as Moscow roads are generally
well-maintained. The investment in the traffic control system went in parallel with a re-
allocation of all authority for traffic signal planning, operations and maintenance to TMC,
and improving procedures for each of these activities. Notably, the Project financed the
Control Room, enabling comprehensive insight into operations and maintenance of the
existing area traffic control network and the new control system for the Third Ring (also
financed by the Project). Arrangements are underway to switch signal maintenance from
a force account approach to contracting out.

The situation is different regarding the future of institutional components, notably TMC.
This is still a young organization, trying to find its niche among the existing institutions
and getting to a stage where it can exercise the full authority finally given to it in 2005 by
a Mayoral decree. Apart from its routine duties, e.g. traffic monitoring and traffic signals
operations and maintenance, TMC has yet to go through one complete project cycle, from
problem diagnosis, to development of alternative schemes, decision making,
implementation and results monitoring. Aside from implementing small scale traffic
improvement measures, the MCG is considering developing a traffic control system for
the major ring road in Moscow, MKAD, implementing pilots for bus priority lanes on
three corridors, implementation of the single parking program in the center of the city and
development of park-and-ride facilities among other initiatives and programs.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objective - building a mega city's institutional capacity for traffic
management - was quite relevant 10 years ago and has only increased in relevance : (a)
locally, since motorization accelerated in Moscow and traffic congestion is even more
detrimental to the city's life and economy in spite of massive road construction; (b)
nationally, because other Russian cities look to Moscow as a model to emulate; and (c)
globally, because causal links between cumulative emissions from motor vehicles and the
climate change are now better established. The "stretch" aspect of the Project ­ getting
the MCG to focus on the regulation of street-based public transport services through a
strategy study- was also highly relevant and has also increased in relevance.




                                             11
The design in which investments very much wanted by the Borrower (while also being
cost effective) were used to leverage institutional change was quite appropriate. The same
holds for the implementation strategy, whereby a highly competent PIU carried most of
the burden of work on implementing investments, giving the Bank's team an opportunity
to focus on institution building.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The primary development objective of the Project was met in that the MCG now includes
an agency, TMC, which has a formal and comprehensive jurisdiction over traffic
management in the city with an appropriate staff complement, with already a good record
in carrying out routine functions such as traffic monitoring and analysis, traffic signal
system operation and maintenance, and provision of inputs into making and
implementing traffic improvement schemes together with the MCG's road and transport
departments.

At the outset, the TMC was created with only 22 staff and virtually no authority. At
project closing the staff of the TMC was about 500, of which 50 were working directly
on traffic management operations and designs while the rest were mostly handling traffic
signal maintenance. This transformation was accompanied principally with a shift of
responsibility from the traffic police to the TMC with respect to ownership and
maintenance of the traffic signal system and other traffic management devices such as the
Motorist Information System on the Third Ring. The TMC is now recognized as the lead
agency in traffic management in Moscow, and the Project leaves TMC poised to lead the
traffic improvement agenda for the city.

The secondary institution-development initiative of the Project - moving the Traffic
Police from its focus on traffic signals and static law enforcement to a new focus on
mobile law enforcement and incidence management - has also succeeded in full. This is
reflected in the client's satisfaction and demonstrated on-street by better law enforcement
and incidence response. The new skills acquired during the training offered under the
project and supplemented by modern equipment raised qualifications of traffic police
staff relatively quickly. It is also significant that the Federal Traffic Police have moved to
adopt the same approach as Moscow, and have acquired the equipment needed to
support it.

The Project investments produced high-quality and high-visibility additions to Moscow's
road infrastructure, some (the Third Ring Control System) benefiting the general traffic,
but others (Donbassky bridge complex and the underpasses) also providing much needed
amenities for thousands of pedestrians and public transport passengers. The Donbasky
bridge complex was the large physical investment under the project. This combination of
road and tram bridges over an active railway line removed a major traffic bottleneck in
the city (which won a top award for infrastructure in the city in 2004). The other "major"
investments under the project were 5 pedestrian underpasses located at metro stations. In
summary, all physical investments under the project were traffic management oriented
aimed at demonstrating the value of key interventions to get the most out of physical
investments in the road network.



                                             12
  While the Project did not meet its "stretched" sub-objective of energizing a chain of
  reforms in the organization and regulation of street-based public transport system through
  a strategy study for street-based public transport services (3% of the Loan), the team
  managed to move the subject forward through other studies, that include parking studies,
  a bus priority study, a business plan for establishing passenger service on the small ring
  railway, and subsequent discussions and resolutions of MCG.

  In addition, the MCG continued to act on the recommendations of the studies done under
  the project and further developed the concepts and programs for the park-and-ride
  facilities, piloting bus priority lanes on three corridors, the single parking program in the
  city center and is planning for their implementation (See Annex 7 with the Borrower's
  report). The city has moved forward on converting the small ring railway project to
  passenger services. This line would connect with commuter rail, metro, and bus lines, and
  would have park and ride facilities at several locations along the line.
  The Traffic Control System for the Third Ring Road is another important contribution of
  the project to the improved traffic management in the city. This is a sophisticated
  investment to improve traffic flow on the 3rd ring as well as detecting accidents and other
  incidents quickly. So besides being a physical investment owned by the TMC, the 3rd
  ring project is very much oriented to the goal of institutional strengthening of the traffic
  management function. Both the police and TMC will be monitoring traffic flows on this
  facility. The test piloting of the TCS has demonstrated its reliability and efficiency in
  terms of traffic management and control in the Third Ring Road. For instance, immediate
  response to road accidents by the traffic police allowed a significant (more than twice)
  reduction of time required for traffic police mobile units and rescue service vehicles to
  get to the accident site, resulting in a shorter congestion period caused by road accidents,
  which, in turn, increased throughput on the Third Ring Road. The successful completion
  of the Third Ring TCS prompted the City to express its desire to extend the system to the
  main beltway in Moscow, MKAD. By the time of the ICR finalization the City also
  indicated its plans to move forward with the small ring railway project (subject to
  securing external financing).

  The ICR team used the relevant indicators from the Results Framework in the PAD to
  assess the results of the project (see table below). For more details please refer to Annex
  10 of the ICR.


      Objectives           Key Performance Indicators                      Outcomes

1. Improved traffic    1.1. TMC fully staffed with a           The staffing target met in 2002
management             complement of at least 20               Staff increased to about 500 in 2006
arrangements           professionals                           upon TMC's takeover of Moscow's
                                                               traffic signal system; of these, 50 work
                                                               in traffic management proper




                                                  13
                          1.2. Positive assessment of traffic           MCG approval of TMC's performance
                          management decision making                    and potential expressed to missions and
                          practices and traffic management              demonstrated in a major increase of
                          quality by professional stakeholders          TMC authority in June 2005
                          and nongovernmental organizations             Qualified approval by professional
                                                                        stakeholders (GenPlan)
                          1.3 TMC traffic monitoring system             TMC carries out both routine and
                          providing adequate data and analysis          special purpose traffic surveys, in
                          to permit rational project design and         addition to monitoring traffic signals
                          evaluation                                    performance
2. Improved               2.1 Minimization of costs and strict          All project investments except Third
implementation            compliance with implementation                Ring Road TC system carried out in
efficiency of transport   schedules and established quality             time and cost; post-evaluation positive;
network development       standards                                     Third Ring TC works were completed
investment projects                                                     on time, but system integration was
(comprehensive corridor   2.2 ERR for selected investments at           finalized during ICR preparation.
and spot improvements)    least 20%                                     For project investments weighted
                                                                        average post construction ERR
                                                                        estimated from "before" and "after"
                                                                        traffic studies, and actual costs, is 55%.
                                                                        Individual ERRs range from 17% to
                                                                        107%.
3. Improved traffic       3.1. Completion of approved plans             Parking and other traffic management
management efficiency     and feasibility studies for optimizing        studies completed, and accepted for
in the Central Area       traffic management into and within            implementation by MCG. The concept
                          the central area, including, inter-alia:      "Development of a system of the single
                          (a) a parking plan for the Central Area       urban parking space for 2008-2010"
                          including, on-street parking, parking         approved by the MCG in 2007, and
                          lots, and interceptive parking.               program for park-and ride facilities
                          (b) a plan for restricting vehicular          developed
                          traffic into and through the central          Starting from December 2004 the
                          area                                          MCG imposed restrictions on entry to
                          (c) a plan for optimizing public              the central area of heavy (over 1 ton)
                          transport operations into and within          vehicles and trailers.
                          the Central Area including the metro          Proposals on priority movement of
                          system.                                       public transport along selected
                                                                        corridors finalized by the MCG and
                                                                        suggested for implementation by the
                                                                        Department of Transport
4. Cost effective         4.1. Works completed on time, budget          Donbassky Bridge works completed
construction of           and quality                                   successfully, early and beneath cost
Donbassky Bridge                                                        Received 2004 award for the best
                                                                        project in its category in Moscow
                          4.2. ERR for selected investments at          ERR 47%
                          least 20%




                                                      14
5. Police better trained   5.1.End of training course evaluation       Evaluation of training courses carried
and equipped to enforce    reports                                     out and was positive.
traffic rules                                                          Operations Plan, including an
                           5.2. Completion of operations plan for      evaluation of experience with first
                           improved mobile enforcement of              batch equipment prepared
                           driver behavior                             Accident statistics collected by the
                                                                       Police indicate effectiveness of mobile
                           5.3. Improved traffic enforcement           law enforcement: (a) at least 15%
                           practices                                   increase in successful interventions; (b)
                                                                       at least 10% reduction in response time
                                                                       to incidence; and (c) at least 15%
                                                                       increase in recovery of stolen cars.
6. Improved planning for   6.1.Time bound and monitorable              Objective not reached: surface public
surface public transport   action plan to improve quality of           transport study cancelled by MCG just
                           service and improve financial               before issuing the request for
                           sustainability                              proposals. However, following study
                                                                       on bus priority proposals on priority
                                                                       movement of public transport along
                                                                       selected corridors finalized by the
                                                                       MCG and suggested for
                                                                       implementation by the Department of
                                                                       Transport
7. Implementation of       8.1 PIU fully staffed with adequate         PIU was well performing, especially in
effective project          budget from the date of loan                the areas of FM and disbursement
management                 effectiveness
                           8.2 Sub-borrower and borrower
                           satisfaction with project management


  3.3 Efficiency
  Before-and-after traffic studies were commissioned by the PIU for the Donbassky Bridge
  area and the pedestrian underpasses. Based on these studies and actual construction costs,
  the PIU carried out efficiency studies for each of these large sub-projects. Study reports
  are on file; the results are summarized in the Borrower's Implementation Completion
  Report. The PIU arrived at the following economic rates-of-return, relative to do-nothing
  or minimal-investment options:
                  Donbassky Bridge complex: 47% (compared to 31% at appraisal)
                  Underpass at Krasnie Vorota metro station: 45%
                  Underpass at Varshavskoye Schosse near Gazoprovod Street: 50%
                  Underpass at Varshavskoye Schosse near Chongarsky Boulevard: 52%
                  Underpass at Varshavskoye Schosse near Nagatinskaya metro station: 102%
                  Underpass under Schelkovskoye Schosse: 107%
                  Underpass complex at Preobrazhensky Square: 17%

  Only this last rate falls under the 20% threshold, but it is well above commonly accepted
  levels (10-12%). The cost-weighted average rate-of-return is 55%.

  A review of the PIU's work on post-construction economic evaluation is in Annex 3 and
  additional comments are on file. Though the PIU's analyses could not be fully replicated
  on the basis of data provided in their reports, the results are robust to any reasonable level



                                                      15
of uncertainty within the evaluation framework used. Overall, the PIU experts followed a
standard approach to economic evaluation of road investments, just as it was done in pre-
investment studies. The results should not be understood in any absolute sense, since the
standard approach for evaluating road investments, when used for works in highly
congested urban areas, tends to give excessively high rates-of-return. The main
underlying cause is that do-something options are compared against poor, even untenable
do-nothing alternatives where neither traffic levels nor operating conditions can be
forecast easily. The PIU team tried to adjust for this difficulty by assuming conservative
traffic growth rates to ensure that without-project options could handle it. A better, albeit
much costlier, approach would have involved a sophisticated modeling effort on both the
urban network and travel demand side, and the use of multiple options. This was out of
the question for a completion report.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory
The overall outcome is rated satisfactory since the main development objective retained,
even increased its relevance, and has been met by the Project. The institutional capacity
of Moscow City Government in traffic management has been strengthened with the
establishment of the Traffic Management Center, which is now responsible for the design,
planning and implementation of traffic improvement measures in the city. The Project is
also considered successful because Project investments resulted in high-quality and cost-
effective additions to Moscow's transport infrastructure. The project would have had
greater impact on institutional strengthening were it not that the shift from small scale
corridor improvements to larger infrastructure improvements under the project resulted
in lesser synergy between project investments and the institution building, and did not
have desired demonstration effects for the TMC in the design of such small scale traffic
improvement investments. At the same time, as noted in the Borrower's report some of
the small scale corridor improvement measures were implemented outside the project
with the financing from the MCG.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)   Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Not applicable.

(b)   Institutional Change/Strengthening
Institutional capacity for traffic management refers to staff, skills, budgets, authority and
influence in decision making, but it does not refer to policies which any given traffic
management institution will follow. A strong institution can choose to expend its
resources and support policies that would favor car traffic exclusively, or, using street
space allocation and traffic signal settings, would restrain car and truck traffic in favor of
public transport and pedestrians. The project focused mainly on creating an institutional
structure, the TMC, and ensuring it has the necessary capacity and authority to design and
implement traffic management improvement schemes. At the project design stage it was
envisioned that once established, the TMC would play an active role in development of
small-scale corridor improvements under the project, which were not defined at appraisal.
However, in the course of project implementation the MCG opted to choose larger


                                              16
investments that were the priority at the time thus limiting the TMC involvement.
However, as mentioned in the Borrower's ICR, the TMC performs a number of important
functions that relate to the traffic management and there are plans to expand the areas of
TMC activity. In addition the Bank team made an effort to lay the foundation for various
relevant policies through Project-funded studies, and push for pilots in parking and bus
priority. Studies were done and led to formal discussions, deliberations and even
resolutions by MCG, but the process did not go as far as specific actions being ordered,
e.g. the pilots or Third Ring traffic improvements, complementary to the traffic control
system. It was reported that the proposals for priority movement of public transport along
three selected corridors have been finalized and endorsed by the MCG Department of
Transport, as well as some progress achieved towards parking program for the city center.
This is not to say that TMC could or should become the primary urban transport
institution in Moscow. Policies that matter, e.g. exclusive lanes for public transport
vehicles, service levels and price/subsidy relations for public transport services, parking
charges, and congestion charges require at least a more inclusive set of institutions of
which TMC would be one.

(c)   Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Not applicable.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible to Low
Judging from the steady growth of TMC's authority and work program, and the
unreserved positive views of its performance from the leadership of MCG, the risk that
this new institution could decline is judged low. Likewise, the Traffic Police appear to be
satisfied with the build-up of their capacities in mobile law enforcement and incidence
management, with numbers in hand to demonstrate their new effectiveness in handling
traffic violations.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The preparation process was thorough, utilizing a combination of a Bank team
experienced both in traffic management and in the Russian setting, supported by expert
consultants. This was complemented by grant-funded technical assistance to the
Borrower, in terms of hands-on work and studies. The result was a project design
representing a fair compromise between the Borrower's focus on investments and Bank's
focus on strategy, institutions and policies. The Concept Document, memoranda from the
field and the PAD are of high quality. The quality of entry could have been rated
"satisfactory" had it not had weaknesses in setting realistic sub-objectives and linking
these with outcomes and performance indicators. There was a tendency in Project



                                            17
documents to overpromise on the subject of public transport reform and its downstream
impacts, given that the Project had such a modest instrument in this respect: strategy
studies, without any other commitment by the Borrower. The project envisioned the
changes in the institutional arrangements, which usually take time to be fully
implemented. The Bank could have been more realistic in time setting and designing the
components that would need a functioning new structure for their implementation. Given
the overall high quality of technical preparation of the project, but weak Results
Framework and somewhat unrealistic time planning for the project, the ICR rated the
Quality at Entry as moderately satisfactory.

(b)   Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank committed all the requisite resources to help move diverse components in line
with agreements made during project preparation and to ensure good value for the
Borrower as well as the desired outcomes. This included a consistent, hands-on approach
by supervision missions, with frequent visits at times of critical decisions. In addition to
ensuring that TMC and the Traffic Police had qualified technical assistance throughout
the Project, missions brought in additional expertise with traffic management in general
and traffic control systems in particular, and readiness to use loan funds to finance direct
technical assistance to the Borrower. The team maintained the focus on institution
building and during the missions conveyed the message to the Moscow City Government,
until MCG acted to give TMC staff and authority at levels sufficient for this stage of its
development. Even in matters where the Borrower went against Bank advice, e.g. giving
up on the radial corridor improvements component and cancelling the public transport
strategy study, the team continued arguing the case for an activist role of TMC in matters
like bus priority and parking charges, and taking a constructive approach to substitute
investments proposed by the MCG. With the overall very satisfactory supervision of the
project, the team should have formally revised the monitoring indicators. It should be
noted that the Project experienced the change of four Task Team Leaders during Project
implementation, but continuity was ensured by keeping in the team the original Task
manager (now a consultant).

In handling the Siemens case the Bank team reacted quickly to halt disbursements once
the allegations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) were made
publicly available in its federal Complaint filed on December 12, 2008. In the period
from December 2008 through October 2009, the time of the ICR submission, the team
was actively involved in dialogue with the INT, sector and country unit colleagues and
the Borrower. Overall, it was difficult for the Bank to reach a clear position internally
due to the complexity of the case and the still ongoing INT investigation. It would have
been useful if there were guidelines on how to respond and interact with a Borrower
when there is an internal INT investigation on-going. The case was referred to
Operational Procurement Review Committee who concluded that there was no case for
mis-procurement as such. However, on the Bank's side, disbursing under a contract
suspected of being tainted represented a reputational risk. In April 2009, the Bank
extended the grace period for disbursements for six weeks, and shared with the Borrower
some of the findings of the ongoing INT investigation. The Bank also informed the



                                            18
Borrower that after the completion of INT investigation actions may have been taken by
the Bank, possibly including cancellation of the outstanding portion of Siemens contract.
The disbursement period lapsed on June 15, 2009, and the undisbursed amount was
cancelled from the Loan. The Bank's settlement with Siemens was announced on July 2,
2009, after the disbursement period had lapsed.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The combined rating for the Bank's performance is moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
This rating refers to the main client of the Project, the Moscow City Government. The
rating reflects the judgment that the MCG met its main commitment, i.e. regarding the
establishment and empowering of TMC, albeit taking a very long time to do this (2002-
2006). It is recognized that institutional change is complex, especially when it involves
transferring authority (and budget) from one group of actors (traffic police and the
municipal road department) to another. Had the pivotal decree by the Mayor been issued
in 2003 or 2004, TMC would have become stronger to push successfully for the within-
project implementation of pilots for bus priority and/or parking charges, and traffic
management improvements on Third Ring, for which all the requisite studies were done.
This critical regulatory framework has been established only in 2005, the last year of the
originally envisioned implementation period. There was a 3 year delay in project
implementation, and it can be mostly attributed to the somewhat unrealistic time
envisioned for institutional building6 and the complexity of coordinating a diverse set of
public agencies and private contractors for the Third Ring civil works. At the same time it
should be noted that the Project objectives of institutional building for traffic
management in Moscow were fully achieved by the project revised closing date.

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The rating refers to the Project Implementation Unit, whose performance was satisfactory
in the majority of tasks they carried out. This refers primarily to managing large-scale
civil works financed by the Project, involving complex works in a built-up urban setting.
The PIU also performed highly satisfactory in financial management and reporting. Their
performance was somewhat weaker when it came to study supervision and follow-up,
which were somewhat beyond their knowledge and experience. With the information
available at the time of the ICR finalization it is difficult to access the PIU performance
in the Siemens case, and whether it could have been more vigilant in detecting the
conflict of interest and monitoring the individual consultant, who allegedly assisted
Siemens in getting the contract. Given this consideration and the fact that overall PIU




6
    See section on the 5.1.a. Quality of Entry.



                                                  19
performance during Project implementation was to high standards, the satisfactory rating
seems appropriate.

(c)   Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The overall borrower performance is rated as moderately satisfactory. The ICR
recognizes the overall success of the institution building under the project, high quality
infrastructure improvements made, and the MCG commitment to the reform. However,
the project required three extensions of the closing date and experienced some delays in
the implementation, mainly attributed to the complexity of coordinating various public
and private entities and the time needed to effect institutional change.

6. Lessons Learned

Choice of the Implementation Arrangements: External or Internal PIU. Experience
under this Project is a worthwhile contribution to the long-standing debate on whether
PIUs should be set as separate units, to maximize implementation efficiency, or within
partner institutions, to contribute to institution building. This Project opted for the former..
The rationale for using the Moscow Foundation as a PIU was based on their excellent
performance under the Bridge Rehabilitation Project (then in the final phase), and on the
fact that the major agreed investment under the new project was a large-scale bridge
complex. It would have been both risky and counter-productive to give the inexperienced
TMC, which had just been set up, the responsibility to manage the implementation of a
large-scale investment, especially since this type of investment was not going to be
within their future purview. Had small-scale traffic management investments been agreed
from the outset, this decision might have been different. The way the Project unfolded
confirmed the advantages of having an experienced PIU, but revealed also its
shortcomings. Had the PIU been an integral part of TMC, it would have had much
stronger incentives to lobby for the Component B (Corridor Improvements) to be
implemented as anticipated at appraisal. The actual PIU did not have such incentives, and
it cannot be by chance that the actual investments under the Project all turned out to be
large-scale. The conclusion is to recommend a very careful consideration of the choice of
internal or external PIUs, weighting in as explicit a manner as possible the pros and cons
of either approach.

The Source of Qualified Staff for New Institutions. The Project's main concern was to
have TMC with sufficient and properly qualified staff, the right premises and equipment,
authority and organization to carry out a set of essential traffic management functions,
and entry into decision making processes of MCG. Early missions noted that the agreed
staffing quotas were met by TMC, but not proper qualifications and experience. Later
missions focused on the transfer of staff versed in traffic signal control from the Police to
TMC, and much less on the matter of exact qualifications for other traffic management
activities. The question is where would these qualified people come from? The fact that
all direct technical assistance (and most studies) in traffic management matters came
from abroad suggests that the relevant skills were in short supply in Russia. In sharp
contrast, all civil engineering skills and some IT skills came from the domestic market.
The use of project-funded training went a long way to mitigate but not resolve this



                                              20
problem. The project certainly did well in this respect, especially regarding the Traffic
Police component, where the new skills supplemented by modern equipment raised
qualifications relatively quickly. Still, much more intensive training and of longer
duration is needed to re-educate civil engineers for careers in traffic management. For
future projects that focus on institution building of this type, it is recommended to take
the education and career aspects as seriously as engineering, financial and economic
aspects. This would require enlarging the scope of preparation to include national
universities and technical colleges, possibly resulting in project-funded support for an
expansion of the relevant course programs, within the same or under a separate project.

Using Envelopes Instead of Specific Investments in Project Design. This Project at the
approval stage had a feature unusual in traffic management lending by the Bank in that its
largest component (Comprehensive Corridor Improvements, about 39% of total cost) was
left largely unspecified. The idea was to firm up this program once TMC acquired
sufficient expertise to take a major role, with a double intent of easing TMC into its
future main activity and of demonstrating on-street results of the low-cost traffic
management approach. Neither materialized for reasons stated above. The component
ultimately took the shape of a major program to construct pedestrian underpasses, in
which TMC had little participation, and a program to install a traffic control system
(TCS) for the Third Ring. The TCS is indeed a traffic management activity, though not of
a low-cost, small intervention variety that is a hallmark of the TM approach. It did
involve TMC to a considerable degree, but the time it took to define this component and
its slow implementation meant that it was too late to show the corresponding on-street
results during the project's life. Is the lesson of this experience not to leave major
portions of future projects without a detailed definition? Even though the Project was not
able to achieve fully synergy between the institution building and planned investments
due to the reformulation of the investment component towards larger scale investments,
the argument for using envelopes remains strong, as long as they are counter-balanced by
some fully specified investments, to lend stability to the project in question. A key
advantage of envelopes is flexibility, an important feature in rapidly changing economic
and political environments, exemplified by Moscow
Communication and Decision-making Process during the INT Investigation. The
experience with the INT investigation into fraudulent and corrupt practices by Siemens in
the contract for TCS for the Third Ring Road raised a number of questions about the way
that the Bank responds to such allegations. There are no clear guidelines on
communication with the Borrower, and on how disbursements should be treated during
INT investigations, especially during investigations of fraud under a contract that was
still being implemented. Should the Bank's project team wait until INT has completed its
investigation and continue to act on the assumption of innocence if guilt has not been
proven and continue with implementation of the project? How should a potentially
serious reputational risk for the Bank be mitigated in such circumstances? What should
be done if the investigation continues after the loan closing date during the grace period
for the disbursements? For this project, the fraudulent procurement was referred to
Operational Procurement Review Committee (OPRC) who concluded that there was no
case for declaring misprocurement and the VP finally recommended withholding
disbursement. While there was good dialogue with INT during the course of the




                                           21
investigation, the absence of any disclosed INT reports during this period made it
difficult to make decisions on the above issues.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a)   Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower reviewed the draft ICR and provided comments that focused broadly on
two areas: (i) delays in implementation, assessment of the Borrower's performance and
the corresponding ratings, and (ii) some revisions to the costs for different investments
under the project. The latter revisions were incorporated in the final version of the ICR.
As for the counterpart's performance, the Borrower suggested that the ratings both for the
Government and for the Implementing Agency be given as satisfactory as opposed to
moderately satisfactory. One argument was that the delays with moving forward with a
number of project investments were due to the high complexity of the projects and the
need for technical reviews and approvals by all the parties including the Bank, whose
lengthy procurement processes added to the delays. The Borrower highlighted the
significant achievements under the project that were due to a large extent to MCG
commitment. The ICR team reviewed the comments and considered that some were valid
and subsequently revised the text to recognize that the delays were not entirely resulting
from Government performance, but that also some delays could be attributed to the
complicated procurement processes required by the Bank and due to the technically
complex project investments. The ICR rates the performance of the implementing agency
as satisfactory, however, the Government performance remains moderately satisfactory.
While the ICR team recognized the commitment of the city government and its overall
success in modernizing the traffic management in the city, overall, looking at the entire
length of project implementation since 2001, the team felt that the initial long delays with
establishment of fully functioning institutional structure and its regulatory framework
warranted a moderately satisfactory rating.
The summary of the Borrower's ICR is in Annex 7.

(b)   Cofinanciers
Not applicable.

(c)   Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable.




                                            22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
                      Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)

MOSCOW URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT - ORIGINAL AND FINAL COMPONENTS AND COSTS
                                      21-Jan-09                                                    9/1/2009

                                                        Cost    Loan                                            Cost      Loan
Original components                                     ($M)     ($m)   Final components                        ($m)       ($m)


A. Traffic Management Center                             11.6     7.2   A. Traffic Management Center              3.5       2.9
                                                                            Equipment                             0.8       0.6
                                                                            TA & training & studies               2.7       2.3
B. Corridor Improvements                                 47.6    18.7   B. Corridor improvements                66.7       24.9
 1. Traffic & safety Improvements on corrid              22.6               Cancelled                              0         0
 2. Pedestrian underpasses                              24.17                                                   27.7       11.1
                                                         7.87               Varshavsky underpasses                5.9       2.4
                                                         16.3               Schelkovsky underpasses             21.1        8.7
                                                                            Underpass design & spn                0.7        0
 3. Traffic Control for 3rd Ring                         n.a.    n.a.                                             39       13.8
                                                                            3rd Ring TCS ­ works                  16         4
                                                                            3rd Ring TCS - equipment            19.6        9.7
                                                                            3rd Ring TCS - design & spn           3.4       0.1
C. Central Area Improvements                              6.2     3.3                                              1        0.4
    Feasibility studies & engineering                     4.3               Cancelled                              0         0
    Krasnie Vorota Ped. Underpass                         1.9                                                      1        0.4
D. Donbassky Bridge complex                               39     14.7   D. Donbassky Bridge complex             45.1       18.2
                                                                            Works                               43.2       18.2
                                                                            design & supervision                  1.9        0
E. Traffic Enforcement Program                           10.3     8.2   E. Traffic Enforcement Program            5.5       4.5
                                                                            equipment                             5.1       4.1
                                                                            training                              0.4       0.4
                                                                            works                                  0         0
F. Surface Transit Study                                   2      1.6                                         cancelled
G. Strategic advice                                       0.9     0.7   G. Strategic advice                       0.6       0.4
H. Assistance to PIU                                      2.5     2.5   H. Assistance to PIU                      5.6       3.6
                                                                            TA & training & audits                0.3       0.2
                                                                            operating costs                       5.2       3.4
                                                                            equipment                             0.1        0
I. Unallocated                                            2.5     2.5
Front-end fee                                             0.6     0.6   Front end fee                             0.6       0.6
TOTAL                                                   123.2     60                                           128.6       55.5


Notes:
- Component names and sequencing taken from Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement
- All costs are in US$ equivalents and include taxes.
- Costs for original components taken from the PAD, page 8.
- Final costs for implemented components taken from PIU procurement and payment tables.




                                                                 23
                                          (b) Financing

                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                       millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                                    63.20        73.1      115.6
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                            60.00        55.5        92.5
and Development




                                               24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component7

A.    Traffic Management Center (US$3.5 million)

This component financed office furniture and equipment for the TMC; training in traffic
management for the staff of TMC, with participation from other related agencies
(US$0.03 million); technical assistance provided by external consultants (US$1.19
million) and studies commissioned by the TMC (US$1.52 million). Studies included the
following:

        Scoping study for paid parking in Central Moscow: the study explored the
        feasibility of on-street parking charges, developed a conceptual plan, together
        with key actions and a schedule for implementation;
        Park-and-Ride Pilot Study: the study established the potential for and the
        feasibility of park-and-ride concept in outlying areas and public transport
        terminals, identified promising locations, and developed an implementation
        strategy;
        Traffic and parking legislation study: the study identified lacunae in the
        existing road, traffic and motor vehicles legislation that stand in the way of place-
        specific traffic and parking management problems, and made recommendations
        on how to close these;
        Concept study for bus priority: the study identified corridors with potential for
        bus priority; developed design concepts and institutional arrangements; organized
        a workshop on international experience in public transport priority; and
        synthesized these tasks into a series of practical propositions for the Moscow
        Government;
        "Before" and "after" traffic and pedestrian study at the Donbassky Bridge
        complex and at 6 pedestrian overpasses: traffic data were collected and used to
        evaluate the success of investments under this Project;
        Studies related to the Third Ring Road traffic control system: these studies
        ranged from the conceptual designs and feasibility all the way to engineering
        designs and equipment specifications and bid documents; in addition, a separate
        study looked at traffic management measures that would complement the new
        traffic control system.

B. Corridor Improvements Program (US$47.6 million)
This component had two sub-components:




7
  Further details are in the Borrower's Implementation Completion report (long version) available in
the Project file in the Integrated Records and Information Services (IRIS).




                                                25
  B-1 5 Pedestrian underpasses (US$27.7 million): all involve crossing major, high-
  volume arterial roads, near metro stations and large housing and commercial
  developments. Three underpasses were constructed in the Varshavsky corridor, and two
  in the Schelkovsky Corridor. The Preobrazhensky Ploschad underpass in the Schelkovsky
  corridor, costing US$18.4 million, is a complex of 2 underpasses.

  B-2 Traffic Control System for Third Ring Road (US$39.0 million): The main
  contract financed under the Project includes a fiber-optic cable system, power supply,
  detectors and counting devises; video cameras; weather measurement equipment; and
  signs and signals for a major and highly congested ring corridor in Moscow, about 34 km
  long, with 40 entry/exit points, 16 of which are intersections with major radial roads. The
  control system combines traffic data collection, passenger information, access control
  through ramp metering, and traffic incident management system linked to the Traffic
  Police component. It also includes a linkage of the Third Ring control system with
  Moscow's area traffic control system START, through a common control room, located
  at the Traffic Management Center. Numerous complementary activities, belonging to this
  phase or later on, are carried out by local agencies and/or local contractors financed from
  the Borrower's budget. At the closing date of the Loan, software development was
  completed, and all equipment was delivered and installed, however, the integration of the
  TCS with the existing traffic control systems for tunnels, power supply, fiber-optic cable
  network and fine-tuning of the system took longer. These activities continued during the
  ICR preparation and the system became fully operational in October 2009. The TCS for
  the Third Ring Road allows to monitor traffic conditions on the road from the TCS
  Central Control Board located in the Moscow City traffic police headquarters and to
  control and coordinate operation of all equipment on the ring road: 181 CCTV cameras in
  four tunnels, reversible lane traffic signals, turnpikes, dynamic message boards, variable
  speed limit signs, variable graphical warning signs, as well as traffic sensors and
  controllers. While the TCS is operated by the traffic police, the TMC is the owner of the
  Third Ring TCS and all assets are on this entity's balance sheet. The TMC is therefore
  responsible for system maintenance and for any upgrading or expansion that might be
  required including software development and refinement.

                     Contract for the TCS for the Third Ring Road ­ INT investigation

Contract No. MUTP/Third Ring/Key under the project was signed on November 17, 2005 between the
Foundation 'Moscow Project Implementation Unit' and Siemens A.G and Siemens OOO (the Russian
subsidiary). The contractor was to design, manufacture/procure, test, deliver, install, complete and commission
the Traffic Control System for the Third Ring road and provide technical assistance and training of personnel.
The contract price is an aggregate of EUR 8,917,426.41 and RUR 622,622,958.32 (an equivalent of
US$32,502,924. 64 total). The IBRD loan financed 42% of the contract. The contract remained the last activity
to be completed under the project.

The contract in question was a complex procurement from a technical point of view. No supplier had previous
experience in performing a contract of this magnitude including Siemens. Procurement steps were cleared by
the Operational Procurement Review Committee (OPRC) at each stage as per rules. Any bias in specifications
was neither obvious nor detected/spotted by the task team and their technical expert at any stage although
specifications were reviewed by them extensively. Moreover, this was also not reflected in the result of the two
stage bidding process since, at least at the first stage bids, no firms were rejected on technical grounds and, at
the second stage, three firms submitted bids, of which two were declared technically compliant. No firm
complained at any stage about bias in the Borrower's specifications. An individual international consultant has



                                                       26
been procured by the PIU under the project to prepare a feasibility study, develop bidding documents, evaluate
proposals and supervise the contract for the Traffic Control System for the Third Ring Road.

SEC Report. According to the report of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that was released
in December 2008, Siemens is said to have engaged in fraudulent and corrupt practices and collusion in order to
obtain the contract for the Traffic Control System for the Third Ring Road under the project. According to the
SEC report, there were two sets of fraudulent actions:

         "First, Siemens paid money to its business consultant who simultaneously worked as a technical
         consultant for the Moscow Project Implementation Unit ("MPIU"), a quasi-governmental unit that ran
         the Moscow Third Ring project. The MPIU hired the technical consultant at Siemens' suggestion.
         From 2004 to 2006, Siemens paid approximately US$313,000 to three entities associated with the
         technical consultant, with at least US$141,419 of the payment in exchange for favorable treatment in
         the tendering process. The technical consultant used his position at the MPIU to create tender
         specifications favorable to Siemens, to provide tender documents to Siemens before their official
         publication, to evaluate project bids in a way that ensured Siemens would win the contract, and to
         assist during the implementation phase of the contract."

         Second, Siemens colluded with a competitor who agreed to inflate his project bid to ensure Siemens
         won the project. In return Siemens hired the competitor at an inflated rate of approximately
         US$800,000. Siemens also hired two of the competitor's former consortium members to become
         subcontractors to Siemens on the project ("Subcontractor A" and "Subcontractor B"). Siemens paid
         Subcontractor A approximately $1.3 million for a sham traffic study and approximately US$1.4
         million to Subcontractor B for other alleged services. In fact, both subcontractors were used to funnel
         at least US$600,000 of the US$741,419 described in paragraph 60 to senior officials of the MPIU."

Following publication of the SEC report the Bank made the decision on December 17, 2008 to hold the
disbursements under the contract pending the outcome of INT investigation. In a letter dated December 22,
2008, the Bank informed the Borrower about the decision to hold payments requested to be made to Siemens.
In a number of subsequent communications the Bank informed the Borrower of continued investigation and
shared some of the findings. At the request of the Moscow Government Controlling Committee the INT briefed
them of the findings of the INT investigation.

Given the INT investigation was still ongoing, and having preliminary findings confirming the
misrepresentation by Siemens that it had no conflict of interest, the Bank continued to hold disbursements
(about US$4.5 million, of which most would finance payments to Siemens A.G). A grace period for
disbursements initially established at end April 2009, has been extended till June 15, 2009. By end of the
disbursements period the final INT report had not yet been released, and no closure was reached. The
disbursements period lapsed and the remaining amount of the loan of $4.546 million was cancelled.

In early July 2009 the Bank reached a comprehensive settlement with Siemens AG in the wake of the
company's acknowledged past misconduct in its global business and a World Bank investigation into
corruption in a project in Russia involving a Siemens subsidiary. The settlement includes a commitment by
Siemens to pay US$100 million over the next 15 years to support anti-corruption work, an agreement of up to a
four-year debarment for Siemens' Russian subsidiary, and a voluntary two-year shut-out from bidding on Bank
business for Siemens AG and all of its consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates . As part of the settlement,
Siemens has also agreed to co-operate to change industry practices, clean up procurement practices and engage
in collective action with the World Bank Group to fight fraud and corruption. Siemens will also provide
information on any additional cases of wrongdoing to the Bank's Institutional Integrity Vice Presidency (INT),
which investigates fraud and corruption in Bank Group-financed activities.

While the fraudulent practice may have impacted the efficiency of this procurement process, it is very difficult
to estimate the impact of the fraudulent practice on the efficiency of the contract implementation in this case in
monetary terms. An exercise like this would have to be based on a theoretical replication of the procurement
process free of fraud. Because in this case this exercise would have to assume possible action by unknown
competitors that cannot be retroactively created, such a replication would be purely speculative and would not
result in an accurate and defensible monetary value.



                                                       27
C. Central Area Traffic Improvements Program
C-2 Pedestrian underpass at Krasnie Vorota metro station (US$1 million)

D. Donbassky Bridge Complex (US$45.1 million)
This component included a complete reconstruction of a complex multi-grade
intersection of Varshavskye Shosse (major north/south radial road in the Moscow just
outside the Third Ring Road) with Paveletskoe Railway Line and a tram line, expected to
benefit both motor vehicles and public transport passengers. Old bridges were narrow and
in structurally dangerous state. The old 4-lane road viaduct was replaced by an 8-lane
viaduct; the old 1-way tram bridge was replaced by a 2-way bridge; and a separate
communication bridge was constructed. The construction won the Moscow City
Government award for the best facility in its category in 2004, based on the results, and
early and under-cost completion.

E.   Traffic Law Enforcement (US$5.5 million)

This component included:

Police Equipment (US$5.1 million): radars and video cameras for stationary and mobile
law enforcement; vans for handling road accidents; alcohol measurement instruments;
laser radar guns; fixed and portable radios; scales for measuring axle loads; instruments
for identification of license plates; and information processing equipment.
Training (US$0.4 million): Study tours for senior officers in Germany and Netherlands;
refresher courses in traffic control for staff of Traffic Police and TMC; certification-
oriented courses to train the trainers for law enforcement, and technical assistance for
selecting and specifying equipment and making operational plans to implement mobile
law enforcement and incidence management. In total, more than 100 staff from the TMC,
Traffic Police, Department of Transport, MPIU, GenPlan and Center for Traffic
Infrastructure Studies participated in various training events.

G. Feasibility Study & Business Plan for the Small Ring Railway (US$0.6 million)
This study explored the feasibility of reconstructing the Small Ring Railway and prepared
the requisite engineering and organization plans. The Moscow City Government accepted
the results and scheduled the works for the section between Presnya and Kanatchikovo
stations for the period 2007-2009.




                                           28
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The major civil works were expected to generate economic benefits that could be
quantified, most notably the remodeling of the Donbassky Bridge complex, the purpose
of which was to reduce vehicle and passenger trip times, lower vehicle operating costs,
and reduce the frequency of accidents. The pedestrian underpasses, by eliminating or at
least reducing the need for stop lights on arterial highways carrying large traffic volumes,
were expected to yield the same types of benefit. The PIU conducted a detailed
economic feasibility study for the Donbassky Bridge. However, it did no economic
analysis for the underpasses at the feasibility study stage, only at completion. By their
nature, none of the project components generated revenue directly, so no financial
analysis was necessary.

The following table shows the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for Donbassky Bridge
calculated during project preparation and those calculated by the PIU's consultant for all
the civil works after they were completed. The latter used actual final construction costs
and traffic counted in the year or two after completion. Both cases used the same
forecast rate of traffic growth over the first 20 years of operation.

Economic Rates of Return at Appraisal and Completion (%)8

                                                   Size (actual, $m) Appraisal Completion
Donbassky Bridge                                          51.7          31       47
Pedestrian Underpasses:
1. Garden Ring, Krasnye Vorota Metro                       1.1                           45
2. Varshavskoye Ave, Chongarsky Blvd                       2.2                           52
3. Varshavskoye Ave, Gazoprovod Str                        1.9                           50
4. Varshavskoye Ave, Nagatinskaya Metro                    2.4                          102
5. Shchelkovskoye Avenue (House #1)                        2.8                          107
6. Preobrazhenskaya Square                                19.2                           17
Whole project (weighted average)                                              n.a.       55

Source: Moscow Project Implementation Unit Foundation, October 2008
Ruble costs are converted at RUR 26 = $1


As the table shows, all works show high economic returns in the `completion' case. It
follows that the weighted average return is also high, 55%. For the Donbassky Bridge,
the ERR calculated after the new infrastructure was put into operation is substantially
higher than the appraisal estimate, mainly because traffic after completion was some 20%
more than before.



8
  After the Bank had completed its analysis, the borrower revised the construction costs downward by
a small margin, implying an even higher economic return on each component.




                                                29
The main elements of the calculation were:
               Construction cost (shown in table above)
               Initial traffic volume upon completion of the works
               Forecast rate of traffic growth through Year 20
               Unit savings in vehicle operating costs: The average was US$0.30 per
               vehicle km.
               Unit savings in time: Car occupants' time was valued at US$2 per hour
               Reduction in accidents: damage accidents valued at US$1,200, injuries at
               US$30,000 and deaths at US$80,000.
A value was also put on the reduced vehicle emissions as a result of less stop-go driving.
However, at present values for such emissions the benefits were insignificant relative to
other categories.

Growth forecast: The feasibility study proposed an optimistic and a pessimistic growth
rate of traffic, uniform over twenty years. While the concept of a range, reflecting
uncertainty, is commendable as an approach, the optimistic rate was only 3% per year
and the pessimistic rate was 1.5%. These values may turn out overly cautious, since the
Russian economy has been growing substantially faster since the turn of the decade: 6-
8% per year since 2000, and urban passenger traffic normally grows somewhat faster
than Gross Domestic Product (GDP). 2009 sees a sudden contraction in response to the
global financial crisis and related drop in the price of oil. But as a 20-year average, a rate
closer to 5-7% would seem more probable. On this count the ERRs are likely to be
understated9.

A. Donbassky Bridge

Varshavskoye Shosse (Warsaw Avenue), a major arterial between the city center and the
southern suburbs, was 8 lanes wide throughout its length, except over the Donbassky
Bridge. The bridge, which crosses a major railway line, had only 4 narrow lanes and was
judged to be in dangerously poor condition before the project was launched, to the point
that immediate replacement was mandatory. Therefore the `without project' alternative
assumed reconstruction of essentially the existing structure with the same capacity as
before; only the incremental cost of doubling the number of lanes and otherwise
enhancing the structure (including the separate tram bridge) were counted against the
`With Project' alternative ­ about half of the total cost.




9
  The consultant also seems to have preferred a slow growth forecast for Donbassky Bridge to avoid
the methodological complication of projecting traffic in the "without project" case into the future at a
faster rate, which would soon have reached and exceeded 100% of road capacity. This conceptual
problem has solutions but none is fully satisfactory.




                                                  30
             Traffic Volumes using Donbassky Bridge Before and After

                                              Traffic (veh)    Traffic*,   Avg speed,
  Date of Traffic Counts            Lanes
                                                 per day       Peak hr     peak hour
  Before: Dec 1999 (peak month)        4     74,000 - 78,000    4,750      14 km/h
  During: Oct 2003 (peak month)        5     89,000 - 91,000    5,800
  After: Jan 2005 (low season)         8     76,000 - 79,000    5,200      27-29 km/h
  * in direction of peak flow

Alternatives considered: The feasibility study considered alternatives involving
rerouting of traffic away from the Bridge onto other local streets, but none offered
adequate capacity or was amenable to widening at reasonable cost. The alternative of
rerouting traffic around the Moscow Ring Road was rejected because of the substantial
extra distance involved and congestion already common on that route.

Mix of quantified benefits: Savings in vehicle operating costs make up 96% of all
quantified benefits, and the value of time saved 4%.

Encouragement to public transport: The complex also involved replacing a decrepit
single-track tram bridge over the railway line by a new two-track bridge. The new
alignment eliminated a level crossing between the tram line and the highway. Doing
away with traffic lights at the tram crossing had the effect of increasing the highway's
capacity by a third during rush hour, when trams are frequent, and eliminating waiting
time not only for the cars but also for the trams. The doubling of the tram track at this
bottleneck also expanded the tram line's capacity. Furthermore, as the first major
improvement to tram infrastructure in the Moscow suburbs for the last 20-30 years, it
signaled the City's renewed support for trams and stimulated a substantial increase in
ridership.

B. Pedestrian Underpasses

The number of vehicles and pedestrians at each crossing site are shown below.

Pedestrian Underpass       Vehicles per day Pedestrians per day Pedestrians, peak hr
Krasnye Vorota                      128,000       10,900-11,500            900-1,000
Varshavskoye Chongarskiy             74,000      13,900-14,900           1,300-1,400
Varshavskoye/Gazoprovod              51,000         3,000-3,400                  300
Varshavskoye/Nagatinskaya           108,000              35,350                3,100
Shchelkovskoye Ave                   92,500              12,900                1,100
Preobrazhenskaya Square              82,500              26,250                2,400
Preobrazhenskiy Val Street           26,000               7,300                  700

The very large numbers of pedestrians are striking ­as many as 2,000-3,000 per peak
hour. All sites but one is at the entrance to a busy metro station. The streets were also




                                            31
full of a large number of cars, occupying eight lanes or more, and congested for much of
the working day.

Before construction of the underpasses, traffic typically waited 35-40 seconds during the
pedestrian phase of the traffic lights. After the underpasses were opened the stop lights
were retained but with a shorter phase for pedestrians. Average travel speeds for cars
rose from about 20 km/hr to about 30 km/hr, and the number of accidents declined. The
mix of benefits was typically: vehicle operating costs 74%; the value of travel time saved
20%; fewer accidents 5%; and reduced pollution (emissions caused by stop-go
driving) 1%.

The Preobrazhenskaya Square crossings were exceptionally costly, for various reasons:
(i) tunnels were excavated under two streets where they intersected (elsewhere there was
only one); (ii) the pedestrian traffic was exceptionally heavy (this is a major metro station
with high-rise buildings nearby); and (iii) by the time these crossings came to be built
(the last), the City had mandated installation of elevators at major metro stations for
people in wheelchairs. The ERR is the lowest of the six underpass sites, but at 17% is
still well above the acceptable threshold.




                                             32
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
          Names                         Title                   Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Richard Podolske         Senior Transport Specialist          ECSIE Task Manager
John Cracknell           Consultant                           ECSIE Traffic Engineer
Jack Kay                 Consultant                           ECSIE Traffic Engineer
Maurice Dickerson        Consultant                           ECSIE Proc & Proj Mngt
Sven-Olof Hasssel        Consultant                           ECSIE Traffiic Police
Bernard Baratz           Principal Environmental Specialist         Environment
Irina Kichigina          Counsel                              LEGEC Legal
Coral Bird               Program Assistant                    ECSIE Project Support

Supervision/ICR
Richard C. Podolske      Consultant                           ECSSD    Urban Trans Spl
Ben Eijbergen            Senior Transport Specialist          ECSIE    Team Leader
Michel Audige            Lead Transport Specialist            ECSSD    Team Leader
Vickram Cuttaree         Senior Infrastructure Economist      ECSSD    Team Leader
Tatyana Shadrunova       Urban Specialist                     ECSSD    Urban Specialist
Yuri Myroshnichenko      Country Sector Coordinator           ECSSD    CSC
Elena Chesheva           Operations Officer                   ECSSD ICR Team Leader
Slobodan Mitric          Consultant                           ECSSD ICR Writer
Claudia Pardinas Ocana   Sr. Counsel                          LEGEM Counsel
Coral Bird               Program Assistant                    ECSSD Project Support




                                         33
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY97                                                               231.52
  FY98                                                               247.70
  FY99                                                               203.41
  FY00                                      41                       215.49
  FY01                                      21                        68.51
  FY02                                                                 0.04
  FY03                                                                 0.00
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
                          Total:            62                       966.67
Supervision/ICR
  FY97                                                                 0.00
  FY98                                                                 0.00
  FY99                                                                 0.71
  FY00                                                                 0.50
  FY01                                     6                          28.18
  FY02                                    26                         158.71
  FY03                                    20                         135.85
  FY04                                    12                         110.50
  FY05                                    14                         132.80
  FY06                                    19                         145.34
  FY07                                    10                         114.48
 FY08                                      9                          68.98
 FY09                                     19                          93.82
 FY10                                      2                           6
                          Total:         137                         995.87




                                       34
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
Not applicable




                                      35
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
Not applicable




                                   36
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Below is the extract from the Borrower's ICR. The full report is filed in project files in
IRIS.
4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
4.1. Achievement of Objectives
        As of the date of this Report the Project goal, i.e. expansion of institutional
opportunities of Moscow in planning, design, management and implementation of road
traffic management measures has been attained in general.
The following facilitated expansion of institutional opportunities of Moscow City in the
said sphere:
   -   establishment in 2000 and successful functioning of the TMC under the Moscow
       City Government. Transfer of function on determination and implementation of
       technical policy in maintenance, operation and repair of technical facilities for the
       road traffic organization to Public Enterprise (GU) CODD in 2005,
       implementation of new traffic regulation systems, which earlier were within
       competence of the Moscow Traffic Police (GIBDD). Establishment and
       equipment of the Main traffic control station for the road traffic control,
       monitoring and organization in Moscow under TMC;
   -   appointment of new chief executives of the Department of Transport and
       Communications and TMC having the necessary qualification and experience in
       the field of road traffic organization;
   -   transformation in 2004 of Moscow Directorate for Transport and
       Communications into the Moscow Department of Transport and Communications
       (DT&C) - a departmental executive authority in the city of Moscow implementing
       the governmental policy and exercising management in the field of transport and
       communications. Status of this establishment was raised in order to promote
       efficiency of its activities, to improve management of transport and
       communication spheres in Moscow;
   -   concentration in one place of all major Moscow departments and organizations
       responsible for planning, organization and management of the road traffic in
       Moscow (TMC, Moscow           GIBDD and DT&C), this would consolidate
       interdepartmental relations and raise efficiency of cooperation with Moscow
       GIBDD;
   -   expansion for the account of use of efficient modern equipment, training of
       personnel of the GIBDD emergency-action teams in advanced methods of the
       Traffic Rules control, opportunities of Moscow GIBDD in control over adherence
       to laws in order to increase the road traffic safety;
   -   organization in the Project framework of studies on amendment of legislation
       concerning parking and road traffic, introduction of a paid street parking regime
       in the Moscow center, in organization of park-and-ride lots, on provision of
       priority to busses over other road traffic participants, on improvement of the road


                                             37
       traffic organization at the Third Ring Road, which formed a basis for preparation
       and implementation of the city priority ad-hoc programs for creation of a system
       of a single city parking space, development of surface city passenger transport in
       Moscow for the period of 2007 to 2009, creation of a Third Ring Traffic Control
       System and more;
   -   development of a Business plan for reconstruction of the Minor Ring of the
       Moscow Railroad in the Project framework in order to organize passenger
       movement at the prime section in the period of 2007 to 2009.

       4.4. The results reached in development of a road and transport
infrastructure and the organization of traffic.
       4.4.1. Traffic Management Center Establishment. TMC under Moscow City
Government was established in compliance with resolution No. 1129 of the Moscow City
Government dated December 7, 1999 and Direction of the Moscow Mayor No. 491-PM
dated May 6, 2000. TMC establishment was a condition for validation of loan No. 4595-
RU. Regulations on the TMC defined the following TMC functions as the customer and
coordinator of all design, research and a number of construction works in the road traffic
organization in Moscow. As of the Project implementation beginning there were 22
employees on the TMC staff.

        Resolution of the Moscow City Government No. 438- dated June 14 "On
measures for improvement of operation and maintenance of technical facilities for road
traffic organization in Moscow. TMC was assigned the following additional function,
which earlier were discharged by Moscow GIBDD: definition and pursuit of technical
policy concerning maintenance, operation and repair of technical facilities for the road
traffic organization, introduction of mew systems of the road traffic regulation. TMC
included a newly established department for operation, maintenance, repair,
reconstruction and installation of technical facilities for the road traffic organization.
CODD is provided with additional personnel and material resources for fulfillment of
these functions. Currently TMC personnel makes about 500 employees, 50 of them
engage in issues concerning road traffic organization.

       To raise efficiency of TMC operation and to better coordinate its work with
GIBDD in 2007 TMC received new premises located in the building of Directorate of the
Moscow GIBDD. In the framework of the project these premises have been equipped
with a video wall, computer and peripheral facilities. Chief dispatching point for control,
monitoring and organization of road traffic in Moscow.

        Placement of governmental orders for design, research and construction in the
field of the road traffic organization is exercised by TMC according to tender procedures
defined by the Russian and Moscow legislation.
         Road traffic monitoring system established in TMC is permanently updated
providing data sufficient for rational planning and assessment of measures for the road
traffic organization suggested by the Moscow City Government.




                                            38
        TMC important role in the Moscow road transport complex is emphasized by the
fact that former TMC chief (2000-2006) L.M. Lipsits, was appointed the Head of the
Moscow Department for Transport and Communication.

       In the framework of the Project implementation TMC is discharging function of a
technical coordinator of a number of research works on the road traffic organization,
monitoring of transport flows and issues of automotive transport parking. Results of
research on amendment of legislation concerning parking and road traffic, introduction of
paid street parking in the center of Moscow city, organization of park-and-ride lots,
giving priority to buses over other traffic participants, better road traffic organization at
the Third Ring Road formed a basis for drafting and implementation of the following city
ad-hoc programs:

       -     creation of a system of the city single parking space for the period of 2008-
             2010 in compliance with Resolution No. 99- of the Moscow City
             Government dated February 20, 2007;
       -     development of the city surface passenger transport in the city of Moscow
             for the period of 2007-2009 in compliance with Resolution No. 840- of
             the Moscow City Government dated October 24, 2006;

       -     creation of TCS at the third Transport Ring in compliance with Resolution
             No. 1134-P of the Moscow City Government dated June 23, 2005.

        In the framework of the Creation of the City Single Parking Space Program it is
planned to complete solution of issues related to improvement of the normative legal base
in the field of the parking space organization, to create a system of payments for parking
services on a clearance basis, to wok out a unified tariff policy and registration of all
objects of the parking space. At the initial stage it is planned to establish a complex of
objects referred to the city property and including 60,000 car places at the parking lots (at
UDS) and 100,000 places at the park-and-ride lots. Department of the City Planning
Policy, Moscow Reconstruction and Development accepted for future implementation the
suggestion concerning organization of a network of park-and-ride lots in the area of
important passenger junctions in Moscow (metro station Tushinskaya, Planernaya)
developed in the course of the project implementation. Suggestion on amendment of
legislation concerning the road traffic organization, vehicles location in Moscow and
greater administrative responsibility for the traffic rules violation were drafted in the
framework of the project and submitted to the Moscow City Duma for introduction of
corrections in appropriate legislative accts.

        In the framework of the Program for Development of the City Surface Passenger
Transport in Moscow and proceeding from suggestions prepared in the course of the
Project implementation Moscomarkhitectura started (in 2007) to work out documents for
provision of priority movement of public transport (buses, trolleybuses, trams and shuttle
city taxi) at Volokolamskoye shosse, Leningradsky and Leninsky prospect. According to
results of experiment at the said main roads the Moscow Department of Transport and
Communications made suggestions to the Moscow City Government about expediency of
organization of special lanes at the rest of the Moscow road network.



                                             39
        In the framework of creation of a TCS at the Third Ring Road a wide-profile
computer-aided system for the road traffic control was implemented, which was
designated for the road traffic control and management, road traffic optimization,
increasing its safety and informing drivers. The 3rd Ring Road TCS provided for
centralized control of all traffic control equipment in the 3rd Ring Road and the receipt of
online video picture of traffic conditions along the entire length of the 3rd Ring Road
directly from the TCS Central Control Board located in the Moscow City traffic police
headquarters.

         The TCS has demonstrated its reliability and efficiency in terms of traffic
management and control in the 3rd Ring Road. For instance, immediate response to road
accidents by the traffic police allowed a significant (more than 2 times) reduction of time
required for traffic police mobile units and rescue service vehicles to get to the accident
site, resulting in a shorter congestion period caused by road accidents, which, in its, turn,
increased throughput on the 3rd Ring Road.

        TCS at the Third Ring Road controlled from the Traffic Control Center is
integrated with the operating Moscow system START, this creates optimal conditions for
coordination of the road traffic control in Moscow. TMC is the balance holder of the TCS
at the Third Ring Road and supports its operation and maintenance.

         At present TMC is the key organization responsible for organization of road
traffic in Moscow as it was planned at the stage of the Project preparation.

Project component "Institutional development in the field of the road traffic
organization" is efficient and its implementation goals have been attained in full.

       4.4.2. Secondary, but not less important, institutional task of the project is
consolidation of the functions of control over the traffic rules observation. Main goal
of the component concerning control over the traffic rules observation was to expand
opportunities of the Moscow GIBDD in control over adherence to the laws in order to
make road traffic more safe. Central element of this component became the program for
control over the traffic rules observation with emphasis on practical training of
employees and supplies of equipment in support of these functions discharged by
Moscow GIBDD.

       According to requirements of paragraph 3, Attachement1 to Loan Agreement No.
4595-RU and in order to provide for efficient equipment purchases in the Project
framework, its use, as well as efficient implementation of the training program, Moscow
City Government drafted and approved on August 22, 2003 a Procedure for
Implementation of Component Technical Assistance, Training and Equipment for the
Moscow GIBDD in the framework of the Moscow Urban Transport Project (Operative
Plan).

       The Performance Evaluation of Applying the First Consignment Procurement was
carried out according to paragraph 8 of the Operational Plan by MPIU Foundation in
cooperation with Traffic Police Management Department UGIBDD and Moscow Traffic
Police Training Centre, as well as in collaboration with Mr. Peter ter Meulen, the


                                             40
consultant monitoring the execution of the Operational Plan under the Moscow Urban
Transport Project.

        The Performance Evaluation was done basing on the outcomes of the regular
inspections carried out by executives of the MPIU and UGIBDD, as well as by Mr. Peter
ter Meulen in the operational units of the Traffic Police, which obtained the first
consignment equipment, and basing on the statistical data analysis, provided by UGIBDD.
The statistical data was prepared basing on the regular reports from the heads of the
Traffic Patrol Service units and the data of the subsystem within the UGIBDD Central
database concerning accidents. In the course of the inspections, a survey was carried out
among those employees of the operational units who are directly involved in operating
the equipment. Start of the supplied equipment operation in emergency teams of the
Moscow GIBDD is scheduled for July 2004.

        In the framework of implementation of the program for control over adherence to
the traffic rules, including training of personnel of the Moscow GIBDD, supplies of
equipment and special technical facilities for Moscow GIBDD, level of GIBDD training
and technical equipment was raised in order to fulfill the road traffic rules.

Project component Program for Control over Adherence to the Road Traffic Rules is
efficient and goals of its implementation have been attained in full.

       4.4.3. Development of a TCS at the Third Ring Road
Basic results of developing the TCS of 3rd ring are:
       - Optimization of utilized capacity to increase passage capacity;
       - Improvement of traffic safety;
       - Informing drivers on the road traffic condition and improvement of traffic
           conditions on the 3rd ring;
       - Positive effect on environment.

         Optimization of utilized capacity to increase passage capacity is ensured by
fulfillment of the following tasks: reduction of a number of jams and their duration;
control of transport junctions; optimization of speed modes; control of transport
distribution on lanes; separation of traffic lanes into car high-speed, priority vehicle lanes,
as well as distribution lanes of outgoing and incoming traffic flows at junction systems;
control of Variable Text Message Signs, graphic information displays and controlled
traffic signs; so called network control with the help of Variable Text Message Signs, for
timely withdrawal of the traffic flow through exits of the 3rd ring in case of hold-ups, as
well as warning of hold-ups at important highways crossing the 3rd ring; reduction of
transport jamming on the 3rd ring by proportioning the traffic by the ramp-metering
method at selected sections, as well as control and temporary blocking off traffic flows at
certain entrances of the ring; timely operational advising the motorists on the transport
situation.
Improving the traffic safety will be ensured by the following tasks:
       -   arranging optimal control of traffic flows;
       -   reduction of a number of traffic accidents resulting from hold-ups by:


                                              41
           o   automatic determination of traffic accidents, hold-ups and stopped cars;
           o   automatic warning motorists of hold-ups and accumulations;.
           o   automatic warning them of traffic accidents and failures;
           o   timely advising the motorists of dangerous road and weather situations.

       -   improving traffic safety at junctions by timely distribution of vehicles on
           traffic lanes;
       -   improvement of traffic safety at «tunnel» sections by:

           o timely limiting the number of traffic lanes in front of the tunnel portal in
             case of changing the number of lanes in it;
           o timely blocking off traffic on the 3rd ring to get free space in front of the
             tunnel portals ensuring quick access for emergency rescue services,
             including rescue helicopters.
       -   by facilitating the access of the traffic police and emergency rescue services;
       -   video observation system with a multi-level control for automatic scanning of
           the area of highways and transport junctions.
       -   timely indication of changes in the direction of vehicles on traffic lanes during
           road works on the 3rd ring, as well as in case of accidents.

Better informing the drivers on a road traffic condition and improvement of traffic
condition on the 3rd ring are obtained by fulfillment of the following tasks:
       -   informing the drivers with the help of dynamic, graphic displays and
           controlled traffic signs (prescribed speed, warning of hold-ups, accidents,
           works of the servicing personnel, danger on the road, weather situations etc.).
           The given information covers the 3rd transport ring, junction systems and the
           most important highways crossing it;
       -    informing the traffic police and emergency rescue services, as well as
           cooperating organizations of failures, accidents and technical problems to
           facilitate traffic flow on the 3rd transport ring.
       -   timely informing the road services for maintaining the condition of the 3rd
           transport ring in hard weather conditions;.
       -   providing more even traffic flow by informing the motorists, proportioning
           the incoming cars by the ramp-metering method at selected sections and
           temporary limitation at certain entrances of the ring;
       -   by controlling the junctions and proportioning the incoming cars by the «ramp
           metering» method at selected sections for the drivers to maintain the direction
           according to the change on traffic lanes.
Positive effect on environment is reached by:
       -   by reducing a frequency, length and duration of hold-ups on the 3rd transport
           ring, which will result in lower emission of harmful substances, as well as
           lower background noise;



                                            42
       -   increase of average speed by reducing braking maneuvers and acceleration
           maneuvers, which will result in lower fuel consumption and thus lower
           environmental pollution.

Project component «Implementation of the Traffic Control System on the Third Ring
Road in Moscow». Goals of its implementation have been attained in full.

6. Sustainability

        6.1. The project most important tasks is provision of stability of the obtained
results, i.e., ability of the city of Moscow to not only maintain results attained in the
course of the Project implementation, but also to develop and improve: (1) institutional
opportunities in planning, design, management and implementation of measures for the
road traffic organization and, (2) city road transport infrastructure. Actions aimed at
achievement of stable results obtained in the course of the Project implementation may be
divided into the following lines: (i) development of the implemented institutional
amendments in the road traffic organization and control; (ii) use of the unique experience
accumulated by specialists of the MPIU Foundation for implementation of other projects
related to the development of the Moscow road traffic infrastructure and purchases of
works, goods and services for the governmental needs on the basis of tenders; (iii) use of
the experience of the project implementation and World Bank procedures for
improvement of procedures for purchases of works, goods and services for the Moscow
City Government and its structural divisions.

        6.2. From the view point of Project long-term stability its most important
component became creation of a Traffic Management Center under the Moscow City
Government (TMC). Currently, TMC established as a condition for the start of the
Project implementation , is the main organization of the Moscow City Government
having all the necessary powers, personnel resources and facilities for planning, design,
implementation and operation of schemes and systems for the road traffic organization in
Moscow. Successful implementation of the TMC personnel training program, as well as
participation of the TMC specialists in the Project implementation at all stages, starting
for the feasibility study and tenders through the contract implementation allowed them to
upgrade qualification and obtain experience necessary to fulfill complicated tasks of the
road traffic organization in Moscow.

       6.2.1. Existing Structure of TMC
       At present TMC comprises the following divisions: Administrative Division; Law
Division; Planning and Economic Division; Road Traffic Organization Division; State
Order Placement Division; Dispatch Center; Division for Development and Introduction
of the Road Traffic Automated Control System (RTACS); Information and Analytical
Division; Linear Control Division; Capital Construction Service; Service for Operation of
Technical Facilities of Road Traffic Organization.




                                           43
       6.2.2. TMC Activity
     6.2.2.1. Actions on Improvement of the Road Traffic Capacity in the City of
Moscow and Improvement of the Road Traffic Safety:
       -   TMC acts as a customer to development and approval of the road traffic
           organization projects.
       -   The experiment carried out by the Department of Transport and
           Communications of Moscow together with TMC on organization of priority
           movement of the public transport means along the Volokolamsk highway,
           Leninsky and Leningradsky avenues in accordance with para 2.1.1 of
           Resolution of the Moscow City Government No. 840- of 24.10.2006.
       -   Actions are taken to relieve the road network in the city from unauthorized or
           transit passage of trucks.

        Pursuant to Resolution of the Moscow City Government No. 717- of
19.10.2004 "On Alterations in Resolution of the Moscow City Government No. 604-
of August 6, 2002", in the city of Moscow a ban was imposed beginning from December
01, 2004 from 7:00 to 22:00 on entrance and movement of all transport means with the
carrying capacity over one ton belonging to private persons and legal entities in the
central part of the city limited by the Third Ring Road as well as movement of all
transport means with trailers and semi-trailers belonging to private persons and to legal
entities along the Sadovoye Ring.

        In pursuance of Direction of the Moscow City Government No. 240-P of
30.10.2004, the Commission on prompt consideration of the issues related to ensuring the
road traffic regimes in the city of Moscow was established.
        With a view to impose tougher administrative punishment on those drivers that
violate the rules on truck movement in some city territories there was elaborated the Draft
Federal Law "On making alterations in the Federal Law "On Safe Road Traffic" and in
the Code of the Russian Federation on Administrative Offences".

       The law stipulates a possibility of creation by executive authorities of the zones
with specific road traffic in some territories of settlements. Here a possibility of restricted
entrance of certain transport means into such zones is envisaged. At the same time it
provides for administrative responsibility in the form of penalties for violations of the
imposed restrictions.

      In pursuance of Order of Moscow Mayor Yu.M. Luzhkov No. 4-19-19610/5 of
07.09.2006, the experiment is carried out on introduction of automatic control of truck
entrance within the confines of the Third Ring Road applying the hardware-software
complex "Potok" installed in two control zones: in the Suschevsky Val Street and on the
Rizhsky overpass.

      This system operated in an autonomous mode records state registration plates of
trucks, screens them with the help of the database of the Moscow Traffic Police and
creates an electronic card that is archived and simultaneously transferred to the automatic




                                              44
workplace of a notebook operator located in the patrol car of the Road Patrol Service
(RPS) crew.
        Developed is the concept of the purposeful program of the city of Moscow
        "Development of a system of the single urban parking space" that is approved
        by Resolution of the Moscow City Government No. 99- of 20.02.2007.
        Projects on organization of parking space submitted for approval of GUP
        GSIN are subject to expertise.
        TMC takes part in planned checks of operation of paid parkings.
        In order to improve road traffic safety, information support and guidance of
        the road traffic participants the Moscow City Government issued Direction No.
        408-P of 15.03.2006 "On further development of the general city
        information system for road traffic participants".
        For compensation of the damage incurred by vehicles carrying heavy cargo
        along the roads of Moscow and in pursuance of Resolution of the Government
        of the Russian Federation No. 962 of 26.09.1995, the Moscow City
        Government issued Direction No. 1330-P of 12.07.2006 "On charging
        payments from owners or users of vehicles carrying heavy cargo along the
        roads in the city of Moscow".
        Within the framework of the federal purposeful program "Improvement of
        road traffic safety in 2006-2012" approved by Resolution of the Government
        of the Russian Federation No. 100 of 20.02.2006, the federal purposeful
        program "Improvement of road traffic safety in 2006-2012" is implemented in
        cooperation with the RF Ministry of Internal Affairs. The respective
        agreement is signed by Mayor of Moscow Yu.M. Luzhkov and the RF
        Ministry of Internal Affairs.
        The proposals are prepared on making amendments in the Code of the Russian
        Federation on Administrative Offences" as concerns tougher responsibility for
        offences involving reduction of the traffic capacity and disturbances in the
        traffic, including as a result of misuse of special sound and light signals.
        Organization of interaction with the Ministry of Transport of the Moscow
        Region.
        In particular, together with the Ministry of Transport of the Moscow Region
        there were prepared proposals on normalizing the road traffic situation in the
        area of 65th-67th km of the Moscow Ring Road and also proposals on
        development of the road network in the mentioned area on the territory of the
        Moscow Region.
        On a permanent basis developed are proposals on traffic organization during
        mass public, political, festive, sport and recreational events.
        Elaborated are proposals on traffic organization in the roads nearby works on
        construction and rehabilitation of large city objects.
        In order to improve the road traffic conditions and road traffic safety TMC
        together with the Department of Transport and Communications of Moscow


                                         45
   issued Resolution of the Moscow City Government No. 257- of April 18,
   2006 "On actions to improve conditions and safety of the road traffic of
   vehicles on the Sadovoye Ring".

 Participation in the work of city commissions: (i) commission on orderly
 installation of indicative sign posts on the roads in the city; (ii) commission
 on organization of the public overground transport; (iii) joint commission of
 Moscow and Moscow Region on organization of road traffic of transport
 means carrying hazardous cargo.

6.2.2.2. Automatic Road Traffic Control Systems

 In 2006 within the framework of the general city automatic system for road
 traffic control ­ system "START" (Resolution of the Moscow City
 Government No. 1030-P of 14.06.2006) the works on installation of the
 automatic road traffic control system on the Volokolamsky highway were
 carried out.
 To ensure the uniform approach to development and operation of the
 "START" system the draft document "On transfer of the general city
 automatic system for road traffic control ­ "START" system to the TMC
 balance" is under preparation now.
 A system of video control of the road traffic situation applying aerial facilities
 is being created. Pursuant to Resolution of the Moscow City Government No.
 678- of 27.08.2002, in accordance with Direction of the Moscow City
 Government No. 2384-P of 26.11.2004 and Resolution of the Moscow City
 Government No. 72- of 07.02.2006 CD RTOC carries out works on
 creation of a system of video control of the road traffic situation with three
 balloons and two dirigible.

 Pursuant to Direction of the Moscow City Government No. 1134-P of
 23.06.2005 "On creation of the Traffic Control System at the Third Ring Road
 in Moscow (TCS at the Third Ring Road)" TMC undertakes coordination of
 works on creation of TCS at the Third Ring Road.

6.2.2.3. Construction and Updating of the Traffic Light Objects

 The Service for operation of technical facilities of road traffic organization
 (TFRTO) TMC conducts works on technical operation, repair and
 maintenance of TFRTO being on the balance of TMC and also takes actions
 on introduction of modern technical facilities.
   Every year up to 55,000 applications are submitted on repair of the traffic
   light facilities and about 1000 orders from the Moscow Traffic Police on
   installation and change in the operation mode of the traffic light facilities and
   up to 15,000 applications on replacement and retrofitting of the road signs.




                                    46
           Beginning from 2007 the actions on replacement of lamp traffic lights for
           emitting diodes traffic lights with the service life at least 7 years are carried
           out.
        The capital construction service of TMC performs the functions of a customer
        on design and construction of the traffic light facilities, both new and to be
        rehabilitated.

        The dispatch center of TMC concentrates and transfers the information about
        any violations in the works of TFRTO (traffic lights and signs).

       6.2.2.4. Collection of Data and Analysis of the Road Traffic Situation

        Works on updating the information provided by the system for monitoring of
        transport flows are conducted.
        Developed is a system for automatic control of transport flows in the Moscow
        Ring Road that makes it possible to use the information provided by the
        transport detectors in managerial decision-making.
        Annual study of the traffic conditions in the road network of the city of
        Moscow is carried out.

       6.2.2.5. Development of the Transport System in Moscow for 2010-2015.

         The Concept of the integrated program of the transport system development in
the city of Moscow for 2010-2015 is elaborated. This concept is discussed and approved
at the meeting of the Moscow City Government on June 03, 2008.

       6.2.3. Promising Areas of TMC Activity

         In the future TMC is planning to take part in addressing the following issues: (i)
approval of projects on road marking; (ii) approval of the projects on construction of
roads, buildings and structures; (iii) carrying out of actions aimed at improvement of road
traffic safety. In addition, in connection with the additional functions imposed on TMC
(transfer of the "START" system, construction and maintenance of intellectual transport
systems and others) the proposals are elaborated on increase of the TMC staff.

      6.2.4. Development of the Transport Infrastructure of the City of Moscow ­
World Bank Mission

        6.2.4.1. Study of the possibility to ensure priority for buses compared to other
traffic participants. Study results were used in elaboration of the proposals on ensuring
priority for the public transport means along the Volokolamsk highway, Leninsky and
Leningradsky avenues.
       For the experiment carried out by the Department of Transport and
Communications of Moscow together with TMC on organization of priority movement of
the public transport means along the Volokolamsk highway, Leninsky and Leningradsky
avenues, the Moscow Committee for Architecture "Moskomarkhitektura" have



                                            47
concluded an agreement with institute "GENPLAN of Moscow" on elaboration of
preproject proposals.

       At present the works are completed on elaboration and approval in a customary
manner of the project proposals on priority movement of the public transport means
along the Volokolamsk highway, Leninsky and Leningradsky avenues that were
submitted to the Housing, Utility and Land Improvement Department of the city of
Moscow for their further implementation.

        By the results of implementation of the mentioned works the Housing, Utility and
Land Improvement Department of the city of Moscow will conduct the experiment on
priority movement of the public transport means.

        6.2.4.2. Preliminary study of the possibility to introduce the paid parking
regime in the center of Moscow. The conducted studies made it possible to formulate
the basic provisions of the Concept "Development of a system of the single urban parking
space" that is approved by Resolution of the Moscow City Government No. 99- of
20.02.2007.

       6.2.4.3. Preparation of recommendations on improved organization of the
road traffic within the Third Road Ring of Moscow. Pursuant to these
recommendations a decision was taken on construction of the road traffic automated
control system (RTACS). Pursuant to Direction of the Moscow City Government No.
1134-P of 23.06.2005 the project was developed in 2006 and at present RTACS is
under construction. Now the RTACS is already completed.

        6.3. An important factor of the project long-term stability was the secondary
institutional reform of the Moscow GIBDD, including: (i) delegation of a part of
function on engineering support of the road traffic organization to TMC; (ii) switch to
mobile methods of control over observation of the road traffic rules; (iii) greater safety of
road traffic for the account of use of effective advanced equipment, training of the
personnel of GIBDD emergency teams in modern methods of control over observation of
the road traffic rules.
        In 2005 the following functions have been delegated to TMC, which earlier were
discharged by GIBDD: definition and implementation of technical policy in maintenance,
operation and repair of technical facilities for the road traffic organization, introduction
of new system for the road traffic regulation. In the course of improvement of the federal
laws concerning road traffic safety the process of delegation of some GIBDD functions to
civil organizations will be continued.
        Experience of operation of cars and motorcycles supplied in the course of the
project implementation to the Road Patrol Service for mobile control equipped with
speed-metering devices combined with systems for video fixation of violations of the
Road Traffic Rules and identification of plate numbers allowed GIBDD to appraise
advantages of the method for mobile control of the speed regime violation and violations
of the Road Traffic Rules. Currently, funds not related to the Project are use to supply
GIBDD with more advanced equipment and technical facilities for speed metering, video
fixation of violations of the Road Traffic Rules and identification of the vehicle plate


                                             48
numbers. Computer-aided systems for photo and video fixation of the Road Traffic Rules
have been worked out and put into operation testing within the TCS at the Third
Transport Ring.
       Improvement federal legislation will stipulate computer-aided preparation, print-
out and send-out of penalty-tickets to violators of the Road Traffic Rules.

7. Performance during Implementation of the Project
       7.1. The World bank Performance
        In the period of 1996 through 2000 specialists of the World Bank together with
representatives of departments and organizations of the Moscow City Government and
MPIU Foundation conducted analysis of possible alternatives of the Project to the extent
of its goals, components and cost. Under supervision of the World Bank on funds of the
guarantor PROON and on order of the MPIU Foundation studies were conducted of the
transport development strategy in Moscow, this resulted in the development of the
current and medium-term program for development in the field of the transport policy, as
well as measures for consolidation of the Moscow City Government structure and more
rational management of the city road transport infrastructure. ......Contribution of the
World Bank specialists into the project implementation may be assessed quite positively.
At the same time it seems expedient to draw attention of the World Bank to the necessity
to further expand powers of the Moscow representative office of the World Bank in
issues concerning consideration and control of purchase procedures and financial
accounting and reporting.
       7.2. The Moscow City Government Performance
         In compliance with Loan Agreement 4595-RU and Loan Contract between
Ministry of Finance of Russia and Moscow City Government the latter assumed complete
responsibility for the Project implementation and redemption of the loan principal and
interest payment. All commitments assigned to the Moscow City Government according
to the terms and conditions of Loan Agreement 4595-RU and Loan Contract, including
all commitments for the project co-funding, VAT and customs duties payment, have been
fulfilled in due time and in full. Moscow City Government is redeeming the principal
amount and paying interest in strict accordance with the schedule.
       7.3. Performance of the ««Moscow Project Implementation Unit» Foundation
       According to Loan Agreement 4595-RU and Loan Contract between Ministry of
Finance of Russia and Moscow City Government, as well as Direction No. 727-PM of
the Moscow Mayor dated July 23, 2001 the MPIU Foundation was assigned general
responsibility for the project management and fulfillment of the project Customer
functions. In the opinion confirmed by both official documents of the World Bank and
documents of the Project Russian participants, and in statements by independent auditors
and controlling departments (Control and Counting Chamber of Moscow, Rosfinhadzor
and more) MPIU Foundation fulfilled the tasks on the project implementation listed in
the Loan Agreement and Loan Contract satisfactorily.




                                          49
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                    50
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1. Moscow Foundation - Project Implementation Unit: Implementation Completion
      Report, Loan 4595-RU: Russian Federation ­Moscow Urban Transport Project.
      Dated October 2008, annex on TCS September 2009.
   2. Traffic Management Center. Information about activity of Traffic Management
       Center. Moscow. October 2008
   3. Project Implementation Unit, Explanatory Paper for Project Management Report
       #26 for the period ending March 31, 2008
   4. Project Implementation Unit, Implementation Completion Report. Revised draft
       dated June 2008
   5. Project Implementation Unit, Main principles and calculation conditions of the
       efficiency of implementing the reconstruction of the Donbassky Bridge and
       constructing the pedestrian underpasses at Varshavskoye Shosse near
       Nagatinskaya underground station, Schelkovskoye Shosse (at house 1), and
       Preobrazhenskaya Square (across Preobrazhenskaya Street and preobrazhenskiy
       Val Street). June 2008
   6. Transport Infrastructure Research Center, Survey of traffic and pedestrian flows
       in the area of Donbassky overpass and in the area of construction of seven
       underpasses on the Garden Ring, Varshavsky and Shelkovsky corridors.
       December 5, 2003
   7. Centre for Transport Infrastructure Studies. Gathering and processing the data on
       traffic and pedestrian flows near the Donbassky Bridge and seven pedestrian
       underpasses across the Garden Ring, Varshavskoye and Shelkovskoye Avenues
       and Construction Efficiency Evaluation. Report on assignments Nos.1 and 2.
       Moscow 2005
   8. Centre of Transport Infrastructure Surveys. Collection and processing of the
       information on parameters of traffic and pedestrian flows in the area of
       Donbassky Bridge and at seven underground pedestrian crossings at Sadovoye
       Ring, Varshavskoye and Shelkovskoye Shosse and efficiency estimation reached
       as a result of the construction. Report on Assignments Nos. 3, 4, and 6. 2007.
   9. Obermeyer Planen + Beraten GmbH and Centre Consult, Concept study for a Bus
       Priority Corridor. Final report submitted to Project Implementation Unit. March
       2006
   10. Academic Legal University, Traffic and Parking Legislation Study Final Report,
       2004 (digital format)
   11. SNC-Lavalin, KORS and UEZ-Parking, Park-and-Ride for Central Moscow
       Study, Final Report, 2004 (digital format)
   12. SETEC, Moscow Small Railway Ring Study, Final Report, 2004 (digital format)
   13. SNC-Lavalin, KORS and Road Engineering center, On-street Paid Parking in
       Central Moscow, Final Report, 2005 (digital format)




                                         51
Annex 10. Monitoring indicators

The original list of monitoring indicators, reproduced in full in the table below from
Supplemental Letter No. 2, is even wider. It has four distinct groups of indicators, each
associated with one or more objectives, as follows:

Group 1:
Objective: facilitate sustainable economic growth in Moscow city
Indicators: costs of congestion reduced; passengers satisfied with surface transport
situation.
Group 2:
Objective: improved surface mobility and safety in Moscow
Indicators: multiple, ranging from increased vehicular and person-trip throughput on
major selected corridors to reduced accidents and reduced concentrations of hazardous
emissions.
Group 3:
Objective 3.1: Improve traffic management arrangements
Indicators: (i) TMC fully staffed (20 professionals minimum); (ii) positive assessment of
traffic management practices by professional stakeholders and Non-Governmental
Organizations (NGOs); (iii) TMC traffic monitoring/analysis system adequate in project
design and evaluation.
Objective 3.2: Improve implementation efficiency of transport investment projects
Indicators: (i) cost minimization and compliance with schedules and quality; (ii)
economic rate-of-return for selected investments at least 20%.
Objective 3.3: Improved traffic management efficiency in the Central Area
Indicators: (i) Completion of approved plans and feasibility studies including a parking
plan; plan for vehicle entry restrictions; and plan for optimizing public transport
operations.
Objective 3.4: Cost-effective construction of Donbassky Bridge
Indicators: (i) works completed on time, budget and quality; (ii) economic rate-of-return
at least 20%.
Objective 3.5: Police better trained and equipped to enforce rules
Indicators: (i) Training courses done; (ii) completion of an operational plan for improved
mobile enforcement; and (iii) improved enforcement practices.
Objective 3.6: Improved public transport planning for surface public transport
Indicator: Time bound and monitorable action plan to improve quality of service and
financial sustainability.
Objective 5.7: Effective project management
Indicators: (i) Project Implementation Unit (PIU) fully staffed and with adequate budget
from the date of loan effectiveness; (ii) Borrower and sub-borrower satisfaction with
project management.
Group 4:
Objective (implicit): Each component to remain within its agreed budget envelopes



                                           52
Indicators: Budget envelopes (cost estimates) for each component.

I. Indicators agreed at negotiations, as recorded in the Supplemental Letter #2

I.1: Macro outcomes


   Hierarchy of Objectives              Key Performance Indicators                 Monitoring & Evaluation


Sector-related CAS Goal:          Sector Indicators:                            Sector / country Reports:
Facilitate sustainable economic    Cost of congestion reduced                    TMC reports
growth in Moscow city              Passengers satisfied with surface             Independent polls
                                      transport situation

I.2: On-street outcomes

    Hierarchy of Objectives            Key Performance Indicators                 Monitoring & Evaluation
Project Development               Outcome / Impact Indicators:                  (Project Reports):
Objective:
Improved surface mobility and         Increased vehicular and person-trip            TMC annual reports
safety in Moscow                      throughput on major selected corridors         (before the Project and in
                                                                                     the course of its
                                                                                     implementation)

                                      Reduced number of total accidents,             Traffic Police and TMC
                                      and reduced accidents that involve             annual reports
                                      personal injury and deaths, on selected
                                      corridors

                                      Reduced number of pedestrian injuries          Traffic Police and TMC
                                      and deaths on selected corridors               annual reports

                                      Increased passenger trips by surface           T& C annual reports
                                      transit
                                      Reduced concentrations of hazardous            Annual reports of
                                      emissions on selected corridors                environmental authorities




                                                 53
I.3: Outcomes related to specific sub-objectives

        Hierarchy of Objectives                        Key Performance Indicators                         Monitoring & Evaluation
Project Development Objective:             Outcome / Impact Indicators:                              Project Reports:
1. Improved traffic management             1.1. TMC fully staffed with a complement of at least           Quarterly reports
arrangements                               20 professionals                                               Supervision missions
                                                                                                          Consultants' services

                                           1.2. Positive assessment of traffic management                Annual stakeholder workshops
                                           decision making practices and traffic management              TMC annual reports
                                           quality by professional stakeholders and
                                           nongovernmental organizations

                                           1.3 TMC traffic monitoring system providing                   TMC annual reports
                                           adequate data and analysis to permit rational project
                                           design and evaluation                                         Quarterly reports
                                                                                                         Supervision missions
2. Improved implementation efficiency of   2.1 Minimization of costs and strict compliance with          TMC Annual Reports
transport network development              implementation schedules and established quality              Quarterly Reports
investment projects (comprehensive         standards                                                     Supervision missions
corridor and spot improvements)
                                           2.2 ERR for selected investments at least 25%
3. Improved traffic management             3.1. Completion of approved plans and feasibility             TMC annual reports
efficiency in the Central Area             studies for optimizing traffic management into and            Quarterly reports
                                           within the central area, including, inter-alia:               Supervision missions
                                           (a) a parking plan for the Central Area including, on-
                                           street parking, parking lots, and interceptive parking.
                                           (b) a plan for restricting vehicular traffic into and
                                           through the central area
                                           (c) a plan for optimizing public transport operations
                                           into and within the Central Area including the metro
                                           system.




4. Cost effective construction of          4.1. Works completed on time, budget and quality              Quarterly reports
Donbassky Bridge                                                                                         Supervision missions
                                           4.2. ERR for selected investments at least 20%                Post construction ERR
                                                                                                         calculations

5. Police better trained and equipped to   5.1.End-of-training course evaluation reports                 Supervision missions
enforce traffic rules                                                                                    Traffic Police annual reports
                                           5.2. Completion of monitorable operations plan for
                                           improved mobile enforcement of driver behavior

                                           5.3. Improved traffic enforcement practices

6. Improved planning for surface public    6.1.Time bound and monitorable action plan to                 Final Plan Review
transport                                  improve quality of service and improve financial
                                           sustainability

7. Implementation of effective project     8.1 PIU fully staffed with adequate budget from the           Quarterly reports
management                                 date of loan effectiveness                                    Supervision missions
                                           8.2 Sub-borrower and borrower satisfaction with               Mid-Term Review
                                           project management




                                                                54
I.4: Investment "outputs"

    Hierarchy of Objectives           Key Performance Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluations

Project Components/ Sub-         Inputs: (budget for each component)   Project reports:
Components
1. Traffic Management Center         $11.6 million                          Quarterly reports
                                                                            Supervision reports
                                                                            Disbursement reports
2. Comprehensive Corridor            $47.6 million                          Quarterly reports
Improvement Program                                                         Supervision reports
                                                                            Disbursement reports
3. Comprehensive Central Area        $6.2 million                           Quarterly reports
Traffic Improvement Program                                                 Supervision reports
                                                                            Disbursement reports
4. Construction of Donbassky         $39.0 million                          Quarterly reports
Bridge                                                                      Supervision reports
                                                                            Disbursement reports
5. Traffic Enforcement Program       $10.3 million                          Quarterly reports
                                                                            Supervision reports
                                                                            Disbursement reports
6. Surface Transit Study             $2.0 million                           Quarterly reports
                                                                            Supervision reports
                                                                            Disbursement reports
7. Special Project Feasibility       $1.6 million                           Quarterly reports
Studies                                                                     Supervision reports
                                                                            Disbursement reports
8. Project Management (Project       $2.5 million                           Quarterly reports
Implementation Unit)                                                        Supervision reports
                                                                            Disbursement reports




                                                55
II. Results

II.1 No results for are given for indicators grouped under I.1 heading above, there being
no calculable correlation between project investments and congestion levels in Moscow
and/or the satisfaction of passengers with on-street public transport services.

II.2. No results are given for indicators grouped under I.2 above, which refer to on-street
consequences of project investments. For several large investments (Donbassky Bridge
complex and some pedestrian underpasses), before-and-after traffic studies were done,
permitting a post-investment recalculation of economic rates-of-return. Reports detailing
these studies are listed in Annex 9, and are on file. The results are summarized in Section
3.3 above, with further details in Annex 3. No other surveys were done and none was
planned or agreed with the Borrower.

II.3 Results for indicators grouped under I.3 above are as follows:




                                            56
       Objectives                Key Performance Indicators                           Outcomes

   1. Improved traffic          1.1. TMC fully staffed with a              The staffing target met in 2002
       management                 complement of at least 20                Staff increased to about 500 in 2006
      arrangements                     professionals                       upon TMC's takeover of Moscow's
                                                                           traffic signal system; of these, 50
                                                                           work in traffic management proper
                              1.2. Positive assessment of traffic          MCG approval of TMC's
                                management decision making                 performance and potential expressed
                              practices and traffic management             to missions and demonstrated in a
                             quality by professional stakeholders          major increase of TMC authority in
                             and nongovernmental organizations             June 2005
                                                                           Qualified approval by professional
                                                                           stakeholders (GenPlan)
                            1.3 TMC traffic monitoring system              TMC carries out both routine and
                            providing adequate data and analysis           special purpose traffic surveys, in
                            to permit rational project design and          addition to monitoring traffic signals
                                          evaluation                       performance
        2. Improved         2.1 Minimization of costs and strict           All project investments except Third
implementation efficiency     compliance with implementation               Ring Road TC system carried out in
   of transport network       schedules and established quality            time and cost; post-evaluation
 development investment                   standards                        positive; Third Ring TC works were
 projects (comprehensive                                                   completed on time, but system
     corridor and spot       2.2 ERR for selected investments at           integration was finalized during ICR
      improvements)                      least 20%                         preparation.
                                                                           For project investments weighted
                                                                           average post construction ERR
                                                                           estimated from "before" and "after"
                                                                           traffic studies, and actual costs, is
                                                                           55%. Individual ERRs range from
                                                                           17% to 107%.
  3. Improved traffic           3.1. Completion of approved plans          Parking and other traffic management
management efficiency in      and feasibility studies for optimizing       studies completed, and accepted for
   the Central Area            traffic management into and within          implementation by MCG. The concept
                             the central area, including, inter-alia:      "Development of a system of the
                            (a) a parking plan for the Central Area        single urban parking space for 2008-
                              including, on-street parking, parking        2010" approved by the MCG in 2007.
                                   lots, and interceptive parking.         Starting from December 2004 the
                                (b) a plan for restricting vehicular       MCG imposed restrictions on entry to
                                traffic into and through the central       the central area of heavy (over 1 ton)
                                                 area                      vehicles and trailers.
                                  (c) a plan for optimizing public         Proposals on priority movement of
                               transport operations into and within        public transport along selected
                              the Central Area including the metro         corridors finalized by the MCG and
                                               system.                     suggested for implementation by the
                                                                           Department of Transport
    4. Cost effective       4.1. Works completed on time, budget           Donbassky Bridge works completed
     construction of                     and quality                       successfully, early and beneath cost
   Donbassky Bridge                                                        Received 2004 award for the best
                                                                           project in its category in Moscow
                             4.2. ERR for selected investments at          ERR 47%
                                          least 20%




                                                       57
   5. Police better trained   5.1.End of training course evaluation       Evaluation of training courses carried
  and equipped to enforce                     reports                     out and was positive.
         traffic rules                                                    Operations Plan, including an
                              5.2. Completion of operations plan for      evaluation of experience with first
                                 improved mobile enforcement of           batch equipment prepared
                                        driver behavior                   Accident statistics collected by the
                                                                          Police indicate effectiveness of
                                5.3. Improved traffic enforcement         mobile law enforcement: (a) at least
                                            practices                     15% increase in successful
                                                                          interventions; (b) at least 10%
                                                                          reduction in response time to
                                                                          incidence; and (c) at least 15%
                                                                          increase in recovery of stolen cars.
 6. Improved planning for       6.1.Time bound and monitorable            Objective not reached: surface public
  surface public transport      action plan to improve quality of         transport study cancelled by MCG just
                                  service and improve financial           before issuing the request for
                                           sustainability                 proposals
   7. Implementation of        8.1 PIU fully staffed with adequate        PIU was well performing, especially
      effective project            budget from the date of loan           in the areas of FM and disbursement
        management                         effectiveness
                                 8.2 Sub-borrower and borrower
                              satisfaction with project management

II.4 This group of indicators are before and after cost estimates already shown in Annex 1.




                                                       58
MAPS IBRD No. 31064 and No.31064R




                                59
