R ESTR I CTE D
Report No. PA- ZOa
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DEVELOPMENT OF THE SEBOU BASIN
RHARB IRRIGATION PROJECT
MOROCCO
September 4, 1969
FILE COPY
~riculture Projects Departmnent



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00                       Moroccan Dirham (DH) 5.00
DR 1                           US$ 0.20
DR 1,000,000        =         US$ 200,000
Fr 1                          DR .01
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)      =          2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)    =          0.62 miles
1 square kilometer
(km2)                       0.3886 square miles
1 meter (m)         =          39.37 inches
1 square meter (m2) =          10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)  =          35.31 eubic feet
1 million eubic
meter (Mm3)       =          810.7 acre feet
1 millimeter (mm)   =          0.039 inches
1 kilogram (kg)     =          2.2 pounds
1 liter (1)         =          0.264 gallons US
ABBREVIATIONS
CMV   -   Centre de Mise en Valeur (Local Development Center)
CNCA  -   Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
EDF   -   Electricite de France
FAO   -   Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations
INRA  -   Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique
OCE   -   Office de Commercialisation et Exportation
ONI   -   Office National d'Irrigation
ORMVAG-   Office Regional de Mise en Valeur Agricole du Gharb
(Regional Office)
PERT  -   Program Evaluation and Review Technique
UNDP  -   United Nations Development Programme
USAID -   US Agency for International Development



m O R 00c c 0
DEVELOPMENT OF THE SEBOU BASIN
RHARB IRRIGATION PROJECT
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Table of Con.tents
SUIMA.RY AND CONCLUSIONS
I.    INTRODUCTION   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
II.   -ACKGROUND. .................. .    2
III.  THE PROJECT AREA . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
The  Sebou  Basin    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  3
The Rharb Plain.                .                    4
The Project Area.               .                    6
Water   Supply   .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .  .   .   .  .  6
IV.   THE  PROJECT    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  9
A. Description.                                      9
Subsequent Phases of Development . . . . . . .   10
B. Proposed Works .10
Land Reorganization and Redistribution . . . . 1
Irrigation and Drainage Systems  . . . . . . .
Pump Stations .13
Agricultural Development . . . . . . . . . . .   13
Supporting Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
Processing Facilities and Roads  . . . . . . .   14
C.  Engineering and Construction Schedule  . . . .   15
D.  Cost Estimate  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
E.    Financing    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  17
F.    Procurement    .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  . 17
This report was prepared by M1essrs. J. î4alone, Dumoulin, Marinet
Minnig, Glazener (Consultant), Gregoire (Consultant) and van aen
*Toorn (Consultant) and is based on findings of a mission which
visited Morocco in January-February 1969.






.
Page
Contracting  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
Prefabrication of Canal and Tile Drain
Elements   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
G. Disbursement .19
V.    ORGANIZATION AXD MANAGEMENT  .... ... .              19
Idriss  I  Dam   .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  19
The Regional Agricultural Development Office . .    20
General Consultants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
lechnical Staff and Supporting Services  . . . .    21
Special Coordinating Machinery . . . . . . . . .     22
Accounts and Audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     22
Operation and Maintenance Cost . . . . . . . . .     22
Water Charges and Financial Results  . . . . . .     23
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND FARM INCOME . .     24
A.  Production ....  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  24
B.  Market Prospects . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     25
C.    Prices   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  26
D.  Farm Incomes ....  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  27
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION . . . . . . . . . . .    29
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS AIND RECO14MENDATIONS  .. .... .     .   30
ANNEXES
1.  Land Reform
2.  Soils and Drainage in the Project Area
3.  Water Supply anc. Requirements
4.  Major Project Works
5.  Agriculturai Developrment
6.  Sugar Production in the Rharb Plain
7.  Cost Estimate
8.  Outline Terms of Reference for General Consultants



.
9.   Operation Maintenance Water Rates
10. Cash Flow
11.  Economic Benefit-Cost Analysis
Construction Schedule
Organization Chart
MAPS
1.   Rharb Irrigation Project - Sebou Basin
2.   Rharb Irrigation Project - Infras,tructure
3.   Rharb Irrigation Project - Irrigation and Drainage System
4.   Rharb Irrigation Project - First Phase Engineering Works



*                                       4M O R O-C C O
DEVELOPMENT OF THE SEBOU BASIN
RHARB IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agricultural production has not kept pace with Morocco's rapid
population growth and, as a result, unemployment and food imports have risen
rapidly. The Moroccan Government is giving priority to agricultural develop-
ment, particularly irrigation, therefore under its current Five-Year Plan
(1968-1972).
ii.       The Sebou Basin, located northeast of Rabat in fertile country,
is one of Morocco's most important underutilized land and water resources.
The main constraints on increas ng production in the area are the hazards
of drought and flood, and the existing land tenure, in which a few large-
scale modern commercial farms, mostly foreign or ex-foreign, produce most
of the income, while a large number of small traditional subsistence farms
occupy most of the area.  New legislation provides for land reform in the
area, including the redistribution of foreign-owned land and the enlarge-
ment of small, subeconomic farms. The provision of irrigation and improved
drainage would remove the constraints imposed by drought and flood.
iii.      The project, which would be the first-phase in the planned long-
term development of the Sebou Basin, would include:
-    the construction of the Idriss I Dam on the Inaouene River;
-    the implernentation of land reform in a 90,000 ha area;
-    the irrigation of approx-mately two-thirds of the area (the
better soils);
-    the improvement of rainfed farming in the remaining third;
-    the improvement of roads and crop processing facilities in
the area; and
-    the strengtnening of the regional agricultural development
organization to which the execution of the project would be
entrustea.
2his same organization is responsible for the Bank-assisted Sidi Slimane
agricultural development project (Loan 389-MOR), also in the Rharb Plain,
which is now nearing a satisfactory completion on schedule, after experienc-
ing a number of organization and management difficulties in the past.  Based
on its experience in Sidi Slimane, the Government made a thorough analysis,
using modern techniques, of the organization and management requirements of



- ii -                                                e
the new Rharb Project, and the proposals for increasing the efficiency and
iMDlementation capacity of the regional agricultural development office are
satisfactory. Plans exist for the second phase project to use the remaining
storage capacity of the Idriss I Dam. The second ohase would be executed
over o years, beginning in 1975.
iv.       The proposed project costs amount to US$109.5 million, including
interest during construction and contingencies. Cost data are based on de-
tailed Dreliminary designs, contracts for similar work and the actual price
for the civil works contract for Idriss I Dam, which has already been awarded
in accordance with Bank procedures. Other contracts for major structures
and for the purchase of machinery and equipment would be awarded on the ba-
sis of international competitive bidding. The estimated foreign exchange
component is about 35l' of total costs, excluding interest during construction.
v.        The project would lead to an increase in the annual net value of
agricultural production in the area from the present level of DH 26 million
(US$ 5 million), to full production of DI! 126 million (US$ 25 million) in
about 20 years. Typical net family incomes in the traditional sector would
increase from DH 1,000 (US$ 200) a year to about DH 7,000 (US$ 1,400) for
the 5 ha minimum future holding. Project charges and additionaL tax revenues,
which would cover the entire operation and maintenance costs of the project,
as well as the recovery of the full investment cost (without interest) during
the project's 40-year economic life, would take about a fourth of this in-
cremental income, still leaving an adequate incentive for the farmers to in-
crease their productivity. The project's rate of return to the economy
would be 1L,à.
vi.       The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 46 million eauiva-
lent for a term of 30 years, including a grace period of 9 years. A 30-year
term would be justified in view of the prolonged rate of cost recovery under
the project. The loan would cover the estimated foreign exchange component
(US$ 33.5 million) and interest and commitment charges during the 8-year
construction period (US$12.5 million). The remainder of the financing
(US$ 63.5 million equivalent), would be provided by the Government which
would be the borrower of the proposed Bank loan.
.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DEVELOPHE T OF THE SEBOiJ BASIN
RHARB IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the King,dom of Morocco has requested a 3ank loan
of Us$ 46.o million to assist in financing the construction of the Idriss I
Dam and the integrated development under irrigation and improved dry farming
of a 90,000 ha first-phase area in the Rharb Plain. The project is lccated
in the Sebou Basin, near Morocco's Atlantic Coast, north-east of Rabat (see
Map l).
1.02      The Sebou Basin is one of Morocco's most important land and water
resources still remaining underutilized. A UNDP/FAO study of the basin,
completed in 1968, resulted in the prepare.tion of a number of feasibility
studies for investment projects; one of these concerns the development of
irrigation in the Rharb Plain (200,000 ha) and the construction of the re-
lated upstream storage dams, starting with Idriss I. In late 1964, as the
*        basin study was getting underway, the Bank made a US$ 17.5 million loan
(389-MOR) for the Sidi Slimane Project, which consisted of the extension of
an already existing irrigated area in the Rharb Plain and the integrated
agricultural modernization and improvement of the area, together with an
adjacent rainfed area. The Sidi Slimane Project, though justified on its
own merits, was considered as an initial step'toward the future agricultural
development of the Rharb Plain as a whole. l/
1.03      Until quite recently, the Sidi Slimane project was faced with pro-
blems of organization and management which threatened to delay its comple-
tion. Many of these problems were related to a series of reorganizations of
the agricultural and irrigation services, which were finally completed in the
course of 1967.  The present system is operating much more effectively, with
the result that the project is now expected to be completed by the original
closing date of October 31, 1969.
1.04      This report is based on a feasibilîty report prepared by a group
of experts (the Sebou Team) under the auspices of the U\IDP-FAO basin study,
and on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Morocco in
January-February 1969.  The mission consisted of Messrs. J.M. Malone, J.P.
Dumoulin, J. Marinet, E.A. Minni.7, R. Glazener (Consultant), R. Gregoire
(Consultant) and W.H. van den Toorn (Consultant).
*-      1/   See the Bank appraisal report (No. TO-432b) dated August 17, 1964,
paragraph b.



- 2 -                                               0
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      The Kingdom of Morocco has a population of about 15 million growing
at an annual rate of about 3%, and a total land area of 440,000 km2, much of
which is mountain, forest and arid desert.  Only 4.5 million ha, about 10%
of the total land area, are cultivated.  Per capita GDP, about US$ 175 (1968)
equivalent, is practically stagnant.
2.02      Although the agricultural sector provides the livelihood of more
than two-thirds of Morocco's population, it contributes less than one-third
of GDP, and has grown less rapidly than population during recent years.
Modern, large-scale commercial agriculture, mostly colonial or ex-colonial,
occupies less than a fifth of the cultivated area, but contributes about 50%Q
of exports in the form of fruit, wine and vegetables, and has been growing
at an annual rate of about 9%. Traditional subsistence-oriented agriculture,
consisting mainly of extensive rainfed cultivation of cereals, and occupying
more than four-fifths of the cultivated area, has hardly been growing at all.
The increasing pressure of rural under-employment has been translated into
the growth of slums and unemployment in the cities, and the migration of
large numbers of Moroccan laborers to Western Europe. Food deficits have
been increasing along with the necessity of using scarce foreign currency to
import larger and larger quantities of foodstuffs.
2.03      Under the current Five Year Plan, 1968-1972, the Government hopes
to devote DH 2.5 billion (US$ 500 million) almost one-third of its total
capital budget, to the development of the agricultural sector. The emphasis
is on four main fronts: the intensification of production through irrigation,
the progressive improvement of traditional rainfed agriculture, the extension
of soil conservation and the development of livestock. Of these, the highest
priority is accorded to irrigation, which accounts for about 60', of the plan-
ned investment in agriculture; this compares with only 30% for the improvement
of rainfed agriculture and 10%e for soil conservation and livestock development
combined. The aim is to increase the total irrigated area from about 160,000
ha to 270,000 ha by the end of 1972, i.e., roughly from 3.5% to 6$ of the total
cultivated area.
2.o4      The reasons for the Government's almost exclusive preoccupation with
irrigation are not hard to find. Pressed by drcurmstances (population growth
and drift to towns, and production stagnation), the Government, with inade-
quate information and considering that irrigation schemes under the Protector-
ate had been successful, decided to concentrate mainly on such projects while
giving little attention to the rainfed areas. The success of these irrigation
schemes proved misleading, because conditions had changed in the meantime.
With independence, the Government had serious political and organizational
problems to overcome. Land formerly entrusted to colons under the Protector-
ate, amounting to 250,000 ha, was taken over. The Government made continuous
and strenuous attempts to build and orgenize agricultural services and carried
out a series of reorganizations from 1960 to 1967; however, the changes also           s
caused instability with respect to the personnel involved. All of these con-
ditions, combined with the far greater difficulties entailed in modernizing



e                                            - 3 -
the traditional farmers, induced the Governnent to make heavy investments in
irrigation projects for which at least the physical vorks could be realized
with relative speed. Many of these projects have been disappointing as costs
have been higher and agricultural production lover than expected. Since 1967,
however, benefitting from its past experience and from substantially increased
external technical assistance, the Governnent has been following a sounder
approach to agricultural development.
2.05      The full realization of the benefits of irrigation will require the
reorganization and consolidation of tbh  existing fragmented holdings into
plannzd irrigation units, together with the redistribution, wherever possible,
of land controlled by the Government (including land recovered, after compen-
sation, from foreign owners) to permit the creation of larger, more viable,
holdings in the traditional sector. Moreover, some means are necessary for
the effective control of cropping natterns, planting dates, etc., to permit
the optimum use of scarce water resources. Finally, it is desirable to re-
cover a reasonable proportion of the costs of irrigation, both recurrent and
capital, from the beneficiaries.  The necessary legislative measures are com-
bined in the new Agricultural Investment Code, 1/ which covers land reform
procedures, controlled agricultural development and recovery of costs in
irrigated areas as well as administrative and judicial procedures for the
expropriation of land owned by foreigners.  Guidelines for the amount of
compensation to be paid and the method of payment vill be promulgated later,
as required. Details are given in Annex 1.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
The Sebou Basin
3.01      The proposed project represents by far the highest priority in the
development of irrigation in iMorocco and would play an important part in the
long-term development of land and water resources in the Sebou Basin, one of
ilorocco's most important agricultural regions, covering about 4 million ha
in the north-west part of the country (see M4ap 1). Although it represents
only 9%0 of the total land area of Morocco, the Sebou Basin contains about 3
million inhabitants, or about 20i'% of the total population, and accounts for
a quarter of Morocco's agricultural production.
3.02      Modern, commercial agriculture is already relatively important in
the Basin, because a large proportion of the European colonists settled there,
attracted by the region's relatively abunaant rainfall (more than 500 mm an-
nually) and surface water, combined with fertile soils. At one time, r:uropean
farmis covered about 300,000 ha in the Sebou Basin, and the area still contains
half of ?4orocco's vineyards and olive and citrus g,roves.
1/   !Code des Investissements Agricoles-, Dahir lio. 1-69-25 of Ju_y 25, 19b9,
together with the related laws, decrees and regulations.



3.03 3    The average discharge of the Sebou and its tributaries, about
200 m /sec, represents more than 40% of the total surface water resour-
ces of Morocco. A very small part of the basin's annual discharge is
presently used for irrigation; most of this irrigation water is control-
led by the existing El Kansera dam, built in 1935 and raIsed by 6 m in
1968 as part of the Bank-assisted Sidi Slimane Prolect (Loan No. 389-MOR).
The El Kansera dam, with an effective storage capacity of 294 Mm  serves
the existing Sidi Slimane irrigation area (30,000 ha) and is presently
the only dam in the Sebou Basin. About 80% of the total discharge of the
basin is wasted into the Atlantic annually by the Sebou and its tributaries.
Groundwater resources are not plentiful in the basin and are already being
used intensively, particularly in the Meknes-Fes Plateau, which faces an
imminent shortage of water due to the rapid growth of the two main urban
centers.
The Rharb Plain
3.04      The lower reaches of the Sebou and its tributaries flow through a
broad, flat alluvial valley, known as the Rharb, before reaching the Atlantic
near the provincial capital, Kenitra (see Map 2). The total area of the
Rharb is about 457,000 ha, of which about 308,000 ha are cultivated. Of this
cultivated area, it is estimated that about 250,000 ha are irrigable; of this
area 30,000 ha are included in the Sidi Slimane Project, 11,000 ha of
citrus groves, and 4,000 ha of rice are already irrigated by pumping along               4
the banks of the rivers, and 5,000 ha are vineyards (not ordinarily irriga-
ted). The remaining 200,000 ha could only be irrigated by constructing new
diversion and storage works in the basin.
3.05      Climate.  The Sebou basin has the dampest climate of any catchment
area in Morocco. Temperatures in the Rharb Plain vary from a maximum of
about 360 in July and August, to a minimlm of about 40 in January, when short
periods of localized frost are not uncommon. The annual rainfall in most of
the Plain is 500-700 mm, of which about three-fourths occur between October
and April, and one-fourth during brief, but intense, summer thunderstorms.
The variability of rainfall is pronounced, not only seasonally, but also an-
nually. The hazards of drought and flood presently impose the main constraint
on agricultural production in the Plain.
3.o6      Topography.  Of the 200,000 ha irrigable, about 40,000 ha are on
the undulating fringes of the plain, where the slopes are about 5-15%.
The remaining 160,000 ha are in the plain itself, where elevations rarely
exceed 20 m above mean sea level and slopes are negligible, except for the
slight elevation of the alluvium deposited by flooc,s on the banks of the
main rivers crossing the plain, the Sebou and the Leht. To either side of
and in between, these two rivers are lower lying poorly-drained areas called
r_erJas, which were formerly marshland.
3.07      Flooding.  These lower-lying areas of the Rharb Plain are regular-
ly flooded during vinter, due to the inadequate capacity of the bed of the               e
lower Sebou and the flashiness of the flows of the Ouerrha, a major tribu-
tary which rises in the denuded, heavily eroded Rif.  The extent of flooding



e                      `                     _ 5_
varies from year to year, but reached 100,000 ha in 1960 and 160,000 ha in
1963, the worst year on record. These floods never reach the hilly fringes
of the plain, or the raised banks of the Sebou and the Beht. A system of
large open drains, completed in 196) (see Map 3) has reducedl the severity
and duration of the floods considerably, although it was originally de-
signed only for the removal of excess rainwater from the plain.
3.08      Soîls.  The Sebou Team made a reconnaissance soil survey of the
entire Rharb Plain, on the basis of which a 63,000 ha area of high poten-
tial was selected and surveyed in more detail (3 observations per 100 na
mapped at a scale of 1:20,000). The soils of the plain are formed on a
clay layer of uP to 50 m thickness and regular, flat relief. They fall
into two major categories:
-    The dhess soils covering 65,000 ha on the raised,
alluvial banks of the main streams, which are
fairly vell drained, with clay contents of 10-35%;
and
-    The tirs topsoils covering 160,000 ha in the lover-
lying areas, further from the rivers, with clay
contents of 45-55%, which degenerate into clays in
the lowest-lying areas (Lnjras) in the center of
the plain.
The transition from one category into another is gradual and imperceptible.
Soil salinity is only a minor problem, and vill be rectified after irriga-
tion and improved drainage become available.
3.09      Drainage.  From the economic viewpoint, the most important f'actor
determining the suitability of the soils for irrigation is their relative
drainability. On this basis, the Sebou Team made a classification of the
irrigable land in which Class I is suitable without restriction, Class V is
suitable only for crops requiring little or no sub-soil drainage, e.g., rice,
and the intermediate classes vary according to the necessity of improving
their natural drainage during winter and after irrigation. Soil permeability
was measured by drilling holes at some 2,500 sites in the project area, of
which the most favorable 47,150 (gross) ha have been selected for the first
phase of irrigation development 1/, with the following results:
Land Class                     Gross Area (ha)
I                             25,650
II                              5,600
III                              6,050
IV                              2,250
Thotai                            47,15C
_._
~/ _ne gross area cf zrne first phase of irrigation development is &>out
UG,O00 na, of whi4cr  47,150 ha were covered by the semi-dezaiîle  soi! surve./.



- 6 - 
Under the proposed project, a drainage consultant would undertake more de-
tailed investigations and experiments on the Class II, III, and IV areas
before establishing precise design criteria for sub-surface field drainage.
These investigations need not delay the rest of the project, nor would they
interfere with crop production on these soils. Detailed information on
soils and drainage is contained in Annex 2.
The Project Area
3.10      In planning the sequence of the development of the Rharb Plain,
three major criteria were followed:
-    For economic and technical reasons, it is advisable
to begin with the higher areas first - the banks of
the Sebou and the Beht and the coastal hills - where
problems of drainage and flooding are minor or non-
existent.
-    Future market limitations rust be observed in de-
veloping areas suitable for crops whose marketing
poses special problems, such as citrus.
-    Finally, the administrative and land reform measures
required for successful development necessitate re-                 e
stricting operations to existing administrative units
(rural communes) and concentrating on a minimum num-
ber of such units at a time.
The overall timetable devised by the Sebou Team for the development of the
Rharb Plain is economically the optimum solution with regard to these
criteria and the necessary economies of scale in the design and construc-
tion of the irrigation and drainage systems.
Water Supply
3.11      When constructed, the 1,430 Mm3 storage of the proposed Idriss I
Dam, together with the flows of the Sebou aad its tributaries, will be suf-
ficient for new irrigation of about 80,000 (net) ha. D('^tails of water re-
quirements and supply are contained in Annex 3. An area of 80,000 (net) ha
was selected and divided into two phases according to the criteria mentioned
in paragraphh 3.10 above. The further extension of irrigation of the Rharb,
which would require the construction of other major upstream storage and
diversion works, vill not be discussed in detail in this report.
3.12      The first phase irrigation area, consisting of 38,300 net new ha,
plus 5,000 ha already irrigated, lies between the Sebou and the Beht, just
to the north of the Sidi Slimane area (see Map 3). In order to provide a
coherent administrative framework for the first integrated development phase,
including not only irrigation, but also land reform and the improvement of
rainfed agriculture, the poject area would consist of three entire rural                  _



.                                            -7
communes - Msaada, Jmaa des Haouafate and Dar Gueddari - plus a small frac-
tion of a fourth, the Oul.ed Khalifa section of Khenichet, a total agricul-
tural area of 90,000 ha, of which about; two thirds would be irrigated in the
first phase.
3.13      Population and Land Tenure.  The project area, vith some 90,000
rural inhabîtants (15,000 families), contains about 30% of the total popu-
lation and agricultural land of the Rharb.  The population density is
about 100 per km2 and the average area per family (6 persons) is 6 ha.
Fragmentation of the smaller holdings is videspread and increasing. The
present structure of land tenure is roughly as follows:
Type of Tenure   Area (1000 ha)   %   No. of Households  Average Holding (ha)
Collective
(individually
operated farms)        32         36         9,100                 3.5
Foreign                  20          22           70                285.7
Public Domain and
Religious Trust
(merjas)                 8          9          --
Private Moroccan,
50 ha or more           18         20           130-               138.5
Private Moroccan,
less than 50 ha         12         13         3,400                  3.5
Landless                 -          -          21300                  0.0
Total               90        100        15,000                  6.o
1/   Includes a number of land development companies, as well as individual
proprietors.  The figures in the table are a mission estimate of the
present situation, based on a survey made by the Sebou Team in 1964.
Only a third of the area is subject to private Moroccan property rights,
while two-thirds (collective, foreign farms and merjas) would be
available for redistribution under the new Agricultural Investment Code.
If the large-scale Moroccan-owned commercial farms and the existing
citrus groves are excluded, redistribution could result in an increase
in the size of the typical peasant farm in the area from 3.5 ha to 5,0 J i
ha, including the distribution of 5.0 ha to each of the landless rural j
families (most of whom are presently employed on the large-scale hold- i  
ings).  This unique situation, which is particularly favorable for the
type of land reform envisaged under the new laws, is typical of the
Rharb Plain, but is not found elsewhere in Morocco-.                        /    ,
3.14      Agriculture.  The present pattern of land use in the project area
is as follows:



-8-
Area ('000 ha)
Annual crops (mainly cereals and pulses)                       62
Perennial crops (citrus and vines)                              6 (5 already
irrigated)
Fallow (grazing)                                                7
Total cultivated area                                          75
Merjas (used for seasonal grazing)                             il
Other agricultural uses (house lots, etc.)                      4
Total agricultural use                                         90
Non-agricultural use (urban areas, etc.)                        2
Total project area                                             92
Except for the irrigated crops, inost average crop yields in the project area
are low because of climate. Of tne cultivated area, about one-third is in
the modern sector and two-thirds in the traditional sector. The estimated
gross value of agricultural production in the project area is about DH 70
million annually, including livestock (DX 4 million), and the net value is
about DH 26 million. The modern sector accounts for more than half of the
production in spite of the relatively small area which it occupies.  Average
net farm income per family varies from DH 80,000 in the modern sector, to
only DH 800 in the traditional sector.
3.15      Supporting Services.  (See Map 2).  Agricultural development in
the Rharb is the responsibility of a regional office of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Agrarian Reform. The regional office, which is located
in Kenitra, operates a number of local development centers, five of whose
zones of operation lie wholly or partly within the project area. lach
development center serves about 3,000 families, with a ratio of one field
extension agent to 330 families. The development centers operate about
200 tractors on a custom hire basis in the project area, and provide seed,
fertilizers and pesticides on credit channeled through the regional office
to the development center by the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA).
The Agricultural Research Department of the Ministry and the National Agro-
nomic Institute have two research farms, an experimental station and a
number of trial plots located in or near the project area. This system of
supporting services is inadequate, however, even for the present situation
and must be strengthened and intensified to meet the future needs of de-
velopment in the project area.
3.16      Marketing.  There are seven local markets in the project area han-
dling a wide variety of crops and livestock, and five large citrus packing
stations with a total capacity of more than 50,000 tons. 'rwo sugar refin-
eries and a cotton ginning factory have been built on its outskirts. The
government has been intervening to an increasing extent in the marketing of
agricultural products, and more and more crops are being purchased under con-
tract with the farmers directly by the local development centers. Ricc, milk,
rmeat and cereals are the only major products which still can be marketed free-
ly through private channels, and even they are subject to varying degrees of



e                                           _ 9 -
price control. In the case of cereals and sugarbeet, there are guaranteed
government support prices, slightly above world market prices, designed to
encourage and protect domestic production and reduce imports.
3.17      Transportation facilities in the project area are adequate for
present needs. Only about 20% of road transport is nationalized, there is
keen competition among road carriers and costs are reasonable. The network
of paved roads is fairly dense, and no major new roads are required for the
proJect area.  With development. however, an intensification of traffie and
an increase of loads are foreseen, and the existing roads will need improve-
ment and strengthening. Railway lines connect Sidi Kacem with Casableaca,
Rabat and Kenitra to the south-west; Meknes, Fes and Algeria to the eEst,
and Mechra Bel Ksiri, Souk el Arba and Tangier to the north.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.oi      The project for which Bank assistance is requested is the first
a       phase of the long-term development of agriculture and livestock production
under irrigation and improved rainfed farming in the Rharb Plain.  The pro-
ject would include:
a.   The construction of the Idriss I Dam at Arabat
on the Inaouene River;
b.   Covering the total project area of 90,000 ha:
Land reorganization and redistribution in the
communes of Dar Gueddari, Jmaa des Haouafate
and Msaada and the Ouled Khalifa section of
Khenichet;
c.   Covering 60,000 ha (43,300 ha net) of the above
area: Land preparation and the construction of
new irrigation and drainage systems covering a
net area of 38,300 ha and the improvement of
existing irrigation on 5,000 ha;
d.   Covering the remaining 30,000 ha (26,700 ha net):
The improvement of rainfed agriculture;
e.   The construction and equipment of a new sub-divi-
sion office, two new local development centers
and 20 sector offices which, together with five
existing development centers, would serve both
the irrigated and rainfed parts of the project
area;



- 10- 
f.   The improvement of roads and cron processing
facilities to serve the project area;
g.   Experiments and investigations to determine design
criteria for subsurface drainage; and
h.   The strengthening and reorganization of the Rharb
Regional Agricultural Development Office at
Kenitra to manage the project with the assistance
of consultants and to plan the second phase of
development (see Chapter Y).
The project, which would be executed over an eight-year period, would be
completed in mid-1977.
Subsequent Phases of Development
4.02      As mentioned above in paragraph 3.11, the construction of the
Idriss I Dam will permit new irrigation of about 80,000 ha, in addition to
the area already irrigated in the Rharb Plain. The project would account
for almost half of this potential new area, leaving the remainder to be
developed in a second phase. The full exploitation of the Rharb Plain vould
require a combination of further dams, power stations and other upstream
structures, costing about DH 0.8 billion (US$160 million) in total. This
would permit the regulation of about 60% of the total discharge of the Sebou
a Basin, the generation of more than '00 Gvh annually, and the complete irri-
gation of the Rharb Plain.       2---
B. Proposed Works
4.03      Details of project engineering works are given in Annex 4 and sum-
marized below.
4.04      Idriss I Dam and Reservoir.  Proceeding upstream from the Rharb
Plain, the UNDP/FAO Sebou Team investigated a total of 30 possible dam sites,
of which 20 were studied in detail and the three most important (Arabat, M'Jara
and Dar El Arsa) vere covered by full feasibility studies.  Of all the sites
permitting the construction of major reservoirs, Arabat is geologically by
far the most favorable. Lying in a narrow gorge in the Inaouene Valley,
about 25 km from Fes, the site would permit the impounding of 1,430 Mm3 with
a surface of 5,700 ha at a height of 62 m (220 m abDve sea level).  Seepage
losses would be negligible. Aside from geological conditions, the height of
the dam is limited by the location of the highway and railway linking Fes
with Oujda and Algeria. Even at the 220 m level, it vill be necessary to
relocate 15 km of rail and 10 1cm of highvay, at a cost of DH 35 million.  To
permit deferral of this expenditure as long as possible, the reservoir would
not be filled immediately, but would be operated at a maximum level of 203 m
until the second phase of irrigation development in the Rharb necessitated
the increased storage.



e                                            - il -
4.05      After various alternatives (earth-fill, rock fill etc.) had been
discarded because of the lack of suitable building materials, the Moroccan
Government and their consultants, Flectricite de France, decided on a hollow
concrete gravity dam (modified buttress-type) made up of structurally inde-
pendent 15 m vertical sections which give the dam a degree of flexibility.
(See Annex 4, Figire 1).  The desigp makes provision for a 25 MW power plant
at the foot of the dam, but, due to the direct conflict between the optimum
patterns of monthly water releases for power and irrigation, and the fact that
the maximum head would not be available until the road and railway had been
relocated, the additional investment for pover generation would only yield
a rate of return of 6% and is not justified. Although the design chosen
is technically and economically the best one, the possibilities of achieving
cost savings by constructing the dam in two phases are negligible.
Land Reorganization and Red stribution
4.o6      Under the project, most of the cultivators would receive zetle to
their new 5 ha holdings, although some would continue to work as employees
on the large scale commercial farms and citrus plantations. Those receiving
additional land would repay the Government over a 20-year period with 40%
interest. Details of the land reorganization and redistribution measures
to be implemented under the project are given in Annex 1. Within each of
the three communes, the work would take an average of 2-1/2 years to complete.
emS     Work would commence in a new commune each year, beginning with the commune
having the largest proportion of redistributable lands, so that by the end
of 1974, the entire project area would be finally reallocated.  The detailed
plans for reallocation and consolidation and the detailed design of the irri-
gation field layout in each commune wo.uld be prepared by the same engineering
firms. The Moroccans have considerable practical experience in the classical
consolidation of fragmented plots within an irrigation field lay-out.  The
redistribution of land, however, has not been attempted on such a large scale
(60,000 ha) before. In the event that land reform runs into delays in the
initial years it would probably be possible to catch up to the original sched-
ule before the completion of the irrigation works. In any case, the worst
that could happen would be the abandoning of the proposed redistribution and
the falling back on the well-known procedures for simple consolidation. This
event would have a negligible effect on the overall economics of the project,
but would result in a failure to attain the project's social and income re-
distribution objectives.
Irrigation and Drainage Systens
4.07      At present, water is Dumped from the Sebou River to irrigate the
existing citrus and rice (15,000 ha in the Rharb Plain), using almost the
entire available dry-season flow in average years.  The construction of the
Idriss I Dam would repienish the dry season flow during critical low periods,
permitting an extension of the irrigated area. Four alternative plans have
been studied to use the flow in the Sebou River for irrigation in the Rharb
*       Plain.  The solution chosen, which is economically the best, consists of the
following raajor works (see Map 3):



-12-
a.   First Phase (43,300 ha net, of which 5,000 ha
already irrigated) included in -roJect (See
Map  )
-    Pump stations to-serve the part of the
project area,t6'be irrigated along the
Sebou (-5-,,600 ha net) and to feed a
small>-,4nlined supply canal and an
existing drain as temporary supply lines
tô the southern part of the project area
-to be irrigated along the Beht; and
-    Primary, secondary and tertiary distribution
systems consisting largely of prefabricated
concrete sections mounted on plers (see Annex
4), for the irrigation of individual pump
station sectors ranging from 500 ha to 5,700
ha in size. (Similar systems wiould be con-
structed in subsequent phases.)
b.   Second Phase (47,700 ha net, of which 6,000 ha
already irrigated) not included in project.
-    To supply the southern part of the second
phase area, a weir to raise the water level
in the Sebou River at the head of the plain,
and an intake and part of a main canal (G-1)
skirting the southern boundary of the plain,
following the Phase I temporary supply canal
and replacing it; and
-    To supply the northern part, a second weir
at Sidi-Allal-Tazi, at the lower end of the
Sebou River, to prevent water from flowing
off to sea and to maintain the level for
further pumping stations on the right bank
of the Sebou River.
4.o8      The field layout would be based on the "Network B" system devised
by the former National Irrigation Office (ONI) and widely used in Morocco:
SmalL irrigation units of 20-40 ha, each served by its own irrigation turn-
out, would be divided into individual fields separated by an irrigation
ditch and a drainage ditch with a simple access road on the bank between
them. Each field would be carefully levelled before the construction of the
irrigation system.  Field drains in each irrigation unit would be connectea
by tertiary and secondary ditches to the existing network, and in Class III
and IV areas underground tile (or plastic) drains would be installed, but only
completed after the necessary experiments and investigations had been carried
out (see Annex 2).



Pump Staticns
4.09      Two temporary pump stations would be built, one of them floating on
a barge in the Sebou. Fourteen permanent pump stations would be built on the
highest, firmest banks of the Sebou and Beht rivers, after careful investiga-
tion of each site. The maximum discharge of the largest station would be
9.4 m3/sec. Some of the stations would have two stage lifts, the highest
overall lift being 26 m. Installed power at each station ranges from as
little as 30 kw to more than 1,800 kw totaling 11.6 MW. All but the Iwo
largest stations, which will be supplied directly from the power transmission
substation, can draw th,eir electricity from the existing 22 KV supply lines
along both banks of the Sebou River and along the Beht River.
Agricultural Development (see Annex 5)
4.10      The improvement of agriculture in the project area (90,000 ha)
would consist of partial irrigation (43,300 ha) of the project area, with the
improvement of rain-fed farming on the remaining cultivated area (26,700 ha
net). Complete irrigation of the project area would not take place until much
later, due to the problems of poor drainage and flooding in the part of
the project area not included in the first phase of irrigation develop-
ment.
4.11      Improvement of rainfed agriculture would consist of the intro-
duction of a four-year rotation (sugarbeet, cereals, oilseeds and forage),
together with modern inputs and improved techniques of cultivation, including
tractor mechanization. This rotation is feasible on even the heaviest tirs
soils provided they are banked and provided with improved surface drainage.
4.12      The first  hase of irrigation would enable the best land (the dhess
and the lighter tirs , to be even more intensively developed. A number of
different crops and rotations would be introduced on suitable soils. These
rotations are described in Annex 5, and suzmmarized below:
Area
('000 ha)         %
Sugarcane rotation                  14.7            38.4
Citrus (excluding existing area)    6.3             16.3
Rice rotation                         5.7           15.0
Domestic agriculture 1/               4.2           10.9
Sugarbeet, Wheat, Cotton ana
Forage:
a)  Five-year rotation                3.9           10.2
b)  Four-year rotation                3.5            9.1
38.3          100.0
1/  Miainly fruits and vegetables raised on 5,000 m2 house lots, primarily
for family consumption.



- 14 -                                                0
4.13      Increased forage production under both improved rainfed farming
and irrigation would be geared to the development of livestock axid would
compensate for the planned cultivation of part of the present grazing
area (fallow and merjas).  The areas still remaining uncultivated would
be organized as improved grazing land. While the compulsory introduction of
mixed farming is one of the requirements of the new Agricultural Investment
Code, and would also benefit crop production through maintenance of soil fer-
tility, the propagation of improved stock and modern animal husbandry tech-
niques would require a great effort on the part of the authorities and the
farmers as well.
4.14      Livestock development, as part of the overall development program,
would be pursued under various systems:
On citrus farms dairy cows would be fed with forage produced
on nearby arable farms, as vell as with the by-products
of agricultural industries, while the manure they produced
would fertilize the citrus orchards. Also, village stables,
11 of which already exist in the Sidi Slimane area, would
operate under the close control of the local development
centers and sector offices. These stables would act as
pilot units for the development of improved livestock in
the project area, with the young animals being sold to
individual farmers to start their own livestock production.
A large number of farm stables with stock which originally
came from the village stables already exist in the Sidi
Slimane area and will be further developed in the future.
Supporting Services
4.15      To achieve the agricultural development descrLbed above, it would be
necessary to construct and equip a sub-division office, two additional agricul-
tural development centers and 20 sector offices (roughly one for every ten
villages). While some farmers already have their own machinery, and others
would join machinery cooperatives and purchase machinery with loans from the
CNCA, it would still be necessary for the government to provide about half
of the machine hours required for the intensive cultivation of the project
area. The existing development centers have some machinery, but part of it
must work outside the project area and much of it is in need of replacement.
To supplement this machinery, and to equiD the new development centers, 250
additional tractors with implements would be purchased under the przject.
Processing Facilities and Roads
4.16      It would be necessary to convert the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry's two existing sugarbeet factories into mixed beet-and-cane process-
ing factories.  This could be done at a relatively low cost merely by adding
cane crushers and conveyors. A much better utilization of the investment in
the existing facilities would result.  Additional storage would be added to
the existing ginning factory at Sidi Kacem. A fruit juice factory would also
be required for the project area, but the government is relying on grivate ini-
tiative for its construction. In order to accommodate the increased traffic



*                                            - 15-
resulting from the project, a number of the existing roads in the project
area would be improved and strengthened. Aside from the farm access roads
built within the irrigation units, however, no new roads would be required.
C. Engineering and Construction Schedule
4.17      Final design for the Idriss I Dam, based on the feasibility study
made by the Sebou Team and Electricite de France (EDF), has been entrusted to
consultants (Coyne et Bellier Cie. and SOFRELEC of France) and is virtually
completed.  Bids for construction have been received from twelve reputable
international contractors and a US$ 14 million contract was avarded on May 13,
1969, to Campenon-Bernard of France, the lowest bidder.  In order to make the
first storage water available for the dry season of 1972, construction of the
dam is beginning this year and is expected to take about four years. The
partial operation of the reservoir could begin in 1972, allowing for the ir-
rigation of the first new land in the Rharb beginning in July, 1972. Before
the filling of the reservoir, however, geological studies would be undertaken
by the consultants in the reservoir area to determine the danger of landslides
occurring around the side slopes after filling, particularly near the road and
the railway. Assurances vere oatained during negotiations that such studies
*       -would be begun vithin 6 months of signing a loan.
4.18      The irrigation network has been subject to sa1;isfactory preliminary
designs based on existing 1:20,000 scale maps, providing an adequate basis
for cost estimates. Final designs would be prepared, with the help of con-
sultants, in conjunction with the detailed plan at a scale of 1:5,000 for land
reallocation, as described in para. 4.06 above. Holdings in the first of the
three rural communes would not be completely reallocated until mid-1972. Con-
struction work, especially land leveling and the construction of primary and
secondary canals, could begin in the first irrigation sector (3,050 ha) im-
mediately after the harvest in late May 1971, however, and continue through
the summer. The placing of prefabricated canal sections and the completion
of the tertiary roads would continue through the winter, when a further
rainfed crop could be grown on the newly levelled fields.  In the summer of
1972, the first sector would be irrigated and construction work would com-
mence in the next area.
4.19      In calculating the costs and benefits of the project, an annual
rate of construction has been assumed, increasing from 3,050 ha in 1971/72,
to 4,850 ha in 1972/73, 6,250 ha ir 1973/74 and 8,400 ha in 1974/75, and
thereafter. This rate, while somewbat higher than that presently being
achieved on existing individual projects in Morocco (6,000 ha a year each
in the Tl'adla and Basse Moulouya areas) is feasible, particularly in view
of the more favorable topography in the Rharb and the measures described
below in Chapter V to increase the present implementation capacity of the Re-
.        gional Office in Kenitra.
4.20      The final design of the drainage system, particularly the spacing
of the subsurface tile (or plastic) field drains, vill require further field



- 16 -.                                                e
investigation, research and experimentation at the National Agronomic
Institute's drainage experiment station within the project area (see Annex
2).  A qualified drainage consultant will be required to interpret the expe-
rimental results and to advise on their practical application in the project
area. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that a drainage consultant
acceptable to the Bank would be employed on satisfactory terms and conditions.
In the meantime, the preliminary design prepared by the Sebou Team is an
adequate basis for cost estimates, and much of the system (open drains, col-
lectors and half of the subsurface field drains at double spacing) could be
designed and built concurrently with the irrigation network. The remainder
of the field drains can be installed later, independently of the rest, and
without disrupting crop production, when the results of the surveys and ex-
periments are obtained.
4.21      Preliminary designs for the pump stations have been prepar'ed by
the Sebou Team as a basis for the cost estimates.  Final designs and
tender documents would have to be prepared by engineering conultants,
acting in close cooperation with the suppliers of permanent equipment.
Site investigation, final design, tendering and construction for each pump
station would require almost three years and would be phased to coincide
with the construction of the dam and the irrigation network.
D.  Cost Estimate
4.22      The total cost of the project would be DH 547.3 million (US$ 109.5
million equivalent), made up as follows:
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total        0
-  DH millions - -  - - US$ millions- -  Forei,n<
Idriss I Dam                  72.2   33.5  105.7   14.4   6.7   21.1        32
First Phase Irrig. and
Drainage Development
(38,300 ha)                 159.8   63.7  223.5   32.0  12.7   44.7         29
Imorovement of Rainfed
Agriculture (26,700 ha)       17.3    6.7   24.0    3.5   1.3    4.15    28
Agricultural Management
and Processing Facilities   16.9   29.1   46.o    3.4   5.8    9.2          64
Sub-total                    2b6.2  133.0  399.2   53.2  26.6   79.8        33
Engineering and
Suoervision1'                  5.2   14.8   20.0    2.0   2.0    4.0        74
Contingencies_?J              45.9   19.7   65.6    9.8   3.3   13.1        30
Total Excluding Interest   317.3  167.5  484.8   63.5  33.5   97.0          35
Interest During Construc-
tion                       _ _    62.5   62.5       -   12.5   12.5    100
Grand Total3/                317.3  230.0  547.3   63.5  46.o  109.5        42
1/   3% of civil works.
21   20% of civil works and 10% of other items.
3/   Columns do not add up due to rounding,.



e                                           - 171-
The cost estimates are based on detailed preliminary designs prepared by the
Sebou Team and on the contract awarded for the civil vorks of Idriss I Dam.
Unit costs and foreign exchange percentages are based on recent actual con-
tracts for similar works in Morocco and estimates of the foreign exehange
components of locally purchased fuel, materials, etc. In addition to eng4.-
neering design contingencies on major structures, pending final design, con-
tingencies of 10% haTe been allowed on all items for price increases and a
further 10%'/ has been allowed for unforeseen expenditure on most civil works
items. Adequate allowances have been made for engineering and supervision.
Further details of project costs are given in Annex 7.
E. Financing
4.23      The amount of the proposed loan would be US$ 46.o million (DH 230.0
million equivalent). The proposed loan would cover the US$ 33.5 million es-
timated foreign exchange cost of the project, which is about 35% of the total,
plus US$ 12.5 million interest and commitment charges during construction.
The remainder of the cost, about US$ 63.5 million (DH 317.3 million equ,ivalent),
would be met by the Governnent out of annual budget appropriations.  'otal ex-
penditure on the project would represent an average of roughly 10% of projected
government investment in agriculture, or less than 5% of anticipated total
public investment. It is expected, therefore, that the government will have
no difficulty in making available all local currency required for the project
in the full amounts and at the times needed.  Expenditures on the project would
occur roughly as follows:
- - - - - - - - -DH millions- - - 
Year                1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8   Total
Local currency                17   28   39   49   43   56   54   31    317
Foreign exehange               8   18   20   41   31   22   20    8    168
Tiotal excluding interest    25   46   59   90   74   78   74   39    485
Interestl/                     2    3    h    6    9   11   13   14        62
Total with interest           27   49 _63   96'  83   89   87   53    547
Bank loan disbursements
(US$ millions equiv.)        2.0  4.2  4.8  9.4  8.0  6.6  6.6  4.4  46.o
1/   7% interest and 3/4h% commitment charge on foreign exchange only.
P. Procurement and Contracting
4.24      All tendering for the construction of Idriss I Dam has been carried
out on the basis of international competitive bidding, in accordance with
the Bank's normal procedures.  The contract for installation of electrical
and mechanical equipnent will be tendered separately, following the same
procedures.



>- 18 - 
4.25      In addition to the dam, assurances were obtained that the Govern-
ment vould invite international tenders for the construction and equipment
of the Dump stations and irrigation and drainage systems, the expansion of
the ginning factory and the conversion of the sugar refineries. Tenders
would be grouped as far as possible in lots of US$ 1 million or more, with
the Bank's prior approval, so as to be of sufficient size to attract foreign
bidders. Tractors, vehicles and equipment for the development centers would
also be subject to international bidding with a 15% margin of preference for
Moroccan manufacturers.  Other project works, amounting to about 20/'O of the
total cost, and individual civil works contracts costing US$ 100,000 or less,
would be subject to the usual tendering procedure of the Government which,
though primarily local in nature, frequently results in the award of contract
to foreign firms maintaining offices or representatives in Morocco. lia civil
works would be performed on direct force account.
ContractLng
4.26      Considerable experience and capacity exists in Morocco among small
to medium size local contracting firms in the construction of irrigation and
drainage networks. As the program of work in the Rharb Plain increases, while
irrigation construction work in other parts of the country diminishes, compe-
tition between capable local contractors is likely to increase. '4ost of the
work would consist of the installation of prefabricated concrete sections pur-
chased under separate contract (see below) and may not be of sufficient value
to attract any substantial foreign interest. However, for efficient execution
and supervision, the construction of one irrigation sector would not be sub-
divided into more than one contract. The installation of sub-soil tile drain-
age, even if the mechanical method were used, is not likely to interest
eoreign contractors. For pump stations, international bidding would also be
invited. Because of the dependence of important parts of these structures on
elements constructed and supplied by pump manui'acturers, steel foundries, etc.,
the responsibility for the structure as a whole would be given to one princi-
pal contractor in each instance. These structures, except for the smallest
pump stations, are large enough to attract international interest.
Prefabrication of Canal and Tile Drain Elements
4.27      The capacity of the existing factory producing the prefabricated
concrete sections for secondary and tertiary irrigation canals, situated 34 km
from Rabat, is insufficient and another factory would be required near the
project area.  The factoryr in the Tadla Plain, which is becoming redundant
in that area, could be moved to the Rharb Plain. Assurances were obtained
that the necessary canal elements would be available in time as needed.
The capacity for production of drain tiles at Kenitra is ample, even at the
full construction requirement.
le



e                                            - 19 -
G. DWisbursement
4.28      About US$11 million equivalent of the proposed loan would cover
against full documentation, the cif cost, 1/ including cDntingencies, of im-
ported electrical and mechanical equipment for Idriss I Dam and the pump
stations; tractors, implements, vehicles and equipment for the local de-
velopment centers: additional equipment for the ginning factory and the
sugar refir.ery; and the t'oreign cost of consultants' services. Disburse-
ments would also be made on a percentage basis to cover the estimated
foreign component of expenditure under contracts for civil works and expendi-
ture by the re7îonal office on !and reform and preparation. Supervising
consultants would be responsible for certifying such expenditure, totalling
about US$ 80 million, includin7 contingencies, of which about US$ 22 million,
or about 28%, would be covered by disbursements from the loan.  Payments un-
der the dam contract and other contracts approved by the Bank, made after
May 13, 1969, would be eligible for reimbursement. The amount of such re-
troactive financing is unlikely to exceed US$ 400-500,000 or about 1% of
the loan.  About US$ 13 million of the proposed loan would cover interest
and commitment charges during the 8 year construction period. Savings in
any category under the allocation of proceeds would be made available for
overruns in any other category, including interest during construction.
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      The execution of the project would be primarily the responsibility
of the Regional Agricultural Development Office in Kenitra, under the super-
vision of the Minister of Agriculture and the technical guidance of the
Ministry's Agricultural Development Departient (see organization chart). The
construction, operation and maintenance of Idriss I Dam, the provision of power
supply and the improvement of the road network in the project area would be
the xenonsi_ility of the Ministry of Public Works; and the conversion of the
sugar factory would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and
Commerce.
Idriss I Dam
5.02      The construction of the Idriss I Dam is being supervised by the
Hydraulic Department of the Ministry of Public Works, with the assist4nce of
consulting engineers (Coyne et Bellier and SOFRELEC of France). This depart-
ment is experienced and competent in dan construction and has at its aisposal
a team of experts on secondment from Electricite de France. The existing
organizational and managerial arrangements for the construction of the dam
are satisfactory and no major problems are foreseen.
1/   In the case of locally procured equipment the loan would cover Ü5'; of
the invoice price.  It is estimated that some light vehicles and
tractors, costing about US$1 million may be purchased locally afzer
international competitive bidding.



- 20-
The Regional Agricultural Development Office
5.03      The organization of the remainder of the project poses a more diffi-
cult problem. In view of organization and management difficulties exPerienced
in connection with the Sidi Slimane project, the Bank asked the Government for
detailed proposals for reorganizing and strengthening the Regional Office to
enable it to carry out the project efficiently. These proposals are based on
a PERT 1/ analysis of all project activities, followed by the preparation of
detailed programs, organization charts, staffing tables and budgets for each
part of -he project organization, as well as improved machinery for coordina-
tion among them. The study was made within the Agricultural Development
Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, with the assistance of the new
director of the Regional Office, the remaining members of the Sebou team and
a firm of management and planning consultants from Paris (SODETEG). The con-
tinuation of detailed programming during the execution of the project will be
entrusted to a newly established Programming, Planning and Budgetting Service
vithin the Regional Office (see organization chart) which is being added to
the five existing services (Administration; Land Reform and On-farm Development;
Construction of Irrigation and Drainage; Agricultural Operations; and Vehicles
snd Equipment).
5.04      The critical problem facing the Regional Office is not technical
capacity to supervise the construction work, but rather administrative capac-
ity to organize all the concurrent and inter-related activities required to
achieve the anticipated maximum rate of development, i.e. 9,000 ha a year from
1974 onwards. Without the help of consultants, the Regional Office is now al-
ready achieving a rate of 2,000 ha a year (1968), somewhat less than the 3,000
ha rate at which the implementation of the new project is expected to begin in
1971. Working under slightly more difficult soil and topography conditions,
but vith varying degrees of assistance from consulting engineers, two other
Regional Offices (Tadla and Basse Moulouya) are each already achieving an
annual rate of construction of 6,000 ha (1968). The director of the Regional
Office of Basse Moulouya, a young dynamic builder of canals who - in two
years in office - moved the USAID-financed Basse Moulouya Project from virtu-
al stagnation and collapse to rapid progress, has recently been named direc-
tor of the Regional Office serving the project area. This new director, with
the assistance of supervising consultants and the detailed planning analysis
now available, should be able to achieve the transition from the current (re-
cently somewhat improved) rate of implementation of the Sidi Slimane Project
to the rate proposed for the project now under consideration.
General Consultants
5.05      For the Regional Office to achieve the rate of development outlined
above, it vould need to employ supervising consultants to assist the new direc-
tor in planning and supervising the work and in dealing with specialized con-
tractors, consultants. and financial agencies.  The responsibilities o' these
consultants would include the following:  (Details are given in Annex 3).
1/   Program Evaluation and Review Technique.



e                                            - 21 -
Acting as principal advisors to the Director of the
Regional Office in all phases of the Bank-assisted
project;
Assisting the Director in preparing, implementing and
reviewing work programs within the scope of the project;
Assisting in the selection and supervision of specialized
consultants to be retained for surveys, plans and the pre-
paration of final design for the var-ious project works;
Reviewing all feasibility stCdies, progress reports,
proposals, designs and cost elstimates prepared by
various consulting firms;
Assisting in the preparation and review of tender
documents and specifications, the evaluation of bids,
and contracts for the construction of project works;
Assisting the Director in the coordination of the work
of consulting firms and contractors; and
w   -    Certifying expenditure under contracts for reimbursement.
It wroula be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan that satisfacto-
ry general consultants would be employed by the Regional Office for the dura-
tion of the project on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, and assu-
rances were obtained that other satisfactory specialized consultants would
be retained, as needed, for shorter periods for detailed preliminary soîl and
topographical surveys and the preparation of tender documents and final designs
for the pump stations, the temporary water supply and the primary distribution
system (lined, excavated canals) and for experiments and surveys for sub-surface
drainage.
Technical Staff  a Sppr ting Services
5.o6      The strengthening of the Regional Office to meet the increased work
load of the project will be facilitated by the fact that construction of a
number of other major irrigation projects ini Morocco - Basse Moulouya,
Doukkala and Tadla - will be nearing completion in the next few years and the
Government will be concentrating its efforts and resources to an increasing
extent on the development of the Rharb, Moroccols last remaining major under-
developed irrigable area. T2hus, the Ministry of Agriculture intends to trans-
fer a large number of capable, experienced engineers and agronomists from
other regional offices as the demand for their services builds up in the
Rharb. ¶i'he systems analysis (see paragraph 5.03) shows that the implementation
of the project would require a professional staff of about 202, of whom 139 are
already in post or scheduied to arrive soon. Of the 63 vacancies remaining,
12 woula have to be filled during the remainder of 1969 and the remaining 51
as needed between 1969 and 1972.



- 22-
Special Coordinating Machinery
5.07     '2he Regional Office is under the administration of an interministe-
rial board, presided by the Minister of Agriculture, which meets three times
- year. Low level technical coordination is provided by a regional committee,
which meets monthly, chaired'by the provincial governor and made up of local
officials and technicians. The Government now plans to set up a special pro-
ject coordinating committee, presided by the Minister of Agriculture, and
composed of the new director of the Regional Office; the directors of the
Agricultural Development Department and the other departments of the Minis-
try: and representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Public Works, Indus-
try and Commerce, Planning and Interior. This committee, which would meet
auarterly, would supervise the progress of the implementation of the project
as reflected in the director's quarterly progress reports to be subnitted to
the Bank, and provide the necessary horizontal coordination among all the
different governiment agencies concerned. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the special coordinating committee would be established
with membership and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Accounts and Audit
5.08      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that separate pro-
ject accounts would be established by all the agencies concerned (the Minis-
tries of Agriculture, Public Works and Industry and Commerce). These accounts
would be subject to the routine annual audit and continuing scrutiny of a
financial controller from the Ministry of Finance, who normally attach inspec-
tors to each unit responsible for executing a project. In the case of Agri-
culture, the inspector would be attached to the Regional Office, which nov
has full managerial responsibility for its own staff and for the avard and
execution of contracts up to an amount of US$ 100,000 equivalent each, lar-
ger amounts being handled by the Agricultural Development Department in the
Ministry's headquarters at Rabat. This arrangement is satisfactory, but the
upper limit on the financial autaority of the Regional Office should be keDt
under review and increased if experience so indicates.
Operation and Maintenance Cost
5.09      Details of organization and costs of operation and maintenance are
given in Annexes 5 (Agricultural Operations) and 9 (Irrigation Operation and
Maintenance). At full development, operation and maintenance costs for the
project area, plus the second phase irrigation area (a total of 91,000 ha
irrigated, plus 26,700 ha imuroved rainfed farming), would be roughly DH 120/ha
(US$ 24/ha), broken down as follows (DH thousands):
A.  Idriss I Dam                                          600 (DH 6/ha)
B. Irrigation, Drainage and Roads (91,000 ha)
Operating Costs: Staff, fuel, supplies, etc.        1,300
Electricity (DHî 0.05/Kwh)       2,40U
Maintenance                       5,400
Sub-total                        9,100 (DHI 100/ha)



e                                            -   23   _
C. A  icultural_Operat ion  (11,000 ha)
Based on 91,000 ha of irrigation and
26,700 ha of improved rainfed farming.
Excludes tractor cultivation, which is
charged direct to farmers under their
crop contracts                                     4,400 (DH 31/ha)
D.  Total                                             14,100 (DMI '2O/ha)
Water Charges and Financial Results
5.10      Farmers in the Sidi SlLmane irea are presently assessed vater
charges of DH 0.018 per m3, of which taey are required to pay 10p the first
year, 20% the second year, etc., only reaching 100% in the tenth year after
the first delivery of water. In the past, collection of these charges was
badly in arrears.  Last year the Minister of the Interior agreed that farmers
in default would not receive water; since then, the Regional Office has been
able to collect most of the arrears and practically all of the current charges.
5.11      Under the new Agricultural Investment Code (see Annex 1), water
charges for the entire Rharb, iacluding Sidi Slimane, have been increased by
60%é to DH 0.029 per m3, phased over 5 years, rather than 10 (i.e. 20% the
le       first year, 40% the second year, etc.,) except in the case of tree crops.  In
addition to water charges, the new law provides for a betterment levy on newly
irrigated land of DH 1,500 per ha, payable either in cash or in 17 annual in-
stallments after three years of grace with interest at 4%. Farmers with 5 ha
or less do not pay the levy, those with 5 - 20 ha pay only for land in excess
of 5 ha, while those with more than 20 ha pay the full amount. Because of
the farm size structure in the project area, roughly half the irrigated land
would pay. The new law also provides for surface drainage charges in the
rainfed farming areas of DH 23.30/ha for 20 years. Thereafter they are re-
quired to pay a permanent maintenance charge of DH 5.20/ha/year.  Assurances          -
would be obtained during nego           that all water charges, taxes and assess-
ments established by law within the project area for the provision of irriga-
tion, drainage and agricultural supporting services would be promptly and ful-
ly collected, and that the level of charges would be reviewed within five
years, in consultation with the Bank.  Thus, at full production, the direct
revenue would be as follows (DR millions):
Direct Revenue            Project Area    Phase II       Total
Water Charges           10.6            11.7        22.3
Betterment Levy          2.4             2.5         4.9
Drainage Tax             o.6              -          o.6
Total             13.6            14.2         27.8
Overating Costs               6-71/           7.4         14.1
*        Operating Surplus              6.9            6.8         13.7
1/   Including Idriss I Dam.



-24 -
In addition to the above direct charges, the project would yield revenue from
the export duty on citrus (DH 17/ton) and a proposed 10O agricultural income
tax. The total charges, including taxes and duties estimated at about DH 20
million, would amount to about a fourth of the incremental net farm income re-
sulting from the project. The operating surplus plus export duties and agri-
cultural income tax would be sufficient to recover the entire capital cost,
without interest, over the 40-year life of the investment (see projected cash
flow in Annex 10), or to cover 75% of the debt service on a 30-year Bank loan
with a 9-year grace period.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND FARM INCOME
A. Production
6.01      The construction of irrigation and drainage works would slightly re-
dluce the total cultivated surface vithin the project area, but the provision
of irrigation and drainage and the use of complementary inputs would permit a
much greater intensity of production through both a higher overall cropping
intensity and substantially higher average yields as shown below:
Cropped Area   Average Yieldà/         Production
(000     ha)    (m ton/ ha)            (000 M ton)
Present   Future  Present Future  Present Future  Increase
Citrus                    4.5        10.3    16.0    24.0       72      247       175
Sugarcane                  -          9.8      --     78.0      --     764        764
Sugarbeet                  3.0        8.3    20.0    27.0       60      224       164
-Forage                   0.5        17.0    20.0    39.0       10      663       653
Cotton 2/                 1.1         6.o      1.2     1.8       1       il        10
Rice 3/                   1.0         5.6      5.0     4.5       5       25        20
Wheat                    43.7         8.3      1.0     1.8      44       15      - 29
Sunflower                 1.0         6.6      0.9     1.4       1        9         8
Domestic Agriculture      9.6         4.2
Other                     4.5          --
Total                    68.9        76.2
Fallow                    7.0         -
Total Cultivated Area   75.9         70.0
Cropping Intensity 4    90%         109%
1/  Yields will vary according to soil quality and crop rotation.
2/  Yields and production are in terms of seed cotton.
3/ Yields and production are in terrms of Daddy.
V   îo100  is equivalent to one crop per year on the entire cultivated area.
6.02      The above yield increases are based on figures from existing irrigated
areas, including Sidi Slimane.  They should be achievable within one rotation
(4-6 years) from the time of completion of land development. The estimates of



*                                           - 25 -
ecoriomic and financial benefits of the project take account of extended develop-
ment periods:  each area equipped with an irrigation and drainage system would
reach only 50% of the effective equivalent of full irrigation in the first year,
60% in the second, 70% in the fourth, 30% in the sixth, etc.; new citrus groves
would attain full production after about 12 years. Thus full production for
the project area as a whole would be reached about 20 years from now.
B. Market Prospects
o.0 3     Three-fourths of the projected gross value of production in the area
woula come from citrus (34% of the total), sugar (24%) and forage (i14h ) ). Other
crops would be produced in relatively minor quantities, and their marketing
should produce no problems, particularly in the case of food crops, such as rice
(5%) and sunflower (2%), which will help to fill Morocco's rapidly growing food
deficit. Rainfed wheat production is nore economic in other areas of the coun-
try, and would be largely replaced by other crops under the project. Market
prospects for the three major crops are analyzed below.
6.o4      Citrus exports account for almost a fifth of Mlorocco's total export
earnings. Morocco currently produces about 700,000 tons of citrus annually
*        (2% of world supply), of which about 600,000 tons are exported, three-fourths
to Western Europe (mainly France) and almost all the remainder (about 150,000
tons) to the Soviet Union. Morocco's exports of citrus have almost doubled
since 1960 and production continues to grow by about 10 - 11% annually. Recent-
ly revised FAO projections for 1975 indicate a relative balance of supply and
demand at slightly reduced prices. This projection discounts to some extent,
however, the recent rapid increase in per capita citrus consumption in the
Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, which has steadily increased from an average
of 0.9 kg annually in 1959-1963, to 1.9 kg in 1967. 1/ This compares with per
capita consumption in the U.S. and Western Europe of more than 20 kg annually,
or 10 times as much.  Taking into account the long gestation period of citrus
production the market could move from a position of relative over-supply and
downward pressure on prices in the 1970's, to one of equilibrium, or even
shortage, in the 1980's when the first trees planted under the project begin
to come into production. While it is impossible to predict so far into the
future, it is likely that world demand will continue to grow toward the end
of the century at a rate sufficient to absorb the relatively mnuch alower pro-
jected future growth of citrus production in Morocco, i.e., an average rate
of less than 3% per annum from 1970 to 2000.
6.05      Sugar.  Morocco's per capita sugar consumption (25 kg per annum)
is one of the highest in the entire under-developed world. Faced with the
prospect of continuing heavy imports, the Moroccan Government adopted, in
1963, a policy aimed at eventual self-sufficiency in sugar through the
promotion of' local production, which reached 60,000 tons, or 17% of total
!/  FAO Committee on Commodity Problens, Study Group on Citrus fruit,
Fourth Session "Review of 1975 Projections for Citrus Fruit," April
10, 1969.



-26-
consumption, in 1967. Assuming consumption keeps Dace with the erowth of
population, Morocco vill need ten times this amount by the 1980's, when the
project would be in full production. Based on the Government's proposed
producer prices (DH 60/ton for beet Eanc DH 40/ton for cane) and preliminary
estimates of investment and operating costs, which would be less than for
factories processin7 either only beet _/ or only cane, the mixed beet-and-cane
refineries planned for the Rharb could produce refined sugar at a price
about 33¼'lJ higher than the long-term projected price of imported sugar
(equivalent to 3.5 US cents/lb fas Cuba), thus necessitating a subsidy for
local production. Most sugar producing countries are forced to protect
their local sugar industries. For example, sugarbeet prices in France and
Italy are equivalent to DH 80/ton and DH 100/ton, respectively.  Moreover,
the world free market price is influenced by dumping and does not fully re-
flect world production costs. Furthermore, if one takes account of the dif-
ference in net foreign exchange earnings and savings between sugar production
and the next best alternative crop suited for the same soils 2/, sugar pro-
duction would remain preferable from the balance of payment's viewpoint 3/
even if the cost of imported sugar were to fall to the equivalent of 2 US
cents per lb fas Cuba. Finally, both cane and beet are not only excellent
rotation crops, benefitting indirectly the production of the other crops in
the rotation, but also produce important by-products for livestock feed.
G.06      Forage.  The forage to be produced in the project area (660,000
tons), together with full utilization of by-product feeds from the other crops,
esuecially sugar beet and cane tops, pulp and molasses, vould support a total
of about 14,000 cattle equivalent units, or 6,500 if the forage alone is taken
into account. The larger figure would result in annual net production of
42 million liters of milk and 3,260 tons of meat.  By comparison, projections
Of increased demand within the Sebou Basin itself show that the local riarket
alone could absorb an additional 200 million liters of milk and 100,000 tons
of meat annually by the end of the century.
C. Prices
6.07      In the valuation of the agricultural output of the project area,
farm gate prices have been used. For citrus, a l0'e decline is assuied from
1959-1968 average export prices to take account of the necessity of increasing
M^orocco's future share of the export market. The current official price for
1/   Operating cost per ton of granulated sugar:  DH 506 for the mixed factory
vs DE 587 for a factory processing beet only.
2/   Sunflower for beet and the 5-year rotation for cane.
3/   Foreign exchange costs, both direct and indirect of importing or pro-
ducing locally the end products of the sugar rotations compared with
the converse situations for the substitute rotations.



*                                            - 27 -
sugarbeet, in effect since 1962, has been used in the farm budget and finan-
cial projections in this report, together with the proposed equivalent price
for the new crop, cane. This results in a cost of producing raw sugar locally
which is about 33% higher than the projected cif price of imported raw sugar,
which has been used for the economic analysis. Forage has been valued in
terms of conversion to milk and meat at the prevailinig average meat price of
DH 5/kg and a 20'/ lower price for milk, DH 0.4/liter.  These and other prices
are summarized below:
Prices (DH/ton)
Farm Gate          Casablanca Equiv.
Citrus   75% exportable fruit                 300                     6U-     -
25% triage (local consumption)    100                        __
Average producer price              250                      --
Sugar    Cane                                  40              )     6401'
Beet                                 60               )    (raw sugar)
Forage   Gross conversion value                41   (Milk and meai,)
Livestock production costs           12   (purchases outside area)
Livestock value adied                10
Gross value of forage                19   (green forage at farn, gate)
*       Cotton   (long staple, 34-36 mm)            1,200                   3,500 (lint)
(seed cotton)             460 (seed)
Rice     (short grain, 13% broken)            400                     700
(paddy)               (milled rice)
1/   Equivalent to 5 US cents per lb, fas Cuba.
These prices are generally conservative, although a degree of uncertainty
surrounds the prospects of citrus, as explained above, sugar, whieh is already
subsidized, and also cotton.  The small quantity of cotton which would result
from the project, i.e., 4,000 tons of lint, can easily be absorbed by the
world market, however. The other crops are destined for the domestic market,
where the prospect of a worsening food defici-. ensures the maintenance of
prices at remunerative levels.
D. Farm Incomes
6.08      Given the acreage, yield and price assumptions mentioned above, the
value of production in the project area would increase as shown below:
e



- 28 -                                                  0
(DH millions)
Present                   Full Production
Level                          1989
Gross farm-gate value of         70                             182
production
On-farm cash costs of
production (excl. family   44                           _56
labor, water charges and
taxes)
Net Farm Income                  26                             126
i.et Revenue per hectare (net)DH347                        DH 1,800
'Vhis would mean increasing average farm incomes in the area to five times their
present level.  The resulting incomes of various kinds of typical 6 ha (gross)
farms are illustrated in summary form below (and shown in detail in Annex 5):
Improved
Present 1/ Dry 4-yr             Irrigated Rotation
Situation  Rotation    4-Year   5-Year       Rice   Sugar and Rice 2/
Gross Income   DH 2,580  DH 5,616  DH 10,091 DH 11,881 DH 13,314  DH 13,894
Prod. costs        1 905     2 372       4,171     4 895      6, s150     5,777
:et_Income     DH    675  DI 3,244  DH  5,920 Di, 6986 DH  7.l64  DH  8,117
Taxes             -   -        324         592       699        716         812
Water Charges           _      115 3/      307    _ 751  _  1,734        1,595
INet Income
aiter charges4'DH   675  DH 2,805  DH_ 5,o21 DHi  5,536 DH  4,714  DH  5,710
ET  3 ha wheat, 3 ha other crops, plus communal grazing rights.
2/  To spread peak labor requirement, sugarcane outgrowers will be given 3 ha
under rice rotation and 2 ha under sugarcane rotation.
3/  Drainage tax.
£4/ To the extent that a farmer was repaying the Government for additional
land allocated to him, this figure would be correspondingly reduced.
At present, in the absence of any decision on the value of land in the
Rharb, it is impossible to say to what extent incomes would be affected.
Assuming most families in the traditional sector presently have total net
incomes (farm and non-farm) of about DH 1,000, the project would result in
roughly a DH 6,000 increase before taxes and water charges, or about DH 4,500
after charges.  Cost recovery (current and capital) would thus absorb roughly
a fourth of incremental net income still leaving an adequate incentive for
farmers to contribute the additional family lahor required by the more inten-
sive crop rotations, which vould more than dou'sle the average annual require-
ment from about 200 deys a year to 500 days a year, (i.e. practically full-time
emplornent for the average farm family).  Trhus, the Droposed holding size would
yield most families in the traditional sector a net income of roughly US$1000
equivalent, which is adequate, while providling them with full employment.



e                                            - 29 -
VII. BENEFITS & JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The Idriss I DEn, construction of which is part of the project, would
serve not only the project area but also the second phase irrigation area
(48,000 ha net, of which 6,000 ha are already irrigated), as shown in Map 3.
The economic analysis of the project's benefits and justification has taken
into account both (1) allocation of part of the cost of the dam, together with
the costs and benefits of the project area alone: and (2) the entire cost of
the dam with the costs and benefits of the project area plus the second phase
irrigation area.  The dam represents only about 10% of the combined cost of
the project and the second phase, and the rate of return is not very sensitive
to the allocation of dam costs.
7.02      The full production of the second phase area, including the maximum
yield of the new citrus groves, would not be reached until about the year 2000.
At that time, the total production of the combined area 1/ would have a gross
value of about DH 345 million at farm-gate prices. Practically all of the out-
put would result in foreign exchange earnings or savings. Net farm income be-
fore project charges and taxes would be about DH 240 million, almost five times
the present level of DH 50 million.
7.03      The benefits, assumed to equal the difference betveen present and
future output of the area, have been adjusted downward to take account of pro-
jected long-term world prices for sugar. The incremental net farm-gate value
of production used in the economie analysis would be decreased as followa:
(DH million)
Subsidized Prices  World Prices        % Decrease
beet  DH 60/ton   beet = DH 39/ton
cane = DH 40/ton   cane = DH 22/ton
Project Area                         100                  82              18
Phase II                              90                  85               6
Total                                190                 167              12
7.04      Based on an average useful economic life of 40 years for the invest-
ment in the project and the adjusted prices, the rates of return to the economy
under various assumptions would be as follows:
(Cost of dam allocated between project and phase II on a per hectare basis 2/)
Project   Phase II    Total
a)  Full estimated capital cost             il%        1100        11%
b)  Zero shadow price for
unskilled construction labor            13%        13%        13%
1/   91,Q:OO ha irrigated plus 27,000 ha rain-fed.
2/   43% to the project and 52% to Phase II, proportional to the new irrigated
area.



-30 -
Sensitivity tests show that for every 10% change in either costs or benefits, 1/
the rate of return changes by about 1%. If the maximum annual rate of irriga-
tion development reaches only 6,000 ha instead of 9,000 ha, the rate of return
on the project would be 1% less.  Takin- only the costs and benefits of irri-
gation and excluding those of improved dry farming and livestock development,
the rate of return would be 8-1/2%,.  If the second phase were never constructed,
and the entire cost of Idriss I Dam had to be borne by the project, the rate of
return would be 91/2% rather than 11%'/ (or, on the basis of irrigation alone,
7% rather than 8-1/2%).
7.05      This analysis does not take into account any indirect or induced
benefits "upstream or downstream" from the farm itself, i.e., the domestic
value added by increased farm input production or crop processing as a result
of the Droject.  (These indirect benefits were estimated by the Sebou Team's
economists to be approximately 75% of the direct benefits). Nor does it meas-
ure the social benefits of increased employment in the Moroccan context of
severe population pressure and unemployment.  Though not quantifiable, this fac-
tor tends to enhance the project's already adequate economic justification.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS & RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During loan negotiations, among others, assurances were obtained
that:
(a)  Geological studies of the side slopes of Arabat
Reservoir would be begun within 6 months of
signing (para. 4.17);
(b)  The Government would employ a drainage consultant
acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.20);
(c)  The Government would invite international competi-
tive bidding for all major project works (para. 4.25);
(d)  An adequate supply of concrete canal sections would
be made available when required (para. 4.27);
(e)  Satisfactory gene:al and specialized consultants
would be appointed on terms and conditions ac-
ceptable to the Bank (para. 5.05);
(f)  A special coordinating committee would be estab-
lished with membership and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.07);
L/   A 10% simultaneous drop in the projected Casablanca prices of citrus,
sugar, milk, meat, cotton and rice would result in roughly a 2013 re-
duction ot' benefits.



e                                         - 31 -
(g) All water charges, taxes and assessments established
by law within the project area for the provision
of irrigation, drainage and agricultural supporting
services would be fully and promptly collected, and
the level of charges would be reviewed (para. 5.11).
8.02      A condition of effectiveness of the loan would be the employment of
the general consultants (para. 5.05).
8.03      With the indicated assurances the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$46 millicn, for a term of 30 years in-
cluding a 9-year grace period. The term of tlie loan is justified by the pro-
ject's low rate of cost recovery in the early years (para. 5.11).






ANNEX 1
Page 1
MORO CCO
RHARB IRRIGATION PROJECT
Land Reform
A. Agricultural Investment Code
The Agricultural Investment Code vas officially promulgated
on July 25, 1969. This law vill provide the kind of legal basis for
agricultural development that the Code of Investments provides for the
industrial sector. We shall consider here only the regulations which
affect the Rharb Plain.
1.   The two main principles of this code are:
-    that government agricultural investment will be con-
centrated in well-defined areas;
-    the first beneficiaries of this investment will be
farmers established in the irrigated and drained
areas. For them, land development according to plan
vlll be enforced by decrees of the Ministry of Agri-
culture, with penalties including expropriation if
the rules are not observed.
2.   For the successful application of these two principles,
land tenure will have to be revised in the irrigated and drained areas.
Special procedures have to be set up for the expropriation of lands
owned by foreigners, after equitable compensation, and the transfer
to the government of the public religious domain suitable for agriculture.
Lands which have to be expropriated for reasons of public utility
will be listed in joint decrees by the Ministers of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform, Interior and Finance. When the decrees are published
in the official bulletin, the lands vill become the government's property;
the owner' rights will be extinguished by compensation; and the government
vill take the expropriated lands immediately. An administrative commission
(2 representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, 2 representatives of the
Ministry of Interior and 2 representatives of the Ministry of Finance,
headed by a representative of the Ministry of Justice) will determine the
value of compensation for expropriation.  The owners will then be notified
of the value placed on his property. If the owner does not agree to the
proposed value of compensation, another commission with about the same
composition vill review the judgment in the two folloving weeks; this second
judgment cannot be disputed. The law finally provides that guidelines for
the amount of compensation are to be established later.



ANtNEX 1
Page 2
A "common fund" will be set up to receive the exproDriated
lands and transferred domain, as well as collectively held lands, state- 
owned lands and lands claimed by the government as repayment for
improvement in property value through irrigation.
Using the lands added to the common fund, it will be possible
to increase the number of farms and their size by reallocation of the
land in the irrigated area.   A definitive list of the beneficiaries of
collective lands will be drawn up.    These lands and small private
farms will be increased by the addition of lands from the common fund
to create 5 ha minimum holdings owned by the fanmers.
3.   To facilitate the reallocation of lands and to speed up the
process, as well as to prevent their division into smeller holdings
after reallocation, the following rules will be enforced:
-    in the areas where reallocation will occur, registrâtion
of land and reregistration of all titles that are no
longer in accordance with existing land holdings, will
be done without charge;
-    all current land transactions will be stopped from the
time of publication of the list of beneficiaries in the
official bulletin, until all the reallocations have been
completed;
-    after realocation of lands, the subdivision of farm
units into less than 5 ha will be prohibited.
4.   The irrigation equipment, both outside and inside the farm, will
be supplied by the government.   Outside equipment includes reservoirs and
division dams, main and lateral canals and the drainage system.   Inside
equipment includes irrigation and drainage systems on the farms themselves,
land clearing, land levelling and all the necessary work for better use of
soil and water for irrigation.   In addition, the cost of realiocation of
land is paid for by the government.   The average cost per hectare for
external and internal equipment is DH 8,500; DH 3,h00, or ù0dO of the invest-
ment will be recovered from the farmer.   Part of this amount is recovered
directly through a land improvement tax and the other part is included in
the water charges.
Water charges for the Rharb Plain will be 2.90 Francs/m3 after
the first five years.   During the first four years 20%, hO%, 60% and 80-'
of this amount will be paid.   For fruit trees the full rate of water
charge will be paid after 10 years and during the first 10 years iO%, 20%,
etc., of full water charges will be paid (10% annual incresse).
The remaining direct participation of DH 1,500/ha will be p ,id
either in cash or over 20 years, including a 3-year grece period, at h:



ANNEX 1
Pare 3
interest (DH 123.20/ha/year).   The owners of less than 5 ia w;-l1 he
excused from the direct participation charges; the ovrners of evs
than 20 ha will be exonerated for the first 5 ha; the owners of mo-t
than 20 ha will pay in full.
5.   Lend development wlLl he mandatory for each irrigntion
sector and a decree from the Ministry of Agriculture wirl srecify the
cropping pattern, the methods of nroduction and irrigation and the
livestock ta be raised, both for utilization of forige crops nnr
protection of soil fertility.
If land develoDment is not in accordance uith the ruie. E
formal notice will be sent to the farmer, followed by 2 fine if
necessary, or by expropriation as the last resort, ;fter this is
proposed to the government by the Ministry of Agriculture.   Connen-
sation will be paid, with the amount, being determined by a local
administrative commission.
6.   In order to encourace cocperntives, the farmers of collective
lands nust be menbers of a cooperative, as stated in t;he royal decree doted
July k, 1966.   0-vmers of private lands can also be memrbers of suCh c
cooperative.   Cooperqtive unions mpy also be develoned.
7.   In the rainfed drainage areris, drainage inside and outside
the farm will be done and paid for by the government.   As for the
irrigated areas, L0O of the expenses will be repaid by the ovmers with
reductions for smallholders.   The tax for drainage will be DH 27/ha/
year, or DH 23.3/ha/year for the first 5 ha if owners have less than
20 ha.   When the land is irrigated, the tax for drainage will cease.
Land development will also be mandatory in the rainfed
drainage areas, a decree of the Ministry of Agriculture setting up the
cropping pattern and the rules for land development, with possible
fines if the rules are not followed.
8.   For the country as a whole, the government will establish
the necessary incentives for agricultural developmnent to bplance the
additional work required from the farmers, with distinctions made
between modern and traditionel farms.   Agricultural credit will also
be made available.
B.   Organization of Land Reform in the Project Aree
9.   Because of the high proportion of land in the Rharb Plain,
which can be placed in the common fund (100,000 ha of collective lnnd
and 100,000 ha of colonization land) to the private !4oroccan lands,
consisting of 100,000 ha (20,000 ha of which are smell farms which must
be enlarged from the common fund), the present landl status in tlle tiharb
Plain is very fivorable for development.   The percnntaF e of irriavJe
area which can be put under goverrn.ent control iÎF very high.



r F r CI Li
10.   For the creation of the coxron fund, the urovin
authority will have to stop land transrctions, establish the cnlend,ir
and the proceedings for expropriation of foreign-owmed lends, n.nd
audit any illegal sales which have been made before the promulgation
of the agricultural development law.   About 15' of the foreign-ovned
lands are thought to h,,ve been sold illegelly to Nloroccnns.
The beneficiaries of collective 1-nds will be listed b,y
commissions set up for this purpose, with a serprptte list o. private
land owners.
11.  WJhen this has been done, the renil1oca,tion of land will be
undertaken, the proposed target being th-t the farms of nrivste
owners and beneficiaries of collective lnnds will be large enough for
land development under irrigation.   The existing fruit tree
plantations and large Moroccan-owned commerciall farms will not be
split up.
Land consolidation of the first phase area will be based on
the following documents:
-    lists of beneficiaries of collective land and a list
of privately-owned estates;
-    existing cadastral maps and the attached lists;
-    drawings of the irrigation system at a scale of
1/20,000 established by the Sebou team;                                   e
-    plans of reallocation of lands and naps at c s cale
of 1/20,000 established by the Sebou team.
12.  Because of the unecual repartit,ion of common fund l,nd6s
between the different cornunes. scmr enchar,es of lanri ^Tl1I be mwde nrmona
the three communes of Dar Gueddari, Jmni  des Haouafate ind Msad, and a
section of Khenichet.
Land consolidation studies will resuilt in e mep at a scale of
1/20,000, giving the limits of the different units for land development.
7WJhen the irrigation study at scrle 'I/,C000 is comnleted,  the
exact demarcation with stone markers in the fields will be re;lli,e-'.
Considering the present population of the first phase area, it
seems possible to create as many farms of 5 ha as there are familles nowi
living in the project area.
Irrigation drawings nt scale 1,"5,000, land consolidetion and
land settlement of a comrune would be done by the snme tonogranhic con-
sultant firm.   The suDervision gn  -control of works wi11 be realized by
a team of two rural engineers, one surve-yor and one operator, three lnnd
tenure investigators and one irrigation engineer.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
e                                        M O R O C C O
RHARB IRRIGATION PROJECT
Soils and Drainage in the Project Area
A.  Distinction between Two Parts of the Drainage Problem
The removal of excess water from agricultural lands has two
aspects: a means must be supplied for the evacuation of surface run-
off water on the one hand and, secondly, the water which has infiltrated
into the soil causing the groundwater table to rise and the pores of the
soil mass to be filled, will have to be drawn down or out as well.
B.   The System of Open Ditches for Surface Runoff
1.   Primary and Secondary System
An extensive system of large to very large open ditches has
been dug in the Rharb Plain in order to alleviate the dimages caused by
stagnant surface water after inundations.   The system on the right side
of the Sebou River was started in 19h6 and completed in 1953, the system
on the left side was completed in 1960.   The effect was immediately
apparent during the floods of 1960 and 1963.
The primary system (and part of the secondary), therefore,
exists already in the project aréa.   The dimensions of the system have
been designed on the assumption of a specific runoff amounting to:
h.6 1/sec/ha for an. area of 10 ha
2.6 1/sec/ha for 100 ha
1.5 1/sec/ha for 1,000 ha
For the feasibility study of the project area, a check has been
made whether the existing primary and secondary ditches were deeper than
2 m.   No check has been made on the water levels obtained in the ditches
at the assumed design runoff.   This will have to be done when the tertiary
system is designed.
2.   Tertiary System
The tertiary system of open ditches can only be designed after
the land consolidation has been studied and the project for the reallocation
of lands is worked out.
This project of reallocation will indicate the location of the
fùture irrigation units, which are hOO m wide and between 911 and 1,190 m



Page 2
long, depending on the crop rotations foreseen in the area.   The location
of the units will have to be worked into the system of exirting roeds and
main drainage ditches, as well as into the preliminary layout of the
future irrigation and drainage system.
Each irrigation unit has quarternary ditches more or less
parallel to the contour lines at the bottom end of each parcel.   These
shallow (0.50 m) ditches end up in one tertiary ditch per irrigation
unit, which runs more or less perpendicular to the contour lines.
In areas where measures for subsurface drainage are unnecessary because
of adequate natural drainage, the tertiary ditch cen be sh llow also.
When, however, tile drains are needed, or will possibly be required, the
tertiary drains are given a depth of 1.80 m, a bottom width of 0.50 m,
and aide slopes 1 in 1.   In some areas, these deep tertiary ditches at
400 m spacing will improve the drawdown of the water table satisfactorily
by themselves.
3.   Surface Runoff
The amount of water running off the surface during heavy showers
in winter depends on the slope of the ground towards the ditch and the
infiltration capacity of the soil.   The slopes of the terrain in the
project area are from 1 in 100 to 1 in 1,000, or even less in the lowest,
flattest areas.
Where irrigation is to be introduced, the land of the farn plots
will be levelled.   Considering the fact that in the project area only the
best land will be equipped for irrigation, and that the levelling will
eliminate any local obstacles to free runoff, surface runoff will be un-
hindered.   The part which infiltrates into the ground will be small on the
heavy clay soils, where it will have to be removed by subsurface drainage,
and will be considerable only on the permeable soils, where there should be
no trouble in getting rid of excess water through underground percolation
towards the tertiary ditches.
Only on the lowest and flattest parts of the project area, which
will not be irrigated (for the time being), will there be a problem of
excess rain water not being able to run off because of lack of slope and,
therefore, slowly saturating the heavy soil to the detriment of the (winter)
crops standing in the field.
There, a special way of preparing the fields is effective.   It
consists of making shallow ditches at 20 to 25 m intervals and banking up
the soil in between tovards ridges of about 20 cm height.   In this way,
an artificial slope of about 1% is created to assist the surface runoff of
surplus rain water.   The shallow ditches are connected with the existing
system of secondary and primary open ditches.   The banks are maintained by
a special method of annual cultivation.
b.   Ricefield Areas
In rice field areas, surface runoff is difficult.   The level of
the water contained between small dykes around the rice field will rise



ANNEX 2
Page 3
during rain fall.   Care must be taken to provide one place ner fie]1
basin where overflow of excess water can take place without de ari:i
the side slope of the tertiary ditch.   Subsurface draiinage is not
beneficial tô the crop.
C.   Subsurface Drainage
1.   Soils in the Rharb Plain
A distinction can be made between two major soil types
occurring in the Rharb Plain:
-    the soils on the alluvial banks of the Sebou and
Beht Rivers.   These soils are called '"dhess".
These are naturally fairly well drained and cover
about 65,000 gross ha.   They are young soils and,
topographically, are higher than the level of the
center of the plain.   Clay contents are l0,O to
35%;
-    the soils in the plain.   These are called "tirs".
Their clay contents are fromr h5 to 55 , with a
predominance of expanding c1ay of the montmorillonite
type.   The degree of hydromorphy varies.   These
soils which involve problems of drainage cover some
l6 000 gross ha.
The transition from dhess to tirs is imperceptible.   The transition
zone consists of heavy dhess with a clayey texture.   It covers about
50,000 gross ha.
2.   Classification of Soils within the Project Area
A pedological reconnaissance survey (scale 1:100,000) was made
of the whole Rharb Plain.   A semi-detailed survey (scale 1:20,000) was
made covering some 63,000 gross ha of the project area, of which L7,000
gross ha fall within the part to be irrigated under the project.
Borings observation points of 2 m average depth were made at 3 per 100 ha.
Five soils classes were distinguished:
-    Class I    :  suitable for irrigation without restriction;
-    Class II  :  suitable for irrigation, with some lack of
drainage in the sub-soil.
-    Class III :  suitable for irrigation, but with difficulties
of drainage over the full profilers;
-    Class IV  :  suitable f-r irrigation, with ser-ous problPma
of drainage;
-    Class V   :  only suitible for rice requ!.ring no



AI.1Ixl:'FX    r
P-gpe lh
The adopted classification is comparable to that of the U3 Burnou c"
Reclamation (7th approximation).  The signiVfcant econorjo fet,ure 'nnucnt.
from the classification is the drainage notential of the soil].
3.   Drainage Capacity of the Soils
This conclusion led to en intensive progrnm of ne2menbi1ity
measurements in the project area.   Up to the 30t'n of Alkugst, 196e,
permeebility mensurements were nide at three horizon? (1, 2 and 3 m
depth) on some ;h,000 sites, using the drillhole method (Dut-h method).
The information obtained in this way yer itted most of the seila with
very low penmeability (factor K smaller than 0.10 m/day) to be
excluded from the irrigated part of the project irea.
However, it is necessary to undertake an additional survey
of permeabilities at a density of one hold per 10 ha on the marginally
drainable 8,300 gross ha recognized as soils with classification III
or IV, and preferably also on the more drainable 5,600 gross ha of
Class Il.
If this survey is carried out, no additional detailed survey
will be required, since any other pedological detai,ls of the area can
be obtained at the same time the permeabilities are measured.
.   Designed Sub-surface Drainage of the Feasibility Study
The feasibility study includes a provisional design of siih-
surface drainage consisting of baked clay tiledrains with a diameter of
8 cm, placed by hand at a depth of 1.50 m with a slope of 1.5 per
thousand in a bed of gravel.
The recuired distances between the drains have been cal-
culated on the following GssumDtions:
-    discharge to be evpcuated: 2 mm per day, eaualing
the 30' field losses of irrigation water in the peck
month of July when the evapo-transpiration reauirements
amounts to 180 mm/month, or 6 mm per day;
-    depth of drains 1.50 m;
-    height of water table between drains : 0.50 m above
drains;
-    permeability factors obtained from provisional survey.
In this way, subsurface drainage has been assumed to be necessary
on 36,270 gross ha of the b3,300 net ha which ieil he irrigated in the
project area.   The drain distances vary fron 20 to 130 m with an nver,a,7e
distance of hO m, or an average of 12L0 m of drain length per ha for the



ANtiEX 2
Page 5
whole area.   Included in this provisional design are 2,300 ha with
permeability factor K = 0.05 m/day, requiring drains et ll m distances,
or 910 m of drain length per ha.   The detailed penmeability survey
mentioned above will have to establish whether this part should be
excluded from the irrigation project altogether, or perhaps limited
to rice cultivation.
However, not only a more detailed survey is required. Also,
experimentation on an experimental station should be carried out to
establish the validity of the assumptions on which the provisional
design has been based.
D.   Experimental Station for Drainage
1.   Plan
Agreement has been reached already on the establishment of an
experimental station on part of the "Ferme d'Application" of the
Agronomie Institute in the Rharb.   The farm is situated near Moghrane,
between the lower Sebou and Beht Rivers, within the project area.
A plot of 18 ha, consisting of two areas of 220 X 400 m has
been destined for the station.   About 200 measurements of permeability
on the farm have indicated the occurrence of representative soils.
Further K measurements will be required.
At first, 9 ha of the station will be equipped with subsoil
tile drains, placed by hand in 30 cm wide ditches dug by machine, at
varying distances, in beds of earth, sand and gravel.   Some plastic
drains will also be used.   Piezometer tubes will allow the drawdown
of the water table to be observed.
The drains will be 50 m long, they will be placed in a herring-
bone pattern, ending in an open tertiary ditch which drains off towards
a secondary ditch, and through the farm's drain system tovards the Sebou
River.   Measurements of flow through indMdual drains will be possible
at the tertiary ditch.
E.  Borders of the Sebou and Beht Rivers
The best soils included in the project area are those situated
along the Sebou and Beht Rivers.   In summer, when the water level in the
rivers is low, natural drainage of infiltrated irrigation water takes
place towards the river.
The width of the border regions provided with this natural out-
let for percolating water has been estimated at 500 m along the Sebou and
300 m along the Beht River.   However, the figure given for the Sebou was
established for the situation after the movable weir at Tazi is built and
the water in the Sebou River is raised.   As long as this is not yet the
case (until 1982), the effect of the Sebou River on the groundwater table
in the border regions will extend over a greater width of land, estimpted
at 1,000 m.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
This is an additional reason for postponing the investment in
subsoil drainage in areas situated in the zone between 500 and 1,000 m
from the Sebou River, until such time as the drawdown of the groundwnter
table in certain farms proves to have become less than satisfactory.
F.   Salinity
A map of the salinity of soils in the project area has been
made on the basis of 1,380 investigated samples and using the criteria
from the Agricultuiral Handbook No. 60.   It shows that over 68% of the
area to be irrigated is not (or is only slightly) saline.   In other
parts, the deeper soil layers have an average salinity, but the surface
so9is are rarely saline, even in the lowest part of the area.   This
proves that the rainfall tends to ensure the washing out of accumulated
salts, even in these areas excluded from irrigation.
The quality of the water to be used for irrigation has been
investigated during an extensive program of sampling executed by the
Water Resources Division of the Ministry of Public Works.   Calculations
of the salt balance under full irrigation lead to the conclusion that
the normal field losses of 30% will be ample to prevent accumulation of
salt.   As long as the evacuation of infiltrated water is assured,
either by natural percolation or through a subsoil drainage system, no
additional water is necessary for leaching and there will be no danger of
an upward movement of saline groundwater caused by evaporation in summer.



ANNEK 3
Page 1
MDROCCO
RHARB IRRIGATION PROJECT
Wlater Supply and Requirements
A. Rainfall
1.      The rains usually begin in mid-October and last until mid-April.  Most of
the Rharb Plain has an average annual rainfall of between 500 and,700 mm (Kenitra:
- 5°6 mm, Souk-el-Arba:  59lj mm, Sidi-Slimane:  464 mm). About 90% of the rainfall
tqkes place in the 8 rain months. The inter-annual variations are considerable
(Kenitra: max. 8bî mm (1936), min. 330 mm (1953)).
2.      The rainfall in the upper reaches of the Sebou and Ouerrha Rivers reaches
average yearly values of up to 1,200 mm (Middle Atlas Rpnge, Sebou) and 1,500 mm
and higher (Rif Miountains, Ouerrha).
B. Run-off
3.      River flow imeasurements have been systematically made during about 30 years
(1932-1963) on the Sebou and Ouerrha Rivers. Other measurements, such as those
started on the Inaouene River in 1960, have been correlated vith the longer series.
1!.     The average run-off amounts to about 23% of the averege rainfall, with vide
variations between various sub-regions (Ouerrha:  bî%, Beht:  15') and between
years (Ouerrha:  wet year U3%, dry year 10%).
5.     J'he mean river flov for the period 1932-1°63 has been established as
fOllows:
- Inaouene River (Arabat dam site)              : 17.6 P3/sec
- Ouerrha River at conifluence with Sebou       : 92 m3/sec
- Sebou River ae  same conI'luence              : 70 m3/sec
- Sebou River Basin as 8 whole                  : 199 m3/sec
6.      The very lowest flows have boen recorded in the year l9bU-45.  The
frequency of occurrence of a similar dry year has been estimated at about once
per century.
7.      The inter-armual variation is essentially similar for all of the rivers.
The seasonal variations, howoever, differ significantly. The Sebou River, qvith
its source in the Karstified Middle Atlas Range has a relatively regular flow
T.irhereas the Ouerrha and Beht Rivers are much more torrential.  The Ouerrha River
in particular is characterized by extreme differences bett^een summer and v-inter
flow as twe1l as by the sudden occurrence of high peak flowJs over short periods.
C. Underground WSatErResources
P 8.    nTwo water tables are to be found in the alluvial plain:  a shallow
groundwater table v-hich is saline in places, and a deeper water table fed by
infiltrated water from the border regions.  The latter is knowm from the study
of about 500 borings and its total discharge is estimated at 7 m3/sec. Neither
of bhese resources is suitable for agricultural. utilization.



Ar>1ml 3
Pa gc 2
D.  Water Requirements
9.      The potential evapotranspiration in the Rharb Plain has been estebM
at 1,280 rm (using the method of Turc).
10.     The actual water requirements of various crops have been establisiecd by
using the method of Blaney and Criddle:
Crop                  lWater reguirements in mm per year
Rice                                   l,I100
Citrus                                   710
Sugarcane                                910
Cotton                                   660
Wheat                                    180
Sugarbeet                                260
In thet;e figures, the average rainfall has been deducted and a field efficiency or
70% has been taken into account.
11.     For the various cropping patterns considered for the irrigated areas
in the Rharb Plain, the following water requirements at farm gate are obtained:
Cropping Pattern            Average Annual WiJter Recuirement
(m)
Citrus (also poplars)                              710
Sugarcane                                          870                  q
Rice                                             1,260
5-year rotation (also domestic
agriculture and
vegetables)                      770
4-year rotation                                     80
12.     Between the water'requiremertat the farm gate and at the heed of the
irrigation systempas well as at the storage reservoir, tnere is a difference
caused by losses (leakages, evaporation, operational losses) and waste (spilling).
For the increment of the water requirement the following asuiptions heve been
made:
Losses and waste in the irrigation system           205-
Losses during conveyance in the rivers              10%
Losses in the reservoir (evaporation)               755,0
13.     For the area to be irrigated from Arabat damn (80,000 ha or nei,lX irrig-téd
land plus 11,000 ha existing citrus plantations) an average of 1]0,200 mxn w,ill be  -
required per year per hectare at the head of the irrigation system.  For the final
stage of development of the complete Rharb Plain the average requirement i-il1 be
only 9,500 m3. The difference is due to the higher percentage of crops demanding -
more water in the first stage of the development plan.  Insofar as the tYster is
derived from storage reservoirs, the additional percentages of loss huve to be
taken into account.



A.:t:; 3
Page 3
lii.    The peak water requirements on which the design or the irrig-.tion F':Et;r'
is based occurs in July.  On the individual fanns these perk requirrcrenta, Cencndin
on the crops, are as follows:
- rice                              1.8 litera per sec per ha
- sugarcane                         1.0          "   "i  I I
- 5-year rotation                   0.89  TT    "   "   "  "
- 4-year rotation                   0.89  " Il    
- citrus                            0.69  " T T
However, when large areas are served by a primary or secondary irrigation canal,
certain reductions may be brought into account because not el]. the peak demands
w$1l occur on all of the farms at the same time.  8uitable reductions h?1ve been
adopted.
E. Time-lag Between Possible and Real Wîater Requirements
15.     A very important point in the programming of the development of the
project area and its extension over the complete Rharb Plain is the f1act that
account has been taken of the time-lag between the possible and the real I.r er
requirement.  An area which is fully equipped for irrigation, in actual practics
will not really be irrigated to its full potential- during a certain number of
yeara in which the farmers become familiar with the system and its demands
and poaBibilitieu.
16.     On the basis of various information, a theoretical assunption was made
that in the first year of irrigation only 50' oI' the area would be actually
irrlgated:
After 2 years - 62%
Il  " - 72%
i'  .6  "    -5îÇ<
8         8 7%
Il 10  "    -92i
Aa far as new citrus plantations are concerned, the assumption nkay  clso inc!uac
the-fact that during the first years the new plantation requires but little ;oeter.
17.     The consequence of this assumption is that the total water reouirements
of the project area when its 38,300 ha are fully equipped for irrigation TJI11
only be equivalent to the demand of some 23,000 fully irrigated hectares.  For
the irrigated area of the first twro phases of development, the der.xnd of its
80,000 equipped hectares at first will be equivalent to the full requirer!ents
of 67,000 ha and will only gradually increase.
18.     This time-lag assumption is not to be confused with similar a surxptions
concerning the gradual attainment of optimum cropping patterns -nd v-ith the
normal delay required to obtain full production results.
F. Water supplies from the Unregulated Rivers
19.     At present, the unregulated flow of the louer S bou River in thc ?ar:b
eb         Plain in normal years is sufficient for the irrigation of the existing 1l,000 h-



À.*i:,.`.i:
of rice and citrus plantations.  Presumably even in the cdrioest p -1io'i, -he
individual purping stations of these plantctions  rea b1le to nUxi'  J  rSvUT'
anount of water but no extension seems to be possi`ole -0 taut enc-;-, rr,i
existing orchards.
20.     The construction of a dam and storage reservoir ;ill incr s  ';h
possibilities.  A careful ex-ploitation oa' 'he re ervoi.r  il hoa e-;.-t ?os:l
to use the unregulated supply of the 1b,bou River in the pla-n (îj-cluatinO th-
flow oaL the Ouerriv River) as long as there ià sufi'iciznt rater, arid onl  to
relcase complementary water frora the reservoir u-hen the sumraer f-lou becare-  uo
small.
G.  Idriss I Dam
21.   The Idriss I Dam on the Inaouene River 211ous the flof aF this river
(average 17.6 m3/sec, or 555 million m3 per ycar) to be ndded to the n?turn-'
flowr et critical periods.  Assun-ng a very good man.gercnt, n to o-l af ?0,000 h^
of the area to be equipped for irrigation could eventually be irrignted.
22.     A study has been made on the basiL  of 30 yea'rs of river flou reaurenents
(1932-1963) to establish the capacity oa  the resErvoir uhich is needed to runrentee
at least 75s OI the water requirements of 90,000 ha (733    ) during the uhale
period, and 95% on an average over tibe whole period.  It was found that, iI' the
year l9bb-15 is left out oa  consider.tion as being a castaJstrophicall77 dry year
occurring about once a centuryj, a capacity OL 1,100 im3 would bc required.
23.     Estimates have been rade of the scdiment load carricd  k', thle river-.
The erosion in the Rif IIountaina, is heavier than in the 7I:. dflc P*t1e r nge
because of differences in geological formation, vegetal cover, steepness aI
hills and rainfall.  The estimated rates of erosion arrived At were 4,C00 t-aOn!
km2/year in the Riu to 2,000 ton/km2/year in the Atlas.  Flor the Ina.uene Rinar
catch basin an annual rate oa  erosion ao' the sm.ller order u2s aSSUmed n-rie'
about 1.0 mn over the area O' 3,627 Im<. Assuhing that roast o_ the sedircnts
(8O0') wTould settle in the reservoir, a reserve copacity cf Thbeut 300 IMr3 for t`q
loss oa  reservoir volume duLring 100 years hns been taken into consideration.  Ti?i
gross capacity o0  the reservoir, therafore, has been taken Vi l,Lh30 :Q3.
,14.    TTaling into account the fact that a large part oa the re.serv  c-pac`t7
w,Till be available during the first century, it c^r. saalV be .ssur"d th.t tir
Idrisa IDmenin combination with the unregulated flo.! oar the nebou ind Ouerrl
Rivers will provide sufficient water for thG 80,000 ha tao b  necl-  enuiped
and the existing 11,000 ha of rice and citruis plantations in all but ,;he dri*st
years.  This assurption becomes the more safe Il for other rcasons (poarer
production) part oa  tho unregulated flou. in the bebou IRiver is diverted ji1to
theldrissIrebervoir through a,weir at Ait Youb ano the  htr.at. Tunnol., or i,f
other provisions are taken for further regulatlon oaf the discharges of tilh
3ebou and Ouerrha Rivers for extension of the irrigntion in the R"Jharb 21cmin.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
MOROCCO
RULARD IRRIGAiTION PROJECT
MAJOR PROJECT WORKS
A. IDRISS I
General
1.  The site of the Idriss I dam and reservoir is located about 25 km to the
NE of Fez. A new road of, 6-7 km length is presently under construction along
the left bank of the Inacluene linking the main highway Fez-Taza with the
damsite. Above the damsite the Inaouene falls at between 0.9 to 0.12% and at
certain points the valley is up to 4-5 km wide. A dam of moderate height can
therefore provide a considerable storage. Storage volume would vary from 500 -
1400 million m3  if the dam height increases from 40 - 60 m.
2.        Although topographically and geologically possible, maximum storage
is limited because the main road and railroad linking Fez with Oujda and
Algeria run through the reservoir area. Both road and railroad would be flooded
over too great a length if maximum storage level were increased above
220.0 m.a.s.l.  At this level, storage volume would be about 1430 million mn3,
and the railway and road would have to be relocated over a length of 15 km and lOkm
*       respectively.          At an elevation of 205.0 m.a.s.l. providing a storage
volume of 700 million m3, no reloca:ion would be requiretl.
3.        Since a storage volume over 700 million m3 would not be required for
the first 10 years - until diversion of Upper Sebou flow to Arabat - it is
possible to defer investments needed for relocation.
Hydrology
4.        The damsite is about 28 km downstream of the Touaba gauging station.
Installed in 1960, the measuted flows were correlated with results obtained at
other stations on the Sebou and Ouerrha which have been in operation for longer
periods.
5.        Relating the Touaba flows to the damsite gives for the perioa
1933-1966 an average annual flow of 17.6 m3/sec. This corresponds to an
average annual run-off of 555 million m3 substantially below the useful storage
capacity of 1100 million m3.  Unless additional flow is diverted into Arabat
such a storage would not be justified. A gross capacity - allowing for
siltation and flood contral - of 900 million m3 would allow full regulation
of the Inaouene. Increasing gross capacity from 900 - 1430 million m3 or by
about 60% requires raising the dam only 10 m. The costs to achieve this would
increase by only 15-20% or about 12.5 million Dirhams (US$ 2.5 million).
6.        Floods at Touaba have been estimated at:



ANNEX 4
Page 2
1/100 years            1400 m3/sec; and
1/1000 years           2460 m3/sec.
Specific floods estimated in the Upper Inaouene basin vary from 1.49 m3/sec/km2 -
1.90 m3/sec/km2.  Based on an average, the maximum probable flood would be about
5,000 - 6000 m3/sec corresponding to 1.7 m3/sec/km2. As a consequence spillway
and outlet capacity was designed for a maximum flood of 6,000 m3/sec.
7.        With a flood retention volume of 100 million m3 the flood peak
downstream would be substantially reduced. If the storage of 140 million m3
provided by the free-board of 2.5 m is also utilized the effects of even
catastrophic floods can be reduced.
Geology
8.        Geological investigations covered detailed surface mapping; geo-
physical surveys (seismic, electric); drillings; permeability measurements;
excavation of shafts and tunnels; insitu and laboratory measurements of rock
deformations; and physical, chemical and mechanical analysis of rock character-
istics. These investigations were carried out by geologists of the "Direction
des Resources en Eau" (DRE) under the guidance of experts and consultants
appointed by the Sebou Project Management.
9.        Started in March 1964, the following results were obtained:
i)  An extensive layer of calcerous and marly calcerous formations           l
of the Miocene period covers a wide area and forms the damsite.
This layer "floats" on a sub-surface water reserve complex of
the Pre-Rif. This complex in general, consists of marls of
mediocre mechanical quality which are frequently gypsiferous
and saliferous. They form part of the Trias, Creteceous and
Miocene formations.
ii) In all drill-holes, shafts and exploratory tunnels, marly
calcerous rocks were encountered. "Marly" denotes a lowering of
mechanical resistance of core samples after soaking in water.
ei)  Up to a depth of about 10 m the calcerous rock on the left bank
is extremely permeabl . Suitable precautions will have to be
taken to prevent kars:ic movement as a result of disintegration
af marly saliferous formations close to the surface. Weathering
occurs up to a depth of about 15 m in the calcerous layers.  It
will therefore be necessary to provide lur a grout curtain
extending to a depth of at least 50 m in addition to whicnl frac-
tured zones in the foundation area will have to be consolidated
by grouting.
iv) The right bank is sounder and presents no special problems so
far as watertiglhtness is concerned.
v)  Although the damsite has been intensively investigated the
reservoir area has not received sufficient attention. Consider-
ing the mechanical properties of the marls when submerged in
water, the reservoir area snould be investigated for potential



ANNEX 4
Page 3
slip areas especiaLly on the left or south bank of the reservoir.
Whilst such slips would not necessarily endanger the safety of
the dam, villages, roads, and the railway could he affected.
vi) Laboratory tests carried out showed that rock deformations would
not exceeci accepted limits at mdnum fbundation pressure.
Principal Dam Characteristics
10.       Taking into account geological considerations and the availability
of construction materials, a hollow gravity concrete dam was selected as the
most economic solution. Suitable concrete aggregates were found 7 km down-
streami of the site.
Main Features
Height above river level                           65 m
Crest elevation                                   223.0 m.a.s.l.
Full Supply level                                 220.0 m.a.s.l.
Crest length                                      435 m
Spillway, 4 sector gates                           14 m x 11 m
Spillway capacity                 4,600 m3/sec
Bottom outlet capacity            1,020 m3/sec
Intermediate outlet capacity        955 m3/sec
Total possible fleod discharge                 6,575 m3/sec
e                  Excavation volume                             970,000 m3
Concrete volume including
stilling basin                           500,000 m3
Hollow wall sections (thickness)                   15 m
Desîgn
11.       Preliminary stability calculations have been carried out for various
assumptions. Seismic disturbances of 0.1 g (horizontal acceleration witn
storage filled to normal level) have been allowed for and maximum compression
stress has been calculated at 22.1 kg/km2 and tensile stress is negligible.
Margin of safety is more than adequate. In addition both the gliding factor
(0.747) and overturn factor (1.99) are satisfactory.
Construction
12.       No diversion tunnel is required.  Construction is planned to take
place in two stages:
i)  the ten sections on the right bank and the four spillway
and outlet sections. Construction of these will be protected
by a dyke leveled off at 172 m.a.s.l. or some 10 m above river
bed; and
ii)  the eigit sections on the left bank.  Construction of these
will be protected by a new dyke also leveled off at 172.0 m.a.s.l.
A 1/100 year flood could be evacuated through the outlets
provided for in the first phase.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
B. NEW IRRIGATION SYSTEMS
General
13.       The irrigated part of the project area consists of two sections, one
situated on the high grounds along the Sebou River on the north of the project
area, the other on the south along the banks of the Beth River.
14.       Both sections are divided into sectors which are each supplied with
water by individual pump stations. The northern section has 9 of these
sectors ranging in size from 750 ha to 5,700 ha (including the existing
citrus plantations) with pump stations taking the water from the Sebou River.
The southern section has 5 sectors, from 500 to 4,800 ha in size, including
the existing citrus plantations. A future weir at Mechra El Hajjer will
divert water from the Sebou River into a concrete-lined canal which will
dominate most of the southern section and supply water to other e8ctors of
the first phase of 93,000 ha net lands to be irrigated from the Arabat Dam.
However, in order to postpone the investments for these important construction
works, a temporary solution is proposed for the provision of water to the
project area's southern section.
Provisional Solution
15.       The provisional solution for the supply of water to the southern
section of the area consists of:
- a temporary pump station on the Sebou River;
- a temporary canal of 3 km length of 9 m3/sec capacity;
- a temporary canal of 22 km length of 4 m3/sec capacity, following
the future right-of-way for the permanent canal;
- diversion of 5 m3/sec into an existing large drainage canal which
will need some adaptation and connections;
- 6 pump stations of which i can be constructed in such a way that
it can be fitted into the future plans with minor alterations only.
The Sector on the Right Bank of the Sebou River
16.       On the right bank of the Sebou River before it is joined by the
Ouerrha River, a sector is situated within the administrative unit of Od
Khalifa of the rural commune of Khenichet, which comprises 1,950 ha to be
equipped (of which 1.200 ha for citrus) and 800 ha of existing citrus planta-
tions. This area is to be supplied with water from the Sebou River by one
permanent pumping station.
Irrigation Networks
17.       The irrigation water is conveyed to the field by a network of concrete-
lined earth canals (for discharges greater than 1.5 m3/sec) or prefabricated,
pre-stressed concrete canals on supports (for the smaller discharges). The
latter system is well-known in Morocco and has been applied in other irrigated
areas also.  Its advantages are:
- longevity (at least 30 years)



ANNEX 4
Page 5
- easy maintenance
- watertightness and immediate visibility of possible leakages
- independence of topography
- hydraulic smoothness of the canals, requiring little gradient
(advantage in flat regions)
- little room required for right-of-way
- facility and quickness of construction.
To these general advantages are added the following three considerations which
make this system attractive for the project area:
- the canals being some distance above the ground between supports,
free passageway is g,iven to inundation water
- the clay soils in tlhe lower areas often are of an expanding type
and settlements may occur; by using a special type of supports,
adjustments will be very easy
- the canals supported above ground will not be easily damaged by
roaming cattle.
Costs
18.       The cost of this system for irrigation networks is high.  For the
project the following prices have been adopted (averages for the project area
irrigation):
Primary canals:  concrete-lined for discharges larger than 1.5 m3/sec,
prefabricated for smaller sizes - 520 DH/ha
Secondary and tertiary canals (prefab): 1,680 DH/ha. No comparative
figures are available for secondary and tertiary networks constructed
as concrete-lined earth canals.
19.       From an analysis of the formulas for price increase claims usually
contained in building contracts in Morocco, the followîilg distribution of price
elements has been deduced (in%):
Item           General Costs Salaries  Cement  Steel  Machines  Transport  Fuel
Irr. Networks
primary               15          40      25                15          5
sec. & tert.          15          35      10       10      10          15
Concrete-lined
canal
earthworks            15          30                       45                   10
concrete lining       15          35      30               20
Another analysis, based on the different kinds of work, materials, machines,
types of labor, required for each kind of construction has supplied the following
approximate information.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Foreign                                 Net Local Value
Exchange   Local   Amorti-   Skilled   Minus Skilled
Part       Part    zation    Labor      Labor
Irr. networks
primary             20       80        5        25            50
sec. & tert.       26        74        4        24            46
Concrete-lined
canal              24        76        2        21            53
Conclusions and Remarks
20.       Various cost comparisons between concrete-lined earth canals and
prefabricated canals on supports have been made on a theoretical basis (for
example, in the Tadla area in 1963/64). No practical comparison, however, has
been made yet in Morocco between large-scale application of concrete-lined earth
canals and a similar area with prefabricated canals on supports. The calcula-
tions show that at a certain dimension of the canal the costs are about the
same but for smaller sizes the prefabs are cheaper, whilst for larger dimensions
concrete-lined earthwork canals are more economical.
21.       In the Basse Moulouya area, the critical size is being taken at a
discharge of 1 m3/sec.  For the Sebou Project it has been assumed at a discharge
of 1.5 m3/sec. The real comparison of costs, however, depends on so many
factors, such as topography, availability of materials, the machines and
skilled labor competing contractors have available, etc., that no generally
valid conclusion can be drawn.
22.       It is therefore recommended to include the possibility for alternative
constructions in tender documents for primary irrigation networks, in order
that contractors may offer the most economic solution for each particular case.
23.       It must be kept in mind, however, that concrete-lined earthen canals
demand more supervision during construction. In particular, the tertiary canals
which have to carry the water above the level of the terrain, have to be con-
structed in fill. Adequate compaction of this fill in summer is difficult to
achieve and its satisfactory execution is hard to supervise. Therefore, the
smaller canals should consist only of prefabricated elements.
24.       The two different analyses given in paragraph 2, show that the differ-
ence in net local value after subtraction of skilled labor is of the order of
53-46 = 7%. The comparison between the percentage of unskilled, or under-
employed, labor to be used for either method indicates that the placing of
!,refabricated elements requires even less skill than the careful compaction of
fill and the achievement of economically thin concrete linings.
25.       The decisive argument for applying prefabricated elements for the
secondary and tertiary networks in the project area, however, is the speed at
which the equipment of the area has to be achieved in order to obtain maximum
economic benefits of the project. The advantage of designers, contractors
and supervising personnel being familiar with the system of prefabricated
elemients will enhance the realization of the development at a speed of 9,000
ha per year.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
C. >1ETHODS OF WATER APPLICATION
26.       For the irrigated part of the project area which is to be equipped
in the first construction years, the application of water by flooding has been
chosen and not by sprinkling. The main reason for this choice is the wish to
avoid additional new technical skill to be required both during thE; first period
of attaining a construction rythm of 9,000 ha equipped per year, and secondly
during the period of adaptation of the farmers to new crops and crop rotations
as well as to various activities and disciplines which it will be required of
them to become acquainted with. The water distribution by gravity and floodinR
of fields from open concrete irrigation canals is well enough known in Morocco
to ensure a minimum of problems as far as construction and its being put to
immedîate use are concerned.
27.       An important reasoi furthermore is the fact that in the project area
the microtopography is very regular. The advantages of sprinkler irrigation
such as the ease of overcoming topographical irregularities and the reduction
of levelling requirements therefore play a role of less significance in the
project area.
28.       Other reasons are the higher costs (estimated at 15% more for the
investments and 100% more for the costs of power for the pump stations), the
frequent occurrence of winds of velocities higher than 4 m/sec, the wish to
have areas in each sector reserved for free domestic agricultural purposes on
plots of about 0.5 ha, and finally the lack of experience with high pressure
sprinkler irtigation on sugarcane fields in Morocco.
29.       On the other hand, sprinkler irrigation has been provisionally fore-
seen for the steeper and more irregular boundary regions of the Rharb plain
and the dune areas along the coast.
D. WATER DISTRIBUTION
30.       From down stream upwards, the irrigation water is distributed to the
land as follows:
- the irrigation unit is an area of 25 to 40 ha supplied by a
tertiary canal. Within this unit water is distributed into earth
canals (quaternaries) and from there onto the fields, Lnto basins.
borders or furrows;
- two units are supplied by one tertiary canal carrying a constant
discharge of two times 30 to 40 1/sec;
- several units together will form an area of between 100 and 500 ha,
supplied by a secondary canal which is divided into the required
number of tertiary canals;
- several of these secondary groups of irrigation units together
form a sector which is served by a primary canal and (in most
cases in the project area) by an individual pump station.
The water distribution will be based on a regulated schedule.
31.       The regulation of the flow is achieved at the top end of tertiary and
secondary canals by gates which perait a certain specified discharge to enter
the canals.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
32.       The flow in the primary canals at the pump stations is regulated
by automatic gates reacting to the down stream water level.
33.       The volumes of water available in the primary canals are such that
the automatic reaction of the gates causing one or more of the pumps to be
restarted does not occur at too high frequencies.
E. INUNDATIONS
34.       In 1960, 100,000 ha of the Rharb plain vere inundated by flooding of
the Sebou River, and in 1963, the worst recorded flood occurred, inundating
180,000 ha. The maximum discharge of the Sebou River (including the discharge
of the Ouerrha River ) at that time amounted to 7,600 m3/sec. The capacity
of the riverbed in the plain decreases from 3,000 to 1,500 m3/sec lower down.
At flood discharge, the water has to overflow the banks and runs through gulleys
towards the low areas. Although a system of large drains has been dug in these
areas since 1950, the evacuation of the water still can take more than a week.
35.       The prevention of inundation can be achieved either by building dams
in the rivers with flood retention capacity in their reservoirs, or by providing
emergency spillways in a system of dykes along the lower Sebou River, with endyked
by-pass channels to lead the water safely past developed and equipped areas.
36.       Both methods have been studied.  Arabat dam on the regularly flowing
Inaouene River, has little influence on extreme floods. Only a dam (M'Jara)
on the Ouerrha River, which has the most irregular regime, could effectively
decrease the inundation hazard. On the other hand, the improvements of the
lower Sebou's riverbed and the construction of dykes and artificial evacuation
channels would cost an investment of roughly 100 million DH. In view of the
estimated damage of only 3 million DH on aii average per year at present,
which would increase with the equipment of the plain to about 10 to 15 million
Dl- per year, a solution has been chosen for the first phase of the long-term
development plan which does not include measures against the inundations.
37.       As far as the irrigated part of the project area is concerned, the
following precautions to be taken will guarantee that a minimum of damage will
occur should another catastrophic flood take place during the initial phase
of the long-term plan:
- the pump stations are located on high places on the banks which even
in 1963 were not inundated;
- the primary canals run along the highest ridges in the terrain,
perpendicular to the river and parallel to the overflowing discharges
through the lowest places in the banks;
- the secondary and tertiary canals which may cross the streams of
overflowing water, are made of concrete elements supported at
6.82 m intervals but spanning the gaps high enough above the
ground to allow the water i'ree passage;
- the only element of the eq-xipment which may suffer damage is the
network of open drains which may be partly silted up. The re-
excavation of drains is therefore one of the items of the estimated *
increased yearly damages caused by severe inundations;                   _



4223.00 200
CONTROLLED  SPILLWAY                                         _____         =
4  GATES         14.0 x 11.0   /       .      /0O
S   15 m             ÂX                          3       ~~~~~~~~~AVAI LABLE; STORA:GE  CAPA CITY
162.00 k,E 
5%  _
-     POWER INSAnE    '                               .EVEL 005201
120EVLO .TL ETF O551
I  '0~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
ARBj              A
I ~~~~~~      a '0~~~~PW
C-.L.-L-
111CR    S~~~~~~~~~1S                                                                                               I~~~~~~Fî~~~~ 42V1.11






ANNEX 5
MOi(CC O
RHARB IRRIGATION P70OJECT
AGRICULTURAL DVVETJ?[EN'r
1.        Different cropping patterns for irrigated areas have been proposed,
a.ccording to the different types of soils (see Annex 2), and between the re-
alloca.tion of lands and the beginning of irrigations a four-yea,r cropping
pattern for improved dry farming.
2.        On dhess soils thee different cropping patterns will be developed:
sugarcane, citrus and truck gardening.  On heavy dhess and tirs so ils, 5-year
cropping patterns, 4-yea.r cropping patterns and paddy rice cropping patterns
will be grown. Domestic agriculture will be developed either on dhess or
on tirs soils, depending on the location of the villages. The improved dry
farrming will precede irrigation either on dhess or tirs soils, except for the
first phase irrigation area, which will be immediately devoted to irrigation.
Im)roved dry farming will be practiced on tir soils after banks have been pre-
pared (see Annex 2). Poplar trees will be grown on the Mamora. sands in the
southern part of the plain. On the sandy and hilly soils near the coa.st the
five-yea.r cropping pattern will be grown with potatoes instead of sugarbeet.
3.        The calendar of the proposed cropping patterns is given in Table 1.
The projected yields, costs of production and returns for the crops are given
in Table 2. The net revenue per hectare of each cropping pattern is given
in Table 3, with and without the added value due to livestock production.
Examples of typical farm budgets of families producing the various cropping
patterns over 5 net hecta.res are given in Table 4.
Livestock Development and Fora.ge Production Costs
4.        Introduction of livestock production in the program of development
of the irrigated areas is perhaps one of the most important innovations intro-
duced by the Agricultural Development Law, and teclrnically a necessity to
maintain the fertility of soils and a high production level.  In the Rharb Plain
it is expected that production will be:
- 217 mnillion lite of milk at O.b DH/kg and lh,500
tons  of meat at 5 DH/kg.
- 970 tons of mutton at 6.5 DH/kg and lh5 tons of wool at >4.7 DH/kg.
o



ANNEX 5
Page 2
- ilorses, mules and donkeys will be used for draft animnals and
ultimately low-grade meat. The evaluation of the labor of these
draft animals has been considered equivalent to the same work done
by tractors; 3.2 million hours at 16 DH/hour.
- The Rharb Plain will produce 3.5 million tons of green forage,
69% of which will be consumed by bovines, 7% by sheep and 24% by
horses, mules and donkeys.
- The total expenses for stables and production of forage have been
split oetween these 3 kinds of animals with the same percentages;
69%, 7% and 24%.
Expenses (M DH)
Value of                       Veteri-                 Forage
Production (M DU)         Concen-  narians,                 Culti-
Milk  Meat  Wool  Labor    trates   etc.            Stables   vation
Bovines    86.8  72.5    -       -        46.9        6.4        13.2       26.3
Sheep         -    6.3   0.8    -          1.1        0.3         1.3        2.7
Horses,
Mules,
Donkeys      -    2.1    -    51.2        9.5        1.9         4.6        9.1
86.8  80.9   0.8   51.2       57.5        8.6        19.1       38.1
- - - -1 abor (Man Days) - - -
Production    Purchases    Net Added                  Livestock                   _
Value          In            Value In      Forage    and
In M DH        M DH          M DH          Crops      Traction      Total
Bovines      159            93            66          2.5          3.5         6.0
Sheep          7             5              2         0.2          0.1         0.3
Horses, Mules53             25            28          0.9          4.3         5.2
Donkeys    219            123            96          3.6          7.9        11.5
The net added value produced by livestock is 96 M DH. With the assumption
that productivity is the samne in the different activities, the working day
will be paid at the rate of 96/11.5 = 8.4 DH. Thirty-one percent of the time
(3.6/11.5) is spent to prodice forage, and the added value is 31/100 x 96 =
29.9 M DH. In such cases tihe value of forage produced is 29.9 +38.1 = 68 M DH
and the average price per ton of forage produced is 68/3.5 = 19 DH. Consider-
ing only the cost of production excluding remuneration of labor, the average
cost per ton of forage is 38.1/3.5 = 11 DH.
5.        The Sebou team has considered that the gross value that can be
attributed to forage consumed by livestock is 41 DLI per ton, with Frisians
producing 3,000 liters of milk per year. The expenses are 12 DH per ton of
forage for concentrates, stable!s, veterinarians etc., and 11 DH per ton as
cost of production. Without irrigation the value of forage for local improved
livestock is only 37 DII per ton of forage produced for concentrates, stables,
veterinarians etc., and Il DII per ton as cost of production.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Organization and Management of AUricultural Services
6.        To realize the proposed program of development a very competent and
dynamic agricultural management is aecessary. The propcsed targets for the
project area are three agricultura] development centers (CMV) for two communes,
each CMV including four sectors an( each sector including 10 villages as an
average, with an extension agent for each village (comprising about 50 families).
Ten CMV will be under the control of a subdivision.
The project area has already 5 CMV which belong totally or partially
to it.
% Within Project Area
CMV 240 - Tiluli <Msaada)                         100
C1MV 210 - Merja Jmad (Haouafate + Dar Gueddari  97
CMV 212 - Dar Gueddari (liaouafate)                71
CMV 246 - Hajjoua (Msaada + Haouafate)             14
CMV 250 - Souk El Had (M4saada)                     5
Only the headquarters of CHV 240, 210 and 212 are in the project area. There
is no sector and each extension agent has to work with 330 families.
It is necessary to set up a subdivision, 2 CMVs and 20 sectors
with 180 extension agents.
Such infrastructure will be realized in four years before
the beginning of irrigation. For the lands outside the project area (second
phase) the investment will be 1 development center and 48e,tors for each 10,000
ha which represents an expense of 148 DH per hectare.
The operation costs per year for the project area will te 3,810,000
DH as detailed in Table 5, which represent an expense of 37 DlH per hectare per
year.
The five existing CMVs have 157 Caterpillar tractors and 197 wheeled
tractors. Considering that these tractors have also to work outside the project
area and that they are more or less worn out, it is advisable not to rely on
them.  Some farmers have their own tractors and farm machinery and some others
will be grouped in cooperatives with tractors bought with loans from the
agricultural credit. Thus it is enough to equip CMVs with the necessary tractors
and farm macliinery for half of the area. On the basis of 1 tractor for 80 ha,
to meet requirements it is necessary to buy 125 Caterpillar tractors at
75,000 DH each (50,000 DH + 25,000 DH for farm machinery) and 125 wheeled tractors
at 35,000 DH each (23,000 DH + 12,000 DH for farm machinery); the total
investment cost will be 13.75mfionDH.CWs will collect O & M expenses including
provision for replacement from the farmers utilizing their services.






ANNEX
LYable 1
M O R O C C_O
Rharb Irrigation Project
Calendar of Proposed Cropping Patterns
Jan/Feb/Mar    Apr/lNlay/June    July/Aug/sept, p  Dc.c/Nov/Lo 
Sugarcane         -              cane             cane              C
cropping          cane           cane             first harvest    cane
pattern          cane            cane             second harves',   ''e
(6 years)        cane            cane             third 1-arvez     cane
cane           cane             fourth harvent;  berse ri
berseem         cotton          cotton            coton
Paddy rice        -              rice             rice              becse-Fm
cropping         berseem         rice             rice              bcrs-e:m
pattern          berseem         rice             rice              oe,3en
(5 years)        berseem         rice             rice              berseem
berseem         cotton          cotton            cotton
5-year                            -                                 sucgarbeeb
cropping          sugarbeet      sugarbeet        -                 or pot,ato
pattern           or potato       or potato       ½ bersee-m plus)  wheat
(5 years)        wheat           wheat ,            cabbage      ) } berseem plus)
Sugarbeet        ½ berseem plus)cotton            cotton            '- cabbage     )
or potatoes      ½ cabbage      )cotton           cotton            cotton
;  -           1/3 berseen      1/3 berseem       cotton
1/3 berseem    2/3 vetchoatL   2/3 Sudan grass  -
2/3 vetchoat
4-year            -               -                                 suarbeet
cropping          sugarbeet       sugarbeet       -                 wheat
pattern           wheat          wheat             _                - berseem-
(4 years)        ½ berseem       cotton           cot-,ton          l cabbage
là cabbage     1/3 berseem      1/3 berseein      cotton
1/3 berseem    2/3 vetchoat    2/3 Sudan grass  -
2/3 vetchoat
Truck             -               -               -                 potatoes
gardening        potatoes        potatoes         onions            onlons
cropping         berseem         berseem          toriatoes         tormtoes
(3 years)
Inproved                          -                                 sugarbcct
dry farming       sugarbeet       sugarbeet       -                 whcat
(h years)        wheat           wheat            -
sunflower       sunflower         sunfloweer
berseemn       berseem          berseem






MOROCCO                                                    ANNEX 5
Table 2
RHARB IRRIGATION PROJECT
Projected Yields, Costs of Production, and Returns for the Different Crops
Farm-                               Expenses in Dirhams Per Hectare                          Added
.. rerage Yields in Tons/ilectare   Gate   Gross Income                                                  Animals              Agr calt iiral
De ss    Tir   Merja   Improved    Pr cc   in Diliams                                                    't Elired             'fale LI
;iLS3  Soi.s  Soils  Dry _armrng  Peir         Pt3r H a     Seeds  Fertilizer  Pesticides  Tr-iwtors   Laber         Total    DirnÀns"Ha
Sugarcan,'                                                           3,20                    438           35         %8          k          853        2.267
jL t    L ,î30         82       152          84         iL                                1,53ll
Sugarbeet                    3)                              60      L,8 J          82       152          84                                  30        1,37)
69     1,5wM           82       152          84         1-5        !497                   1,00
1,o00      2,400          16       140         215          -.75        /o         516        1,884
Cotbton                      1.5                          1,2c0      2,160          16       140          215          75         70         516        1,6,!4
1.5                  1,200      1,8LJO         16       140         215           75         7)         516        1,284
Paddy Rice                           4.5                    4ùo      1,8U0          78       153          30          427                    728        1,072
Potatoes             15                                     200      3, (X)      1,020       132          50          125         67       1,396        1,604
Wheat                 2.2                                   40o        880           78       83                                  86         2>47          633
1.6         400        64o          72       8B                                  d4          236          404
45                                      41      1,845          90                                 26        630         746        1,099
Berseem                     30                               41      1,230         120                                  O        389         509          721
4o            37      1,480          90                                 26       521          637          843
Sunflower                                      14           500        700          30         26                      75         45         176          524
Sadan Grass          50                                      41      2,050          90        98                       75        698         961        1,089
40                               41     1,640           90        98                      75        578         841           799
Cabbage Forage       45                                      41      1,845          10       229                                 682         921          924
Vetch Oat            20                                      41        820           90       76                                 326         492          328
Tomatoes             30                                     120      3,600          50       162         200          125        131         668        2,932
Onions               20                                     250      5,000       2,000       250         100          125         78       2,553        2,447
Domestie
Agricaltare         26.2                                            4,508         410       132         148                     316       1,006        3,502
Citrus (at
full production)  24                                       250      6,00          -         >498        400          952                  1,850        4,150






M O 1 0 C C O
Table 3'
REM  IROA?IoI PK>JECT
'e *Net Revenue in MrXa-M    p_r Hectare of Cropping Pattern
A. Wlth added value due to liveatock production
Groos income   E&pennes       Net income
Sugarcane cropping pattern                2,753            768         1,985
Paddy rice cropping pattern               2,784          1,094          1,690
5-year cropping pattern (sugarbeet)       2,376            765          1,611
5-year cropping pattern (potatoes)        2,610            936          1,674
4-year cropping pattern                   2,166            783          1,383
Truck gardening cropping pattern          4,705          1,848          2,857
Domestic agriculture (per farm)         29254            503          1,751
Improved dry farmiD                       1,080            386            694
Improved dry farming in Jerja               946            506            440
Poplar trees                   32,400 after 15 years  1,049           2,090
Citrus
Year  6                                   625            696
Year 12                                 5,500          1,850
Years 13 to 36                          6,000          1,850
B. Without added value due to livestock production (forage at 11 DH/T)
Cropping pattern                       Net income
Sugarcane cropping pattern                              1,626
Paddy rice cropping pattern                             1,113
5-year cropping pattern (sugarbeet                      1,185
5-year cropping pattern (potatoes)                      1,202
4-year cropping pattern                                   886
Truck gardening cropping pattern                        2,539
Domestic agriculture                                  1,659
Improved dry farming                                      483
Improved dry farming in %rja                              303
Poplar trees                                         No change
Citrus growing                                       No change






ANNEX 5
Table h
_                                                                                    N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O R O 000 
11R1ARB IRRIGATION PROJECT
Typisal ?arm Budgets
I R R I G 11  T E D  F A R  M S                                                       Iproed Dry Fareing
5-yaar Rotation               4-yea  Roaton                     Rose Rotation                 Sogarsane & Risce Rotation        wit>,4-yea  Rottion
rss aea oS ha                 Grensar Ro    ha                 Ornss aRea t na                    Orons area ô ho                  Grnss area   ha
Net area 5 ha                                                 N      eNet area 5 ha  et are  U.6 ha  et re  5 ha                  Net area 5.2 ha
 Aras (ha) x y-Laid (tons) s pricse (DH) = Grors Yalue (DO) - - - - - - - -
P'rofits.. . . . . . . . . . . .
Sugarbeet           1 ha x 35T x 60DH - 2,100  1.25 h- x 30T x 60DH - 2,250                                                                           1.30 ha x 25T x 60DM - 1,950
Wheat                 i x 2.2 o 4O - 880            1.25 x 2.2 x 400 = 1,100                                                                               1.30 x 1.6 x hOO . 832
Hersees,              0.83 x 45 a 4i - 1,538        1.42 x 45 x 41 - 2,605       3.80 ha s 30 T f   41 DH - 4,674      0.33 ha o 40 T x 41 DM - 541        1.30 x 37 - 1,924
Cotton                2 x 2x1,200 - 4,800           1.25 x 2 x 1,200 - 3,00C   1 x 1.5 T x 1,200 - l,ôOO               0.33 x 2 x 1,200 - 791
Cabbage forage        0.5 x 45  x 41   923,         0.25 x 04   41 - 461
Vetch ost             o.66 x 20 x 41 - 547          0.83 x 20 x 41 - 675
Sadan grasa           0.66 x h40 xh   - 1,093
Rice                                                                             3.80 ha x 4.5 T x 400 DH - 6,840   2.40 x 4.5   4hoo - 4,410
Sogarcane                                                                                                              1.32 x 78 x 40 - 4,120
berseer                                                                                                                2.4 x 30 5 41 = 2,952
Cotton                                                                                                                 0.6 s 1.5 o 1,200 - 1,080
Sanflower                                                                                                                                                  1.30 s 1.4 s 500 - 910
Barley
Chisk-p.a.
Beans
Grossa Return                            11,881Dg                       10,091DM                             13.3140H                      13,89D40H                          5,616DH
oExpsea
bbildings                      280                           280                                280                               280                             280
Pare oqaipoont                 195                           195                                255                               255                             195
Trsetors                       428                            326                             1,811                             1,624                              230
Work anieala                   590                            545                               180                               144                              408
Seads                          359                            382                               654                               442                             357
Fertilisers                    737                           577                                873                            1,328                              336
Peeticidas                     514                           374                                329                               335                             109
Water or drainage
sharges                      751                           307                             1,734                             1,595                              115
Hired labor                    580                           400                                400                               361
Livestock expenses           112            j.21.02                                           1,368                             1,008                             572
Total ESxpenes                 5.64                          4.478Dg                            7.8840N                           7,3720M                         2.487DN
NET RETJdN                     6,235DH                       5,613DH                            5,430DH                           6,522DM                         3.1295D
Days of Family Labor          550 days                      550 day                            4o40 days                         460 daye                        270 days
Days of Hired Labor           145 days                      100 days                           100 daya                           90 days
Cropping Intensity            133%                          125%                               180%                              148%                            100%






M O R O  C O                   AiiJIE. 5
Table 5
RHARB IRRIGATION PROJECT
Operation Costs of CMV's (DH OO's)
Operation Costs Per Year For the Project Area
Subdivision     CMV        Se ct or
a. Maintenance Costs
Buildings (1%)                             6         1.75         2.1
Sheds (1%)                                -          0.3          0.3
Office equipment (10%)                     2         1            0.5
Repair shop equipment (5%)                10         1.5          0.5
Cars (7 years)                            iL         6.7          1
Bicycles (3 years)                        -         -             3
b. Operation Costs
Technicians (detailed below)             217       134           75
Manpower and extension agents             10        20           25
Other operation costs                    2          30           20
309       195.25       125.4
Technicians
Chief of subdivision, CMV, sector         20        17           12.8
Assistant chief (sub-division 2,
CMV 1)                                 16        12.6         -
Bookkeeper                                -         22.5          6.7
Clerks                                    21         -
Agronomists and technicians
(subdivision 3, aMV 2, sector 1)      42         23            7.9
.Statistician/Economist                   il         -
Agent                                               12
Purchasing agent                          il        -
Chief mechanic                            il        -
Mechanic (Subd. 4, ClMV 1, sector 1)      24          7.5         5.4
Assistant Mechanic (CMV 2)                -           9.0        -
Instructors (Sector 4)                    -          -           25.2
Other charges (30%)                       51        31           17
217       134.6         75.0






ANNEX 6
?a,ge 1
iMOROCCO
RHARB IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUGAR PRODUCTION IN THE RHARB PLAIN
Introduction of Sugarcane in the Rharb Plain
1.        Sugarcane production is well known in the south of Spain near
Malaga; the ecological conditions being about the same in the Rharb Plain, the
Sebou project proposes to introduce this crop in the troject area. rrhe 'Plr-t
introduction of sugarcane in the Rharb Plain was made in May 1965 with two
plots, one at Sidi Allal Tazi (ex ferme Brisson) and the other at Mechra Bel
Ksiri. Three varieties were introduced: PC 44/101, NCO 310, and CO 290,
with the last one being quickly eliminated. The plot of Mechra Bel Ksiri was
abandoned in 1968 upon the arrival of the new farm manager. In Sidi Allal Tazi
the experiments continue and will be developed. In 1968 about ten new plots
were planted, of which the mission visited Ferme Perron (2 plots of 0.25 ha
each planted in 5/2/68 with CP 41/101 and NCO 310) Ferme Rollin (2.75 ha of
NCO 310 planted on 9/13/68) and a plot of a Moroccan farmer northeast of
Souk El Arba (1 ha planted 4/25/68). The yields, when recorded, are between
60T and 120T per hectare and the sugar extract percentage is normal or higher
than normal. The best data are given for the experiments done in Larache
70 km outside the project area near the ocean.
e--;                                      _ _ ___ _   Sugarcane Ton/ha
1965    1966    1967    1968   Average Yield per Hectare
CP 44/101           97.4   126.0    86.2    78.7                 97.1
NCO 310             92.9    87.5    52.4    70.2                 75.7
CO 290              75.1   (12.1    69.6    63.5                 72.2
TU 1376             84.8    84.1    52.5    65.9                 71.8
POJ 2725           101.2   112.9    56.7    70.7                 85.4
Average yield
per year           90.3    98.5    63.4    69.8                 80.5
Preliminary conclusions are that sugarcane cultivation is possible, the yields
acceptable, and the sugar percentage normal or above normal.
2.        Nevertheless many points have to be clarified and an important experi--
mental program has to be developed. This prograi must be establisaed, taking
into account the fact that sugarcane and sugarbeet production will be processed
in the same factories, part of their processing equipment being the same. The
harvest times have to be staggered for better utilization of the ractories.
3.        The most critical point for sugarcane production is temperature.
"Theoretically only a few liours of temperature belo'  zero
centigrade are enough to compromise the crop.  Ir, Malaga the -,rosts
occur during clear weather without wind between 5 and 8 Xc- during
the months of January and February.  They can cause the partial or
total destruction of the top of the stem and decrease tne saccharose
content of the cane.. .In Louisiana where the problem o" frost is
much more serious than in Spain, the crop is harvested ,,afore winter,



ANNEX 6
Page 2
so when the frosts occur the development of the plant has not yet
started, and if it has started, mowing the young stems after the frosts
is sufficient."1/
An important climatological study of the Sebou Basin has been done by
N. E. Gerbier, member of the Sebou project team. It appears that near the
coast and along the Sebou River (Souk El Tleta and Mechra Bel Ksiri) the number
of frosty days is low (less than 0.5 per month) but more important between
Kenitra Sidi-Yahya-du-Rharb and Sidi Slimane. It is between Mechra Bel Ksiri
and downstream of Allal Tazi that the conditions are the best and perhaps the
proposed area devoted to sugarcane would have to be moved slightly to the west.
Two sugar factories have been built, one in Mechra Bel Ksiri and the other west
of Allal Tazi. Their location seems suitable and a third one will be built
in the future.
4.        In the Sebou team's Report the proposed period of harvest was
between August and October, but now the agronomist of the Sebou Team thinks
that October and November would be a better period, even with worse conditions
of transportation to the factories due to the rains. The sugarcane specialists
of the National Agronomic Research Institute (INRA) favor harvesting sugarcane
in April ard May or even June. A program of experimentation has to be
established considering the two crops together to optimize the periods of
harvest for sugarcane and sugarbeet, even if these periods are not the best
for yields and sugar content. Therefore, the best economic solution will
be a compromise.
5.        According to the soils the proposed choice is the best, but consider-
ing the adaptability of sugarcane to a large range of soils, it will be
possible in the future to grow sugarcane not only on dhess soils but also on
tirs which are more clayey. Experimentation has to be done to confirm this
assumption, and if it is confirmed it will be possible, under certain conditions,
to develop sugarcane on soils proposed for the five-year cropping pattern and
even for rice production with about the same amounts of water. From an
economic point of view, the feasibility o` the project would be increased.
Svgarbeet Cultivation
6.        Sugarbeet cultivation was introduced in Morocco a few years ago and
this introduction has been successful. Nevertheless different points have to
be clarified such as best period for planting and harvesting; the relationship
between harvesting period, yields and sugar content percentage. It seems that
sugarbeet must be harvested betweea' April 15 and July 15, but perhaps it is
possible to extend this harvesting period a little, even if the yield or the
sugar content percentage are not et their peak; it is a question of optimum use
of the sugar factories.
1/ Sugarcane Cultivation in Spain, by M. Lazzaoui, July 1967



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Sugarcane Production Versus Sugarbeet Production
7.        The water requireiments are muc.h more important for sugarcane
(9,100 m3/ha producing 7.8 T of sugar) than for sugarbeet (2,600 n.3/ha pro-
ducing 4.9 T of sugar) and the questionable point is to know whether it is not
preferable to replace sugarcane cultivation by sugarbeet cultivatïon. But it
is not possible to disassociate sugarcane and sugarbeet from their cropping
patterns and one hectare of su-arcane cropping pattern with 8,700 m3/ha will
produce 5.2 T of sugar against 0.98 T of sugar with 7,700 m3/ha if we consider
the five-year cropping pattern with sugarbeet. The other produce will be
330 kg of seed cotton and 6.6 £ of forage per hectare with t-le bu8de cane
cropping pattern against 800 kg of seed cotton, 440 kg of wheat and 21 T of
forage with the five-year cropping pattern. If we replace sugarcane cropping
pattern by five-year cropping we shall have to increase threefold the
livestock production which is already very important in the proposed program
of devalopment.
8.        The most intensive cropping patterai possible with sugarbeet without
important risks of diseases due to nematodes would be a three-year cropping
pattern producing 1.62 T of beet sugar per hectare, with water requirements
varying between 4,000 m3/ha to 6,000 m3/ha according to the importance given
to forage crops.
9.        As sugar consumption in Morocco is one of the highest in the world
(25 kg per capita per year with imports of sugar reaching 250,000 T in 1968);
as production of sugarcane and sugarbeet will permit, with better utilization
of sugar factories, decreasing the cost of production for sugar; and as the
quantities of water availalble with Arabat Dam are much more than sufficient
to satisfy the water requirements of the proposed area, it would not be
realistic to forego sugarcane for sugarbeet. It will always be possible in
10 or 15 years if the other proposed dams are not built to decrease the area
devoted to sugarcane for increasing sugarbeet cultivation. However, it is
likely that experimentation will show that sugarcane production can be
developed on a bigger area than is proposed today and that sugarcane production
which is easier than sugarbeet production will be favored by the farmers. The
fact that some farmers already have started to grow sugarcane at their own
expense so that they will be sure to have enough cuttings when the cane crushers
will be set up in the existing sugar factories is one of the raost encouraging
factors.
Sugarcane and Sugarbeet 3xperimentation
10.       As already specified experimentation botS for sugarcane and sugar-
beet is necessary to optimize sugar production in the project area. Experi-
mentation will be done in the INRA station and in different plots scatteredOverzhe
project area. To be well adapted to the problems of the Rharb Plain the
program will have to be established jointly between bhe directors of ORMVAC- arD ¾A
Such experimentation will necessitate tne following investment and 0 & M
expenses during the next 6 years:



ANEEX 6
Page 4
Amount   Local      Foreign
(DH)     Currency  Currency
Equipment
1 tractor with farm machinery             100,000  20,000    80,000
1 Landrover                                20,000       -     20,000
Handtools, etc.                            10,000   5,000      5,000
Total, equipment                            130,000  25,000   105,000
Operational Expenses
1 Sugarcane specialist, consultant
1 month                                    15,000   5,000    10,000
Travel for consultant                       5,000   1,000       4,000
1 Agronomist (expatriate)
@4,000 DH per month                        48,000  24,000    24,000
2 Technical agents @ 1,000 DH
per month each                             24,000  24,000         -
Hired labor 4,000 days @4DH/day            16,000  16,000         -
Fertilizers and pesticides                 10,000   5,000      5,000
Tractor and farm machinery                 12,000   6,000      6,000
Miscellaneous                              10,000   5,000       5,000
Total Per year                              140,000  86,000    54,000
For 6 years                                 840,000 516,000   324,000



*                                                                                                e                                                                                                e
M-OROCCO
RhARB IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimate
Dirhams (millions)                                         US Dollars (million1)/                                    ,
Idriss I Dam                                                Local Currency    Foreign Exchange    Total CoEt              Local Currency    Foreign Exchange    Total Cost               Foreign Exchange
Preparatory2/Works                                              7.9                  3.6              11.5                   1.6                 0.7                2.3                      31
*Civil       2/rks-                                             62.9                 22.8              85.7                  12.6                  4.6              17.1                       27
Electrical and Mechanical Equipment                             1.4                  7.1               8-5                   0.3                  1.4               1.7                      83
Total                                                          72.2                 33.5             105.7                  14.4                  6.7              21.1                      32
Firet Phase Irrigation Levelopment (38,300 ha net)
sLand Consolidation and Reallocation                             6.2                  1.8               8.0                   1.2                  0.4               1.6                       22
Land Preparation (mainly levelling)                            20.4                 11.7              32.1                   4.1                  2.3               6.4                      36
Pump Stations:
*  Civil Works and Buildings                                    10.9                  2.1              13.0                   2.2                  0.4               2.6                       16
Pumps, motors, switchgear, etc.                               4.7                  9.8              14.5                   0.9                 2.0                2.9                      68
*Primary Irrigation Canals                                      17.6                  4.8              22.4                   3.5                  1.0               4.5                       22
*Secondary and Tertiary Irrigation Canals                       50.6                 13.7              64.3                  10.1                  2.7              12.9                       21
*Surface Drains                                                 12.2                  6.9              19.1                   2.4                  1.4               3.8                       36
*Sub-surface Drains                                             25.4                  8.7              34.1                   5.1                  1.7               6.8                       26
Roads                                                          10.4                  3.4              13.8                   2.1                  0.7               2.8                       25
Electricity Supply                                              1.4                  0.8               2.2                   0-3                 0.2                0.24                     36
Total                                                         159.8                 63.7             223.5                  32.0                12.7               44.7                      29
Improvement of Rainfed Agriculture (26,700 ha net)
*Land Consolidation and Reallocation                             4.7                  1.3               6.0                   0.9                  0.3                1.2                      22
Land Preparation (mainly banking)                               1.9                  1.1               3.0                   0.4                  0.2               o.6                      36
*Surface Drains                                                  3.2                  1.8               5.0                   0.6                  0.4               1.0                       36
Roada                                                           7.5                  2 5              10.0                   1.5                  0.5               2.0                       25
Total                                                          17.3                  6.7              24.0                   3.5                  1.3               4.8                       28
Agricultural Management and Processing Facilities
Subdivision, Development Centers and Block
Offices                                                       5.0                  1.3               6.3                   1.0                  0.3               1.3                      26
Tractors and Implements                                         2.8                 11.0              13.8                   0.6                  2.2               2.8 -                     80
Vehicles and Equipment                                          0.1                  0.8               o.9                    - 3/                0.2               0.2                       89
Improvement of Existing Crop Processing
Facilities                                                    8.0                 15.0              23.0                   1.6                  3.0               4.6                       66
Feasibility Studies for Sugar, etc.                             1.0                  1.0               2.0                   0.2                  0.2               o.4                       50
Total                                                          16.9                 29.1              46.0                   3.4                  5.8               9.2                       64
Total Cost, Excluding Engineering and Con-
tingencies                                                  266.2                133.0             399.2                  53.2                26.6               79.8                       33
Engineering and Supervision (8% of items marked*)               5.2                 14.8              20.0                   1.0                  3.0               4.0                       74
Contingencies (20% of items marked *, 10% of
others)                                                      45-9                 19.7              65.6                   9.2                  3                13.1                      30
Total Project Cost                                            317.3                167.5             484.8                  63.5                 33.5              97.0                       35
Interest and Other Charges during  Construction-/                -                  62.5              62.5                   -                   12.5              12.5                     100
Total Cost, Including Interest during Construc-
tion                                                        317.3                230.0             547.3                  63.5                 46.o             109.5                       42
1/  Totals do not add due to rounding
2/ The contract price of DH 70.2 million is 18% below the engineering cost estimate and is likely to be
exceeded. The engineering cost estimate is used in this report.
3/ Less than US$50,000
7% interest and 3/4% commitment charge on foreign exchange.






ANNEX 8
page -l
M O R O C C O
RHARB IRRIGATION PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference
for General Consultants
Planning and Programming
-    overall planning and review of progress of Bank-financed
project
-    preparing documents and information requested by Bank
Soil Survey and Land Classification
a)   preparing terms of reference for the two operations;
b)   control of work done by consultants;
c)   review of data and final reports and interpretation of
results (cropping patterns, productivity, agricultural
plan, including economic and engineering factors).
Equipment
a)   Pump Stations
1)  preparing terms of reference for consultants to
carry out field surveys for pump station location
and supervising them; reviewing their reoort;
2)  preparing terms of reference for feasibility
studies ("avant-projets") for pump stations,
including civil works and electro-mechanical
engineering, to be carried out by specialized
consultants; supervision and review of specialized
consultants' work and final reports;
3)  supervising the preparation of final designs, cost
estimates and relevant specifications by the
specialized consultants;
I8) supervising preparation of calls for bids;
5)  supervising construction and pumping tests up to
final commissioning of the stations.



ANNFX 8
Page 2
b)   Irrigation Network
1)  Temporary Water Supply (by unlined canails);
2)  Primary Canals;
3) Secondary Canals;
I) Tertiary Canals.
For all the above operations, supervision of the following tasks:
-    preparing feasibility 8tudies;
-    final designs, cost estimates and specifications;
-    preparation of calls for bids;
-    construction.
c)   Drainage Network
1) preparing terms of reference for experimental
station and supervising of tests, and review of
final report made by specialized consultants;
2) supervising the preparation of feasibility
studies, final designs, cost estimates,
specifications and calls for bids, and the con-
struction of the drainage network.
Land Preparation
-    overall supervision of works -involved, including land
clearing and levelling.
.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
M OROCCO
RRHARB TRRIGITION PROJECT
OPERATION-MAINTENANCE-WATER RATES
Operation and Maintenance of Idriss I
1.        The Ministry of Public Works through the Department of Water
Resources would be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the dam
as well as its construction. Operating and maintenance costs for rhe dam and
reservoir have been estimated at 0.5% of total investments, excluding road
and railroad relocation, or about 600,000 Dirhams/annum (US$120,000). Given
the present salary scales in Morocco these provisions are adequate and correspond
to past experience. Depreciation rates adopted are as follows:
Life
Dam                               80 years        1.25%
Electro-mechanical equipment
of dam                           35 years        2.9 %
Operation of Irrigation System
2.        In the Sidi Slimane area (30,000 irrigated ha) the following
organization has been set up by theoeMVAG to operate the irrigation system.
- the area is subdivided into 10 sectors of 3,000 ha each;
= in each sector, 4 men operate the gates at the heads of the
secondary and the tertiary canals (in the primary canal also if
required in a certain sector);
= in each sector, there is a flying brigade of 2 to 3 labourers to
execute repairs;
- in Sidi Slimane a group of 5 to 6 masons is stationed for repairs
requiring masonry work;
- one supervisor directs the water distribution and one man supervises
the repair brigades;
- the administration is done by 2 elerks and i typist;
- there is one cashier to collect water payments which are paid by
the farmers at the office.
3.        Apparently the operation works sattsfactorily.  Farmers who lay
behind with payment for water can be and are being cut off from water supply.
Also, debts for water can be and are being subtracted from money due for pro-
ducts sold cooperatively through the Office de Commercialisation et d'Exportation.
4         According to the Director'of theQ9MVAG, not only were the water
charges of the current year paid to a large percentage (actual figure was not
obtained) but also the outstanding debts from former years were being recovered
satisfactorily.
x _



XNNEX 9
Page 2
Operation in Project Area
5.        No details of manpower required for the operation of the irrigation
system have been worked out for the project area. However, an organization
similar to the one in Sidi Slimane will have to be established in a
centrally located office. One additional mechanical engineer with an assist-
ant will be required for the supervision of the pump stations.
Maintenance of the Irrigation and Drainage Systems
6.        In the Slimane area no separate personnel is required for maintenance
because the distribution of water can be interrupted during the four rainy
months per year and the cleaning of all irrigation canals can be achieved
by the operation personnel and repair brigades.
7.        Maintenance of the quaternary irrigation and drainage canals and
ditches is done by the farmers.
8.        For the regular cleaning of the surface water drainage ditches in
the Rharb Plain at present 30,000 mandays of work are paid for at 2DH per day
crganized by the Promotion Nationale (National Employment bureau).
Costs of Operation and Maintenance for Irrigation
9.        The costs of operation and maintenance in the Sidi Slimane area are
said to amount to 20 DH/ha/year.
10.       For the project area the following costs have been assumed:
Operation
- personnel for weir and intake of canal Si: i DH/ha/year;
-- pump stations: 8DH/ia/year;
- water distribution: primary, secondary and tertiary canals:
5DH/ha/year.
Total operation costs: 14 DH per ha per year.
Energy of Pump Stations
il.       The electricity required for pumping is needed in Summer when the
supply capacity is relatively abundant. The production price is estimated
at 0.02 DH/Kwh to which has been added the cost of distribution, estimated
atO.03 DH/Kwh. The feasibility report contains a graphical representation
of the growth of energy demand due to the gradual increase of irrigation in the
project area, and in the first phase of development based on the construction
of the Arabat dam. At full development, the 93,000 newly equipped ha plus the
11,000 ha of existing citrus orchards will require some 48 GWH, at a cost of
DH 2.4 million/year.
i4aintenance
12.       The following table containe:
- the assumed lifetime of various parts of the equipment,
- the assumed percentage of investment costs representing annual main-
tenance costsi.



AMNEX 9
Page 3
- allocation of these costs to: materials (MY, specialised:
labour (Sp), and unskilled labour (U.L.)
Table 1. Earcentage of Maixitenance costs and allocation
Maintenance
of Investment costs
Item                    Lifetime    In %         M.       Sp.         U.L.
Pump station building             50        1         05        o.5         -
pumps, etc.                     15        4         3        1            -
Hydr. str. weirs                  50        1         0.5       0.5         -
Hydr. str. gates                  35        2         3         1           -
Canal                             50        0.5        -       0.25        0.25
Primary irr. canals               50        0.5        -        0.25       0.25
Sec., Fert. rrr.canals            50        0.5        -         -         0.25
Sprinkler materials               15        2         2          -           -
Iligh reservoirs                  50        1         0.5       0.5         -
Sub-soii drainage                 30        2         0.2       -          1.8
Electricity supply                30        1.5       0.75      0.75        -
Roads                             50        3         1.5        -         1.5
13.       The following table, Taule 2, contains the resulting operation and
maintenance costs on the basis of the proposed calendar of construction and
assuming the maintenance to become due already in the first year after
completion of each part of the work.
14.       In the year 1984, 93,000 ha are assumed to be equipped for the
first irrigation campaign. Because of the time-lag between possible and real
irrigation, only the equivaient of 67,000 ha will be irrigated. -f construction
and equipment is continued at a rate of 9,000 ha per year, in 1987 the equiva-
lent of 93,000 ha will be newly irrigated. If construction is stopped, the
full irrigation of the 93,000 ha will only be achieved about the year 2002.
15.       In Table 3 the allocation of operation and maintenance costs te
materials (local and imported), to specialised labour and unskillcd laboilr
is given.
Water rates
16.       The rates to be charged for the irrigation water will be fixed  yv.
the "Code des investissements agricoles". For the Rharb Plain the water rate
will amount to 0.029 DH/m3.
17.       The full rate will not be charged immediately, but a phased
increase over 5 years (20%7 per year) is proposed, wii*h an exception for tree-
plantations (citrus and poplars) which will be charged at an increase of l 01
during 10 years.  The present water charges in the Sidi Slimane area amounts
to:



ANNEX 9
Page 4
lst year:              0.002 DH/m3         6th year: 0.012 DH/m3
2nd                    0.004               7th       0.0135
3rd                    0.006               8th       0.0150
4th                    0.008               9th       0.0165
5th                    0.010              10th       0.018
for fodder crops only 50% of the prices is charged.
18.       For the new project area, the total water consumption at the head
of the irrigation system, when all 38,300 newly equipped ha are fully irrigated
as well as the 5,000 existing ha of citrus, will amount to 450 8Mm3. For the
first development phase (93,000 ha new equipment + 11,000 ha existing citrus)
the total consumption in 1984 is estimated at 796 Mm3 which will gradually
increase (as the irrigation is gradually applied for 100%) to a total of
1067 Mm3. It is assumed that 20% of these volumes are lost in the irrigation
system and only 80% arrives at the farm gate.
19.       According to Table 2, the total costs for operation and maintenance
in the year 1984 amount to DH8,760.000.  A water rate of DH 0.014 m3 at farm
gate would cover these costs. When the 93,000 ha are fully utilized, the
9,560,000 DH annual 0 and M costs would be recovered with a rate of DH 0.011
mi.
e



ANNE 9
MDROCCO                                                                      Y&=ble 2
R2ItDB  JRiO(ATION PRO JECT
Operation and  Mintenence cotse.
r          he  a  I n  t  e  n  a  n  c  e 
Yvlr       ,rer1ri-n         Electxiciry           Putrp stations           HYcr. Structures                       Irrigation                       Dreinage          Electri                              Totale
C03ts          0.05 LH/Xwh         buildings  punps               Weirs      r3nal             by grqvity       sprnk.  high           sub-soil          -City          ROl's         Miantenance       0 + m
114 P`41ba                                        etc.         constr.  Gates    21          pri.c.  sec.tert.   lers    res.                             supply
*    50 Y     15             50       3     5°             50         C0        15     50                 30            30             so                           rmnded
timeï                                                                                                                                                                 off
JMain-
te  1%        4i             1        2    o.5'           o.s        0.         2      1                 2            1.5              3
nance
1972
107;           28                  50               1i         514                                            5          19                                                2                              91            170
1974           84                 100                32        117                                           17          60                                                4              9              239            500
1975          168                 200                59        255                                           42         113                                                7             17              553            900
1976          ?914                300                94        368                                           ?9         200                               120              B            156             1025           1600
1977          1n4r                450               1214       514                                          101         281.                              280             32            277             1612           2500
1978          5146                600               130        582                                          122         361                               460             32            415             2102           3300
1979          672                  800              154        615                                          149         432                               640             81            423             2494           400o
1980          798                 10oo              183        784            263      ho    17             178         508                               820            lo8            531             3432           5300
1981          924                 1300              196        883            263       40    17            212         581       47     15              1o00            110            639             4003           6200
1V82         1050                 1350              204        949            412      80    25             240         649      65      20              1200            119            741             4710           7100
1983         1176                 1550              208        991            412      80    25             272         724       9a     23               1400           120            855             52<8           7900
1984         1302                1700               216       1031             12      8      25            296         792      171     26              162             1320           963             7734           8700
1985         1302                1900               216       1031           412       80    25             296         792      171     26              16<2            120           ion              581            9000
1987         1302                 2400              216       1031            412      80    25             296         792      171     26              1602            120           lm               582            9500
To ie added each year: 60,000 DR  Promotion Nationle,, mintenance surface drains.






ANNEX 9
MOROCCO                            Table 3
RHARB IRRIGATION PRDJECT
Allocation of Operation and Maintenance Costs.
In Year 1987
when 93,000 new + 11,000 old ha would be irrigated
Analysis (Costs in 1000 Dii)
Costs in                                      Unskilled
Item                       1000 DH       Materials    Spec. Labour    Labour
Operation                        1302                            1302
Electricity                      2400
Pumps-  ) buildings               216          * 108              108
Stations) pumps etc.             1031          # 775              256
Hydr.  ) constr.                  412          * 206              206
Struct.) gates                     80          if 60               20
canal                    25                              12            13
Prim. irr. canals                 296                             148           148
Sec + Tert. irr.                  892                                           792
Sprinkler mat.                    171          # 171
High Reservoirs                    26          #  13               13
Subsoil drainage                 1602          1 160                           1442
Electricity supply                120          *  60               60
Roads                            1071        #50 535                            536
Surface Drainage                   60                                            60
Totals                    9604           2088             2125          2991
Or:  Electricity            25%
Materials              22%  (loc: 6% for: 16%)
Skilled Men            22%
Unskilled Labour       31%
100%
* Local Materials:           581,000 DH
# Imported HIaterials:    1,507,000 DH






M O R  C C CO 
RHARB IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cash Flow
(All amounts in DH Millions)
Revenuel/                     O&M Costs               Net Surplus (Deficit)          Cumulative Percentage 2Ç
Project   Phase               Project   Phase                Project   Phase                  Capital Cost Recovery-_
Year     Area      II    Total         Area       II    Total         Area       II    Total       Project   Phase II   Total
1972     0.2                0.2         0.6                0.6       (0.4)               (0.4)       -           -        -
1973     1.0                1.0        1.3                 1.3       (0.3)              (0.3)        -           _        _
1971     2.2                2.2         2.1                2.1        0.1                0.1         -           -        -
1975     4.4        -       4.4         3.2                3.2        1.2                1.2         -           _        _
1976     6.6       -        6.6         4.9       -        4.9        1.4        -       1.7         -           _        _
1977    10.0      1.0      11.0        6.7       1.0       7.7        3.3        -       3.3         1           _         1
1978    12.4      1.4      13.8         6.7      2.9       9.6        5.7       (1.5)    4.2         2           -        1
1979    14.6      3.0      17.6         6.7      4.1      10.8        7.9       (1.1)    6.8         b           -         2
1980    16.7       4.2     20.9         6.7      4.7      11.4       10.0       (0.5)    9.5         6           -         3
1981    18.2      6.3      24.5         6.7      5.8      12.5       11.5        0.5    12.0         8           -         4
1982    19.5       9.3     28.8         6.7      6.6      13.3       12.8        2.7    15.5         il          -         6
1983    20.6     11.5      32.1         6.7      6.9      13.6       13.9        4.6    18.5         14          1         8
1981   21.5      14.5     36.0         6.7      7.4      14.1        14.8       7.1    21.9         17          3         10
1985    22.5     16.9      39.1:       6.7       7.4      14.1       15.8        9.5    25.3         20          5         13
1986    23.3     18.0      41.3         6.7      7.4      14.1       16.6       10.6    27.2         24          8         16
1987    24.0     18.8      42.8         6.7      7.4      14.1       17.3       11.4    28.7         27          10        19
1988    24.5     19.7      44.2         6.7       7.4     114.1      17.8       12.3    30.1         31          13        23
1989    24.7     20.4      45.1         6.7      7.4      14.1       18.0       13.0    31.0         35          17        26
1990    24.8     21.1      45.9         6.7      7.1      14.1       18.1       13.7    31.8         38          20        30
1991    2IJ.9    21.9      46.8         6.7      7.4      11.i       18.2       14.5    32.7         42          23        33
1992    24.7     22.1      47.1         6.7      7.L      L.1        18.0       15.0    33.0         46          27        37
1993    2LL.4    23.1      47.          6.7      7.4    u1!,.l       17.7       15 .7    33.4        49          31        41
199I    2L,.O    23.14     17.4        6.7       7.14     14.1       17.3       16.0    33.3         53          35        414
1995    23.5     23.8      h7.3         6.7      7.L      11.1       16.8       16.1    33.2         56          39        48
1996    22.9     23.8      16.7         6.7      7.1      1L.1       16.2       16.4    32.6         60 o3                 52
1997    22.3     23.8      b6.1         6.7      7.1      14. '    15.6         16.h    32.0         63           47       55      H
1998    22.2     23.3      45.5         6.7      7.1       114.1    15.5       15.9    31.1         66          50        59      o
1-999    22.0    22.8      14.8         6.7      7.14     14.3.      15.3       15.4    30.7         69          54        62
2000    21.9     22.3    14.2           6.7      7.1      11.:       15.2       14.9    30.1         72          58        66
200L   21.9       21.8     13.7         6.7      7.       114.1      15.2       14.4    29.6         75          61        69
2002    21.9      21.3     13.2         6.7      7,       1h.i       15.2       13.9    29.1          79         65        72
-XC,2    21.9    21.3      13.2        e.7       7.1      14.1       15.2       13.9    29.1        110          98       1WD1
1  1ncludes w-at-er charges (DH 0.029/mi împrovement assessment (DH 1,500/ha paid over 20 years, irdnuding 3 years grace at
1%Z, inLerestX,   drainage tax (DH 23.30,/h-: annmally for 20 years), agricultural income tax (10% of net income) andcitrus
ex.port duty 7DH 17/ton).
2/ ErxfcJuding interest.






MOROCCO                                       ANNEX 11
RHUM  IMIGÂTION PROJET
Econceai Bui.fit-Coat Ana   ina
(ilJ amounte DR 111ons)
Benefite                                  Conte                            Net Benefitsl-
Project          Phase                    Idria 1 Project Phase               Project          Phase
Year       Area             II             Total       Dam     Area     Il    Total      Area              II             Total
*(5.0-) *(3.50) *(5.00) *(3.50) *(5.00) *(3.501   -'   *T5.00) *(3.50) *(5.00) *(3.5¢) *(5-.0) *(3-5¢
1969    -        _      _       _       _       _      18.5    6.2       -    24.7  (15.1)  (15.1)  ( 9.6)  ( 9.6)  (2147)  (2h4.7)
1970    -       _      _        _       _       _      28.0   15.9       -    43.9  (29.3)  (29.3)  (14.6)  (14.6)  (43.9)  (43-9)
1971   -         -      -       -       -       -      27.5   28.1       -    55.6  (41.3)  (41.3)  (14.3)  (14.3)  (55.6)  (55.6)
1972   0.6    (0.1)    -        -      0.6   (0.1)    39.5   45.8        -    85.3  (64.1)  (64.8)  (20.6)  (20.6)  (84.7)  (85-4)
1973   6.0      3.2     -       -      6.0     3.2      8.7   61.4       -    70.1  (59.6)  (62.4)  ( 4.5)  (14.5)  (64.1)  (66.9)
1974  13.1      8.1     -       -     13.1     8.1      0.2    73.8      -    74.0  (60.8)  (65.8)  ( 0.1)  ( o.1)  (60.9)  (61.4:
1975 24.3      16.7     -       -     24.3   16.7       0.2    69.7      -    69.9  (45.5)  (53.1)  ( 0.1)  ( o1)  (45.6)  (53.2)
1976  33.2    22.7    6.3      6.3   39.5   29.0        0.2   36.7   42.6  79.5  ( 3.6)  (114.1)  (36.1)  (36.1)  (1400)  (50-5)
1977  45.9    33.5  12.4    12.4    58.3   45.9         0.2     6.5   80.7  87.4   39.3   26.9  (68.4)  (68.1)  (29,1)  (4î.5)
1978  58.2     44.4  16.4    15.5   74.6   59.8         0.2     6.5   101.6  108.3  51.6    37.8  (85.3)  (86.2)  (33,7)  (48.5)
1979  61.7    46.9  29.2   27.1   90.9    74.0          0.2     6.5   77.9   84.6  55.1   40.3   (48.8)  (50.9)  ( 6.3)  (23.2)
1980  64.6     48.9  35.8   32.8  100.4    81.7         0.2     6.5   66.2   72.9  58.0    42.3  (30.5)  (33.5)   27.5         8.8
1981  70.1    53.6  42.5   39.0  112.6   92.6           0.2     6.5   52.4  59.1  63.5    47.0  (10.0)  (13.5)   53.5    33.5
1982  75.4     58.3  53.5   49.6  128.9  107.9          0.2     6.5   10.7  17.4  68.8   51.7   1,2.7   38.8  111.5    90.5
1983  78.5    60.7   54.9   50.8  133.4   111.5         0.2    6.5      6.2  12.9  71.9   54.1    48.6    44.5  120I5    98.6
1984  83.2    65.0  63.3   58.9  146.5  123.9           0.2     6.5     7.4   14.1  76.6   58.4    55.8   51.4  132,l,  109.8
1985  89.1    70.9  66.3   61.9  155.4  132.8           0.2     6.5     7.4   14.1  82.5   64.3   58.8   54.14  11413   118.7
1986  94.2    76.0   64.9   60.5  159.1  136.5          0.2     6.5     7.4  114.1  87.6   69.4    57.4    53.0   145,0  122.4
1987  98.3    80.1  64.2   59.8  162.5  139`.9          0.2     6.5    7.14   14.1  91.7    73.5   56.7    52.3   148.4   125.8
1988 100.0    81.8  65.7   61.3  165.7   U3.31          0.2     6.5    7.4   14.1  93.4   75.2   58.2    53.8  151.6  129.0
1989 100.0    81.8  70.1   65.7  170.1   147.5          0.2    6.5      7.4   14.1  93.4   75.2   62.6    58.2  156.0  133.4
1990 100.0    81.8  73.9   69.5  173.9  151.3           0.2     6.5     7.4   14.1  93.4    75.2   66.4    62.0  159,8  137.2
1991 100.0    81.8  77.5   73.1  177.5  154.9           0.2     6.5    7.4   14.1  93.4   75.2   60.6   56.2  163.4  110.8
1992 100.0    81.8  79.8   75.4   179.8  157.2          0.2     6.5     7.4   14.1  93.4 ' 75.2    72.3   67.9  165.7   143.1
1993 100.0    81.8  83.2   78.8  183.2  160.6           0.2     6.5     7.4   14.1  93.4   75.2    75.7    71.3  169.1   146.5
1994 100.0    81.8  165.4   161.0  265.4   242.8        0.2     6.5    7.4   14.1  93.4    75.2  157.9  153.5  251.3  228.7
1995 100.0    81.8  140.8  136.4   240.8  118.2         0.2     6.5     7.4   14.1  93.4    75.2  133.3  128M9   226.7  204.1
1996 100.0    81.8  88.3   83.9  188.3  165.7           0.2     6.5     7.4  114.1  93.4    75.2    80.8   76.1   174.2  151.u
1997 100.0    81.8  155.6  151.2  255.6  233.0          0.2    6.5      7.4   14.1  93.4    75.2   148.1   143.7   241.5  218.9
1998 100.0    81.8  92.3   87.9  192.3  169.7           0.2     6.5     7.4  lh1.   93.4    75.2    84.8   80.4  178.2  155.6
1999 100.0    81.8  89.5   85.1  189.5  166.9           0.2     6.5     7.4  114.1  93.4    75.2    82.0   77.6  17'%.4   152.8
2000 100.0     81.8  89.7   85.3  189.7  167.1          0.2     6.5     7.4   14.1  93.4    75.2   82.0   77.6  175.6  153.0
2002 100.0    81.8   90.0   85.6  190.0  167.4          0.2     6.5     7.4   14.1  93.4    75.2    82.5   78.1  175.9   153.3
2003,100.0    81.8  90.0   85.6  190.0  167.4           0.2     6.5     7.4   14.1  93.1    75.2   82.5   78.1  1'75.9  153.3
2004 100.0    81.8  90.0   85.6  190.0  167.4           0.2     6.5     7.   114.1  93.4    75.2   82.5   78.1  175,9  153.3
2005 100.0     81.8  90.0   85.6  190.0  167.4          0.2     6.5     7.4   14.1  93.1    75.2    82.5    78.1  175.9  L53.3
2006 100.0    81.8  90.0   85.6. 190.0  167.4           0.2     6.5     7.4&  14.1  '93.4    75.2    82.5    78.1  175.9  153.3
2007 100.0    81.8  90.0   85.6  190.0  167.4          ,0.2    b-5-   -Llé.. 1-I    93.h    75.2   82.5    78.1  175.9  153.3
2008 100.0    81.8   90.0   85.6  190.0  167.4          0.2    6.5      7.4   14.1  93.4   75.2    82.5    78.1  175.9  153.3
2009 100.0    81.8   90.0   85.6  190.0  167.4          0.2     6.5    7.4   14.1  93.h4   75.2    82.5    78.1  175.9  153.3
2010 100.0     81.8  168.7  164.3  268.7  246.1         0.2    6.5      7.4   14.1  93.4    75.2  161.2  156.8  2521.6  232.0
2011 100.0    81.8  141.7  137.3  241.7  219.1          0.2     6.5     7.4   14.1  93.4    75.2  134.2  129.8  227.6  205.0
2012 100.0    81.8  88.3    83.9  188.3  165.7   -97.0  -90.5  -98.4 -285.9  236.9  218.7  237.3  232.9   714.2  1451.6
1/ Dam cost allocated 48% to project area, 52% to Phaae II, i.e-. roporti6nate to area of new irrigation.
Internal rate of return at augar price of 5*, 13%; at eugar price 3.50 11%.
* Sugar price






MOROCCO: RHARB IRRIGATION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1969           1970           1971           1972          1973            1974           1975           1976           1977
IDRISS I DAM
ESTABLISHMENT OF SITE
GROUTING
EARTHWORKS
CONCRETE WORKS
ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
FILLING AND PARTIAL OPERATION                                                                                        _
0F RESERVOIR                                                                                                        ----
FULL OPERATION OF RESERVOIR
LAND REFORM
PRELIMINARY SURVEY
PLAN OF REALLOCATION AND FIELD
IRRIGATION LAYOUT, COMMUNE I (20,000hu)
REALLOCATION OF LAND, COMMUNE I
PLAN OF REALLOCATION AND FIELD
LAYOUT, COMMUNE IL (35,000ha)
REALLOCATION OF LAND, COMMUNE Il
PLAN OF REALLOCATION AND FIELD
LAYOUT, COMMUNE Im (30,000ha)
REALLOCATION OF LAND, COMMUNE m
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE SYSTEM                        3,050hc        ,850ha          6,250ha       8,400ha         8,45Cho        7,350ha
SURVEY AND PLANNING OF LAYOUT                                                                                                              -- / »/ // //57h/
PREPARATION CF TENDER DOCUMENTS                                     3,050Oha       4,850h.        6.250ho        S,400h.         8,450ha       735
AND FINAL DESIGN
CONSTRUCTION
PUMPING STATIONS
DESIGN AND TENDER
CONSTRUCTION
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT
PROCESSING PLANTS (CONSTRUCTION)
SUGAR CANE CRUSHERS AND CONVEYORS (2)
CUMULATIVE TOTAL AREA DEVELOPED (ha.)
1. EQUIPPED FOR IRRIGATION                                                             3,050          7,900         14,150          22,550         31,000         38,350 . oPh ,el)
2. EFFECTIVELY IRRIGATED (LAG)                                                          1,700          5,900         11,000          16,700        23,400          28,100
3. IMPROVED RAINFED                                                                    4,500           9,200         13,720         20,720         26,680          26,680
(2R)IBRD-4348






MOROCCO: RHARB IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE   1                                                OR 
l C~~~~~~~~OORDINATING COMMITTEE_
SECRETARY  GENERAL                                     7 REGIONAL OFFICES*
CAISSE NATIONALE DE
CREDIT AGRICOLE (CNCA)
OFFICE CHERIFIEN  INTERPROFESSIONNEL
DES CEREALES (OCIC)
BUREAU  DES VINS ET
ALCOOLS (BVA)
FORESTRY          VETERINARY         AGRICULTURAL                             ECONOMIC          TOPOGRAPHIC        AGRICULTURAL
AND SOIL  ~     AND            DEVELOPMENT         AGRICULTURAL        STUDIES AND            AND              GIULCA            ADMINISTRATION
CONSERVATION         LIVESTOCK         DEPARTMENT           RESEARCH         LEGAL AFFAIRS        CADASTRAL           EDUCATION          DEPARTMENT
DEPARTMENT          LIVEPSRTME           ( D M V)*         RESE ARCH DEPARTMENT  DEPARTMENT       DEPARTMENT         DEPARTMENT
PROVINCIAL GOVERNOR
PROVINCIAL       _                            H   DIRECTOR-REGIONAL OFFICE
EXTENSION             TECHNICAL COMMITTEE    _               KENITRA
SERVICES
PROGRAMMING,                            LAND REFORM         CONSTRUCTION |  |
PLANNING         ADMINISTRATION        AND ON-FARM        OF IRRIGATION        AGRICULTURAL          VEHICLES
AND BUDGETING                            DEVELOPMENT         AND DRAINAGE         OPERATIONS        AND EQUIPMENT
LOCAL
DEVELOPMENT
CENTERS (18)
* The Regional Offices are under the technical authority of the DMV.
Aprîl 1969                                                                                                                                                              (2R)IBRD-4347






MAP i
J           'p ,`* . `                       X           ,                                w                                     - ~                   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
t?0ç9 ÉsU~Selhom S  ,                                                                                                                               Y                                 «_/ < u   *....   I..   "Ir-v s;;  .  Sl'''RHARB IRRIGATION PROJECT
...........                                                                                                                     *s_oZ A'FE''v 't /) ''/«SEBOU   BASIN
+   /   <           <        i        ^ I   '              2 *                                         J     ,C$ / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a                           }   [Z I sl I hG nÀ~~~~~~~~~ A AlADA
ARABAT                                                  r      .                      M      RASA j IPRAJM  ARFA
AIT YOUBD DAMA
IER
[                                                                                                                                                                         R   R  -   =  \   X\ ;   A ;    - sON -' /X i 0 SsBs4XiX S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R I E     P R A D     B I
BASIN   A     I E            t         _
EL MINZE DIVERSION ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~          DA 
°Illmès AI  DAMMR                                 7 I                                0......                                                                  IeLOCATION OE
O     . /  1                                                                                 A -z `   w * 0*   /   *'   >/   -   - -t    I  A 5 C<<et  AND PFCJECT AREA
AMI IRA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DAM   A* *_ AI AMRA
/       *   (\            *-      /             , >               _Xw                                                     KILOh ET[ES           1   < -  -  A  RADA
JU>E 1109                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5-DAIM MA R






MAP 2
J               -/6À'
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
RHARB IRRIGATION PROJECT  /                                        ( ,R
INFRASTRUCTURE                          /                                                                                                  _F/__
,    X   S                                   m           u1-;y rbd du Rhurù                               T>~<2  IASS[SO C1'10  IMES
.,1,
JÀ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ X eLOCAL  FEIEOPDTCE |-----RD SdP â
AFPS. lOD                                                                                                                                                                      RED  IONSEPNRESg\  t 






MAP 3
KINGDOM    OF MOROCCO                        / > t                                                 Wj                              =       P POS.D ;ECOMIARr
RHARB    IRRIGATION    PROJECT                              .                                                                                      RA ...TION . .uACS
RRBG      IRRI G       ATI NN RO E                          *                                          o                           ..........SEOPNP         IMGIONS
SYSTEM
KENITRA)W//  gAW                                                                    tN                                           . .'MAA
rM.EIM     ,     >KENITRA S|
A                0       ~       ~~      ~      ~~~~ 10  2VIl(                                                                             S
APRIL 1901                                                                                                                                                          IBRD -1511






MAP 4
Sidi-Yrlhy-d.-Rhrarb                           <     /       m       /         /       X    çlll  M,=    Su : w?USSr;A:'-
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IRRIGATION CANALS
EXISTING MAIN                        *  PUMPING STATIONS, PHASE I                  RHARB    IRRIGATION    PROJECT
TEMPORARY MAIN                       O TEMPORARY PUMPING STATIONS                PHASE I ENGINEERING  WORKS
FUTURE MAIN                  .......  LIMIT OF IRRIGABLE ZONE
........ MAIN, PHASE I                            j-I-| Ii  RAILWAYS
PRIMARY, PHASE I                                                                                                         PROJECT AREA
P H A SE I ////»
EXISTING DRAINAGE CANALS                                                   IRRIGATION AREA  i P
PHASE Il
MAIN
SECONDARY              S                     10                     20
EXISTING  IRRIGATED AREA
K I LOMETERS
JUNE 1969                                                                                                                               IBRD - 2599



