RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                  Report No. P-748
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its offiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RI3CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR
THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE SEBOU BASIN
(RHARB IRRIGATION PROJECT)
.October 15, 1969



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO FOR
THE RHARB IRRIGATION PROJECT
(SEBOU BASIN)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on
a proposed loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to US $46 million to the Kingdom of Morocco.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Project would be the first one financed by the
Bank in the agricultural sector in Morocco since 1965, when a
US $10 million loan for an agricultural credit project was
made. The Bank had previously lent US $17.5 million for the
development of part of the Rharb Plain, the Sidi Slimane area.
3.        In 1966, when it became apparent that Morocco faced
a number of serious organization planning problems in the
agricultural sector, including unsatisfactory progress on the
two agricultural projects financed by the Bank, the Bank
offered to assist with advice on organizational and manpower
requirements in this field and in carrying out a review of the
principal agricultural projects and programs. The survey of
organization was carried out by consultants and the survey of
projects and programs by the Bank. Both were completed in 1967.
Meanwhile, the two projects continued in difficulties. In the
case of the Agricultural Credit Loan, MOR-433, they became so
serious that the Bank felt obliged to suspend disbursement in
February 1968.
4.        The steps taken by the Moroccan authorities to over-
come the problems in agricultural administration in general and
in carrying out the agricultural credit project in particular,
made it possible to lift the suspension in September 1968 and to
consider new agricultural projects. Among these, a first phase
irrigation project in the Sebou Basin studied since 1963 by a
UNDP/FAO team and for which the Government had sought Bank



- 2 -
assistance as early as September 1967, was ready for appraisal
and appeared to command a high economic priority. Following
preliminary discussions in Rabat and in the Bank in September-
October 1968, it was decided to proceed with the appraisal of
the project, which was carried out in January-February 1969.
5.        Negotiations for the irrigation project started in
Washington on August 7 and were substantially completed on
August 15 except for certain points which were settled early
in October. The head of the Moroccan delegation was Mr.
Mohammed El Mdaghri, the Director of the Office of the Budget
in the Ministry of Finance. He was accompanied by Messrs.
Farouk Bennis and Abdallah Fassi Fihri, also of the Ministry
of Finance, and Mr. Taieb Fechtali, the Director of the Regional
Agricultural Developmeint Office for the Rharb, who will be in
direct charge of the project.
6.        The proposed loan would be the Bank's seventh and
would increase its lending to Morocco to $128.1 million. In
addition, IDA lending amounts to $18.3 million.  A summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments, as
of August 31, 1969, as well as a brief report on project execu-
tion under those operations, was included in my report and
recommendation for the loan and credit for a highway project,
distributed to the Executive Directors on September 25, 1969.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF TIIE PROPOSED LOAN
7.        Borrower:             Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:               The equivalent of US $46 million
in various currencies.
Purpose:              To finance the foreign exchange
costs of the first phase of the
long-term development of 90,000
hectares for agricultural and
livestock production under irri-
gation and improved rainfed farm-
ing over an area of about 200,000
hectares in the Rharb Plain.



-3-
Amortization:         In 30 years including a nine-
year grace period, through semi-
annual installments beginning
December 15, 1978 and ending
December 15, 1999.
Interest Rate:        Seven percent per annum.
Commitment Charge:    Three-fourths of one percent
per annum.
Estimated Economic    Eleven percent per annum.
Rate of Return:
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        An appraisal report entitled "Morocco - Development of
the Sebou Basin - Rharb Irrigation Project" is attached, (PA-20a).
9.        With this project, the Moroccan Government undertakes
the agricultural development of one of Morocco's most important
underutilized land and water resources. Not only will the project
make possible in about 20 years a five-fold increase in net value
of agricultural production in the project area (and thus raise
farm income for the 90,000 inhabitants), but it will also provide
for all of Morocco an example of integrated land development in
both irrigated and rainfed areas, applying modern agricultural
practices and new land tenure policies.
10.       Two-thirds of the Moroccan population is engaged in
agriculture and traditional subsistence farming occupies more than
four-fifths of the cultivated area. In view of the importance of
the agricultural sector in the economy, and the imperative need
for Morocco to increase agricultural productivity in order to
support its rapidly growing population, the Government is giving
high priority in the Five-Year Plan (1968-1972) to agricultural
development. Almost one-third of total capital investment under
the Plan will go to agricultural development, of which the develop-
ment of the Rharb Plain is the largest single investment program.
11.       The proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange
costs of the first phase of the Rharb Plain development, covering



about 90,000 hectares. Plans for further development of the
Rharb Plain and the Sebou Basin as a whole have been set forth
in the UNDP/FAO studies. It is expected that the complete
irrigation of the Plain will require 25-30 years for execution
and cost about $400-500 million.
12.       The Regional Agricultural Development Office of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform will be responsible
for execution of the Project. With the assistance of the
Director of the Office, members of the UNDP/FAO team and French
management consultants, the Ministry has worked out integrated
plans for organizing, financing and implementing the Rharb
development. These functions will continue through a newly
established Programming, Planning and Budgeting Service within
the Office. Almost two-thirds of the staff have already been
recruited and the remaining posts will be filled to the extent
possible with experisnced personnel drawn from other irrigation
projects nearing completion. The staff of the Office will be
further strengthened by the employment of general consultants to
provide overall support for the Director of the Office, as well
as specialized consultants for specific (and technical)operations.
13.       Coordination of activities involving the various offices
within the Ministry of Agriculture will be through a special com-
mittee to be established by the Minister of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform. Representatives of other government agencies con-
cerned, such as the Ministries of Finance, Public Works, Interior
and Planning will also be represented on this committee.
l.       The project will include:
(i)   the construction of the upstream storage dam
at Arabat (Idriss I dam);
(ii)  the irrigation of 43,000 ha. out of the
200,000 ha. to be eventually irrigated in the
Rharb Plain of the Sebou Basin;
(iii) improved rainfed farming on 27,000 ha; and
(iv) roads and processing facilities.
15.       The construction cost of the Project would be $97 million,
of which $33.5 million would be foreign exchange.   The addition of
$12.5 million for interest on the Bank's loan gives a total foreign
exchange requirement of $46 million. The rate of return to the



about 90,000 hectares. Plans for further development of the
Rharb Plain and the Sebou Basin as a whole have been set forth
in the UNDP/FAO studies. It is expected that the complete
irrigation of the Plain will require 25-30 years for execution
and cost about $400-500 million.
12.       The Regional Agricultural Development Office of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform will be responsible
for execution of the Project. With the assistance of the
Director of the Office, members of the UNDP/FAO team and French
management consultants, the Ministry has worked out integrated
plans for organizing, financing and implementing the Rharb
development. These functions will continue through a newly
established Programming, Planning and Budgeting Service within
the Office. Almost two-thirds of the staff have already been
recruited and the remaining posts will be filled to the extent
possible with experionced personnel drawn from other irrigation
projects nearing completion.  The staff or the Office will be
further strengthened by the employment of general consultants to
provide overall support for the Director of the Office, as well
as specialized consultants for specific (and technical)operations.
13.       Coordination of activities involving the various offices
within the Ministry of Agriculture will be through a special ccm-
mittee to be established by the Minister of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform. Representatives of other government agencies con-
cerned, such as the Ministries of Finance, Public Works, Interior
and Planning will also be represented on this committee.
14.       The project will include:
(i)   the construction of the upstream storaae dam
at Arabat (Idriss I dam);
(ii)  the irrigation of 43,000 ha. out of the
200,000 ha. to be eventually irrigated in the
Rharb Plain of the Sebou Basin;
(iii) improved rainfed farming on 27,000 ha; and
(iv)  roads and processing facilities.
15.       The construction cost of the Project would be $97 million,
of which $33.5 million would be foreign exchange. The addition of
$12.5 million for interest on the Bank's loan gives a total foreign
exchange requirement of $46 million. The rate of return to the



- 5 -
economy is estimated to be 11 percent. The Project will also
result in substantial indirect benefits, which include the
domestic value added from increased crop processing, transport
and marketing of agricultural products, as well as the stimula-
tion of Moroccan production of agricultural inputs, such as
farm machinery, improved seeds and fertilizers. Furthermore,
the development of the Rharb would provide additional employ-
ment for rural laborers in their home areas, and thus would
offset to some extent the pressure on them to move to the cities.
16.       In order to permit the efficient utilization of
mechanized farm equipment and modern agricultural practices, as
well as the creation of farms averaging 5 hectares for those
farmers in the area who own smaller tracts or are landless, the
project will require a large program of land consolidation and
redistribution. About two-thirds of the land in the project area
are held by the state, by villages (collectively), by religious
trusts and by foreigners. These lands will be taken over by the
Government in a "common fund" and subsequently redistributed under
the new Agricultural Investment Code that sets forth policies and
procedures for development of irrigated areas and land redistri-
bution.  Farmers receiving allotments of "common fund" land will
repay the Government for it over a 20-year period with 4 percent
interest.
17.       The Moroccan Government has already made arrangements
for compensation to one group of foreign farmers whose lands were
taken over by the State following enactment of legislation in 1963.
Under the Protectorate, these "lots de colonisation" had been
awarded by the S-tate to foreign settlers, mostly French, under a
variety of legal arrangements and otJmership was not clear. Some of
these lands were located in the area of the Bank-financed Sidi
Slimane project. Agreement has been reached with France on the
claims of its nationals, who have been compensated by the French
Government, which is in turn reimbursed by Morocco over a period of
years. A similar settlement was made with Belgium, and negotiations
are underway to settle a small volume of claims by Swiss nationals.
18.       As regards land recognized to be held in freehold owner-
ship by foreigners ("melk" land initially purchased from Moroccan
owners), of which some 20,000 hectares are located in the project
area, the Government has decided that, as a general rule, it would
be expropriated. No such expropriation has taken place as yet.
In the course of negotiations for the proposed loan, the Moroccan



- 6 -
delegation confirmed its Government's intention of indemnifying
the owners of expropriated land.  Though valuation standards and
payment modalities have yet to be fixed, the delegation noted
that, by virtue of the legislation now in effect, the legitimate
rights of the interested landowners will be recognized and com-
pensation will be equitable.
19.       Because of the long period required for construction of
the dam and irrigation and drainage works, as well as preparation
of the land, it will be nine years before the project works are
fully utilized and a major production increase results. The nine-
year grace period is consistent with this timing. The recommended
30-year term is justified in view of the long time needed to
recover costs which is strongly affected by the twelve-year period
required for new citrus groves to reach full production. Thirty-
four percent of the projected gross value of production in the
area would come from citrus. Also on more general grounds related
to the country's external debt and balance of payments, it would
be desirable to grant an extended period of ~!mortization on this loan.
20.       Procurement for the Project will be carried out in
accordance with the Bank's normal procedures, including inter-
national competitive bidding. Preference will be given to local
manufacturers in awarding contracts; for this purpose, comparison
will be made between (i) the CIF price of the foreign product in-
creased by 15 percent or by the actual rate of duties and taxes
payable, whichever is the lower, plus internal transportation and
insurance costs; and (ii) the ex-factory price of the Moroccan
product plus internal transportation and insurance costs.
21.       The irrigation of the land in the project area is
scheduled to begin in summer 1972. To ensure the availability of
water and to prepare the land by that time, it was necessary to
begin construction of the Idriss I dam in the summer of 1969 to
avoid losing a year. Accordingly, the construction contract was
awarded on May 13, 1969 to a joint venture led by a French
contracting firm, fully in accordance with Bank procurement pro-
cedures. Because of the need to start construction and inasmuch
as the project was already under appraisal at that time, it is
provided in the loan documents that appropriate expenditures from
that date may be met out of the loan. The sums expended before
the expected time of signature which would be reimbursable under
the loan are not expected to exceed $500,000.



- 7 -
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
22.       The Draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the
Kingdom of Morocco, the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement,
and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed loan are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
23.       In addition to the provisions normally included in
Loan Agreements, this agreement provides that the Bank may declare
the principal and interest payable if either the Agricultural
Investment Code or the laws establishing the Regional Development
Office of the Rharb are changed so as to adversely affect the
Project (cf. Section 6.02 of the Draft Loan Agreement). An addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement is
that the Government shall have retained consultants satisfactory
to the Bank to assist the Director of the Regional Office (cf.
Section 7.01 of the Draft Loan Agreement).
PART V - THE ECONOMY
24.       An economic report entitled "Recent Economic Develop-
ments in Morocco" (No. EMA-14, dated August 29, 1969) was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on September 22, 1969. Our
current views on Morocco's economic performance and creditworthi-
ness were summarized in my report on the Highway Project.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREIMENT
25.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
26.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment



