Report No. PID5980
IBRD/IDA PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
Project Name                     Albania Microcredit Project (@)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Microfinance
Project ID                       ALPE51310
Borrower                         Government of Albania
Implementing Agency:             (a)  For the Rural Savings and Credit Component:   A
transitional apex institution, to be established.
(b) For the Urban Microcredit Component: An urban
microcredit foundation, to be established.
Date this PID Prepared           January 26, 1998
Project Appraisal Date           October 1998
Projected Board Date             December 1998
Country and Sector Background
1. Albania is a small, mountainous country (population 3.3 million) with more
than half its population settled in rural areas. Following the collapse of
communism in 1990-91, agricultural land in cooperative and state farms was
rapidly privatized, creating over 400,000 new family farms, most of which
lacked inputs, basic tools, functioning markets, and access to credit. Poverty
was especially pervasive in hilly and mountainous areas, where farm size
averaged only .7 ha per family and infrastructure was nearly nonexistent. In
early 1993, with the financial assistance of the World Bank, the Government
launched a rural poverty alleviation program designed to restart the rural
market economy by (a) providing small credit through village credit funds
(VCFs), and (b) creating employment and improving infrastructure through a
community-based infrastructure works program. The program used a
participatory, process approach: project activities, designed and tested in a
pre-pilot phase (1992), were expanded in the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot
Project launched in early 1993. The Government established a Rural Development
Fund?a foundation with legal and fiscal autonomy, while overseen by a Board
of Trustees comprised of Government officials--to implement the program.
2. Success of Microcredit. The rural village credit fund (VCF) activities
proved a highly successful component of the poverty alleviation program,
largely because of the participation of the villagers themselves ? each
village elected a three-member village credit committee to make loan decisions
and assure repayment. Loans under this program not only helped to develop
farm and off-farm activity, but also promoted entrepreneurship and economic
responsibility. In light of these successes, the Government expanded the
village credit fund program under a follow-up Rural Development Project (Bank-
supported) launched in May 1995. Further, building on the success of the Rural
Development Fund (RDF) in rural areas, the Government transformed the RDF into



an Albanian Development Fund (ADF), expanding its responsibilities to include
microcredit and infrastructure works in selected urban areas under the
Government's Urban Works and Microenterprise Pilot Project (also Bank-
supported), which was launched in December 1995.
3. Since 1995, ADF's rural and urban microcredit programs have been
implemented by separate staff and have used distinct credit delivery
methodologies tailored to the respective clienteles. Each program has
performed well. As of end-September 1997, 188 village credit funds had been
established in 11 districts of Albania; 8,058 loans were active, amounting to
about 325 million lek; and the repayment rate was nearly 100%. Cumulatively
since 1992, about 11,780 loans had been disbursed for all types of income-
generating activities. In urban areas, there were 561 active loans amounting
to 77 million leks, and a repayment rate of 97%; cumulatively since 1994, 916
loans had been disbursed to unemployed or microentrepreneurs in seven cities.
It is especially noteworthy that performance of both microcredit programs
continued to be acceptable during the civil crisis that engulfed Albania in
early 1997. In rural areas, high repayment rates continued even in Vlore
District, testimony to the strength of the local ownership of the village
credit fund system. Urban microentrepreneurs were heavily impacted by the
crisis, but the urban credit officers, who retained close contact with the
borrowers, were able to maintain the integrity of the program.
4. Microcredit in both rural and urban areas is expected to play a crucial
role in Albania's economic recovery by helping farmers rebuild their assets
and helping urban residents restart or start up self-employment and
microenterprises, providing an alternative to reliance on economic assistance.
Demand for microcredit is expected to increase in the post-crisis environment,
because many will turn to small-scale economic activities for economic
survival or to rebuild their economic future.
5. Trends in the Formal Financial Sector. The success of the Government's
microcredit program stands in contrast to critical trends in the formal
financial sector. The banking sector has never functioned effectively in terms
of domestic financial intermediation. At end-1996, just prior to the onset of
the "pyramid scheme crisis," formal bank credit outstanding to the private
sector stood at about 4 percent of GDP. Despite Albania's structural
adjustment from 1993-1996, reform of the financial sector had not progressed.
The formal banking sector had been dominated since 1993 by three state-owned
banks, the National Commercial Bank (NCB), the Savings Bank (SB), and the
Rural Commercial Bank (RCB), which jointly accounted for about 92 percent of
total deposits and 88 percent of total assets in the banking sector. Yet an
estimated 80 percent of the portfolio of these banks was non-performing. (All
three state-owned banks are currently insolvent.) Six very small foreign or
joint venture banks (none possessing a branch network) focused mainly on
foreign exchange transactions and trade financing. In early 1997, the absence
of a functioning formal financial system, combined with the absence of an
adequate regulatory and supervisory framework (especially supervision and
enforcement), contributed to the mushrooming of informal financial schemes,
including pyramid schemes, the collapse of which triggered a civil crisis.
6. The absence of a functioning financial system, apart from the village
credit funds, has been especially dramatic in rural areas. In 1993, the
insolvent Bank for Agriculture and Development was liquidated and the RCB was
created to provide loans under market conditions to private farmers,
- 2 -



agroprocessers, traders, and rural entrepreneurs. Despite support from IDA and
other donors, efforts to reform and strengthen RCB were unsuccessful?RCB's
organizational structure, including the lack of an appropriate incentive
framework for staff and management, remained unchanged. Moreover, systemic
weaknesses common to rural financial markets?such as lack of traditional
forms of collateral required by commercial banks and information
barriers?have been especially pronounced in Albania, where land is largely
unregistered, movable property registries do not yet exist, collateral is
effectively unenforceable due to a dysfunctional judicial system, rural
borrowers lack credit history, and lenders lack experience in commercial
lending. As RCB's lending portfolio continually deteriorated, new lending
dropped or halted. RCB branches provided practically no loans during the last
two years. As a result of the dismal performance and subsequent bankruptcy of
the RCB, the village credit funds (VCFs) implemented by the Albanian
Development Fund under the Government's poverty alleviation program have been
practically the only source of rural credit.
7. The legal, regulatory, and institutional changes needed to enable a
meaningful supply response by commercial banks to the credit needs of farmers
and rural entrepreneurs will take time to come about. Meanwhile, legitimate
rural credit demand is likely to grow rapidly in the coming years. The VCF
model has proven to be a highly effective credit delivery system, which may be
able to assist in bridging the gap, precisely because its design overcomes the
systemic weaknesses in Albania that impede traditional commercial approaches
to rural credit. The information barrier is resolved by taking loan decision
making to the level of the village, where there is absolute transparency and
the work ethic of each borrower is known to all. "Peer pressure" substitutes
for traditional collateral?moral hazard is averted because the reputation of
each borrower (which is highly valued within the village community) is at
stake. The VCF model offers enormous potential to establish a simple savings
and credit association system that addresses to the needs of the rural
population and that functions within current Albanian reality.
Objectives
8. The Project's development objectives are: (a) in rural areas, to increase
farm and off-farm investment and savings services and progressively establish
a sustainable (self-financing) savings and credit association network; (b) in
urban areas, to develop self-employment and microenterprises and progressively
establish a sustainable (self-financing) microcredit institution.
9. By this means, the Project would contribute to stronger financial and rural
sectors by building institutions that serve the lower end of the financial
spectrum: in urban areas, the Project's microcredit institution would serve
clients that are normally too small or without sufficient collateral for
commercial banks; while in rural areas, savings and credit associations that
depend on local decision making and peer pressure would serve the financial
needs of small and average farmers and entrepreneurs.
10. In this way, the Project would help Albania to sustain economic growth by
building legitimate and sound financial intermediaries.
Description
11. As noted above, ADF was originally a small institution that piloted
-3 -



microcredit and infrastructure rehabilitation. Today, ADF's three main
programs?rural microcredit (village credit funds), urban microcredit, and
local infrastructure rehabilitation?are substantially developed and have
different paths for the future. At this stage, each activity requires its own
specialized institution to further expand and develop to its full potential.
In particular, although ADF proved itself an effective institution for
piloting and testing microcredit, it does not provide the appropriate
institutional environment for the development of sustainable (self-financing)
credit delivery.
12. To provide the needed environment, the Project would assist the development
of two specialized microcredit institutions: (i) in rural areas, a
transitional apex (pre-federation) for a savings and credit association
network, based on ADF's Rural Credit Department; and (ii) in urban areas, a
microcredit foundation, based on ADF's Urban Credit Department. Following the
separation of the rural and urban microcredit programs from ADF, ADF would
become specialized in local infrastructure rehabilitation.
13. Component 1: Rural Credit and Savings Associations. The Project would
support the establishment and extension of a private, sustainable savings and
credit association (SCA) network in rural areas, based on the current system
of village credit funds (VCF). The SCA system would be coordinated by an
autonomous SCA apex, which would be established from the existing Rural Credit
Department of the ADF.
(a) Development of SCAs / Transformation of VCFs. The Project would
support the establishment of new SCAs, and the transformation of existing VCFs
into SCAs, by financing institutional development costs, as well as necessary
technical assistance and training of SCA members and boards. SCAs would be
voluntary organizations registered under the Savings and Credit Association
Law for the purpose of lending to and mobilizing savings from their members.
Members of the SCA elect their board, which determines the individual loan
size, maturity, collateral requirements, and payment schedule for each
borrowing member. The Project would also finance the technical assistance and
training needed to strengthen the transitional SCA apex and to assist its
transformation to a SCA federation. The Project would also support specially
designed interventions to restructure or phase out VCFs that are unable to
transform into viable SCAs.
(b) Credit Lines to SCAs. The Project would provide a credit line to the
SCA apex for onlending at market rates to eligible SCAs.
1. Component 2: Urban Microcredit. The Project would support the expansion of
the existing urban microcredit program, and the institutional and
organizational changes necessary to make urban microcredit activities self-
sustainable. Urban microcredit would be implemented by an autonomous urban
microcredit foundation, which would be established from the existing Urban
Credit Department of ADF.
(a) Development of an Urban Microcredit Foundation. The Project would
finance the technical assistance and training necessary for the institutional
development of the urban microcredit foundation.
(b) Credit line for Urban Microlending. The Project would provide a line
of credit to the urban microcredit foundation for onlending at market rates to
- 4 -



borrowers (microentrepreneurs, self-employed, and unemployed).
Implementation
1. The IDA Credit would be passed from the Government to the SCA transitional
apex and urban microcredit foundation as part grant (for training, technical
assistance, and system extension costs), and part loan (for onlending to SCAs
and microentrepreneurs, respectively), under a Subsidiary Agreement, the terms
of which would be defined during Project preparation.
2. Component 1: Rural Savings and Credit Associations. The SCA component
would be implemented by a transitional apex, which would be created from ADF's
Rural Credit Department. The existing loan portfolio of the ADF rural credit
program would be invested as equity in the newly established SCA apex; part of
it could be used to help capitalize new SCAs. The transitional apex would
promote and support SCAs through provision of technical assistance and
training, would onlend to eligible SCAs, and would monitor SCAs for compliance
with the established prudential regulations. The precise relationship between
the transitional SCA apex and the SCAs, the mechanisms for SCAs to capitalize
the apex, the milestones for the progressive transformation of the apex into a
federation, and other related issues would be explored during the first
Project preparation missions.
3. Broad policy guidance and oversight would be provided to the transitional
apex by a board of directors, possibly representing the Ministry of Finance,
Bank of Albania, key donors/shareholders, and elected representatives of the
SCAs. The board composition and mechanisms for nomination of board members
would be determined during Project preparation.
4. Component 2: Urban Microcredit. The urban microcredit component would be
implemented by an urban microcredit foundation, which would be created from
ADF's Urban Credit Department. The existing loan portfolio of the ADF urban
credit program would be invested as equity in the newly established urban
microcredit foundation. The urban microcredit foundation would operate from
decentralized branches (the Urban Credit Department currently has seven branch
offices).
5. Broad policy guidance and oversight would be provided to the urban
microcredit foundation by a board of directors, possibly representing the
Ministry of Finance, Bank of Albania, and key donors/shareholders. The board
composition would be determined during project preparation.
Financing
Component                Category        Indicative       %of  Bank Financing  Bank
Costs         Total   (US$M)          Financing (%
1. Rural SCAs
(a)Development of       Institution      2.0             119 TBD
SCAs/Transformation of   Building
VCFs
(b)Credit Line to SCAs  Credit           6.0             33%  TBD
-5-



2. Urban Microcredit
(a) Urban Microcredit   Institution      1.5              89 TBD
Instition Building       Building
(b)Credit Line for      Credit           8.5             47T  TBD
Microlending
Total            18.0            100t 6.0             33t
Note: Project cost breakdown is extremely preliminary, subject to detailed
feasibility studies and financial projections.
Sustainability
1. ADF's rural and urban microcredit programs have been tested and developed
using a participatory approach that has resulted in strong client commitment
to and ownership of the microcredit programs, especially in rural areas where
village solidarity and local responsibility play a key role in maintaining
high repayment. The extraordinary level of client commitment was demonstrated
during the recent crisis triggered by the collapse of pyramid schemes: both
the rural and urban microcredit programs were able to maintain reasonably high
repayment rates even while the Government collapsed and banks were burned.
ADF's rural credit officers traveled to remote villages during periods of
dangerous instability and unrest?sometimes risking their lives?to maintain
the integrity of the rural credit system. Despite the chaos throughout the
country, farmers repaid their loans?sometimes with great difficulty?because
of the enormous work of credit officers and village credit committee members,
and because farmers understood that the rural credit program was the basis for
the future financial development of their village.
2. Recognizing Albania's critical need for financial services and permanent
(sustainable) institutions, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and
Central Bank have expressed strong support for the Project. A formal decision
whether to proceed with Project preparation is expected by the ADF's Board of
Trustees and the Council of Ministers in January 1998.
3. Although improved access to financial services supported by the Project
will have immediate short-term benefits, the Project's focus will be placed on
achieving concrete progress towards full financial sustainability of the SCA
system and urban microcredit foundation?i.e., in the medium to long term,
covering all operating and financial costs with revenues from interest, fees,
and investment income. Progressive sustainability is a Project development
objective, and financial performance benchmarks will be established and
monitored.
4. The following key factors are critical to putting the SCA system and urban
microcredit foundation on the path of sustainability: (a) full cost recovery
interest rates (lending rates that cover transaction costs, financing
costs/inflation, and risk); (b) high portfolio quality; (c) appropriate
performance-based incentives to staff and management; (d) management
information systems that provide accurate and timely information on key
indicators; (e) outreach and scale; (f) strategic vision: business plans with
specified strategic objectives.
-6-



Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Project is based on lessons learned in testing and developing microfinance
in Albania since 1992, adapting international microfinance best practices to a
transition economy. In developing microcredit delivery systems in Albania,
the main lessons learned?and reflected in Project design?have been:
(a) Using a "process" approach (testing and learning by doing) is
important in designing low-risk credit delivery mechanisms that are adapted to
the local context and that respond to borrower needs. In rural areas, a credit
delivery system based on local decision making and village solidarity can
result in extremely high ownership and repayment rates.
(b) Significant progress towards microfinance sustainability is not
possible within a multi-purpose Government foundation with soft-budget
constraints.
Poverty Category
The project directly addresses poverty reduction. The project's beneficiaries
comprise farmers, rural microentrepreneurs, urban unemployed people and self-
employed people. These groups include a significantly larger proportion of
the poor than does the country's population as a whole.
Environmental Aspects
The Environmental category is expected to be "C," because the Project would
only finance small-scale subprojects (small farm and off-farm activities in
rural areas, small trade, production, or services in urban areas), for which
no environmental impact of significance is expected.
Program Objective Categories
This Project falls under the Bank's Poverty Reduction and Private Sector
Development program objectives. The microloans are designed to restart the
rural market economy through economic opportunities targeted to some of the
poorest groups in society.
Contact Point:                   Ms. Kathryn Funk, ECSRE
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)473-5443
Fax No.: (202) 477-3291
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 27, 1998.
-7 -



