Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19337 ALB
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$12.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
ALBANIA
FOR A
MICROCREDIT PROJECT
May 28, 1999
Albania, Croatia Country Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 15, 1999)
Currency Unit = Lek
US$1.00 = 141 Lek
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF       Albanian Development Fund
BOA       Bank of Albania
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
ESAF      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU        European Union
FEFAD    Foundation for Enterprise Development and Financing
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
IDA       International Development Association
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF       International Monetary Fund
MIS       Management Information System
MFI       Microfinance Institution
MOF       Ministry of Finance
NCB       National Commercial Bank
NDRDP   Northeastern Districts Rural Development Project
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NS        National Shopping
PHRD      Policy & Human Resources Development Fund (Japan)
PMR       Project Management Report
PIP       Project Implementation Plan
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PY        Project Year
RCB       Rural Commercial Bank
RPAPP    Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project
RDP       Rural Development Project
RFF       Rural Finance Fund
SB        Savings Bank
SCA       Savings and Credit Association
SDR       Special Drawing Right
TA        Technical Assistance
VCF       Village Credit Fund
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECA
Country Director: Amtraud Hartnann, ECCO2
Sector Director: Kevin Cleaver, ECSSD
Task Team Leader: Kathryn Funk, ECSSD



Albania
Microcredit Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Background ..........................................................                                              2
2. Project development objective and key performance indicators ....................... 3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ....................................... 3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ............................................. 4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ..................... 5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components ..........................................................                                      6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ......................... 8
3. Benefits and target population ..........................................................                          8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .......................................... 8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .............................. 11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies.. 12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .............................. 12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................... 13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ............................................. 14
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic .........................................................                                               14
2. Financial .........................................................                                               14
3. Technical .........................................................                                               15
4. Institutional .........................................................                                           15
5. Social .........................................................                                                  15
6. Environmental assessment .........................................................                                 16
7. Participatory approach .........................................................                                  17
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability .........................................................                                          17
2. Critical risks ......................................................... 18
3. Possible controversial aspects .........................................................                           19



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions .................................................                                      19
2. Other .................................................                                                          19
H. Readiness for Implementation .....................                                ..................................... 19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ..........................................................                                           20
Annexes
Annex 1.          Project Design Summary ..........................................................                                   21
Annex  IA.   Detailed Performance Indicators ..........................................................     22
Annex 2.          Detailed Project Description ..........................................................                              25
Annex 2A.   Component 1: Rural Savings and Credit Associations ..................................... 26
Annex 2B.   Component 2: Urban Microcredit ..........................................................   34
Annex 2C.  Component 3: Legal and Regulatory Environment for Microfinance .................... 40
Annex 2D.   Component 4: Project Management .......................................................... 50
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs and Detailed Cost Tables .53
Annex 4. Economic Analysis Summary .60
Annex 5. Financial Summary .63
Annex 6.   Procurement, Disbursement, and Financial Management Arrangements                                                           70
Table Al. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .75
Table A2. Consultant Selection Arrangements .76
Table A3. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .76
Table B.   Project Procurement-Related Information and Review Thresholds .77
Table C. Allocation of Credit Proceeds .79
Annex 7.  Project Processing Budget and Schedule .80
Annex 8. Documents in Project File .81
Annex 9. Statement of Loans and Credits .82
Annex 10. Country at a Glance .83
Map               IBRD 30235



Albania
Microcredit Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Albania, Croatia Country Unit
Date: May 28, 1999                                 Task Team Leader: Kathryn Funk
Country Director: Arntraud Hartmann                Sector Director: Kevin Cleaver
Project ID: AL-PE-51310    Sector: FY (Other Finance  Program Objective Category: PV-Private Sector
- Microfinance)          Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan       Program of Targeted Intervention:  [XI Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data               [  Loan      [X1 Credit      [] Guarantee      [J Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$12.0 million equivalent ! SDR 8.9 million
Proposed terms:                       [X-I Multicurrency-SDR  [  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10         [1   Standard Variable   [  Fixed          [    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitnent fee: Standard (a variable rate between 0 and 0.5% of the undisbursed credit balance, set annually
by the Executive Directors of IDA)
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                              Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                                  1.3                0.2              1.5
IDA                                                        10.3                1.7             12.0
Open Society Institute                                      0.9                0.5              1.4
Government of Switzerland                                   0.4                1.0              1.4
Other Cofinanciers                                          5.0                1.5              6.5
Total          17.9               4.8             22.8
Borrower: Albania
Guarantor: n/a
Responsible agencies: For the Rural Savings and Credit Association Component, Rural Finance Fund (a quasi-
governmental foundation); for the Urban Microcredit Component, Besa Foundation (a private Albanian foundation). A
Project Implementation Unit will oversee and coordinate Project implementation.
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    2000     2001      2002       2003     2004      2005
Annual      1.2      2.4      2.4        2.4       2.4      1.2
Cumulative      1.2      3.6      6.0       8.4      10.8      12.0
Project implementation period: 5 years Expected effectiveness date: 9/15/99    Expected closing date: 06/30/05
- 1-



A: Project Development Objective
1. Background:
Albania, a mountainous country with a population of 3.3 million, is the poorest country in
Europe, with a per capita GDP of US$810 in 1998 (Atlas methodology). Following the collapse of
communism in 1990-91, Albania's agricultural cooperative and state farm land was rapidly privatized,
creating over 400,000 new family farmns, most of which lacked inputs and basic tools. There were no
functioning markets for inputs or outputs, and no financial intermediaries capable of servicing this
clientele. Poverty was especially pervasive in hilly and mountainous areas, where farm size averaged only
.7 ha per family and infrastructure was nearly nonexistent. In early 1993, with the financial assistance of
the World Bank, the Government launched a rural poverty alleviation program, focusing on starting a
rural market economy by providing small-scale credit through village credit funds, and creating
employment and improving infrastructure through a community-based infrastructure works program. The
program used a participatory, process approach-involving beneficiaries in the design and
implementation. Project activities were developed and tested during the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot
Project (Cr. 2461-ALB). The Rural Development Fund-a foundation with legal and fiscal autonomy yet
overseen by a Board of Trustees comprised of Government officials-was established to implement the
project.
The rural village credit fund (VCF) program proved highly successful, largely attributable to the
participation of the villagers themselves-villagers elect a three-member village credit committee that
makes the loan decisions and assures the repayment. The loans not only helped to develop farm and off-
farm activity, but also promoted entrepreneurship and economic responsibility. The Government
expanded the VCF program under the follow-up Rural Development Project (Cr. 2680-ALB), which
became effective in May 1995. In addition, given the success of the Rural Development Fund in rural
areas, the Government transformed it into the Albanian Development Fund (ADF), and expanded its
microcredit and infrastructure works to selected urban areas under the Urban Works and Microenterprise
Pilot Project (Cr. 2770-ALB), which became effective in December 1995.
ADF's rural and urban microcredit programs have both performed well (see Table 1). The two
programs have separate staff and use different credit delivery methodologies tailored to their respective
clienteles. In rural areas, the VCF methodology was developed to extend credit using village solidarity. A
VCF is a revolving account that is made available to a village population for small loans for income-
generating activity. Loan security is maximized by bringing loan decisions to the village level: loan
decisions and follow-up are the responsibility of an elected village credit committee. As of March 31,
1999, 225 VCFs were established in rural areas of ten districts of Albania, with about 9,300 active loans
amounting to US$3.0 million, with a portfolio at risk of only 1.2 percent. Cumulatively since 1992, over
17,000 loans have been disbursed for all types of income-generating activities.
Table I
Performance of Rural Microcredit Program and Urban Microcredit Program
Rural Microcredit Program      Urban Microcredit Program
End 1997       End 1998        End 1997        End 1998
Balance of Loans Outstanding   313 mil. leks    417 mil. Leks  117 mil. leks  256 mil. leks
(US$2.1    (US$3.0 million)   (US$820,000)   (US$1.8 nullion)
million)
No. of Active Loans           8,634          9,255           726             1,175
Average Loan Outstanding   36,254 leks     45,150 leks     161,157 leks   217,872 leks
(US$243)       (US$322)       (US$1,900)      (US$1,550)
Effecive Interest Rate       10-20%         18-24%           32%             32%
Inflation (annual average)    42%            0.9%            42%             0.9%
Delinquency Ratea             0.3%           0.5%            5.5%            0.8%
Portfolio at Riske            0.4%           1.0%            9.4%            2.8%
a/ Delinquency rate: amount of payments more than 30 days overdue I total outstanding balance of loan portfolio.
b/ Portfolio at risk: total outstanding balance of loans with payments more than 1 day overdue / total outstanding
balance of loan portfolio.
-2 -



In urban areas, an individual lending methodology is used to provide small loans to self-
employed and microentrepreneurs. As of March 31, 1999, there were 1,265 active loans amounting to
US$2.0 million, with a portfolio at risk of 2.5 percent. Cumulatively since 1994, about 2,900 loans have
been disbursed to unemployed or microentrepreneurs in seven cities.
Performance of both the rural and urban microcredit programs was particularly impressive during
the collapse of the pyramid schemes and the civil crisis that engulfed Albania in early 1997. In rural areas,
high repayment rates continued (never falling below 99 percent), testimony to the strength of the local
ownership of the VCF system and the perceived benefits of the borrowers to ensuring the continuation of
the program. Urban microentrepreneurs were heavily impacted by the crisis, but the urban credit officers
retained close contact with the borrowers and maintained the integrity of the program.
Despite strong-even remarkable-repayment performance, both the rural and urban microcredit
programs currently require subsidies to cover operational costs. This lack of self-sustainability is a major
weakness that limits the future growth and impact of the programs. In addition, the current institutional
setting for the microcredit programs (ADF, a multi-functional Governmental foundation) is not conducive
to the financial discipline necessary to develop sustainable financial institutions. The rural VCF program
could have a substantial impact on rural development in Albania if it evolves into a private, sustainable
system of savings and credit associations (SCA), pernitting an expansion to the coastal plains. Likewise,
the urban microcredit program could facilitate small-scale private sector development throughout Albania
without burdening the Government's budget if it evolves into a private, sustainable microcredit
foundation.
Today, Albania is facing a new crisis: hostilities in Kosovo and the enormous influx of refugees
into Albania (an estimated 480,000 refugees as of late-May 1999). The economic consequences of this
crisis on Albania are likely to be substantial. Under the present circumstances, providing support for
larger microfinance programs-helping farmers undertake investments and helping urban residents start
up and expand self-employment and microenterprises-remains an important objective. Moreover,
Albania's severe budget pressures caused by the refugee situation underscore the importance of
establishing self-sustaining microfinance programs that will no longer burden budget resources.
2. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The Project's development objectives are: (a) in rural areas, to increase farm and off-farm
investment and savings services and to progressively establish a sustainable (self-financing) savings and
credit association network and federation; (b) in urban areas, to develop self-employment and
microenterprises and to progressively establish a sustainable (self-financing) microcredit institution.
Key Performance Indicators for development objectives. Detailed performance indicators are:
(a) outreach: number of SCAs and SCA members, number of active rural and urban microloan clients; (b)
financial performance: portfolio at risk, adjusted operating costs/average performing assets, equity to debt
ratio, subsidy dependency index, financial income/adjusted operating expenses; (c) SCA and Union
institution building: creation and development of SCA Union. (See Annex 1A.)
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 18161-ALB      Date of latest CAS discussion: 7/30/98 (CAS dated 7/8/98)
The CAS, discussed by the Board of Directors on July 30, 1998, supports the Government's
agenda of restoring sustained private sector growth after the 1997 civil crisis, in order to address the
crisis-related increase in poverty and unemployment, and to get the country back on the track of medium-
term growth. The CAS, which takes into account the main lessons learned from the first five years of IDA
assistance to Albania and the 1997 crisis, also emphasizes the need to strengthen governance and
institutions by engaging the population in the development process. Accordingly, the IDA strategy
-3 -



focuses on the following strategic priorities: (a) governance and institution building; (b) promoting
sustainable private sector growth; and (c) promoting human development and poverty alleviation.
The Microcredit Project will address private sector development and poverty alleviation by
increasing the availability of financial services to rural farmers and entrepreneurs and to urban
microentrepreneurs and self-employed. Over the medium term, the Project will help Albania to sustain
economic growth by building legitimate and sound financial intermediaries. The development of a private
urban microcredit institution (Besa Foundation) and the promotion of private, democratically-governed
savings and credit associations in rural areas is also expected to contribute to the strengthening of civil
society. IDA's continued support for microcredit and the development of private, specialized
microfinance institutions, is specifically cited in the CAS.
2. Main sector issues and Govemment strategy:
Macroeconomic Stability. The Government elected to power in June 1997 quickly focussed on
reestablishing macroeconomic stability. Under a six-month program supported by the International
Monetary Fund's (IMF) Post-conflict Emergency Assistance Policy, the Government took important
measures to reassert fiscal control. These measures helped the Government to outperform the fiscal target
for 1997, and laid the groundwork for a three-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF)
program for 1998-2001 approved by the IMF Board in May 1998. In 1998, despite the loss of some
momentum during the September coup attempt, Albania made significant progress toward
macroeconomic stabilization and growth-inflation was tamed to 9 percent by the end of 1998, the
current account deficit dropped to 6 percent of GDP, the exchange rate was stable, and the estimated real
GDP growth reached 8 percent, bringing real GDP to its pre-crisis level. Albania remained largely on
track for the ESAF program.
Albania now faces new extraordinary challenges: the ongoing conflict in Kosovo and the massive
influx of refugees into Albania are creating fiscal and external pressures that risk to undermine the very
successful macrostabilization efforts undertaken by the Albanian Government since mid-1997. In addition
to putting strains on the economic infrastructure, the Kosovo crisis could potentially threaten Albania's
stability and internal security. Despite these conditions, the Government has remained firmly committed
to continue with its economic reform program. The Government has continued with the implementation
of the stabilization measures agreed with the IMF before the Kosovo crisis, and has publicly committed
itself to a serious institutional and structural reform program, supported by a Structural Adjustment Credit
(US$45 million) discussed by IDA's Board of Directors on June 3, 1999. Present projections are that
macroeconomic stability will be maintained, with inflation dropping to 7 percent in 1999 and to 3 percent
in 2001. Under the current circumstances, however, it is extremely difficult to make reliable forecasts of
economic developments in Albania. Given the uncertainty of the Kosovo situation, the estimates for 1999
and beyond are merely preliminary and will be modified as the situation evolves.
Financial Sector. Despite Albania's structural adjustment from 1993-1996, reform of the
financial sector did not progress, and the banking sector never functioned effectively in terms of domestic
financial intermediation. At the end of 1996, just prior to the collapse of pyramid schemes, the formal
banking sector was dominated by three insolvent state-owned banks-the National Conmmercial Bank
(NCB), the Savings Bank (SB), and the Rural Commercial Bank (RCB). Six small foreign or joint venture
banks without branch networks focused mainly on foreign exchange transactions and trade financing. The
absence of a functioning formal financial system combined with the absence of an adequate regulatory
and supervisory framework (especially supervision and enforcement) contributed to the mushrooming of
informal financial schemes, including pyramid schemes, the collapse of which triggered the civil crisis
that erupted in early 1997.
Since 1997, the paramount issue for the Government has been to implement a program for quick
divestiture/reform of the state-owned banks and to actively promote the development of a sound private
banking system. The RCB, which had the highest proportion of non-performing loans, was liquidated at
the end of 1997. The Government intends to privatize the NCB by mid-1999, and the SB has been placed
under a governance contract in preparation for privatization starting year 2000. The two state-owned
banks still dominate the banking sector, accounting for about 85 percent of total assets, 70 percent of
loans, and 92 percent of deposits; yet they continue to incur high losses and have ceased their lending
-4-



operations (a Bank of Albania policy disallows banks with arrears exceeding 20 percent of portfolios
from providing credit). Private banks continue to make steady inroads-as of early 1999 there were eight
private banks, and the Bank of Albania had granted preliminary licenses to operate to three other
institutions. Bank restructuring/divestiture is supported by the IDA-financed Rehabilitation Credit and
Technical Assistance Credit.
Modernization of banking infrastructure and strengthening of banking supervision are other
important elements of the Government's strategy for financial sector reform. The IDA-financed
Technical Assistance Credit supports the Government's program by providing assistance to strengthen
bank accounting practices, improve the payments system, and strengthen banking supervision and
regulation. The IMF and USAID are also actively involved in strengthening the Bank of Albania, and are
financing resident experts in the fields of regulation and supervision.
Rural Finance. The absence of a functioning financial system has had an especially dramatic
impact in rural areas. In 1993, the insolvent Bank for Agriculture and Development was liquidated and
the RCB was created to provide loans under market conditions to private farmers, agroprocessors, traders,
and rural entrepreneurs. Despite support from IDA and other donors, efforts to reform and strengthen
RCB were unsuccessful-RCB's organizational structure, including the lack of an appropriate incentive
framework for staff and management, remained unchanged. Moreover, systemic weaknesses common to
rural financial markets-such as a lack of the kinds of collateral traditionally required by commercial
banks and banks' lack of information about borrowers-are especially pronounced in Albania, where land
is largely unregistered, movable property registries do not yet exist, collateral contracts are effectively
unenforceable due to a dysfunctional judicial system, rural borrowers lack credit histories, and lenders
lack experience in commercial appraisal and lending. RCB's lending portfolio continued to deteriorate.
RCB branches provided practically no new loans after 1996 and RCB terminated its operations at the end
of 1997. As a result of the dismal performance and subsequent bankruptcy of the RCB, the VCFs
implemented by the ADF have been virtually the only source of credit in rural areas.
The legal, regulatory, and institutional changes needed to enable a meaningful supply response by
commercial banks to the credit needs of farmers and rural entrepreneurs will take time. Meanwhile,
legitimate rural credit demand is likely to grow rapidly in the coming years. The VCF model has proven
to be a highly effective credit delivery system precisely because its design overcomes the systemic
weaknesses in Albania that impede traditional commercial approaches to rural credit. The information
barrier is resolved by taking loan decision making to the level of the village, where there is absolute
transparency and the work ethic of each borrower is known to all. "Peer pressure" substitutes for
traditional collateral-moral hazard is adverted because the reputation of each borrower (which is highly
valued within the village community) is at stake. The VCF model offers enormous potential to establish a
simple savings and credit association system that corresponds to the needs of the rural population and that
functions within current Albanian reality.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Project will contribute to stronger financial and rural sectors by building institutions that
serve the lower end of the financial spectrum. In urban areas, the Project's microcredit institution will
serve clients that are normally too small or without sufficient collateral for commercial banks. In rural
areas, savings and credit associations that depend on local decision making and peer pressure will serve
the financial needs of small and average farmers and entrepreneurs.
Focus on Sustainability. Until now, the ADF has been known mainly as an institution that
addresses poverty alleviation. For example, the ADF's rural VCF program was initiated under the IDA-
financed Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project, which targeted the most remote mountain villages in
Albania's poorest districts. The VCF system developed since 1993 and the urban microcredit program
developed since 1994 have both proven to be very effective systems of credit delivery, but they are
currently not sustainable. The main strategic choice of the Microcredit Project is to focus on
sustainabilitv-to transform ADF's existing rural and urban microcredit programs into permanent
institutions that are progressively self-financing.



Transformation of Village Credit Funds to Savings and Credit Associations. It is not possible to
provide financial services to a large part of Albania's rural population using a methodology dependent on
subsidies and donor resources. Therefore, the Project will support the transformation of the VCF system
to a sustainable SCA system. Under the VCF methodology, ADF lends to villagers with the assistance of
village credit committees, which approve loans and follow up repayment. SCAs will be more formal
organizations (registered under the SCA Law) with the purpose of providing credit and savings services
to their members on a sustainable basis. SCAs will have greater democracy (self-management),
autonomy, and responsibility than VCFs. As member-owned and capitalized organizations, SCAs will
have a strong incentive to maintain sustainability and minimize risks of loan delinquency. Many tasks
currently performed by ADF will be progressively transferred to the SCAs, as they are trained and
become increasingly autonomous and mature.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component 1: Rural Credit and Savings Associations Network (Total cost US$8.1 million, of
which IDA US$5.4 million). The Project will support the establishment and extension of a private,
sustainable SCA network in rural areas-using as a basis the current system of VCFs-and the
progressive development of an SCA Union. SCAs will be voluntary organizations registered under the
Savings and Credit Association Law for the purpose of lending to and mobilizing savings from their
members. Members of the SCA will elect their board, which will determine the individual loan size,
maturity, collateral requirements, and payment schedule for each borrowing member. The SCA Union
will be owned and capitalized by its member SCAs. Ultimately, the SCA Union is envisioned to: (a)
represent SCAs; (b) provide support and training to existing and new SCAs; (c) regulate SCAs in
accordance with Bank of Albania standards and criteria; and (d) provide lines of credit to SCAs and
invest surplus SCA savings. During a transition period to a full-fledged SCA system, the development,
training, and financing of SCAs and the development of their representative Union will be the
responsibility of a Rural Finance Fund (RFF) and an SCA Development and Training Unit (DTU).
Prior to Project negotiations, RFF was established as a quasi-Governmental foundation, and the
staff, activities, and assets/liabilities of the ADF Rural Credit Department (including the existing VCF
loan portfolio of about US$2.5 million) were transferred to RFF. RFF will: (a) continue to manage the
existing VCF network, providing loans to villagers from the existing loan portfolio (no new VCFs will be
created); (b) using the Microcredit Project IDA credit line, provide loans to eligible SCAs for onlending
to their members; and (c) using its assets (the existing loan portfolio transferred from ADF), provide
capitalization grants to eligible SCA. The Project will provide modest capacity building grants to RFF for
institution building during its first few years. RFF is a transitional institution with a maximum lifespan of
five years-its functions will be progressively transferred to the SCA Union.
A specialized SCA DTU supported by technical assistance, will: (a) create new SCAs and
transform existing VCFs to SCAs; (b) provide training and support to SCA boards and their members,
including development of SCA financial systems; and (c) assist SCAs to create their Union. The DTU,
which will be financed by grant cofinancing from the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation,
will be established as a separate entity. DTU functions will be transferred to the SCA Union as soon as
possible.
Under the Project, rural credit operations-currently ongoing in six districts (not including the
four districts financed by the International Fund for Agricultural Development)-will be expanded to five
new districts: Durres, Kavaje, Lushnje, Fier, and Peqin, representing fertile agricultural areas of Albania.
The project will provide credit and support to an estimated 340 SCAs (190 new SCAs and 145 VCFs
transformed to SCAs), with about 19,000 members.
Component 2: Urban Microcredit (Total cost US$13.6 million, of which IDA US$5.7 million).
The Project will support the expansion of urban microcredit and the development of a private, sustainable
microcredit institution, established from the existing Urban Credit Departnent of ADF. An Albanian
foundation-Besa Foundation-has been founded by the Open Society Foundation of Albania, with the
-6 -



assistance of Soros Foundation. The staff, activities, and assets/liabilities of the ADF Urban Credit
Departnent (including the existing loan portfolio of about US$3.0 million) were transferred to Besa
Foundation prior to Project negotiations.
Under the Project, a line of credit will be made available to Besa Foundation for onlending at
market rates to borrowers (mainly to existing microentreprenuers and self-employed, and some to
unemployed). On the basis of an agreed business plan, the Project will provide capacity building grants to
Besa Foundation for institution building during its transition to a sustainable institution. Capacity building
grants will be progressively smaller each year, and subject to performance indicators.
The Besa Foundation intends to expand urban microcredit to three new towns, bringing the total
number of district branches to ten. There will be an estimated 17,000 active urban microcredit clients by
the end of the Project. Besa Foundation will reach full financial sustainability by Project Year 5.
Component 3: Legal and Regulatory Environment (Total cost US$0.5 million, of which IDA
US$0.3 million). The future SCA system needs to be regulated and supervised in such a manner that
ensures financial safety and soundness, while taking into account the special characteristics and
mutualistic nature of SCAs. Development of microcredit non-governmental organizations (NGO) in
Albania needs a legal and regulatory environment that assures transparency and accountability. Under the
Project's third component, technical assistance and training will be provided for the development of an
appropriate legal, regulatory, and supervision framework for: (a) rural SCAs and their Union; and (b)
microcredit NGOs. The component supports the development of specialized SCA supervision capacity in
the Bank of Albania, RFF, and future SCA Union. The component also includes the review of existing
and draft legislation, regulations, licensing, and registration procedures in accordance with regional and
international best practices; and the formulation of recommendations to improve the legal framework.
Conmponent 4: Project Management (Total cost US$0.6 million, of which IDA US$0.6 million).
T he Project will be managed and coordinated by a small Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under the
auspices of the Ministry of Finance. During Project implementation, the PIU will be responsible for: (a)
coordinating overall Project activities; (b) managing the Special Account and administering
disbursements; (c) monitoring Project implementation, including compliance with performance
indicators, and reporting to Government and IDA on Project progress; (d) ensuring Project financial
management arrangements in accordance with OP/BP 10.02; and (e) ensuring procurement in accordance
with IDA procurement guidelines. The component will finance the modest incremental costs of the PIU,
including staff, office equipment, and supplies. The component will also support: a Project financial
management system; annual audits; and monitoring and evaluation (annual beneficiary assessments and a
mid-termn review).
Component                 Category     Indicative   % of    IDA       % of
Costs    Total  financing    IDA
__________     __(US$M)             (US$M)  financing
1. Rural Savings and Credit Associations  Credit / Institution  8.1  36%  5.4     67%
Building
2. Urban Microcredit               Credit / Institution  13.6   60%      5.7      42%
Building
3. Legal and Regulatory Environment   Institution Building  0.5  2%      0.3      67%
4. Project Management              Institution Building  0.6    3%       0.6      100%
Total         22.8              12.0
-7 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
(a) Development of Specialized Microcredit Institutions. ADF was created in 1993 by Special
Decree of the Council of Ministers; overall guidance is provided by a Board of Trustees comprised of
Central Govermnent officials. ADF started as a small institution that piloted microcredit and
infrastructure rehabilitation. By 1998, ADF's three main programs-rural microcredit, urban microcredit,
and local infrastructure rehabilitation-were substantially developed and had different paths for the
future. It became apparent that each activity required its own specialized institution to further expand and
develop to its full potential. Although ADF proved itself an effective institution for piloting and testing
microcredit, it did not provide the appropriate institutional enviromnent for the development of
sustainable (self-financing) credit delivery.
The Project will assist the development of specialized microcredit institutions: (i) in rural areas,
SCAs and their representative Union, and a transitional RFF, based on ADF's Rural Credit Department;
and (ii) in urban areas, a private microcredit foundation-Besa Foundation-based on ADF's Urban
Credit Department. Following the separation of the rural and urban microcredit programs from ADF,
ADF has become specialized in local infrastructure rehabilitation, financed by the Community Works
Project (Cr. 3164) and the EU-Phare Local Communities Development Project.
(b) Interest Rate Policy. The Project will ensure that RFF and Besa Foundation onlend at real
positive interest rates that are sufficient to cover risk, transactions costs, and cost of capital. As member-
owned and member-capitalized institutions, SCAs will have an inherent incentive to maintain the value of
capital by lending at real positive interest rates. Thus, the Project supports the transformation of the VCF
system, which has experienced subsidized interest rates, to a sustainable SCA system with unsubsidized
interest rates.
(c) Legal Framework / Regulation and Supervision. The Savings and Credit Association Law
(No. 8089, March 21, 1996) provides the basic legal framework for SCAs and is adequate for Project
purposes. However, the Savings and Credit Association Law should be arnended to clarify some
provisions, especially regarding the regulation and supervision of SCAs, and the functions of the SCA
Union. Support for improving SCA legislation and regulation is provided under the Legal and Regulatory
Environment for Microfinance Component.
3. Benefits and target population:
The Project will increase the provision of financial services to small farmers, microentrepreneurs,
and unemployed, thereby enabling productive investments that generate income and employment. In the
short run, this access to microcredit will assist Albania's economic recovery by helping farmers rebuild
their assets and undertake new investments and by helping urban residents start up or expand self-
employment and microenterprises. In the medium to long term, the Project will contribute to economic
growth by initiating sustainable financial intermediaries, part of broader financial sector that is essential
for future development. The development of an SCA network is particularly crucial for rural areas,
because lending based on village solidarity and local decision making may be the only feasible and cost
effective way to channel microloans to smallholders and small rural entrepreneurs for the foreseeable
future.
International experience has shown that microfinance, by decentralizing decision making, can
enhance local democratic processes and contribute to more cohesive communities. In Albania, the SCA
component will contribute to the establishment of voluntary farmer organizations with elected boards,
thereby encouraging greater responsibility of the rural community in the management of its local
economy. Both the rural and urban microcredit activities will help the development of self-initiative and
entrepreneurship.
4. Institufional and implementation arrangements:
The Project will be implemented over five years. Institutional and implementation arrangements
for each Project component are described below.
- 8 -



Component 1: Rural Savings and Credit Associations
Rural Finance Fund. Loans to SCAs will be implemented by the RFF, a quasi-Governmental
foundation created from ADF's Rural Credit Department. RFF was established under Council of
Ministers Decision No. 207, dated April 28, 1999, and was registered by the District Court of Tirana,
Registration No. 1553, dated May 18, 1999. Transfer of ADF Rural Credit Department staff, activities,
and assets/liabilities to RFF took place on May 20, 1999. The forner loan portfolio of the ADF rural
credit program (about US$2.5 million) will be used to: (a) prov e loans to villagers through existing
VCFs, which are not yet transformed to SCAs; and (b) to enable faster growth of the SCA system,
provide capitalization grants to new SCAs. Capitalization grants will be introduced gradually and
carefully monitored to avoid disincentives to savings, member capitalization, and local ownership.
Broad policy guidance and oversight will be provided to RFF by a board of directors comprising:
four representatives of Government, three representatives of SCAsNVCFs, one representative of the
banking sector, and one academic representative. Participation of SCAs and VCFs on the board is
important to prepare for the future SCA Union.
Under a Subsidiary Agreement between the Borrower and RFF (execution of the Subsidiary
Agreement is a Condition of Credit Effectiveness), the IDA line of credit for SCAs will be provided to
RFF at a real positive interest rate for onlending at market rates to SCAs. (See Section E.2. for a
discussion of the implicit subsidy to RFF.) RFF will add a margin (estimated at 8 percent) to cover
transaction costs and risk. The SCAs will onlend to their members, according to terms determined by the
SCA Board, adding a margin (estimated at 4 percent) to cover SCA transaction costs, and adding an
additional 2 percent for SCA capitalization, bringing the total margin to about 14 percent.
Under the Subsidiary Agreement, RFF will also receive capacity building grants to cover modest
institution building costs during its first two years (as it makes the transition to full cost recovery) in
accordance with agreed business plans and performance indicators, which will be updated each year.
SCA development and training will be carried out by a specialized team supported by
international experts, and financed by a grant from the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation.
Component 2: Urban Microcredit
The Urban Microcredit Component will be implemented by Besa Foundation, a private
specialized microcredit foundation founded by the Open Society Foundation for Albania with the
assistance of Soros Foundation, for the purpose of providing an appropriate institutional setting for the
ADF Urban Credit Program. Besa Foundation was registered as a foundation by the Court of Tirana,
Registration No. 1554, dated May 18, 1999. The staff, activities, and assets/liabilities of ADF's Urban
Credit Department were transferred to Besa Foundation on May 20, 1999, under a purchase agreement.
Broad policy guidance and oversight will be provided to Besa Foundation by a Board of
Directors, initially comprising three representatives of the Open Society Foundation, two technical
specialists representing Government, one representative of the private sector, and one microentrepreneur.
Under a Subsidiary Agreement between the Borrower and Besa Foundation (execution of the
Subsidiary Agreement is a Condition of Credit Effectiveness), the IDA line of credit for urban
microentrepreneurs will be provided to Besa Foundation at a real positive interest rate for onlending at
market rates to urban microentrepreneurs and self-employed. (See Section E.2. for a discussion of the
implicit subsidy to Besa Foundation.) Besa Foundation will add a margin (estimated at 18 percent) to
cover transaction costs and risk.
Under the Subsidiary Agreement, Besa Foundation will also receive capacity building grants to
cover institution building costs (as it scales up its operations during its first four years- and makes the
transition to a sustainable institution), in accordance with agreed business plans and performance
indicators, which will be updated each year. The capacity building grant will decline every year, and will
end after Project Year 5, at which point the Besa Foundation will be fully sustainable.
-9-



Component 3: Legal and Regulatory Environment
Technical assistance (TA) and other support (training and equipment) will be provided to Bank of
Albania, RFF, and the future SCA Union. Procurement and contracting will be carried out by the PIU,
with the close collaboration of Bank of Albania and RFF.
Component 4: Project Management
A PIU in the Ministry of Fin. ,ace (MOF) will oversee the Project, manage Project expenditures
from the Special Account, ensure that Project implementation is consistent with stated Project objectives,
monitor Subsidiary Agreements and contracts, and maintain the Project's Book of Accounts. Rather than
creating a new project unit in the MOF, these functions will be under the responsibility of an existing
PIU, which currently manages the Tax Administration Project and the Recovery Program Technical
Assistance Project. The existing PIU is experienced with IDA procurement guidelines and disbursement
procedures, but it will require additional staff and strengthening through TA, training, and offiee
equipment. Project management will also be coordinated with the MOF Debt Department, which has
expertise in managing subsidiary loan agreements.
The PIU will serve as the main communication point with the Bank and will ensure that all
requirements pertaining to the Development Credit Agreement are implemented on a timely basis.
Financial Management
General: Implementation of the Project will be overseen by an existing PIU in the MOF. The
PIU will be strengthened by additional staff and equipment as well as improved financial management
systems that will be in place before Credit Effectiveness. The RFF and Besa Foundation have been
established from existing entities that have basic financial management and accounting systems. The
Project will initially disburse under the Association's traditional Statement of Expenditure (SOE) method,
with the option of moving to the Project Management Reports (PMR)-based disbursement method at the
mutual agreement of the Borrower and the Association.
Financial Management Review: The Association was unable to conduct a detailed financial
management assessment of the Project at the time of Appraisal because of the conflict in Kosovo.
However, the Association is already familiar with the financial management arrangements of the PIU,
RFF, and Besa Foundation and has agreed upon an action plan to strengthen these arrangements. It is a
condition of Effectiveness that the financial management arrangements of the project are satisfactory to
the Association.
Accounting systems: The RFF and Besa Foundation already have in place basic financial
management and accounting systems but these systems will need to be strengthened prior to
Effectiveness. For the PIU, a system will be developed similar to the one under development for the
Second Irrigation and Rehabilitation Project. The new systems will enable the PIU to produce full
quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) beginning approximately six months after Project
Effectiveness. However, by Project Effectiveness, the PIU will need to be able to produce PMRs IA, lB
and IF. Adequate funds have been earmarked in the Project to finance these initiatives.
Staffing: The PIU already employs a Financial Controller/Accountant. In addition, by June 1999
the PIU will hire a Microcredit Project Manager with substantial financial and accounting experience.
Due to the fact that the RFF and Besa Foundation have been formed from existing entities, they each
already have a complement of financial management staff. However, as their financial management
systems will need to be strengthened prior to Effectiveness, their staffing arrangements may also need to
be revisited.
Audit arrangements: External audits will be performed annually in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing by independent auditors acceptable to the Association. The scope of the audits will
include: (a) the financial statements of the Project as maintained by the PIU; and (b) the financial
statements prepared in accordance with International Accounting Standards of both the RFF and the Besa
Foundation. The audited financial statements will be prepared within six months of the end of every fiscal
year. The selection of the auditors is a Condition of Credit Effectiveness.
- 10 -



D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
(a) Combining Infrastructure Works and Microcredit. It was considered to prepare a project that
includes both infrastructure works and microcredit, which would continue to be implemented by the same
institution-ADF. However, if the rural and urban microcredit programs are to become permanent
programs in Albania, they require institutional settings that enforce financial discipline (operational self-
sufficiency through interest revenues) and increased productivity. There is a contradiction between credit
delivery and infrastructure grants that grows over time. Therefore, it was decided that ADF's
infrastructure works will be supported by a separate Community Works Project (Cr. 3164, approved by
the IDA Board on January 19, 1999); while the rural and urban microcredit programs will be separated
from ADF into autonomous microcredit institutions, and their expansion and strengthening will be
supported by this stand-alone Microcredit Project.
(b) Continuing to Support Village Credit Funds. The VCF methodology has been successful until
now, especially in demonstrating strong repayment. One option considered was to continue to distribute
loans to farmers and rural entrepreneurs using the existing VCF methodology. However, the VCF system
also exhibits important weaknesses for the future: (i) lending is entirely dependent on donor resources,
which dramatically limits the potential expansion of the system; and (ii) interest income does not cover
transaction costs, because villages have no incentive to implement market interest rates, and (iii) ADF has
no incentive to lower its operating costs. In the aftermath of the 1997 crisis, it is clearer than ever that
Albania needs sound and sustainable financial institutions. Rural financial institutions are particularly
lacking, and the VCF system provides a solid basis to build a sustainable SCA network.
(c) Options for Channeling Credit to Savings and Credit Associations. Several institutional
options were considered for developing and channeling credit to SCAs: the immediate creation of an SCA
Union, a commercial company owned progressively by SCAs (such as the Moldova Rural Finance
Company), and a quasi-Governmental foundation (RFF). The immediate creation of an SCA Union or a
commercial company has several advantages: (i) private institutions are created from the outset; and (ii)
no second institutional transformation is needed during or after the Project. However, both options
represent top-down approaches that are not likely to succeed in Albania, where there are still strong
memories of the failure of large state-organized cooperatives. It was decided that the SCA Union should
be created at the initiative of SCAs and progressively capitalized by SCA members. In addition, the
process of converting existing VCFs to SCAs will take time, and it was difficult to consider how a private
union or commercial company could take over management of the existing VCF system and loan
portfolio, and Government was reluctant to grant the existing loan portfolio to a newly-created union or
company. Development of a temporary RFF and SCA DTU was considered the most pragmatic option
and most likely to succeed in the Albanian context. Using commercial banks to onlend to SCAs was
never an option, given that the only commercial banks with nationwide branch systems are state-owned
and insolvent, and private banks are still small and emerging in Albania.
(d) Options for Creating a Sustainable Urban Microcredit Institution. Several options were
explored for transforming the ADF's Urban Credit Program into a permanent, sustainable microcredit
institution. It was determined that there are no existing microcredit institutions in Albania that could
acquire the ADF Urban Credit portfolio. The sole existing micro, small and medium credit institution in
Albania, the Foundation for Enterprise Finance and Development, was not interested in acquiring the
ADF Urban Credit Program. While there are a number of international microcredit NGOs that operate in
the region, none of them currently operate in Albania. Collaboration was considered with Opportunity
International, which will start a microcredit program in Albania financed by USAID, but it was
determined that Opportunity International and the ADF Urban Credit Program did not have completely
compatible microcredit methodologies. Therefore, it was determined that the best option was to establish
a local foundation that would absorb the management, staff, and activities of the ADF Urban Credit
Program, thereby providing an appropriate legal and institutional setting to carry on their mission.
However, the establishment of a local microcredit foundation requires a private founder and a cofinancier
willing to capitalize and provide future financial support to the institution. In February 1998, the Soros
- 11 -



Foundation proposed to cofinance the Microcredit Project by providing US$1 million in start-up capital to
a local institution founded by the Open Society Institute for Albania, to be created specifically for the
ADF Urban Microcredit Program.
(e) Combining the Rural and Urban Credit Programs. Consideration was given to combining the
rural and urban credit programs under one institution. However, it was decided to support a separate rural
savings and credit association system and urban microcredit system, because the two programs are
administered by different staff and organizations, using entirely different methodologies. The rural credit
prograrn is based on a group (village) methodology, which lends itself to a mutualist-type (member-
owned) savings and credit association system. The urban microcredit programn uses an individual lending
methodology; and there is no feasible way to transform it into a member-owned system in the short or
medium term. It is conceivable that the rural SCA system could eventually expand to urban areas (for
example, urban SCAs based on workplace or professional affiliation), resulting in urban SCAs that could
join the future SCA Union.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
andplanned):
Sector issue                    Project            Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Small rural infrastructure, rural microcredit Rural Poverty AUleviation  s          s
through village credit funds         Pilot Project (Completed
June 1995)
Small mral infrastructure, rural microcredit Rural Development     S                S
through village credit funds         Project
(QAG: Best practice)
(Expected closing
December 1999)
Urban infrastructure rehabilitation, urban    Urban Works and      S                S
microcredit                          Microenterprise Pilot
Project (Expected closing
June 1999)
Other development agencies
Small rral infrastructure, rural microcredit IFAD Northeastern
through village credit funds, agncultural    Districts Rural
services, local government support   Development Project
Urban micro, smalL and medium-scale  GTZ, KFW-Foundation
credit                              for Enterprise and
Finance Development
(FEFAD)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), RU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Project is based on lessons learned in testing and developing microfmance in the region (e.g.,
the Moldova Rural Finance Project) and especially in Albania, the Bank's first experience in adapting
international microfinance best practices to a transition economy in Central Europe. The Project is a
follow up to the successful Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project (Cr. 2461-ALB), under which a rural
credit methodology (village credit funds) was developed and tested using a process approach from 1993-
1995; the on-going Rural Development Project (Cr. 2680-ALB), which is expected to be fully committed
or disbursed in 1999; and the on-going Urban Works and Microenterprise Pilot Project (Cr. 2770-ALB),
under which urban microlending methodologies were piloted in seven municipalities, and which is
expected to be fully committed or disbursed in 1999.
- 12 -



In developing microcredit delivery systems in Albania, the main lessons learned-and reflected
in Project design-have been:
(a) Participatory Credit Delivery. Borrowers should ideally be involved in the design of a
microcredit delivery mechanism, and credit delivery should be piloted and adjusted in order to
adapt to local conditions and traditions. An innovative credit delivery mechanism-based on
local responsibility and rooted in local tradition-can result in substantial borrower "ownership"
of the microcredit system, and high repayment rates.
(b) Resiliency ofMicrofinance. Because microfmance relies on non-traditional collateral and local
traditions, it can overcome systemic weaknesses that impede traditional approaches to rural
credit. In Albania, the information barrier is resolved by taking loan decision making to the level
of the village, where there is absolute transparency and the work ethic of each borrower is known
to all. "Peer pressure" substitutes for traditional collateral-moral hazard is adverted because the
reputation of each borrower (which is highly valued within the village community) is at stake. For
the same reasons, microfinance is often resilient to political and civil crises-as evidenced by the
performance of the Albania rural credit program during 1997.
(c) Early Emphasis on Financial Sustainability. From the outset, greater emphasis should have been
placed on sustainability, including: (i) establishing an automatic mechanism for interest rate
adjustment; (ii) establishing the rural and urban credit departments as separate cost centers within
the ADF, with their own financial statements; and (iii) implementing performance-based salaries for
credit department staff.
(d) Importance of Institutional Environment. While the ADF proved a convenient institution for
piloting the rural credit program, the ADF's multi-purpose and "soft budget" environment has
impeded the rural and urban credit programs' progress toward sustainability. Experience in Albania
underlines the importance of using-from the outset if possible-private institutions to channel
microcredit.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
ADF's rural and urban microcredit programs have been tested and developed using a
participatory approach that has resulted in strong client commitment to and ownership of the microcredit
programs, especially in rural areas where village solidarity and local responsibility play a key role in
maintaining high repayment. The extraordinary level of client commitment was demonstrated during the
1997 crisis triggered by the collapse of pyramid schemes: both the rural and urban microcredit programs
were able to maintain reasonably high repayment rates even while the Government collapsed and banks
were burned. ADF's rural credit officers traveled to remote villages during periods of dangerous
instability and unrest-sometimes risking their lives-to maintain the integrity of the rural credit system.
Despite the chaos throughout the country, farmers repaid their loans-sometimes with great
difficulty-because of the enormous work of credit officers and village credit committee members, and
because farmers understood that the rural credit program was the basis for the future financial
development of their village.
Since early 1998, a Microcredit Project Working Group, chaired by the Deputy Minister of
Finance, has convened regularly to discuss Project design. The ADF Board of Trustees has also had
considerable input into the Project design process. Recognizing Albania's critical need for financial
services and permanent institutions, the Government is fully committed to the objective of creating self-
sustaining microcredit systems for rural and urban areas. There have been some differences of opinion
within the Government about the costs and benefits of privatizing the two existing microcredit programs,
particularly for the urban microcredit component, which will be fully privatized straight away. These
differences of opinion have been aired prior to Project negotiations, creating considerable discussion
within Government. In the end, the position of the Government, including those at the highest levels, is in
full agreement with the approach supported by the Project, and the transfer of the staff, activities, and
assets/liabilities of the ADF rural and urban credit programs to the new institutions was carried out prior
to Project negotiations, as required.
- 13 -



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has already contributed substantial value by supporting the creation of microcredit
programs in Albania, which, because of their effectiveness and high repayment rates, soon became a
magnet for donor financing, attracting more financing than originally anticipated for the Rural Poverty
Alleviation Pilot Project and the Rural Development Project. The Rural Development Project was rated
"best practice" by a Quality at Entry Review (1996); and an Operations Evaluation Department Albania
Country Assistance Review (June 18, 1998) cited the rural microcredit program as one of the Bank's most
successful interventions in Albania. By supporting the Microcredit Project, the Bank will continue to act
as a catalyst, developing microfinance institutions that can become progressively sustainable.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
It is not possible to identify a priori the subprojects to be financed through the lines of credit to
urban microentrepreneurs and rural SCAs. Therefore, no attempt has been made to estimate the overall
economic and financial rates of return of the Project. However, an economic analysis discussion is
presented in Annex 4. Interest rates to final borrowers will be positive in real terms and sufficient to cover
risk, transaction costs, and financial costs. Therefore, each subproject to be financed will need to
demonstrate adequate financial rates of return. Albania has no significant price distortions, hence
economic rates of return are compatible with financial rates of return. There is substantial demand for
both rural and urban microcredit, as evidenced by the existing ADF rural and urban credit programs.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
Satisfactory business plans, including financial projections and appropriate sensitivity analysis,
have been prepared for the rural SCA system and for Besa Foundation. (See Annexes 2A, 2B, and 4.)
Fiscal Impact: The Project includes US$1.5 million in Government financing over the five-year
period-US$300,000 per year, which is sufficient to compensate for taxes to be incurred under the
Project. Overall, the Project is expected to result in a positive net fiscal impact for the Government. The
Government will onlend the IDA Credit (US$10.4 million) to RFF and Besa Foundation at a real positive
interest rate, thereby earning revenues that will more than compensate for the amount of IDA funds
(US$1.6 million) to be used for non-credit purposes (capacity building grants, consulting services, goods,
and incremental operating costs.) Moreover, development of rural and urban enterprises will increase
Govermnent tax receipts.
Interest Rates: Under the Project, interest rates will be positive in real terms and sufficient to
cover inflation, transaction costs, and risk. The projected interest rate spread for the rural SCA system is
14 percent above cost of funds (including 2 percent for SCA capitalization); while the projected interest
rate spread for Besa Foundation is 18 percent above cost of funds. The difference in the interest rate
spreads is due to the fact that the urban microcredit program uses an individual lending approach, whereas
the rural program uses a group-based methodology that reduces the costs and risks of lending.
Institutional Subsidies: Under the Project, RFF and Besa Foundation will receive lines of credit at
real positive interest rates for onlending to rural SCAs and urban microentrepreneurs, respectively. It has
been agreed that the line of credit to RFF will be the minimum six-month deposit rate set by the Bank of
Albania minus six percentage points; while the line of credit to Besa Foundation will be the minimum six-
month deposit rate set by the Bank of Albania minus five percentage points. While these onlending rates
are above inflation (the minimum six-month deposit rate is currently 15.5 percent, which is about 7
percent above inflation), the rates may be below the market cost of capital. Therefore, RFF and Besa
Foundation will receive implicit subsidies (reflecting the opportunity cost of capital) amounting to the
difference between the market cost of capital and the rates at which they will borrow under the Project.
These modest institutional subsidies are justified by the public benefit of creating institutions that will
deepen financial sector markets to reach lower income rural and urban inhabitants. Mechanisms have
been agreed for monitoring and quantifying subsidies during the Project (see Annex IA).
- 14 -



3. Technical:
The RFF employs the former staff of the ADF's Rural Credit Department, who are well trained
and have accumulated experience in rural credit delivery since 1993. The Besa Foundation employs the
former staff of the ADF's Urban Credit Department, who are well trained and have accumulated
experience in urban credit delivery since 1994. Both the rural and urban microcredit programs of ADF
have a proven track record for high performance and quality implementation under the Rural
Development Project and Urban Works and Microenterprise Pilot Project, respectively.
4. Institutional:
The RFF and Besa Foundation are new institutions, based on the existing ADF Rural Credit
Department and Urban Credit Department, respectively. RFF and Besa Foundation have been established
with statutes acceptable to IDA. The former ADF Rural Credit Department Director was appointed
Director of RFF; and the former ADF Urban Credit Departrnent Director was appointed Director of Besa
Foundation. The institutional capacity and governance structure of RFF and Besa Foundation have been
assessed, and are considered satisfactory. Adoption by RFF and Besa Foundation of Operational Manuals
and Finance and Administration Manuals satisfactory to IDA are Conditions of Credit Effectiveness.
5. Social:
As part of Project preparation, beneficiary assessments were carried out for both the ADF rural
and urban credit programs. The assessments confirmed that that borrowers are highly satisfied with both
credit programs. Findings are being used to further improve lending methodologies. The full beneficiary
assessment reports are in the Project File.
Rural Microcredit Beneficiary Assessment. In June and July 1998, surveys, in-depth interviews,
and focus group meetings were carried out in thirteen villages of four districts (Elbasan, Kruja, Tirana,
and Vlore). The villages were selected according to geography, economic level, and VCF lifespan to be
representative of the entire VCF system. Surveys were carried out with 114 households, selected from
1,900 households. The main findings were:
(a) Characteristics of Respondents and Villages. On average, there were 146 households per
village, with six individuals per family. An estimated 25 percent to 50 percent of families had at
least one individual who worked outside of Albania (seasonal worker) during 1998. About half of
respondents had elementary school education; while the other half had graduated from high
school or vocational school. Two-thirds of the respondents cited farming as their main activity.
Villages exhibited signs of high village solidarity-over half of respondents indicated that they
trust people in the village enough to lend them their own money; and over 70 percent of
respondents agreed with the expression: "If you have serious economic problems, there is always
someone in the village that can help you."
(b) Financing. According to respondents, professional money lenders do not exist in the
villages-the only sources of financing are ADF's VCF program or informal borrowing from
family or friends at no interest rate.
(c) Village Credit Committee / Village Credit Fund Procedures. Most respondents had a very
positive perception of the VCC and its role. When asked who were the members of the VCC,
most respondents answered with the names of the VCC or in general terms, such as "the best,"
"most trustworthy," "ordinary people from the village," or "the teacher." Regarding the role of
the VCC, most indicated that the purpose of the VCC is to "provide loans in an honest way."
Nearly all respondents (89 percent) believe that the VCC successfully carries out its function.
There are no periodic formal credit meetings, other than the fixed dates of loan disbursements and
repayments. Survey respondents were divided on the issue of whether more village meetings
should be held to discuss credit issues. Focus groups indicated, however, a strong preference for a
more formal process of regular meetings and more frequent elections of VCC members to
increase transparency. (Transformation of VCFs to SCAs will imply more formal procedures.)
Sixty-six percent of respondents did not want to change loan procedures, while 9 percent wanted
- 15 -



bigger loans, and the remaining indicated "more justice," "more transparency," "longer loan
terms," or "more loans."
(d) Client Satisfaction and Program Impact. Over 80 percent of respondents believe that the VCF
program has had a positive impact on the village (a general improvement in living conditions,
improved livestock, improved agriculture, or improved trade). According to the respondents, the
advantages of VCF loans were: (i) low interest rate; (ii) simple procedures; and (iii) fast
disbursement. However, 30 percent of respondents indicated that the loans were not large enough.
Urban Microcredit Beneficiary Assessment. In September and October 1998, client surveys, in-
depth interviews, and focus group discussions were carried out at all seven urban microcredit branches
(Elbasan, Berat, Kavaje, Puka, Shijak. Shkodra, and Tirana). The client survey included 375 borrowers
and applicants, representing one-fifth of the total ADF urban credit borrowers (1,757) at the time. The
main findings were:
(a) Characteristics of Borrowers. In terms of gender and age of borrower and type of business,
ADF urban microcredit clients are representative of the general business community. The average
borrower's age is about 40, with substantial education (62 percent have completed high school
and 21 percent have completed the university). About one-third of the sample had been
unemployed before receiving the ADF loan. About half of the businesses in the sample comprise
self-employed individuals; the other half comprise microenterprises with one to five employees
(usually family members).
(b) Financing. The main source of financing for borrowers was family savings or informal
borrowing with no interest rate from family or friends. Few borrowers had received loans from
banks or other sources, citing impossible collateral requirements, bureaucratic loan processing,
and general unavailability of funding. Ninety percent of the respondents considered ADF as their
only source of external financing. A majority of borrowers considered credit as a temporary need;
about one-third of borrowers considered credit as a normal business instrument; while 16 percent
viewed credit as a handicap. The two main reasons for applying for a loan were to expand an
existing business (47 percent) and to start a new business (42 percent).
(c) ADF Loans. Eighty percent of ADF loans ranged from US$1,000 to US$5,000 each, and 20
percent amounted to less than US$1,000 each. Most loans (41 percent) ranged from US$1,000 to
US$2,000 each. Most respondents (72 percent) received loans for six to twelve months, while 25
percent received loans for twelve to twenty-four months, and the remaining received loans for
three to six months. The survey confirmed that loan repayment is high, with only six respondents
delayed in making payments.
(d) Client Satisfaction and Program Impact. Respondents indicated a highly positive opinion of
the ADF urban credit program (85 percent of respondents were completely satisfied with the
credit program and 13 percent were to some extent satisfied) due to (i) the simple and fast
procedures; (ii) honesty and professionalism of staff and good relationships with the clientele;
(iii) acceptable collateral; and (iv) acceptable interest rates. However, some respondents indicated
that the loan ceiling was too low (38 percent) and the loan maturity too short. Seventy-five
percent of the respondents believed that the ADF loan had a moderate or important impact on
their business. Based on the total survey, employment doubled as a result of the ADF loans, with
an average of 2 jobs created per business.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category   []A   []B    [x] C
The Project has been assigned a category "C" rating, because it is likely to have minimal or no
adverse environmental impact. (The environmental rating was assigned prior to the issuance of OP 4.01
(January 1999), which does not apply to the Project.) In urban areas, microloans are used mainly for trade
and services, and no environmental impact is expected. In rural areas, few or no microloans are expected
to be used for pesticide use, given that pesticide use is generally low in Albania. Pesticides categorized as:
l(a) (extremely hazardous) and l(b) (very hazardous) under the WHO classification will not be financed
under the Project. In addition, a brochure on the use of agricultural chemicals will be distributed to the
- 16 -



SCAs. The brochure will be prepared by the ADF's Veterinary Unit, which has experience in developing
simple and effective agricultural extension leaflets.
7. Participatory approach:
The existing rural and urban microcredit programs were developed using participatory
approaches, which have been a key factor in their success. In rural areas in particular, villagers were
involved in the design and management of VCFs, and there was a continuous dialogue between the
ADF's Rural Credit Department and the village credit committees to discuss the evolution of the credit
system, particularly through periodic seminars at the district and national level. The urban microcredit
program was designed by testing various credit delivery mechanisms and types of guarantees, and by
soliciting feedback from borrowers through "focus group" meetings. A former microcredit borrower was
represented on the loan committee.
Participatory methodologies will continue to play an important role under the Microcredit Projeet.
Village SCA members will become shareholders in their own financial institutions, as well as the future
SCA Union. SCA members will thereby help to design the new savings and loan products, and will
participate in annual general meetings to elect Union officials. Under the Urban Microcredit Component,
a microentrepreneur will be represented on the Besa Foundation Board of Directors, and
microentrepreneurs will be represented on loan committees. Under the Project, beneficiary assessments
and client surveys will be carried out regularly for both the SCA system and Besa Foundation borrowers
for market research and to assure adequate feedback for continued improvement of credit delivery
methodologies.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Although improved access to financial services supported by the Project will have immediate
short-term benefits, the Project's focus will be placed on achieving concrete progress towards full
financial sustainability of the SCA system and Besa Foundation-i.e., in the medium to long term,
covering all operating and financial costs with revenues from interest, fees, and investment income.
Progressive sustainability is a Project development objective, and financial performance benchmarks will
be monitored.
The following key factors are critical to putting the SCA system and Besa Foundation on the path
of sustainability: (a) full cost recovery interest rates (lending rates that cover transaction costs, financing
costs/inflation, and risk); (b) high portfolio quality; (c) appropriate performance-based incentives to staff
and management; (d) management information systems that provide accurate and timely information on
key indicators; (e) outreach and scale; (f) strategic vision: business plans with specified strategic
objectives.
Bank supervision missions will-in addition to monitoring financial performance
benchmarks-continually assess the underlying factors critical for sustainability. The CGAP Appraisal
Format, which provides a framework for appraising the health of a microfinance institution, will be used
during Bank supervision as the basis for consistent and periodic monitoring of institutional capacity.
- 17 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                        Risk          Risk Minimization Measure
Ratin,
There will be political interference in establishment  S  RFF will operate according to a hard budget
of SCAs and in nrual microloan approvals. RFF will      constraint  that  will  enforce  financial
be vulnerable to changes in Government policies,        discipline and deter political interference. The
because RFF is a quasi-Governmental foundation          RFF Board includes 3 members of village
with substantial Government representation on the       associations. SCAs will be private voluntary
Board.                                                  associations,  which  will  establish  and
capitalize their own SCA Union.
There will be political interference in urban    S      The Urban Microcredit Component will be
microloan approvals.                                   implemented  by  a  private,  specialized
institution  that  operates  according  to
commercial practices, overseen by a Board of
Directors that comprises "business-minded"
individuals representing an appropriate
diversity of skills, including two technical
representatives of Govemnment
The RFF and Besa Foundation will not provide     S      Operational subsidies will be limited and
institutional environments that enforce financial       progressively phased out to enforce financial
discipline and efficiency. Interest rates will not be   discipline  and  hard  budget constraints.
positive in real tenms and sufficient to cover          Performance standards and productivity ratios
inflation/financial costs, transaction costs, and risk.  will be monitored.
Village SCA members will not appreciate the value    M  One innovation of the Project is the use of
of holding shares in the SCAs and the Union             shares to capitalize the SCAs and Union. An
educational program will be designed and
implemented to assure that SCA members
fully understand the value of shares.
High loan repayment will not be achieved.        M      Repayment rates have been high, even during
Albania's crisis period. In rural areas, local
responsibility and decision making should
help ensure high repayment. In urban areas,
close loan supervision by credit officers
should help ensure high repayment. In both
cases,  institutional  incentives  (financial
targets, performance-based salaries of credit
officers) should also contribute to high
repayment rates.
Lending terms (duration, frequency of payments)  N      In rural areas, SCAs will detennine lending
will not match the needs of the borrowers.              terms. In urban areas, close loan officer-client
relationships and periodic client surveys will
assure adequate client feedback.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Farmers will not be interested nor willing to    N      There is already strong interest in SCAs by
establish SCAs.                                         existing VCFs. There is a critical lack of
financial services in rural areas.
The SCA Development and Training Unit will not   N      International expertise and training will be
have the capacity to promote and train SCAs.            financed under the Project.
There will not be sufficient demand for urban    N      Demand for urban microcredit is estimated to
microloans.                                             have doubled since the 1997 crisis.
- 18 -



(continued)
Risk                        Risk           Risk Minimization Measure
Besa Foundation will not have the capacity to scale  N   Institution building will be financed under the
up the urban microlending program.                       Project to assure adequate implementation
capacity
The security situation, especially in remote rural  S    Security remains a serious problem, especially
areas, impedes Project implementation.                   in remote rural areas. The ongoing hostilities
in Kosovo-and large number of Kosovars
seeking refuge in Albania-are potentially
destabilizing for Albania. A deterioration in
stability or security would create setbacks for
the institutional sustainability of the SCA
system and Besa Foundation. However,
microcredit programs are generally more
resilient to instability than formal financial
institutions, as demonstrated during the 1997
civil crisis (see Part D.3 (b)).
Overall Risk Rating   M      _
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None have been identified.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Conditions for Effectiveness:
(a) Execution of a Subsidiary Agreement satisfactory to IDA between the Borrower and the Rural Finance
Fund;
(b) Execution of a Subsidiary Agreement satisfactory to IDA between the Borrower and Besa Foundation.
(c) Project financial management arrangements, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, are installed
and operational.
(e) Selection of external auditors, satisfactory to IDA.
(e) Operational Manuals and Finance and Administrative Manuals, satisfactory to IDA, have been
adopted by the Rural Finance Fund and Besa Foundation.
2. Other Conditlons:
The Government will:
(a) Maintain a PIU with a Project Manager, whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to IDA, and
who shall be assisted by key staff in adequate numbers satisfactory to IDA.
(b) cause the PIU to submit to IDA quarterly reports on project activities, in a format acceptable to IDA;
(c) cause Rural Finance Fund and Besa Foundation to each maintain an Operational Manual and Finance
and Administrative Manual satisfactory to IDA;
(d) undertake jointly with IDA a mid-term review no later than December 31, 2001.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [ X] Not applicable.
- 19 -



[ I The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Business plans, which have been developed for the Rural Finance Fund and Besa Foundation., have been
found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality. Business plans will be updated annually.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
L Compliance with Bank Policies
[XI This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader: Kathryn Funk
Setor  eco'r: 'Kevin Cleaver
Country Director: Antraud Hartmann
-20 -



Annex 1
Albania Microcredit Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation               Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                          (Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Private sector development    1. Increase in private sector output  1. Annual economic statistics
2. Poverty alleviation           2. Reduction in poverty incidence  (IF/World Bank)
3. Development of fmnancial      3. Decrease in unemployment rate  2. Labor statistics
intermediaries
Project Development                                                                               (Objective to Goal)
Objective:                   I. No. and types of activities   1. Quarterly Progress Reports of   1. No or minimal impact of natural
1. In urban areas, generate self-  financed; no. of jobs created;   Rural Finance Fund a            disasters/calamities.
employment and                  no. of microenterprises created.   Foundation.                 2. Stable and appropriate
nucroenterpnises.            2. For credit intermediaries:    2. IDA Supervision Repors.         macroeconomic climate
2. In rural areas, increase farm   institutional performance                                        conducive to investment; low to
and off-farm irvestment;        benchmarks.                                                      moderate inflation rate.
provide savings services.
3. Progressive establishment of                                                                   3. Secunty.
sustainable rural and urban
microlending financial
intermediaries.
Outputs:                                                                                          (Outputs to Objective)
Rural areas:                     1. No. of rural microloans      1. Quarterly Progress Reports of   1. There will be no political
1. Increased availability of       disbursed, types of borrowers;   Rural Finance Fund and Besa     interference in establishment of
small-scale loans in rural areas.    no. of active loans, delinquency  Foundation.               SCAs and in rural and urban
2. Village savings and credit      rate; portfolio at risk.      2. IDA Supervision Reports.        microloan approvals.
associations established     2. No. of new SCAs created, no.                                   2. Institutional environments for
3. Creation of SCA Union by end    of VCFs fully transformed to                                     rural and urban microfinance
of PY2.                         SCAs.                                                            enforce fmnancial discipline and
3. Productivity ratios for Rural                                   efficiency. Interest rates will be
Urban areas:                       Finance Fund.                                                    real positive, sufficient to cover
4. Increased availability of                                                                        inflation, transaction costs, and
microcredit in urban areas.  4. No. of urban microloans                                          risk.
5. Progressive sustainability of   disbursed; types of borrowers;                                 3. SCA members appreciate the
Besa Foundation                 no. of active loans; delinquency                                 value of holding shares in the
rate; portfolio at risk.                                         SCA and Union.
5. Productivity ratios for urban                                 4. High repayment rates will be
microcredit foundation: active                                   achieved,
loans per credit officer, %                                    5. Lending terms (duration,
inflation plus transaction costs                                 frequency of payments) match
covered by interest revenues.                                    the needs of borrowers.
Project Components/Sub-    Inputs: (budget for each                                               (Components to Outputs)
components:                     component)                                                        1. Farmers will be interested and
1. Rural Savings and Credit     1. US$8.1 million                Quarterly Progress Reports of      willing to establish SCAs.
Associations                                                  Rural Finance Fund and Besa      2. SCA Development and Training
2. Urban Microcredit            2. US$13.6 nillion               Foundation.                        Unit will have capacity to
promote and train SCAs.
3. Legal and Regulatory         3. USS0.5 million                                                 3. Sufficient demand for urban
Environment                                                                                      mricroloans.
4. Project Management           4. US$0.6 million                                                 4. Besa Foundation will have
capacity to scale up
rnicrolending program.
5. Security situation, especially in
remote rural areas, enables
Project implementation.
-21 -



Annex 1A
Albania Microcredit Project
Detailed Performance Indicators
Rural Savings and Credit Association Component
There are three kinds of performance indicators to measure progress toward the objective of establishing a
representative Union providing financial and institutional development services to a large number of community-
managed and financially viable savings and credit associations (SCAs). The first kind measures the scale of client
outreach. The second type are financial performance indicators, such as portfolio at nsk, operating efficiency, the
equity to debt ratio, and the degree of fuUl financial sustainability (complemented by the Subsidy Dependence
Index). The third type of indicator measures the achievement of benchmarks in the process of forming a
representative SCA Union and transferring both financial and SCA development responsibilities to the Union.
Annex IA, Table A: Outreach and Financial Performance Indicators
..X,,--...........  ... -.  ,, Wu .  s...  ....  ..........  
Client Outreach  Number of SCA members   Measures demand for   June 2000        600
SCA/Union services    Dec. 2001    3,500
Dec. 2002    8,000
Dec. 2003   15,000
Dec. 2004   18,000
Number new SCAs and        Efficiency measure    June 2000       12
transformed VCFs           and implementation    Dec. 2001       66
progress              Dec. 2002      162
Dec. 2003     280
Dec. 2004     340
Portfolio at    Balance of loans with 1 or   Portfolio quality    PAR 30 days less than
Risk (30 days)   more installments over 30    measurement         4% at all times
days in arrears/total
outstanding loan portfolio
Operating Cost  Adjusted Operating Costs /  Efficiency and        RFF: less than 25%
Avg Performing Assets      productivity measure   Union: less than 25%
Equity/Debt     Equity/All Liabilities for    Leverage measure    More than 20% at all
SCA Union and SCAs                               times
Subsidy         Imputed market rate for    Measures change in     Less than 50% by end
Dependence      grants, in-kind donations,   interest rate required    of Dec. 2004 for
Index           subsidized cost of funds.    to cover subsidies   Union
Degree of Fin'l.  Financial Income /       Track RFF/Union's    70% or more by Dec.
Sustainability    Adjusted Operating       progress toward full    2004
Expenses                   financial sustainability
* The Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest (CGAP) means of calculation based on adjusted financial
statements will be used. Under the ADF rural credit program, financial statements were already presented
to reflect these adjustments.
-22 -



Annex IA, Table B: SCA and Union Institution Buiding Indicators
Jiidicator     DefThition ~~~~~~~~~~~~~:Dat of Achievement:
k           d ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~i                          6-.    ........ ..  ...S--- ....  ...   .... ...-cts   -
Creation of Development      Legal establishment, hiring of      September 1999
Training Unit                small technical staff,
appointment of director
Creation of first 12 SCAs (in    Legally registered, in             June 2000
Elbasan and Tirana Districts)   accordance with the 1996
SCA Law; Receiving DTU
training
Creation of SCA Union        Legally established by at least     September 2000
12 member SCAs, providing
representation services
Transfer of first group of at    Union has all systems, staff,     March 2001
least 12 SCAs to Union for   procedures in place to carry
internal control and         out financial and dev. Services
development services
Transfer of remaining DTU    Registered asset transfer              June 2003
assets and personnel (as     agreement
required by Union)
Two additional performance indicators will be monitored on a regular basis, although no specific targets
have been set. These include the following:
Active women clients/total active clients (in %:  Previous project experience with village credit
associations shows that, while male heads of households usually sign the loan agreements, women are
often involved in loan decision making and the investment activity. Project beneficiary assessments will
confirm the degree of women's participation on an annual basis.
Averane loan balance as % of GDP per capita: This measure of poverty targeting is expected to rise over
the life of the project, as better-off flatland areas join the SCA movement starting in the third year of the
project. However, time series data collected in beneficiary assessments and DTU evaluations for specific
villages will enable the project to measure performance using this indicator.
- 23 -



Urban Microcredit Component
For this component, outreach and financial perfonnance indicators include client outreach, portfolio at risk
operating efficiency, equity/debt ratio, and the degree of financial sustainability (complemented by the Subsidy
Dependence Index).
Annex IA, Table C: Besa Foundation Outreach and Financial Performance Indicators
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .           ........ .... ...  .. .  ....   ..   .............   .. .  .... ....  .    . ........... ..- f.....  ,=..-_.............. 
Client Outreach       Number of active      Demonstrates           Dec. 1999 1500
clients               efficiency and scale of Dec. 2000 2100
demand                Dec. 2001 2700
Dec. 2002 3300
Dec. 2003 3600
Dec. 2004 4000
Portfolio at Risk (30    Loans outstanding  To measure portfolio   Dec. 1999 <7.5%
days)                 with at least one     quality based on       Dec. 2000 <7.0%
installment 30 days   potential for losses  Dec. 2001 <6.5%
past due/Total                              Dec.2002 <6.0%
outstanding loans                           Dec. 2003 <5.0%
Dec. 2004 <4.0%
Equity to Debt Ratio    Equity/Total Liabs.    To measure degree of  More than 20% at all
_ _ _ __ _   leverage      times.
Capital Adequacy      Equity as % of Risk-   To indicate adequate   More than 10% at all
weighted assets       equity to insure      times (subject to Bank
solvency              of Albania regulation)
Subsidy Dependence   Imputed market rate    Measures change in    Less than 50% by end
Index (SDI)           for grants, in-kind    interest rate required    of Dec. 2004
donations, subsidized   to cover subsidies
cost of funds.
Degree of Fin'l.      Financial Income /    Track Union's          Dec. 2002  60%
Sustainability        Adjusted Operating    progress toward full    Dec. 2003  75%
Expenses              financial sustainability  Dec. 2004  90%
Two additional performance indicators will be monitored on a regular basis, although no specific targets
have been set. These include the following:
Active women clients/total active clients (in %/o): Previous project experience with urban microfinance in
Albania shows that women make up about 20% of clients. Besa is expected to develop promotional
strategies which ensure that no gender bias exists in the selection of clients. Project beneficiary
assessments will confirm the degree of women's participation on an annual basis.
Average loan balance as % of GDP per capita: This measure of poverty targeting for all clients is
expected to rise over the life of the project, as good clients begin to take out larger loans over time.
However, this will be calculated for only the first-time borrowers as well, to measure the relative poverty
level of new clients.
- 24 -



Annex 2
Albania Microcredit Project
Project Description
The Microcredit Project's four components are: (a) Rural Savings and Credit Association System
(US$8.1 million, of which IDA US$5.4 million); (b) Urban Microcredit (US$13.6 million, of which IDA
US$5.7 million); (c) Legal and Regulatory Environment (US$0.5 million, of which IDA US$0.3 million);
and (d) Project Management (US$0.6 million of which IDA US$0.6 million). Project organization is
depicted in Figure 1 below.
Annex 2, Figure 1
wr~1~.dby ~                   Ministry of Finance
Bank of Albania                    Poe
Prudential                    Ipeetto
Regulations and                 ImlmnitaiUn
SupervisionI
= Ka~ml%I                          Speci Al
Account
BESA Foundation                 Rural Finance Fund
l     l             I                I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Developmentan|
I \~ ~~ -
Urban microentrepres               Existing vilage          Savings and credit
credit fumds             associations
- 25 -



ANNEX 2A
PROJECT COMPONENT 1- RURAL SAVINGS AND CREDIT ASSOCIATIONS
US$8.1 MILLION (TOTAL COST OF COMPONENT)
A. Background: The Village Credit Fund System
Under the IDA-financed Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project (Cr. 2461-ALB), which became
effective in 1993, and the follow-up Rural Development Project (RDP, Cr. 2680-ALB), which became
effective in May 1995, the Albanian Development Fund (ADF) developed a rural credit system based on
village credit funds (VCFs). The IDA-financed RDP covers the districts of Elbasan, Gramsh, Kruja, Puka,
Tirana, and Vlore. (Two VCFs in Librazhd were closed due to high migration from the villages.) The
VCF system was extended to the northeastem districts of Diber, Has, Kukes, and Tropoje under the
IFAD-financed Northeastem Districts Rural Development Project.
VCF Methodology. A VCF is a revolving account that is made available to a village population for
small loans for income-generating activity. VCF size depends on village population; on average, they
amount to US$20,000-US$30,000, and funds are typically delivered to the village in two or three tranches,
deposited in the local branch of a bank (initially the Rural Commercial Bank, now the Savings Bank). Loan
decisions are the responsibility of a village credit committee (VCC), which is comprised of three to seven
elected village members; the ADF loan officer is an ex-officio member. The VCC decides on credit
allocations, defines collateral, and controls the repayment of loans, while the Savings Bank keeps accounts
and handles money. Loan security is maximized by bringing loan decisions to the village level, where they
are made by neighbors who know potential borrowers and who provide social support for timely repayment.
As an added security, in the case of repayment defaults, all credits to the village may be stopped.
Interest Rate and Loan Terms. Because Albania had high inflation (more than 200 percent) when
the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project started in late 1992/early 1993 and domestic market lending
rates were unavailable for reference, the loans were indexed to the US dollar plus 6 percent. Villagers
were comfortable with the dollar index because they considered it transparent and indisputable. However,
unexpected stability of the lek during 1993 and 1994 resulted in farmers effectively paying very low
interest (substantially negative if measured in constant lek). Starting in early 1995, under the follow-up
Rural Development Project, there was a successful transition to a lek-based interest rate, set initially at 10
percent, with expectations that it would be periodically adjusted. Rising inflation in 1996, as the
macroeconomic situation deteriorated, resulted in negative interest rates. Given the participatory nature of
the VCF system-and because there was no automatic interest rate adjustment mechanism-ADF could
not easily raise interest rates by taking unilateral action. It was decided that ADF would carry out an
awareness raising campaign for all VCC members in order to reach agreement on a market-based rate and
adjustment mechanisms. As ADF was preparing to carry out the first seminars, a civil crisis erupted in
Albania in early 1997. Given the option of either continuing the campaign to increase interest rates during
a time of civil turmoil and economic crisis-and possibly jeopardize the repayment discipline that had
been established-or focusing on maintaining loan repayment during the crisis, the latter was chosen. In
late 1997/early 1998, after an information campaign with the VCFs, the interest rate was increased to 18
percent in mountain villages, and 24 percent in hilly and plains villages. (This dual interest rate policy
will be phased out under the Microcredit Project as VCFs are progressively transformed to SCAs, with
lending at market interest rates.) The evolution of the real interest rate since 1995 is shown in Table A.
The maximum loan duration is three years, and interest must be repaid at a minimum of once per year. The
maximum loan, initially US$500, has been increased to US$ 1,000.
-26 -



Annex 24, TableA
Rural Credit Program Real Interest Rates
1995     1996      1997        1998
Nominal Effective Interest Rate   10%  10%       10%      18%-24%
Inflation                    6%        17%      42%         9%
Real Effective Interest Rate  4%       -6%      -23%      80/-14%
1997 Crisis. The financial and civil crisis that swept Albania starting in March 1997, triggered by
the collapse of pyramid schemes, put enormous strain on the rural VCF program, yet the program
continued to perform satisfactorily. During even the worse of the crisis, ADF credit officers traveled to
villages to maintain the repayment discipline, often requiring repeated trips to the same village under
dangerous situations. High repayment rates continued, testimony to the strength of the local ownership of
the VCF system.
Results. As of March 31, 1999, 225 VCFs were established in ten districts of Albania (including
four districts financed by IFAD), with about 9,300 active loans amounting to about US$3.0 million
equivalent. The delinquency rate was 0.6 percent and the portfolio at risk was 1.2 percent. The average
loan size was about US$335, for a duration of 2.5 years. Cumulatively since 1992, over 17,000 loans have
been disbursed. The ADF rural credit program is virtually the only source of rural finance in Albania.
The rural credit program has exhibited high collection rates, but has lacked sound interest rate
policy and cost recovery that are necessary for overall financial discipline and good performance. In order
to create a sustainable rural credit system and to enable the system to extend countrywide, it is now
necessary to provide it with an institutional setting fthat will allow it to progressively cover its costs with
interest revenues and operate according to market principles.
Annex 2A, Table B
Performance of Rural Mi1crocreditProgram
End 1996       End 1997        End 1998
No. of Village Credit Funds    170             192             221
Balance of Loans Outstanding    243 mil. leks  313 mil. leks  417 mil. Leks
(about US$2.3   (about US$2.1    (about US$3.0
nillion)       million)        million)
No. of Active Loans           6,859           8,634           9,255
Average Loan Outstanding    35,460 leks     36,254 leks     45,150 leks
(about US$338)  (about US$243)   (about US$322)
Effective Interest Rate        10%           10-20%           18-24%
Infation (during period)       17%            42%             0.9%
Delinquency Rates              0%             0.3%            0.5%
Portfolio at RiskbI            0%             0.4%             1.0%
a/ Delinquency rate: amount of payments more thant 1 day overdue divided by total outstanding balance of
loan portfolio.
b/ Portfolio at risk: total outstanding balance of loans witi payments more than 1 day overdue divided by
total outstanding balance of loan portfolio.
B. Component Objective: A Sustainable Savings and Credit Association System and Union
The objective of the Rural Savings and Credit Association System Component is:
(a)to create a network of private, sustainable savings and credit associations (SCA), and support
the progressive development of their Union (federation), in accordance with the Law on
Savings and Credit Associations, and based on the existing VCF system.
-27 -



(b)to increase the outreach of the rural credit system by extending the network to coastal plains
areas-Durres, Kavaje, Lushnje, Fier, and Peqin-and by diversifying the financial services
offered to farmers.
The Project's Legal and Regulatory Environment Component (see Annex 2C) will support the
creation of a legal and regulatory ffamework that assures a sound SCA system, by ensuring appropriate
regulation and supervision of SCAs and by improving the SCA law.
C. SCA Union
An SCA Union, established in accordance with the SCA Law, is a key institution of the future
private SCA system. The SCA Union will be owned and capitalized by its member SCAs. Ultimately, the
SCA Union is envisioned to: (i) represent SCAs; (ii) provide support and training to existing and new
SCAs; (iii) regulate SCAs in accordance with Bank of Albania standards and criteria; and (iv) provide
lines of credit to SCAs and invest surplus SCA savings.
Under the Microcredit Project, support will be provided to the first SCAs to establish an SCA
Union as soon as possible. It is expected that the SCA Union can be established when there are about a
dozen SCAs, no later than September 2000. Initially, the SCA Union will only fimction to represent
member SCAs. As the number of SCAs increase and the SCA Union is strengthened, it will progressively
take on more responsibilities. DTUs training and support services will be joined to the SCA Union as
soon as possible, by March 2001. The Union will also progressively develop the capacity to regulate
member SCAs, and to provide lines of credit to member SCAs. Based on the needs of the SCA Union,
part or all of the RFF staff could be transferred to the Union at the end of the Project to perform
administrative, financial management, and financial intermediation functions. At the end of the Project,
the SCA Union will be a fully functioning refinancing facility and SCA support center.
Given the importance of strengthening the SCA Union as soon as possible to ensure the transition
to a private SCA system, it was agreed at Project negotiations that the capacity of the SCA Union would
be thoroughly evaluated during the Project's mid-term review (before the end of 2001) to determine
whether RFF's financing functions can be transferred to the Union earlier that the five-year period
provided under the Project.
D. Transition Mechanism: Rural Finance Fund and SCA Development and Training Unit
During a transition period to a full-fledged SCA system, the development, training, and financing
of SCAs and the development of their representative Union will be the responsibility of a Rural Finance
Fund (RFF), which has been established from the ADF Rural Credit Department, and an SCA
Development and Training Unit (DTU). The RFF will focus on financial functions; while the
development of new SCAs, the transformation of existing VCFs to SCAs, and the development of the
SCA Union will be assisted by the DTU. The DTU, which will be financed by the Swiss Agency for
Development and Cooperation, will be an autonomous entity with the support of international expertise.
Both the RFF and DTU are temporary-their purpose is to develop an SCA system and a representative
SCA Union.
Rural Finance Fund
Prior to Project negotiations, RFF was established under Council of Ministers Decision No. 207,
dated April 28, 1999, and was registered by the District Court of Tirana, Registration No. 1553, dated
May 18, 1999; and transfer of ADF Rural Credit Departmnent staff, activities, and assets/liabilities to RFF
took place on May 20, 1999. RFF will: (a) using its existing assets (loan portfolio transferred from ADF),
provide loans to villagers using the existing VCFs (no new VCFs will be created); (b) using the
Microcredit Project IDA credit line, provide loans at market rates to eligible SCAs for onlending to their
- 28 -



members; and (c) using its existing assets, assist to capitalize eligible SCAs, in accordance with agreed
mechanisms and criteria described below, and detailed in the RFF Operational Manual.
Broad oversight and governance of RFF will be the responsibility of a Board of Directors,
comprising: the Deputy Minister of Finance (chair), Deputy Minister of Economic Cooperation and
Trade, Director of Agricultural Program Office, Executive Director of Albanian Development Fund, three
representatives of villages/SCAs, a representative of the banking sector, and an academic representative.
A strong representation of village organizations (SCAs) is necessary in order to build the leadership for
the future SCA Union. The RFF's statute specifies that the foundation has a limited life of five years.
IFAD-Financed Northeastern Districts Rural Development Project (NDRDP). During a transition
period of about 6-9 months, the RFF will continue to support the VCFs in the northeastern districts of
Diber, Kukes, Has, and Tropoje. In the first quarter of 2000, RFF will transfer the management
responsibilities and outstanding loan portfolio of the IFAD-financed VCF system to a Mountain Areas
Development Agency, which will be created with the support of IFAD, in order to allow for a slower
transition to a sustainable credit system in the mountain districts. During the time that RFF manages the
NDRDP portfolio, the NDRDP program will be administered separately from the IDA-financed program,
including separate accounts and financial statements.
SCA Development and Training Unit
A specialized DTU, supported by international experts, will assist VCF members, eligible SCAs,
and RFF staff during the SCA transformation process. The DTU will: (a) create new SCAs and transform
existing VCFs to SCAs; (b) provide training and support to SCA boards and their members, including
development of SCA financial systems; and (c) assist SCAs to create their Union. The DTU, will be an
autonomous entity.
Given the public good nature of DTU services and the significant expenses involved, DTU
training and technical assistance services during the SCA transformation process will be financed by a
grant from the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation. An international consulting company or
non-governmental organization with extensive experience in savings and credit association systems will
be selected by the international donor to provide technical support during the transformation process.
The small DTU staff will work closely with RFF loan officers during the transformation process.
The DTU will provide training and technical assistance to RFF credit officers, and will lead the
transformation process by providing short technical training courses and technical assistance to SCA
leaders and members. As the scale of VCF transformation grows to include a greater number of VCFs in
all districts served by the new project, the DTU will adapt the training and technical assistance
approaches. The DTU will remain a small organization with an executive director, a small administrative
team, and 5 development officers (to provide training and technical assistance). Each development
officer will be responsible for VCF transformation to SCAs in one existing district, and a work plan will
be developed to eventually establish new SCAs in new districts. Once the SCA Union is legally
registered, the DTU will become the technical assistance division of the SCA Union.
E. Summary of Business Plan: The Savings and Credit Association System
A five-year business plan, covering the lifespan of the Project, has been prepared, providing a
path to progressively develop the operational and financial sustainability of the SCA system by increasing
the number of loans outstanding, introducing larger loans, decentralizing responsibility to SCAs; and
regularly adjusting the rate of interest to cover inflation, risk, and operational costs. The business plan
will be updated annually. Financial projections for the SCA system are shown in Annex 5.
Outreach. Under the Project, about 145 existing VCFs (in the districts covered by the Rural
Development Project: Elbasan, Gramsh, Kruje, Puka, Tirana, and Vlore) will be transformed to SCAs
over a three-year period, and about 195 new SCAs will be created in the coastal plain areas (Durres, Fier,
- 29 -



Kavaje, Lushnja, and Peqin), bringing the total number of SCAs to 340 in eleven districts. The SCA
system will serve about 19,000 clients. It is expected that about 20 VCFs in very remote mountain areas
will be progressively closed, after agreement with the VCCs about the use of the present loan fund for
other developmental purposes.
Annex 2A, Table C
Projected Growth of SCA System
PY I      PY 2       PY 3       PY 4       PY 5
New SCAs in Coastal Pains             0         30         80         135       195
VCFs Transformed to SCAs             12         36         82        145        145
Total SCAs                           12         66        162        280        340
VCFs Remaining                       145       1200        80         0          0
Number of SCA Members                635       3,500      8,799     15,000     19,000
SCA Membership and Governance. SCAs are voluntary organizations registered under the
Savings and Credit Association Law for the purpose of lending to and mobilizing savings from their
members. Each SCA is a legally and economically autonomous private entity. Membership is voluntary
and limited to private persons living in the village of the SCA. The average number of members per SCA
has been conservatively estimated, starting with 53 members during Project Year (PY) 1, and increasing
to 61 members by PY 5. Membership higher than predicted would result in higher financial sustainability.
The decision making body of the SCA is the General Assembly, in which every member has one
vote. The Assembly elects a President and a Board, which reports to the Assembly. The Board determines
the individual loan size, maturity, collateral requirements, and payment schedule for each borrowing
member.
Ownership and Capitalization. The Project will emphasize SCA capitalization. In the Albanian
context-where many families recently lost substantial savings during the pyramid scheme crisis-it is
particularly important to build trust before mobilizing savings. Promoting SCA capitalization will build
trust and enable SCAs to cover risk, without creating liquidity management problems during the early life
of the SCA.
The capitalization of the SCA system will be achieved through the following mechanisms:
(a) Contributions by SCA members: an initial membership share, which will be a low amount that
would enable broad access to the SCA by all income levels (possibly about US$5 equivalent);
and a capital contribution paid by each borrower as a percentage of each borrower's
outstanding loan (possibly 2 percent).
(b)Retained earnings of SCAs will be capitalized.
(c)RFF will help capitalize eligible SCAs, using RFF capital (the loan portfolio transferred from
the ADF Rural Credit). These contributions will be made in the form of matching grants to
SCAs-based on the SCA's institutional capital, savings, and performance-according to
procedures and formulas detailed in the RFF Operational Manual. RFF capitalization grants
will be carefully designed and monitored in order to avoid creating a disincentive for savings
and member capitalization, or weakening local ownership.
After five years, a typical SCA will have about US$22,000 in capital, consisting of US$4,500 from
members, US$2,100 from retained earnings, and US$15,5000 from a capitalization grant from RFF. At
the end of the Project, the aggregate SCA capital will amount to about US$2.2 million-US$0.6 million
from members; US$0.2 million from retained earnings of SCAs; and US$1.5 million from grants from
RFF. SCAs will use about 30 percent of this capital (about US$0.7 million) to capitalize their Union.
- 30 -



Savings Mobilization. Savings will be introduced progressively starting in year 2000, once the
SCAs are capitalized and an appropriate regulatory and supervision framework is n place. Under the
Project, only high-performing SCAs will be permitted to begin savings mobilization; new SCAs will start
savings collection only in year 2, after establishing a successful track record for lending activity. The first
savings product will be a time deposit of at least six months, to ensure that the SCA develops the
necessary liquidity management skills before offering more liquid savings products. The interest rate for
savings deposits, which will be set by the general assembly of the SCA, is expected to be about 8 percent
above inflation. Savings per member is estimated to grow over four years from US$20 to US$120 for a
VCF converted to an SCA, and from US$30 to US$180 for a new SCA in the coastal plains. After five
years, total savings is expected to average US$7,000 for a VCF converted to an SCA, and US$11,000 for
a new SCA in the coastal plains. Aggregate savings at the end of the Project is estimated at US$875,000.
Interest Rates and Lending Terms. The interest rate for loans will be positive in real terms,
covering transaction costs, finance costs, and risk. The IDA credit line will be made available to RFF at
the minimum 6-month deposit rate established by the Bank of Albania minus 6 percent, under a
Subsidiary Agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the RFF). RFF will onlend to SCAs, adding a
spread (estimated at 8 percent) to cover transaction costs and risk. The established interest rate will be
fixed for the term of the loan. The interest rate for loans from an SCA to their members will be set by the
general assembly of the SCA. SCAs will add a margin (estimated at 4 percent) to cover their own
transaction costs, as well a contribution to SCA capital (estimated at 2 percent). All loans will be in lek,
with the Government bearing the foreign exchange risk.
Loan Portfolio. Under the Project, SCAs will provide microloans (with a ceiling of US$1,000) and,
progressively as SCAs develop experience and stability, investment loans (with a ceiling of US$8,000).
To reduce risk, the number of investment loans will be restricted. For new SCAs in coastal plains, average
outstanding per loan will increase during the Project from US$400-US$600 per microloan, and from
US$2,500-US$4,000 per investment loan.
Annex 2A, Table D
Average Outstanding per Loan and Total Active Loan Portfolio
PY1         PY2         PY3         PY4         PY5
New SCA in Coastal
Plains
Ave. Outstanding per    US$400      US$450      US$500      US$550       US$600
Microloan
Ave. Outstanding per      0        US$2,500    US$3,000    US$3,500    US$4,000
Investment Loan
Total Active Microloan  US$17,000   US$21,000   US$23,000   US$26,000   US$28,000
Portfolio
Total Active Investment   0        US$10,000   US$18,000   US$28,000   US$40,000
Loan Portfolio
Total Active Loan      US$17,000   US$31,000   US$41,000   US$54,000   US$68,000
Portfolio
SCA Transformed from
VCF
Ave. Outstanding per    US$300      US$330      US$360      US$400       US$440
Microloan
Ave. Outstanding per   US$2,500    US$2,500    US$2,500    US$3,000    US$3,500
Investment Loan
Total Active Microloan  US$13,000   US$15,000   US$17,000   US$19,000   US$21,000
Portfolio
Total Active Investment    US$10,000   US$10,000   US$15,000   US$24,ooo   US$28,000
Loan Portfolio
Total Active Loan      US$23,000   USS25,000   US$32,000   US$43,000   US$49,000
Portfolio
-31 -



Credit Lines from RFF. Funds to be borrowed from RFF have been calculated from the difference
between outstanding loans and available intermal resources (capital and savings). Estimated credit lines to
a typical SCAs are shown in Table E. The amount of credit lines to SCAs will be reassessed during the
first year of Project implementation to ensure that SCAs are not overly leveraged.
Annex 2A, Table E
Credit Lines to Typical SCAs
PY 1        PY 2        PY 3         PY 4        PY 5
New SCA in Coastal Plains   US$16,000   US$26,000   US$32,000   US$37,000   US$42,000
SCA Transformed from VCF  US$22,000   US$21,000   US$24,000   US$30,000   US$30,000
F. Component Description and Costs
The Microcredit Project will support the development of a sustainable SCA system and
representative Union by: (a) development and training of SCAs; (b) loans for SCAs for onlending to SCA
members; and (c) capacity building grants for RFF, in accordance with agreed annual business plans and
subject to performance indicators.
(a) SCA Development and Training (US$1.4 million). Under the Project, grants will be provided
for technical assistance, training, equipment, and operational costs associated with the
development and training of SCAs, and transformation of VCFs to SCAs. Technical assistance
will also be provided to RFF for improvement of the financial management and management
information system. This subcomponent will be financed by the Swiss Agency for Development
and Cooperation.
(b) RFF Institution Building (US$0.2 million). On the basis of an agreed business plan, the
Project will provide capacity building grants to RFF to cover institutional building costs during
the first few years, as it makes the transition to full cost recovery. Capacity building grants will be
progressively smaller each year, and subject to performance indicators.
(c) Loans to SCAs (US$6.5 million). The Project will provide a line of credit to RFF for onlending
at market rates to SCAs, which will onlend to their members for income-generating activities.
Detailed component costs are shown in Annex 3.
G. Benefits and Risks
The development of a sustainable SCA system in Albania will provide substantial benefits to rural
inhabitants, the economy, and the Government, including:
(a) Increase in rural farm and off-farm investments through the provision of rural credit to about
19,000 SCA members over the five year Project period.
(b) Development of a sustainable rural financial system, based on the successful track record of
village level financial intermediation, which is likely to represent the most important source (and
perhaps the only source) of rural finance in Albania over the next decade. The 340 SCAs to be
established under the Project will provide replicable models for further expansion of the SCA
system throughout Albania.
(c) Savings to the Government on operational and financial costs of the rural credit program,
through an emphasis on SCA sustainability and market practices; and increased revenues to the
Government through development of the rural sector.
- 32 -



Component risks are also substantial:
(a) Political Interference and Non-Commercial Practices. To achieve success, RFF must be a
specialized institution that operates according to commercial practices. However, the RFF is a
quasi-Governmental foundation with substantial Government participation on its Board of
Trustees (4 out of 9 Board members are Government representatives), which makes RFF
vulnerable to future changes in Government staff and policy. Political interference (such as non-
competitive hiring of RFF staff, biased selection of villages, or subsidized interest rate policies)
would undermine the development of a sustainable SCA system. Therefore, the challenge of the
Government and RFF is to avoid politicization at the level of the Board of Trustees and to
maintain a market approach, with the objective of establishing an SCA system and representative
SCA Union. Clear financial accountability and hard budget constraints will help keep RFF
focussed on sustainability. RFF's performance and institutional capacity will be reassessed at the
Project's mid-term review.
(b) Delays in Establishment and Strengthening of SCA Union. The establishment of an SCA-
owned and controlled Union is critical to the development of a sustainable SCA network. There is
a risk that the development of the Union could be impeded by both RFF and DTU, which may
resist transferring responsibilities to a private Union. Clear institutional objectives of RFF and
DTU and a precise Memorandum of Understanding between RFF and DTU, with mutually agreed
targets for the transfer of responsibilities to the Union, will help minimize this risk. RFF's statute
specifies that it is a temporary institution with a lifespan of five years.
(c) Rising Inflation and Interest Rates. Sensitivity analysis indicates that the SCA system is
vulnerable to increasing inflation, because: (i) nearly all loans are more than one year in duration
at fixed interest rates; and (ii) demand for loans would fall-especially in existing mountain
districts-if interest rates increase, due to low rates of return for economic activities in mountain
districts and deteriorating rural terms of trade during times of inflation. SCAs in new coastal
districts-where there are more profitable economic activities-would be less vulnerable to rising
interest rates. Inflation forecasts for Albania remain reasonable, despite the Kosovo crisis,
because the Government is committed to maintaining macroeconomic stability. Nevertheless,
RFF will need to frequently assess and adjust interest rates.
(d) Delinquency. Sensitivity analysis also indicates that maintaining high repayment is essential
for the sustainability of the SCA system. An SCA with 95 percent repayment or less will never
reach sustainability. At 99.5 percent repayment or higher, an SCA will be profitable from the first
year. Under the VCF system, most VCFs maintained 100 percent repayment rates. Under the
Microcredit Project, RFF, SCAs, and the future SCA Union will need to ensure that a culture of
high repayment is strongly enforced, as achieved under the previous projects.
- 33 -



ANNEX 2B
PROJECT COMPONENT 2- URBAN MICROCREDrr
US$13.6 MILLION (TOTAL COST OF COMPONENT)
A. Background
The Albanian Development Fund's (ADF) urban microcredit program has been developed using a
phased approach-a pre-pilot phase was initiated in February 1994, financed by a Japan PHRD Grant and
a French NGO (Freres d'Esperance) to identify the main obstacles to urban microenterprise development
and to define the approach of the pilot phase. Urban microcredit was further piloted and expanded under
the IDA-financed Urban Works and Microenterprise Pilot Project (UWMPP, Cr. 2770-ALB), which
became effective in December 1995 and will close on June 30, 1999.
Urban Microcredit Methodology. Under the UWMPP, ADF's Urban Credit Department
experimented with various types of lending (individual and group), as well as types of loan guarantees
(collateral, pledge, and notary). Based on this experience, the Urban Credit Department has developed a
lending methodology that focuses on individual lending, secured by character assessment, evaluation of
the client's business, and close loan officer-borrower follow up. Formal guaranties are recorded (about 87
percent of loans are secured by mortgages), but serve mainly as a psychological deterrent, given the
difficulty to collect collateral in Albania. During the first year, loan decisions were made by a central
credit committee in Tirana, which included the Department Director, Chief Loan Officer, a banker, and a
microentrepreneur. Since the first quarter of 1998, credit committees-with the continued participation of
the Director and Chief Loan Officer-have been established for each branch. During the first year, urban
microcredit loans were advertised in Ministry of Labor offices for collection of unemployment benefits.
Since then, demand for loans has exceeded supply of funds, and only word-of-mouth advertising has been
used.
Interest Rates and Loan Terms. The urban microcredit program has had no difficulty in charging
market-based interest rates from the outset, starting with 24 percent in 1994 and 1995, and increasing to
an effective rate of 32 percent in 1996 (2.5 percent per month plus a 1 percent non-refundable upfront fee,
which provides insurance in the event of a client's death). The interest rate is charged on a declining loan
balance. The urban microcredit program's interest rates have generally paralleled bank rates (including
those of FEFAD). During the civil crisis in 1997, resulting in inflation of 42 percent during 1997, the
urban microcredit program's interest rate temporarily became negative in the second half of 1997;
however, the credit officers focused on loan repayment during this period. Repayments are made on a
monthly basis, with the possibility of receiving a grace period of up to two months at the beginning of the
loan (for investment activities). Clients can repay their loans in advance with no penalty. Under the
UWMPP, the urban microcredit program loan ceiling has been US$5,000 equivalent.
Annex 2B, TableA
Urban Credit Program Real Interest Rates
1995     1996     1997       1998
Nominal Effective Interest Rate   24%  32%    32%        32%
nflation                    6%       17%      42%        9%
Real Effective Interest Rate  17%    13%      -7%        21%
1997 Crisis. Urban microentrepreneurs were heavily impacted by the 1997 crisis, but the urban
credit officers maintained close contact with the borrowers and focused on loan repayment rather than
new loan disbursements. The most difficult problems were caused by the closing of banks in Berat and
Shkoder during the crisis. A total of 89 loans were rescheduled (mainly in Berat and Shkoder), amounting
- 34 -



to about 18 million leks (about US$120,000), representing 5 percent of the outstanding portfolio. At the
height of the crisis, portfolio at risk rose to about 10 percent.
Results. The UWMPP intended to finance about 2,000 small loans (ranging from US$300-
US$5,000) in five cities.
Swiss  grant  financing,                        Annex 2B, Table B
which became available in               Evolution of Loan Disbursements by Year
mid-1995, enabled the
mid-195,   nable    the1994         1995         1996         1997        1998
extension  of the  urban        26           83          495          609         1,154
microcredit program  to                                                            '
Puka District. The program
has exceeded its original objectives. Currently, ADF urban microcredit operates in seven cities: Berat,
Elbasan, Kavaje, Puka, Shijak, Shkoder, and Tirana. As of March 31, 1999, a cumulative total of 2,686
loans had been disbursed to micro and small entrepreneurs. Cumulatively, the clientele consists of private
entrepreneurs (59 percent), followed by unemployed (31 percent), and employed (salaried) individuals (7
percent). About 20 percent of the clients are women. Loans have been used for trade (54 percent),
services (34 percent), and production (7 percent). The list of activities financed is extremely diverse,
ranging from kiosk and street venders to beauty shops, car washes, and furniture makers. About 40
percent of the total clients are repeat clients.
As of March 31, 1999, the active portfolio comprised 1,265 loans amounting to 281 million leks
(about US$2.0 million), with an average outstanding loan size of 223,000 (about US$1,600). The average
size for loans approved during the second half of 1998 was 297,000 leks (US$2,120). Loan repayment
was satisfactory: the delinquency rate was 1.2 percent and the portfolio at risk was 2.5 percent (At the end
of 1998, the ADF urban credit program wrote off loans for the first time since the program began in 1994.
Loan write offs amounted to about 17 million leks-about US$119,000-representing 6 percent of the
loan portfolio.)
Annex 2B, Table C
Performance of Urban Microcredit Program
End 1996       End 1997        End 1998
Balance of Loans Outstanding    97 mil. leks  117 mil. leks  256 mil. leks
(US$924,000)   (US$820,000)   (US$1.8 million)
No. of Active Loans            494             726            1,175
Average Loan Outstanding    195,409 leks   161,157 leks     217,872 leks
(IJS$1,870)    (US$1,134)      (US$1,550)
Effective Interest Rate        32%            32%              32%
Inflation (during period)      17%            42%             0.9%
Delinquency Ratea'             3.4%           5.5%            0.8%
Portfolio at Riskb/            7.4%           9.4%            2.8%
a/ Delinquency rate: amount of payments more than 30 days overdue divided by total outstanding
balance of loan portfolio.
bf Portfolio at risk: total outstanding balance of loans with payments more than 30 days overdue
divided by total outstanding balance of loan portfolio.
As of the end of December 1998, there were twenty-four Urban Credit Department staff,
including sixteen credit officers and a head office staff of eight.
B. Component Objective: A Sustainable Urban Microcredit Institution
The objective of the Urban Microcredit Component is to: (a) transform ADF's urban credit
program to a permanent, sustainable microfinance institution; and (b) expand urban microfinance
services.
- 35 -



C. Implementing Institution: Besa Foundation
Besa Foundation is a local Albanian foundation founded by The Open Society Foundation for
Albania in order to provide an appropriate private, local institution for long-term provision of sustainable
microcredit services. It was registered on October 1, 1998, and re-registered (with some changes to its
statute) on May 18, 1999 (District Court of Tirana, Registration Number 1554). Transfer of the staff,
activities, and assets/liabilities of the ADF Urban Credit Department to Besa Foundation took place on
May 20, 1999, under an Asset Transfer Agreement signed by the Ministry of Finance, ADF, and Besa
Foundation. Existing fixed assets were granted to Besa Foundation; while the net realizable value of the
loan portfolio (as confirmed by an outside auditor) was transferred under a purchase agreement. The
Ministry of Finance and ADF have the option to convert the sale to a grant if specified performance
indicators are met after four years.
The mission statement and operating principles of Besa Foundation are:
The mission of the BESA Foundation is to promote the micro and small enterprise sector
in Albania through the creation of a private self-sustaining Albanian Microfinance
Foundation. This non-profit foundation willfinance micro and small entrepreneurs on a
sustainable basis. Clients of the BESA Foundation will include people from all socio-
economic brackets including unemployed and start-up businesses. The Foundation will
also provide technical assistance for entrepreneurs, including training and studies.
To achieve its mission the BESA Foundation will operate according to private sector
principles in the provision of credit Management decisions will be made on the basis of
achieving sustainable operations, which don't rely on government or donor subsidies,
after a three-year period, Under these principles, each branch office will be run as a cost
center. Each branch will achieve sustainability by covering its operational and financial
costs through interest and loan fee revenues.
Broad policy guidance and oversight will be provided to Besa Foundation by a Board of Trustees,
comprising three representatives of the Open Society Foundation, two technical specialists representing
Government, one representative of the private sector, and one representative of clients. Government is
represented on the initial Board of Trustees in order to assure appropriate Govermment supervision and
participation during the life of the Project.
D. Summary of Business Plan
A five-year business plan for Besa Foundation, covering the life of the Project, has been finalized
and agreed. The Besa Foundation business plan will be updated each year. Financial projections for Besa
Foundation are summarized in Annex 5.
Outreach. The Besa Foundation will increase services at existing branches in seven districts, and
will expand branch offices and services to three new districts (43 percent increase in branches), bringing
the total number of branches to ten by Project Year (PY) 3. Final selection of new branch office sites will
depend on conditions in the proposed branch area and the results of an appraisal/marketing study carried
out six to eight months prior to the planned branch opening. Potential branch sites include Durres, Fier,
Lezha, and Lushnja.
Annex 2B, Table D
Number of Branch Offices
1997-1998       1999      2000        2001-2003
7            8          9             10
- 36 -



If resources are available, the BESA Foundation will disburse nearly 15,000 loans amounting to
US$45 million over the five-year Project period. The projected outstanding loan portfolio is shown
below.
Annex 2B, Table E
Projected Outstanding Loan Portfolio
PY 1        PY 2        PY 3         PY 4        PY 5
No. of Loans Outstanding   1,505       2,270       3,010        3,940       4,780
Amount of Loans Outstanding  3.8          6.2         9.0         12.8        15.5
(US$ nillion)
Interest Rate. The Besa Foundation will lend at market interest rates that enable the Foundation to
cover risk, inflation, and transaction costs by PY 3. Business plan projections are based on an interest
margin of 18 percent over cost of funds, plus a 1 percent upfront fee. Interest rates will be reviewed on a
regular basis (in relation to inflation and competitors' interest rates) and adjusted as needed.
Loan Size and Term. Under the Project, the current loan ceiling of US$5,000 will be
progressively increased, reaching US$10,000 by PY 3. However, larger loans will only be available to
selected repeat clients with an established track record. Average loan size is expected to evolve from
US$1,900 for loans disbursed in 1999 to US$3,250 for loans disbursed during PYs 4 and 5. Increase in
average loan size mainly reflects increasingly larger loans that will be given to repeat clients as their
business activity develops. Average loan duration is projected to increase from 12 months in 1999 to 16
months by PYs 4 and 5.
Portfolio Quality. Portfolio at risk will be maintained at less than 4 percent. Loan loss provisions
are estimated at 2 percent per year.
Operational Efficiency. Management and staff efficiency will be increased, with a target of 144
clients per credit officer by PY 4. This target is similar to the level for other microcredit and microfinance
institutions of a similar age, undergoing rapid growth, and using an individual lending methodology. Staff
growth will occur primarily at the branch level; a small headquarters staff will be maintained to keep
overhead to a minimum. Total staff is expected to increase from 24 at the end of 1998 to 39 by PYs 4 and
5 (10 headquarters staff and 29 branch staff).
Sustainability. Sustainability and growth targets will be set for all offices. Achieving branch
sustainability will include coverage of branch costs plus a portion of head office costs. Operations in
branches which are not making progress in attaining sustainability will be reassessed.
Program Strengths. The business plan identifies the following strengths, which are critical for the
success of a microfinance institution: (a) experienced, mature and self-motivated branch credit staff, who
are open to learning and further developing the program; (b) credit operations are already implemented in
seven districts, and the program has developed a solid clientele through word-of-mouth advertising; (c) a
close relationship with clients based upon honest and mutual trust; (d) unbureaucratic loan process, which
does not require extensive documentation and procedures; and (e) demonstrated ability to charge a market
interest rate and to increase the interest rate if necessary.
Areas Needing Strengthening. Some of the areas needing improvement, which are addressed in
the business plan, are: (a) staff turnover, primarily at headquarters; (b) development of an Operational
Manual and Finance and Administrative Manual; (c) management Information System (MIS); (d) staff
training program to develop institutional memory through formal training programs; (e) cash flow
management; and (f) full accounting system, including development of Chart of Accounts, accounting
procedures, selection and installation of computerized software package, and internal audit.
- 37 -



E. Component Description and Costs
The Microcredit Project will support the Besa Foundation in two ways: (a) loans for urban
microentrepreneurs; and (b) capacity building grants, in accordance with agreed annual business plans
and subject to performance indicators.
(a) Loans to Urban Microentrepreneurs (US$12.5 million). The Project will provide a line of
credit to Besa Foundation for onlending at market rates to borrowers (microentreprenuers, self-
employed, and unemployed).
(b) Urban Microcredit Institution Building (US$0.8 million). On the basis of an agreed business
plan, the Project will provide capacity building grants to Besa Foundation. Capacity building
grants will be progressively smaller each year, and subject to performance indicators. Besa
Foundation will be fully financially sustainable by PY 5.
Technical assistance for Besa Foundation (for an estimated amount of US$350,000) will be financed by
Soros Foundation.
Detailed component costs by year are shown in Annex 3.
F. Benefits and Risks
Based on the finalized business plan, the Besa Foundation will provide the following benefits to
clients, the economy, and the government:
(a) Savings to the Government on operational and financial costs, through the creation of a
sustainable institution;
(b) Development of the private sector and job creation: about 15,000 loans disbursed during the
life of the project; and
(c) Deepening of the financial sector and contribution to the soundness of the financial sector: 10
efficient microcredit branches throughout the country will provide permanent access to credit for
Albanian micro and small entrepreneurs.
There are also a number of significant risks. These have been addressed in the business plan and
the overall project design, and will be monitored carefully during the life of the project.
(a) Rising Inflation. A sudden spike in inflation could adversely affect Besa Foundation's
profitability, since many loans are more than one year in duration and are not indexed to inflation
or the dollar. Other mechanisms will be put in place to compensate for this risk, such as clear on-
time repayment incentives, penalties for late payment, and a large interest rate spread (to build up
reserves). On a regular basis, the interest rate spread will be reviewed and the onlending interest
rate will be adjusted for new loans based on competition, the rate of inflation, and other factors.
(b) Staff Turnover. High turnover in staff could jeopardize the growth and sustainability of Besa
Foundation, because implementing new management and financial systems and scaling up
operations requires experienced staff, and because relationships between clients and staff play a
critical role in building a profitable branch system. While turnover at headquarters has been a
problem, turnover at the branch level has been modest. A new performance-based bonus system
to be instituted by Besa Foundation is likely to minimize the risk of future turnover. Salaries will
be adjusted annually to ensure that the salaries and benefits of Besa staff match the levels of other
similar institutions.
- 38 -



(c) Overregulation. Microfinance institutions are new in Albania; therefore, the Bank of Albania
and government have no experience in the regulation of microcredit NGOs, which could result in
overregulation of the Besa Foundation in the short term. The Project includes a component for
technical assistance to the Bank of Albania to assist in the development and implementation of an
appropriate legal and regulatory fiamework for microfinance.
(d) WeakManagement Systems. Current management systems are not sufficient to support future
growth and sustainability. Besa Foundation intends to update and strengthen management
systems, including financial systems and accounting software, management information systems,
and written manuals.
- 39 -



ANNEX 2C
PROJECT COMPONENT 3- LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR MICROFINANCE
US$0.5 MILLION (TOTAL COST OF COMPONENT)
A. Background'
In Albania, as many other places in the world, the development of the microfinance sector is
limited by a legal and regulatory context with significant gaps and ambiguities. For microfinance
institution (MFI) managers and policy makers interested in the sector's development, the challenge is: (a)
in the short term, to make the available legal and regulatory provisions work together in the best way
possible; while (b) in the medium and long term, to support comprehensive legal reform to rectify
shortcomings in the legal and regulatory environment. Both MFIs and policy makers should ensure the
soundness of the MFIs and the financial system as a whole, without promoting a regulatory framework
which stifles innovative approaches to the potentially enormous market demand.
Development of a Legal and Regulatory Framework. To facilitate the development of the
microfinance sector, microfinance should be seen as part of a continuum of financial services that
addresses the needs of the entire population. MFIs should fit within a broad spectrum of legal and
regulatory categories of financial institutions, from the simplest credit-only programs to full-service large
commercial banks.2 Regulation and supervision of these different types of MFIs should be tailored to the
specific risks presented by each type. Such risks, and the type of regulation and supervision best suited to
addressing them, vary based on such factors as: (a) the nature of the loan portfolios; (b) the delivery
mechanisms used (such as collateralized vs. collateral substitute lending technologies); (c) the governance
structure; and (d) the capital structure and sources of funds.
A World Bank team led by a former central bank supervisor have developed a framework for the
regulation and supervision of MFIs that recognizes seven separate types of financial institutions in the
continuum. For each type of financial institution identified in Table A, below, different forms of external
regulation, performed by different regulatory bodies, are proposed, depending primarily on the source of
lending capital.
Based on Legal and Regulatory Environment for Microfinance Institutions in the Republic ofAlbania: A
Summary Report and Recommendations (Discussion Draft, February 1999), Timothy Lyman, Esq., and Rebecca
Mantthews Parent, Esq, Day, Berry & Howard LLP
2     See A Framework for the Regulation of Microfinance Institutions (The World Bank, December 1998),
Henmie van Greuning, Joselito Gallardo and Bikki Randhawa.
-40 -



Annex 2C, Table A: Microfinance Activities and Forms of Regulation3
MFI Type        Activity that Triggers Regulation   Proposed Form of External Regulation   Regulatory Agency
Engaging in the provision of    None-Voluntary registration with Self-    None, or Self-
Type 1               microfinance services           Regulatory Organization              Regulatory
Basic Nonprofit NGO                                                                       Organization
Type 2
Nonprofit NGO2 MFI   Limited funds accepted from     None-Exemption or exclusion provision   Self-Regulatory
Nonprofit NGO/MFI   borrowers to enforce loan        of banking law; compulsory registration    Organization
shefoes o   i s    repayment (e.g. "forced savings" or  with Self-Regulatory Organization
aprches orsmlr     mandatory deposit schemes)
Issuance of wholesale deposit   Registration as corporate entity;    Companies'iregistry
Type 3               substitutes (commercial paper)  authorization from securities and    agency; securities &
NGO transformed into                                 exchange agency, with limitation on size,  exchange agency-'
Incorporated MFI                                     term, tradability of paper
Operation as open-common bond    Notification to and registration with  Self-regulatory
Type 4               credit union; deposit-taking from  govermment approved regulatory agency,  agency; designated
Credit Union/Savings   member-clients in the community;   common exemption or exclusion from  Ministry, or
and Credit           workplace or trade              banking laws provisions              specialized parastatal
Association
Limited deposit-taking from general  Registration with Bank Supervisory  Bank Supervisory
Type 5               public. Minor deposits exemption    Authority under a limitation provision  Authority
Limited Deposit-     in banking law exceeded.        (e.g., deposits _ a smaller multiple of
Taking institution   Microfinance activities still basic    qualifying capital, with high or 100%
and not on scale of licensed banks.  liquidity reserves in the form of defined
Capital not adequate and therefore   banking sector deposits or specified
asset activities limited.       government securities)
Type 6               Non-restricted deposit-taking   Registration as a mutual or equity bank;   Bank Supervisory
Licensed Mutual Bank  activities from the general public    obtain full banking license; full  Authority
prudential regulation and supervision by
Type 7                                               Bank Supervisory Authority
Licensed Equity Bank
The prudential theories underlying this analytical framework are: (a) risks to the financial sector
are less when public funds (such as public savings) are not involved; (b) membership-based systems
promoting deposit mobilization are less risky and potentially offer internal mechanisms to control risk
taking behavior; (c) MFI shareholders' equity may be adequately regulated by general securities
regulating bodies; and (d) little or no risk to the broader financial sector is posed by the potential loss of
donor grants or concessionary capital.
Potential problems in legal and regulatory environments for microfinance in many countries
include: (a) poorly developed or conflicting laws and regulations, (b) very conservative and restrictive
interpretation of the existing laws and regulations; (c) inconsistent enforcement; and (d) standard
regulatory and supervision rules that fail to reflect differences in the types of MFIs and their services.
B.     Project Preparation Activities
Given the technical complexity of these legal and regulatory issues, World Bank staff, specialized
consultants, and the Bank of Albania have worked closely during Project preparation to gain a better
3      Substantially based on van Greuning, et al Paper, p. 3.
-41 -



understanding of the operational and prudential issues involved. In February 1999, a one-day seminar was
organized on the Legal and Regulatory Environment for Microfinance in Albania, attended by
representatives of Govemment, Bank of Albania, local microfinance organization, and donors. In
addition, an Albanian delegation participated in a two-day regional conference in Bosnia-Herzegovina
sponsored by the Microfinance Centre for Central and Eastem Europe and Newly Independent States.
These two events enabled Bank of Albania staff to leam from national and regional microfinance
experiences, share concems about prudential regulations and supervision strategies, and adjust the draft
legislation for both SCAs and NGO mi.ofinance institutions.
C.     Component Objective
The objective of this component is to develop a legal and regulatory framework and a supervision
system that promote the financial soundness of Albanian MFIs, with a special focus on community-based
savings and credit associations (SCA) and credit-only non-governmental organizations (NGOs).
D.    Regulation and Supervision Framework for SCAs and SCA Union
For the SCAs supported by the Microcredit Project, there will be one nationwide network of
SCAs, which provides financial services to members.4 This network must develop adequate regulation
and supervision of SCAs to ensure adherence to prudential financial standards and the maintenance of
mutualistic characteristics that distinguish SCAs from other financial institutions. International best
practice is consistent with the theory that SCAs (Type 4 institutions in the analytical framework set forth
in Table 1 above) require less intensive external monitoring than other types of deposit-taking financial
institutions. Members pay close attention to the risk-taking behavior of the managers. Also, since SCAs
are not-for-profit mutualistic financial institutions, they should not face the same minimum capital
requirements of commercial banks. Nevertheless, institutional policies and practices must reflect safe and
sound prudential rules and regulations.
SCAs within the network will eventually become affiliated to a national union.5 Once training is
conducted on prudential standards and obligations, SCA regulation will be undertaken by the Union,
which will adhere to Bank of Albania (BOA) standards and criteria. The BOA will directly regulate and
supervise the national Union, receive reports on SCA performance and soundness, and retain the right to
directly regulate an SCA at any time. An advantage of this approach is that the costs of regulation of
individual SCAs will not be a burden on the State budget. The system will be regulated at two levels: that
of the national Union and that of the SCAs. Prior to implementation, prudential standards must be
approved. Draft prudential regulations are presented in this annex.
Since there are no SCAs to form a union at the beginning of the Microcredit Project, it was
agreed during Project preparation that the Rural Finance Fund (RFF) will undertake this role during an
interim period. The RFF is a quasi-governmental institution recently established to take over the existing
staff and loan portfolio of the Albanian Development Fund's Rural Credit Department, and to provide
financing to new and transformed SCAs under the Microcredit Project.
E. Legal and Regulatory Framework for Credit-Only Microfinance Institutions
The BOA must also develop a legal and regulatory framework for MFIs that provide credit but do
not accept deposits or provide other financial services. In cases where donor funds are the only source of
financing for the loan portfolio, there is no risk to public funds. In most cases, the funds have been
4     In addition to the SCA network to be supported by the Microcredit Project, there is an Albanian Credit
Union Development Project, implemented by the Irish League of Credit Unions (ILCU) and funded by EU Phare,
Government of Ireland, ILCU, and Catholic Relief Services. This network will require the same legal and
regulatory framework, although a distinct supervision approach may be developed by the Bank of Albania.
This annex deals only with supervision strategies for the SCAs to be supported by the Microcredit Project.
SCAs with no affiliation would be regulated by the BOA for a fee to be determined by the BOA.
-42 -



transferred to the credit-only MFI as a grant or donation. Once these funds have been donated, it is the
responsibility of the MFI to develop and implement internal financial management rules that safeguard
the resources. In such cases, the role of the BOA and other government institutions should be regarded as
minimal. However, the BOA should maintain a registry of these institutions and receive annual audited
financial statements and reports concerning the nature of the clients and performance of the loan portfolio.
F. Component Description and Costs
This component will finance: (a) technical assistance (US$374,000); (b) training (US$80,000),
consisting of visits to SCA regulatory entities, especially in Central and Eastern European countries; (c)
local workshops (US$30,000); and (d) equipment (US$10,000) for a Bank of Albania SCA Supervision
Unit. Training will be undertaken on the basis of six-month training programs developed by the BOA.
Training programs will include the description, budget, names of participants, and expected outputs of
each activity. Detailed component costs by year are shown in Annex 3.
Technical assistance consists of: an SCA Regulation and Supervision Specialist (sixteen months
over five years); SCA Law Specialist two months during Project Year (PY) 1; and a Microcredit NGO
Legal and Regulatory Specialist (five months in PYs 1 and 2). Technical assistance will be procured by
the Project Implementation Unit, with the collaboration of the BOA. Responsibilities and qualifications of
technical assistance providers are summarized below. Draft detailed terms of reference, to be agreed with
the BOA, are available in the Project File.
The SCA Regulation and Supervision Specialist will provide ongoing support to BOA, RFF, and
the future Union for the establishment of a sound regulatory and supervision framework for SCAs. The
specialist will advise the BOA on the structure, staffing, and functions of the SCA Supervision Unit in the
BOA; and will advise RFF (and the future Union) on regulation of SCAs. The consultant will also
organize field trips to SCAs, exchange visits and study tours with other regional SCA programs and SCA
regulatory institutions, local seminars to review SCA performance and technical issues, and other
activities as required.
The specialist will develop an annual workplan with BOA staff, identifying a timeframe for
specific legal, regulatory and supervision activities such as those described above. Beginning in PY 2, the
technical assistant will help the BOA to develop guidelines for the SCA Union to act as its agent and
supervise member SCAs. Beginning in PY 3, the technical assistant will ensure that the BOA is
increasingly able to independently modify the existing regulations based on experiences with local SCAs
and the SCA Union, and select an appropriate sample of SCAs for verification and supervision purposes.
The SCA Legal Specialist will work with the BOA to prepare a technical proposal to modify the
existing SCA law and regulation based on regional and international best practice.
The Microcredit NGO Legal and Regulatory Specialist will work with BOA staff to formulate
proposals for improving the existing legal and regulatory framework for credit-only NGOs, ensuring that
BOA regulation and supervision is consistent with the risks involved with NGO microcredit institutions
in the Albanian context.
Bank of Albania Counterpart Contributions. The BOA has identified staff who will be dedicated
to this effort (in the Supervision Department and the Legal Department). These staff members have
already attended a national and a regional conference on the topic and taken part in technical discussions
with experienced consultants during Project preparation. The BOA has also committed to hiring an
additional two staff to work on SCA regulation and supervision issues.
-43 -



Prudential Rules and Standards for the Rural Finance Fund, to be succeeded by
(the Lending Department or function of) the National Union"
I. Authorized Financial Operations
The Rural Finance Fund (RFF) will be authorized to perform the following operations:
1.   Lend to Village Credit Associations (VCAs) and Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs)
based on the terns and conditions in loan agreements The eventual Union, as a secondary
level membership organization may only lend to member SCAs.
2.   Sell collateral, where loans are secured by collateral.
3.   Have access to the financial markets in Albania.
4.   Sign insurance contracts in view of the coverage of risks connected with its activity.
5.   Borrow funds from the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the Ministry of Finance
Special Account for onlending to VCAs and SCAs.
6.   Receive grants from the PIU for capacity building activities of RFF staff, VCA and SCA
members and officials.
7.   Receive and manage the loan portfolio, other assets and liabilities of the Albanian
Development Fund's Rural Credit Department
8.   Acquire assets for its own operations within the norms set by its bylaws and in accordance
with the annual operational plan and the business plans.
9.   Transfer assets and liabilities and other legal and contractual obligations to the National
Union of SCAs, once it has been legally constituted.
10.  Transfer assets (and related liabilities) of VCAs in Puke District to IFAD Mountainous Area
Development project within a period of three years, based on the agreement of IFAD, the
Government of Albania, and the World Bank.
11.  All other activities, unless specifically assigned by the Bank of Albania through regulations
or other forms of authorization in the future, including the investment of funds in shares of
enterprises, are not authorized.
When the Union takes on the financial functions of the RFF, these operations will remain the same, with
the following exceptions:
1. The Union may only lend to its member SCAs and borrow and invest funds in its own
interests and in the interest of its member SCAs.
2. The Union will not enter into any financial transactions (be this lending or asset transfer)
regarding the VCAs.
II. Loans and interest rates for loans
1. Loans will be offered by the RFF to VCAs and SCAs in national currency;
2. The ceiling of loans to VCAs and SCAs will be established by the RFF (or Union) Board and
stated in its Administrative Manual. It will take into account: the number of members of a
VCA or SCA, the ceiling for each member, and the prudential regulations as applied to
SCAs;
3. The ceiling for loan amounts to VCAs will be the same as the level already established by the
ADF Credit Department. The ceiling for loan amounts to SCAs will be established by the
RFF (or Union) Board, based on recommendations from the RFF (or Union) Executive
Director.
4. the interest rate for loans by the RFF (or Union) is established at least once a year.
6     The term "National Union" is not meant to imply that there would only be one such apex organization.
Rather, these Rules and Standards will apply to any such Unions in existence.
- 44 -



in.     RFF (and future National SCA Union) Obligations
1. The RFF (Union) presents statements and reports to the Bank of Albania, the World Bank
and other donors, according to requirements established. These will include quarterly reports
of operations, income statements, the balance sheet, cash flow statement, liquidity, an
analysis of loan portfolio, and capital adequacy ratio.
2. The RFF (Union) will ensure that agreements with donors are observed.
3. The RFF (Union) will monitor the loan granted, during the entire period of each loan.
4. The RFF (Union) will take all measures to recover loans granted to VCAs and SCAs. In case
of defaults or violation of established rules, the NU may take steps for immediate recall of
loans.
5. The RFF (Union) has the right to initiate legal proceedings in order to obtain reimbursement
of loans.
6. The RFF will provide training on monitoring, loan recovery, financial management, and
reporting to SCA Union staff, once the Union is legally constituted. Further, the RFF will
train SCA Union staff to ensure that adequate reporting systems are in place, to the
satisfaction of the Bank of Albania. This transfer of responsibilities should be completed
within four years of the founding of the RFF, since the RFF's bylaws specify that it is a
limited life foundation.
IV     Capital Adequacy
1. The RFF (future National SCA Union) will be considered to have an adequate level of capital
when it has equity equal to the sum of the amounts listed in #2 through #6 below.
2. 5% of outstanding short-term loans (maturity under 1 year) must be covered by RFF equity.
3. 8% of outstanding medium term/long term loans (maturity over one year) must be covered by
RFF equity.
4. 100% of fixed or intangible assets (net after accumulated depreciation), overdue assets and
bad debts must be covered by the RFF's equity.
5. Any subordinated interest-free loan repayable after ten years will be regarded as equity, when
calculating capital adequacy.
6. 1% of placements in commercial banks (in bonds, securities and other holdings)
7. These standards will apply to the Union after the RFF functions are transferred to it.
V. Risk division ratios
1. The amount of loans granted to one VCA or SCA shall not exceed 100% of the RFF's equity
or $ 250,000, whichever is lower.
2. As of the end of the twelfth month of operation of the RFF, the amount of a loan granted to
any one SCA shall not exceed 10% of the total amount of outstanding loans of the RFF.
3. These standards will apply to the Union after the RFF functions are transferred to it.
VI. Provisioning and other instructions
1. The total outstanding loan portfolio will be classified based on the portfolio at risk system
(which calculates the balance of outstanding loans with one or more overdue installments
divided by the total value of total loans outstanding, and classifies the loans based on the
number of days the first missed installment is overdue).
2. General risk provisions for outstanding loans with a maturity of one year or less shall not be
less than 1%.
3. General risk provisions for outstanding loans with terms greater than one year shall not be
less than 2%.
Provisions for outstanding loans shall be as follows:
1. Minimum of 30% for loans classified as overdue (installments up to 3 months overdue);
2. Minimum of 75% for loans classified as doubtful (installments 3 - 12 months overdue);
3. 100% for loans classified as irrecoverable (installments more than 12 months overdue).
-45 -



Prudential Rules and Standards for Savings and Credit Associations
I. Authorized financial operations
A Savings and Credit Association (SCA) will be authorized to perform the following operations:
1. accept deposits from its (individual) members;
2. lend to its (individual) members;
3. borrow and invest funds in its own interest and in the interest of its members;
4. sign insurance contracts in view of the coverage of risks connected with its activity;
5. acquire assets for its own operations within the norms set by its bylaws;
6. sell collateral, in cases where loans are secured by collateral.
7. All other activities, unless specifically assigned by the Bank of Albania through regulations
or other forms of authorization in the future are not authorized. This includes (i) foreign
exchange operations, (ii) the investment of funds in shares of enterprises, and (iii) the issue of
documentary credits.
II.    Lending conditions
1. SCAs must be registered and have a registration certificate.
2. SCAs must have the authorization of the RFF or National Union (as the supervision body) for
their activity.
3. SCAs keep accounting records according to established standards.
4. The loan application and other documents are prepared in conformity with RFF or Union
standards.
5. SCAs guarantee submission of all information and free access of authorized BOA and
RFF/Union staff to SCA records at all times.
6. SCAs strictly observe the prudential rules established for SCAs concerning capital adequacy,
asset quality, liquidity, rates of return, balance of maturities and liabilities, risk division
coefficients, provisioning when loans are received, and guarantees observing these rules
during the period of the loan.
7. The RFF/Union will require SCAs to contribute an amount (to be determined) of their
outstanding borrowings to the NU in the form of non-voting shares.
HI.   Loans and interest rates for loans
1. Loans will be granted to members only in national currency.
2. The maximum amount which any single member may borrow may not be more than 10% of
assets or $ 2,500, whichever is lower.
3. The interest rate for loans is established at least once a year.
IV.   SCA obligations
1. The SCA presents statements and reports to the NU according to requirements established by
the latter. These will include quarterly reports on operations, income statements, balance
sheets, cash flow statements, an analysis of arrears and capital adequacy ratio.
2. The SCA will monitor the loans offered during the entire period of a loan from the
RFF/Union.
3. The SCA will take all measures to recover loans offered to members. In case of default or
violations of established rules, the SCA may take steps for the immediate recall of loans.
4. The SCA has the right to initiate legal proceedings in order to obtain the reimbursement of
loans.
- 46-



V.    Operating ratios
Asset quality, liquidity, capital adequacy and rates of return may be adjusted from time to time by
the RFF/Union, with prior approval of the BOA. (See attached SCA CAMEL Standards.)
VI.   Balance of maturities and liabilities
75% of the value of loans with more than 2 years maturity must be financed from resources with
maturities greater than 2 years.
VII.   Risk division coefficients
1. The value of a loan granted to a given member and his or her immediate family members
shall not exceed 100% of the SCA's equity or $2,500, whichever is lower, during the first
year of SCA operations. This percentage will decrease to 35% during the second year of
operations and 20% during the third year.
2. As of the end of its twelfth month of operation, the value of a loan granted to an individual
member and his or her immediate family by a given SCA shall not exceed 10% of the total
amount of outstanding loans of the SCA.
VIII.  Provisioning and other instructions
1.    Provisions
a. Loan loss provisions for outstanding loans with maturities of less than one year shall not
be less than 1%.
b. Loan loss provisions for outstanding loans with maturities greater than one year shall not
be less than 2%.
The amount of loan loss provision is equal to or exceeds the sum of aged delinquent loan
balances weighted according to the following schedule:
(i)     Minimum of 30% for loans classified as overdue (installments up to 3 months
overdue
(ii)    Minimum of 75% for loans classified as doubtful (installments 3 - 12 months
overdue);
(ii)    100% for loans classified as irrecoverable (installments more than 12 months
overdue).
2.  Capital Reserves: A minimum of 10% of gross income is transferred to the capital reserve
account until this account equals 25% of total deposits plus shares; thereafter the minimum
transfer shall be the percentage of gross income not exceeding 10% necessary to maintain the
ratio of 25% of total deposits plus shares.
IX.   Asset Quality
1.    Loan quality: The sum of reserves plus loan loss provisions (allowance) is greater than or
equal to delinquent and refinanced loans.
2.    Insider lending: The total value of loans outstanding to all elected officials (and the
manager, if one is hired) cannot exceed 10% of all deposits.
3.    Collections: The percent ratio of the amount of repayment collected- (principal and
interest) to the amount of total payment due (principal and interest) must exceed 95%.
XI.   Liguiditv
Liquid assets (cash on hand and due from banks plus government securities) are greater than or equal to
10% of total deposits plus shares.
-47 -



SCA CAMEL Standards
1.   Capital Adequacy
A.      Capital:      Equity/Assets
Equity being Reserves (including loan loss allowances) + Retained earnings +
Donated capital.
>     or             10%
B.      Reserves to Loans:    Provision for bad and doubtful loans / Overdues > 12 months
*     or      =     90%
C.      Adequacy of Reserves:  Provision for bad and doubtful loans less overdues
divided by Overdues (1 - 12 months)
*     or      =     30%
D.      Solvency:
(Shares + savings + capital - delinquent loans)/Total shares + savings
>     or    =        100%
2.   Asset Quality
E.      Delinquency:         Delinquent Loans/Loans Outstanding
or    =      5%
F.    Fixed Assets:        Total non-earning assets/Total Assets
<     or    =       6%
G.    Investment:          Earning Assets/Funds Bearing Cost
Funds bearing costs are those on which either interest or dividends must be paid.
>     or    =        100%
H.   Net Loans Written Off:
(Loans written off- Recoveries)/Previous year's total loans
<     or    =       5%
-48 -



3.   Management
I.   Accounts balanced and current (10 days after the close of the month).
J.   Loan delinquency reports complete and current (10 days after the close of the month).
K.   BOA approved supervisory examination completed and recommendations implemented.
L.   Annual budget prepared and performance evaluated monthly.
M.  Key ratios calculated and evaluated monthly
N.   Written policies approved and implemented. (These should include a credit policy and a
savings policy.)
0.   Written internal control guidelines approved and implemented.
4.   Earnings
P.      Operating Cost:     Operating Income/Total Expenses
or    =      100%
Q.      Return on Assets:    Net Operating Income/Average Total Assets
>     or    =       10%
R.      Net Spread:                Gross Margin/Average Total Assets
>     or    =       2%
5.   Liquidity
S.   Loans to Savings and Borrowings: Loans Outstanding/(Savings + Borrowings)
>   or    =      90%
T.   Liquid Reserve:        (Cash + Investments)/(Shares + Savings + Borrowings)
<   or    =      5%
- 49 -



ANNEX 2D
PROJECT COMPONENT 4-PROJECT MANAGEMENT
US$0.6 MLLION (TOTAL COST OF COMPONENT)
Project Implementation Unit
The Microcredit Project will be managed and coordinated by a small Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Rather than creating a new project unit in the
MOF, these functions will be under the responsibility of an existing PIU, which was created to implement
specific IDA-financed projects. This PIU currently manages the Tax Administration Project, the
Economic Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project, and a Project Preparation Facility for the
proposed Banking Privatization Project.
During Project implementation, the PIU will be responsible for: (a) overseeing the Project,
coordinating Project activities, and ensuring that Project implementation is consistent with Project
objectives; (b) managing Project expenditures from the Special Account and Special Account
replenishments; (c) maintaining the Project's financial records; (d) monitoring Project implementation,
including subsidiary agreements, contracts, and compliance with performance indicators; (e) ensuring
procurement in accordance with IDA procurement guidelines; and (f) reporting to Government and IDA
on Project progress. The PIU will serve as the main communication point with the Bank and will ensure
that all requirements pertaining to the Development Credit Agreement are implemented on a timely basis.
The existing PIU is experienced with IDA procurement guidelines and disbursement procedures.
For the purposes of the Microcredit Project, the PIU will require additional staff and strengthening
through technical assistance, training, and office equipment.
PIU Staffing. The PIU currently employs a PIU Director, Procurement Manager, and Financial
Controller/Accountant, and has plans to engage a Secretary and Driver. In addition, the Microcredit
Project will finance a Microcredit Project Manager. (See Figure 1.) The component could also finance an
additional staff person, such as an additional financial specialist, in the event it is considered necessary at
a later date.
Annex 2D, Figure 1
PIU Organizational Chart
pIlJ
Director
Secretary
Driver
.Microcredit
Project
Manager
I..._ ........ 
Financial
Controller/          Procurement
Accountant            Manager
-50 -



Microcredit Project Manager: Description of Responsibililies
The Microcredit Project Manager will be responsible for day-to-day management and coordination of
the Microcredit Project. Specific responsibilities include:
(a) Monitor subsidiary agreements with Besa Foundation and the Rural Finance Fund, including
compliance with performance indicators.
(b) Prepare and submit quarterly progress reports to IDA, the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry
of Economic Coordination and Trade.
(c) Liaise with Government representatives, IDA staff, and consultants, to ensure clear
communications.
(d) Oversee Project financial management, ensuring efficient disbursements and transfers of funds.
(e) Participate in the development of terms of reference for consultants, as required.
PIU Reorganization. Currently, the PIU operates under the MOF Debt Financing Department, and
PIU staff are financed by the MOF. In accordance with Council of Ministers Decision No. 452, Dated
July 1, 1998, on Measures to Improve the Work of Project Implementation Units Financed by Foreign
Donors, the PIU is in the process of becoming an autonomous entity that will manage projects under
contractual arrangements with the MOF and other Governmental agencies. The PIU will have full
administrative and financial authority in: project management and coordination; procurement of goods,
services, and civil works; management and disbursement of funds; reporting to Government and donors;
and competitive recruitment of PIU staff. PIU staff will be engaged under contracts (not civil servants),
with specific terms of reference to be agreed with IDA.
Following the PIU reorganization, the Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project will finance
the salaries of the PIU Director, Secretary, Driver, Procurement Manager, and Accountant for a limited
time. Prior to the December 31, 2000, closing date of the Recovery Program Technical Assistance
Project, it will need to be determined whether the Microcredit Project will finance some of these staff
costs, or whether alternative funding is available under a subsequent IDA project.
Incremental Operating Costs. The Microcredit Project will disburse 100 percent for the following
PIU incremental operating costs: (a) staff salaries, other than civil servants' salaries, hired for the
purposes of the Project; (b) maintenance and operation of equipment procured or used under the Project;
and (c) office supplies. The Government will provide office space and will finance office rehabilitation
and utilities.
In order to assure transparent allocation of PIU incremental operating costs between various IDA
projects, annual PIU operational budgets-with clear proposals for allocation of operating costs between
IDA Credits-will be prepared and submitted to IDA for review.
Training. The Project finances training for PIU staff in microcredit and Project financial
management. Training will be procured on the basis of six-month training programs, which will be
submitted to IDA for prior review.
PIU Financial Management and Audits
The PIU financial management system requires strengthening for the purposes of the Microcredit
Project. During technical discussions/negotiations, a time bound action plan was agreed to strengthen the
Project financial management system. The component finances technical assistance (3 months in Project
Year (PY) 1 and 1 month in PY 2) to assist with the installation and implementation of a Project financial
management system.
-51 -



The Project also finances annual Project audits, which will include: (a) Project records, accounts, and
financial statements; (b) records and accounts of the Special Account; (c) records, accounts, and financial
statements of the Rural Finance Fund; and (d) records, accounts, and financial statements of Besa
Foundation. Terms of reference for Project audits will be carefully prepared, taking into consideration the
specific characteristics of microfinance institutions. Selection (e.g. terms of reference and shortlist) of an
external auditor, satisfactory to IDA, is a Condition of Project Effectiveness.
Monitoring and Evaluation
The PIU will ensure the monitoring of performance indicators (Annex 1), as agreed during
technical discussions/negotiations. In addition, beneficiary assessments (client surveys) will be carried out
annually for each of the rural and urban microcredit programs to assess Project impact and, provide
feedback for improving the delivery of microcredit services. Terms of reference for beneficiary
assessments will be prepared jointly by the PIU and the Rural Finance Fund and by the PIU and Besa
Foundation. The component also provides financing for two microfinance specialists (total of 3 months)
to assist in carrying out a Project mid-term review before the end of 2001.
Component Costs
Detailed component costs by year are shown in Annex 3.
-52 -



Annex 3
Albania Microcredit Project
Estimated Project Costs and Detailed Cost Tables
Proiect ComDonent                                            Local            Foreign        lot 
------- - --------- US$ mllio- --OR -- -
Rural Savings and Credit Association System                       5.9             2.1            8.0
Urban Microcredit                                                11.8              17           13.6
Legal and Regulatory Environment                                 --                0.4           0.4
Project Management                                                0.2              0.4           0.5
Total                                                            17.9             4.6           22.5
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                         --               0.1           0.1
Price Contingencies                                            --               0.1           91
Total Proiect Cost                                               17.9             4,8           22.8
Note: (a) Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
(b) Project costs have been estimated in US dollars, and local costs are expressed in US dollars at the
exchange rate of 138 leks/US$1.00 for PY 1, 140 for PY2, and 145 for PY3, PY4, and PY5.
(c) Physical contingencies of 5% have been applied to goods, consulting services, and increment costs.
(d) Price contingencies, which have been applied to goods, consulting services, and incremental Costs,
are calculated based on 1.9 for foreign exchange and local inflation of 10% in PYI, 7% in PY2, and
5% in PY3, PY4, and PY5.
- 53 -



Annex C, Table A
Albania Microcredit Project
Components Project Cost Summary
(Lek)                                                 (USS)
%    %Total                                          %    % Total
Foreign   Base                                       Foreign   Base
Local        Foreign        Total      Exchange Costs      Local      Foreign      Total    Exchange Costs
1. Rural Savings and Credit Association System   810,405,000.0  292,905,000.0  1,103,310,000.0  27      35   5,872,500.0  2,122,500.0  7,995,000.0   27      35
2. Urban Microfhnance                           1,634,803,200.0  237,994,800.0  1,872,798,000.0  13     60  11,846,400.0  1,724,600.0  13,571,000.0  13      60
3. Legal and Regulatory Environment                3,353,400.0  58,608,600.0    61,962,000.0    95       2     24,300.0   424,700.0    449,000.0     95       2
4. Project Management                             22,169,700.0  48,762,300.0    70,932,000.0    69       2    160,650.0   353,350.0    514,000.0     69       2
Total BASELINE COSTS                              2,470,731,300.0  638,270,700.0  3,109,002,000.0  21    100  17,903,850.0  4,625,150.0  22,529,000.0  21    100
Physical Contingencies                             1,850,580.0  16,641,420.0    18,492,000.0    90       1      13,410.0   120,590.0    134,000.0    90       1
Price Contingencies                                5,255,042.6  21,945,971.5    27,201,014.0    81       1     30,344.0    91,277.1    121,621.1     75       1
Total PROJECT COSTS                               2,477,836,922.6  676,858,091.5  3,154,695,014.0  21    101  17,947,604.0  4,837,017.1  22,784,621.1  21    101
Annex C, Table B
Albania Microcredit Project
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
(Lek)                                                 (US$)
%    % Total                                         %     % Total
Foreign   Base                                       Foreign   Base
Local        Foreign        Total     Exchange Costs       Local      Foreign      Total    Exchange Costs
I. investment Costs
A. Credit for SCAs                               804,195,000.0  89,355,000.0   893,550,000.0    10      29   5,827,500.0   647,500.0  6,475,000.0    10      29
B. Capacity Building Grant for Rural Finance Fund  6,210,000.0  24,840,000.0    31,050,000.0    80       1     45,000.0   180,000.0    225,000.0     80       1
C. Credit for Urban Microentrepreneurs          1,552,003,200.0  172,444,800.0  1,724,448,000.0  10     55  11,246,400.0  1,249,600.0  12,496,000.0  10      55
D. Capacity Building Grant for BESA Foundation    82,800,000.0  20,700,000.0   103,500,000.0    20       3    600,000.0   150,000.0    750,000.0     20       3
E. Goods                                             579,600.0   2,318,400.0    2,898,000.0     80       -      4,200.0    16,800.0    21,000.0      80       -
F. Consulting Services                            13,455,000.0  326,715,000.0   340,170,000.0   96      11     97,500.0  2,367,500.0   2,465000.0    96      11
Total Investment Costs                            2,459,242,800.0  636,373,200.0  3,095,616,000.0  21    100  17,820,600.0  4,611,400.0  22,432,000.0  21    100
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Operating Costs of PIU             11,488,500.0   1,897,500.0    13,386,000.0    14       -     83,250.0    13,750.0     97,0Q00      14
Total Recurrent Costs                               11,488,500.0   1,897,500.0    13,386,000.0    14       -     83,250.0    13,750.0    97,000.0      14       7
Total BASELINE COSTS                              2,470,731,300.0  638,270,700.0  3,109,002,000.0  21    100  17,903,850.0  4,625,150.0  22,529,000.0  21    100
Physical Contingencies                             1,850,580.0  16,641,420.0    18,492,000.0    90       1     13,410.0   120,590.0    134,000.0     90       1
Price Contingencies                                5,255,042.6  21,945,971.5    27,201,014.0    81       1     30,344.0    91,277.1    121,621.1     75       1
Total PROJECT COSTS                               2,477,836,922.6  676,858,091.5  3,154,695,014.0  21    101  17,947,604.0  4,837,017.1  22,784,621.1  21     101



Annex C, Table C
Albania Microcredit Project
Components by Financiers
(USS)
The Government     Soros Foundation      Switzertand              IDA          Other Cofinanciers         Total
Amount      %      Amount       %      Amount       %       Amount       %      Amount       %       Amount       %
1. Rural Savings and Credit Association System    777,000.0     9.6          -       -  1,406,246.2    17.3   5,405.000.0    66.7   518,000.0   6.4   8,106,246.2    35.6
2. Urban Mkcrofinance                             687,280.0     5.1  1,367,434.3    10.1         -       -   5.685,824.0    41.8  5,860,720.0    43.1  13.801,258.3    59.7
3. Legal and Regulatory Environment      40.0    -0.0                                                          326,681.3    66.6   163,809.9    33.4    490,491.2     2.2
4. Project Management                                   0.0                                                    586,625.4   100.0          -      - 56625.4            2.6
Total Disbursement                                 1,464,280.0    6.4  1,367,434.3    6.0  1,406,246.2    6.2  12,004,130.7    52.7  6,542,529.9    28.7  22,784,621.1   100.0
Annex C, Table D
Albania Microcredit Project
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(Us$)
Uh                                                 The Government      Soros Foundation      Switzerland             IDA           Other Cofinanciers         Total
I                            Amount       %      Amount       %      Amount      %       Amount        %      Amount       %       Amount       %
I Investment Costs
A. Credit for SCAs                                777,000.0    12.0                                           5,18000.0    80.0   518,000.0      8.0   6,475,000.0    28.4
B. Capacity Building Grant for Rumal Finance Fund         -       -                   -          -             225,000.0   100.0          -       -    225,000.0      1.0
C. Credit for Urban Microantrepreneurs            687,280.0     5.5  1,012,176.0    8.1          -       -   5,235,824.0    41.9  5,560,720.0    44.5  12,496,000.0    54.8
D. Capacity Building Grant for BESA Foundation           -             -         -               -       -    450,000.0    60.0   300,000.0    40.0    750,000.0     3.3
E. Goods                                                0.0       -          -        -          -       -      22,259.5   100.0          -       -      22,259.5    0.1
F. Consulting Services                                 -0.0    -0.0   355,258.3    13.2  1,406,246.2    52.2    769,523.9    28.6   163,809.9   6.1   2.694,838.3    11.8
Total Investment Costs                             1,464,280.0    6.5  1,367,434.3    6.0  1,406,246.2   6.2  11,882,607.4    52.4  6,542,529.9    28.9  22,663,097.8    99.5
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Operating Costs of PIU                   0.0       -                        -             -    121,523.3   100.0           -121,5233                   05
Total Recurrent Costs                                     0.0             -        -               -       -    121523.3   100.0            -       -      21 233      0.5
Total Disbursement                                 1,464,280.0    6.4  1,367,434.3    6.0  1,406,246.2    6.2  12,004.130.7    52.7  6,542,529.9    28.7  22,784,621.1   100.0



Annex C, Table E
Component 1. Rural Savings and Credi Association System
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Base cas
Un         199          2000        2001        200                       ota
I. Investunt Costs
A. Loans to Savings and Credit Associations     amoun,      275,000.0  1,000,000.0  2,100,000.0   5M0,000.0  2,600,000.0  6,475,000.0
S. Capacity Building Grants to RFF /a          lumpsum       150,000.0    75,000.0           -           -                 225,000.0
C. SCA Development and Training Ih              amount       255,000.0   440,00.0    395,000.0     60,000.0"    55,000.0  1,205,000.0
13. Technical Assistance tor RFF /c            lumpsum        70,000.0    20,000.0           -        _       _             90,000.0
Total                                                          750,000.0  1,535,000.0  2,495,000.0   560,000.0  2,655,000.0  7,995,000.0
Totals Including Contingencies
Unit       1999         2000        2001        2002         2003        Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Loans to Savings and Credit Associations     amount       275,000.0  1,000,000.0  2,100,000.0   500,000.0  2,600,000.0  6,475,000.0
B. Capacity Building Grants to RFF /a          lumpsum       150,000.0    75,000.0           -           -            -    225,000.0
C. SCA Development and Training /b              amount       270,293.6   475,250.4    434,751.5    67,292.9    62,857.2  1,310,445.6
D. Technical Assistance for RFF Ic             lumpsum        74,198.3    21,602.3           -           -           -     95,800.5
769,491.9  1,571,852.7  2,534,751.5   567,292.9  2,662,857.2  8,106,246.2
b Capacity building grants to be based on annual agreed business plans.
\b Includes technical assistance and local costs (local staff, operational, and investment costs), detailed in the Rural SCA Business Plan.
\c Financial and MIS system Improvements.



Annex 3, Table F
Component 2: Urban Microfinance
Detailed Costs
(USS)
Base Cost
Unit       1999        2000       2001        2002        2003        Total
1. Investnent Costs
A. Loans to Urban Microentrepreneurs    amount      978,000.0  2,609,000.0  2,722,000.0  3,689,000.0  2,498,000.0  12,496,000.0
B. Capacity Building Grants /a          amount      300,000.0   150,000.0   125,000.0   100,000.0    75,000.0    750,000.0
C. Technical Assistance /b             lumpsum      100,000.0    75,000.0    50,000.0    50,000.0    50,000.0    325,000.0
Total                                                1,378,000.0  2,834,000.0  2,897,000.0  3,839,000.0  2,623,000.0  13,571,000.0
Totals Including Contingencies
Unit       1999        2000       2001        2002        2003        Total
I. Invesbtent Costs
A. Loans to Urban Microentrepreneurs    amount      978,000.0  2,609,000.0  2,722,000.0  3,689,000.0  2,498,000.0  12,496,000.0
B. Capacity Building Grants /a          amount      300,000.0   150,000.0   125,000.0   100,000.0    75,000.0    750,000.0
C. Technical Assistance /b             lumpsum      105,997.5    81,008.6    55031.8    56,077.4    57142.9    355,258.3
1,383,997.5  2,840,008.6  2,902,031.8  3,845,077.4  2,630,142.9  13,601,258.3
Ln \a Capacity building grants to be based on annual agreed business plans.
* \b Technical assistance is detailed in the Besa Foundation Business Plan.



Annex 3, Table G
Component 3: Legal and Regulatory Environment for Microfinance
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Quantities                                                             Bass Cost
Unt      19i9     290      290i    2002    2D03      lotai   Unit Cost    1999       2000        200       2002       2003       Total
I. Investnent Costs
A. SCA Regulation and Supervision Specialist           mm            4        4        4       2        2        16    15,00O    60,000.0    60,000.0   60,000.0   30,000.0   30,0D0.0   240,000.0
B. SCA Law Specialist                                  mm            2                          -       -         2    15.000    30,000.0          -          -          -         -    30,000.0
C. Microcredit NGO Legal and Regulaty Specialist       mm            3        2        -                -         5    15.000    45.,0.0    30,000.0          -          -         -    75,000.0
D. Study Tours / Foreign Training /a                lumpsum                                                                      20,000.0    15,000.0   15,000.0   10,000,0   10,000.0    70,000.0
E. Local Workshops lb                                  each          1        1        1       1        1         5     5,000     5,000.0     5,000.0    5,000.0    5,000.0    5,000.0    25,000.0
F. Equipment
Cornputer/ Printer/ UPS/c                            each          2        .                         ,         2     4,500     9,000.0                                -          -     9 000.0
Total                                                                                                                              169,000.0   110,000.0   80,000.0   45,000.0   45,000.0   449O0
Quanties                                                     Totals Including Contingencies
Unit    1999    2eo0   2001         0       2003     Totat   Untt Cost     99        20          201        2002      20         Totb
I. Investment Costs
A SCA Regulation and Superision Specialist             mm            4        4        4       2        2        16    15,000    63,598.5    64,808.9   66,038.2   33,646.5   34,285.7   262,375.8
B. SCA LawSpecialist                                   mm            2        *        -        -       -         2    15,0D0    31,799.3          -                     -         -    31,799.3
C. Mirocredit NGO Legal and Regulatory SpecIalist      mm            3        2        -        -       -         5    15,000    47,698.9    32,403.4         -          -         -    80,102.3
D. Study Tours/ Foreign Training /a                 lumpsum                                                                      21,199.5    16,201.7   16,509.6   11,215.5   11,428.6    76,554.8
E. Local Worlhopalb                                    each          1        1        1       1        1         5     5.000     5,491.2     5,842.6    5,975.5    6,257.2    6,552.7    30,119.2
F. Equipment
Computer / Printer I UPS la                          each          2                          -       -         2     4,500     5,539.-                     -          -          -     9539.8
179,327.1   119,254.6   88,5232   51,1192    52,267.0   490,491.2
\a Training and study tours to SCA regulatory entites, mainly in Central and Eastem European countres.
\ Room rental, materials, and translation for local workshops.
No Computer, prnter, and UPS for Bank of Abania SCA supeMsion unit and for RFF regulatory unt.
Ut
00



Annex 3, Table HI
Component 4: Proect Management
Detailed Cosft
(USS)
Quontities                                                    Base cost
Unit     1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  Total Unit Coat    1999        2000       2001       2002       2003       Tdal
1. investment Coxs
A. Technkal Assistance and Tralnlnq for Project Ibnagment
FinwIl Speclist (PIU Flnancial Manageent System)                     mm           3     1     -            -    4    15 000    45,000.0   15,000.0           -          -               e0,000.0
Tialniag hr PIU Staff                                             lumpsum                                                       10,000.0   10 000.0    10,000.0   10,000.0   10.000.0    50,000.0
Piojid Audi                                                         each          1     1     1     I      1     5    30,000    300000   30 0000    300          300000   300000    1S00000
Subtal TechnkI Assiatnc and Training frProj ct Management                                                                         850000.0   550000    40000    40 0    4,000. 00           000.0
B. 111rtolodng and Evaluation
Annual Client Suwe  I Bera8clary Asassmerts                         eachb         1     1     1      1     1     5    20,000    20,000.0   20,000.0    20,000.0   20,000.0   20,000.0   100,000.0
Mlrdon  Specabits for Mid-Term Review                                mm           -     -    3       -     -    3    15,000           -          -    450000           -          -    45 000.0
Subtotal Monitoting and Evaluation                                                                                                20,000.0   20,000.0    65,000Q0   24000.0   20,000.0   145,000.0
C. Omce Equipment
Computers                                                           each          2        -               -     2     3,000     6,000.0         -           -          -         -      6,000.0
Pdinter                                                             each          1     -     -      -     -     1     1,000      1,000.0              -          -          -           1,000.0
Copir                                                                each    1                 -     -     -     1     5.000      5,000.0       -              -                 -      5
Subtot Ofce Equipment                                                                                                              12 000.0                                         -    12,000.0
Ttal Investment Cost                                                                                                               117000.0   75,000.0   105;000.0   60,000.0   60,000.0   417,000.0
II. Racewent Costs
A. PU  St  Satoles
Microcredit Project Manager                                       person year     1     1     1     1      1     5     4,800     4,800.0    4,800.0     4,800.0    4,800.0    4,800.0    24,000.0
Fwnanial Specidait                                                person year     1     1     1     1      1     5     3.600     3      600.0 3600 0    3 600.0    3600    3600 0       18000.0
Subtabil PMU Staff Salaes                                                                                                          84000      8400.0      8,400.0    6,400.0    8400.0    42,000.0
8 Vehicle Opeatation & Maintenance                                  lumpsum                                                        5 000.0    5 000.0     5,000.0    5 000 0    5 000 0    25,000. 0
C Offce Supplies                                                     amount                                                        60     000      0      6.000 0    60    000 0          300000
Total Recurrent Costa                                                                                                               19,400.0   19,400.0    19,400.0   19 4000    194000      7
Towtl                                                                                                                               1368400.0   94,400.0   124,400.0   79 400 0   79 400 0   514,000.0
Qua nt                                               Totals IncludIng ContI   s
Unit     1999  2000o  2001  2002  2003  Tobtl Unit Cost    1999       2000       201        2002       2003       Total
1. Investnt Coats
A. TechnIcal Assisance and Training for Project Management
Financial Specialist (PIU Financial Management System)               mm          3      1     -      -     -    4    15,000    47,696.9   16,201.7           -         -          -    63,900.6
Trainng for PIU Staff                                             lumpeum                                                        10,599.8   10,801.1    11006 4   11,215.5   11,428.6    55,051.3
Pject Audit                                                         each          1     1     1     I      1     5    30,000    31,799.3   32 403.4    33 0191   33,646.5   342857    165154 0
Subtoltl Technical AssIstance and TraIning for Project Management                                                                 90,097.9   59,406.3    44,025.5   44.8620    45,714.3   284.10569
S. Monltodng and Evaluation
Annual Client SurvegyI9Ball  AeslAsnA                               each          1     1     1     1      1     5    20,000    21,837.4   23,075.8    23,587.1   24,595.8   25,651.8   118747.9
Mcr1nance Specistats for MTerm Review                                mm           -           3     -            3    15,000                     -     497                             49,528.7
Subtotal MonItoring and Evaluation                                                                                                21 .837.4   23,075.8    73.1158.    24595.8   25,651.8   168,276.5
C. Offka Equipmnt
Computers                                                           each          2                              2     3,000     6,359.9                                          -     6.359,9
Pniner                                                              each          1     -     -            -     1     1,000     1,060.0         -           -         -                 1,060.0
COPrw                                                               each          I     -     -        -         1     5.000     5      2                    -         -5.2S0.
Subtotal OfCe Equipmnt                                                                                                            12,7197          -                                -     1719.7
Tota Invesent Costs                                                                                                                124,655.0   82,482.1   117,141.2   69S457.8   71,366S1   465,102Q1
H. Rlcent Costa
A. PUi Stff Sella,es
Mioeit Project Manager                                            person year     1     1     1     1      1     5     4,800     5,544.0    5,925.4    6062.4   86365.5    ,6B83.8    30,581.2
Finaci Speil                                                      personyear      1     1     1     1      1     5     3.600     4,158.0    4.4441     45468    47741    50129          229359
Subtotal PMU  Staff Salades                                                                                                        9,702.0   10,3695    106092    11,139.7   116067      53,517.0
B. VehWle OpetaonS   MaIntenance                                    lumpaum                                                        5,705.4    6,011.5    6,1432    6,394.5    8657.3    30,911.9
C. Oike Supplies                                                     amount                                                        68465    72138        7.371B_  74           79e8      3780t43
Tot Recu rent Costa                                                                                                                 22,253.9   23508        241512 4 3  5 2076    2342;8
146,908.8  106,076.8  11411,265.5   94,6654    97,706.9    5665



Annex 4
Albania Microcredit Project
Economic Analysis Summary'
Links to CAS
The Microcredit Project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Albania (dated July 8, 1998, and discussed by the Board of Directors on July 30, 1998), which
focuses on the following strategic priorities: (a) govemance and institution building to help the
establishment of an accountable, transparent, and efficient state; (b) promoting sustainable private
sector growth (including maintenance of macroeconomic stability, financial sector and enterprise
reforms, and improving infrastructure); and (c) promoting human development and poverty
alleviation. (See also Part B. 1 of the PAD.)
These strategic priorities remain valid during the present Kosovo crisis. For example,
Albania needs to continue to focus on governance and transparency to assure that important public
services to the Albanian population can be provided, public security can be maintained, and aid
inflows will be used for the intended purposes. Promoting private sector growth and alleviating
poverty-despite the economic pressures of the Kosovo crisis-also remain critical. The CAS
strategy is complemented by a program prepared specifically to respond to Albania's additional
budget needs arising from the Kosovo crisis-the Public Expenditure Support Credit, which was
approved by IDA's Board on May 6, 1999.
The Microcredit Project will have an immediate impact on private sector development and
poverty alleviation by increasing the availability of financial services to rural farmers and
entrepreneurs and to urban microentrepreneurs and self-employed. Over the medium term, the
Project will help Albania to sustain economic growth by building legitimate and sound financial
intermediaries. The development of a private urban microcredit institution (Besa Foundation) and the
promotion of private, democratically-governed savings and credit associations in rurl areas is also
expected to contribute to the strengthening of civil society. IDA's continued support for microcredit
and the development of private, specialized microfinance institutions, is specifically cited in the
CAS.
Adequacy of Policy Environment
Macroeconomic Environment. (See also Part B.2 of the PAD.) Albania's current
macroeconomic environment is adequate for supporting microfinance intermediaries. In 1998,
Albania made significant progress toward macroeconomic stabilization and growth following the
1997 civil crisis-inflation was tamed to below 10 percent by the last quarter of 1998, and the
estimated real GDP growth for 1998 reached 8 percent. However, the conflict in Kosovo and the
enormous influx of refugees into Albania are creating substantial fiscal and external pressures that
could potentially undermine Albania's successful macroeconomic stabilization efforts. The
Government remains firmly committed to continue with its economic reform program. The
Government has continued with the implementation of the stabilization measures agreed with the
IMF before the Kosovo crisis, and has publicly committed itself to a serious institutional and
structural reform program, supported by a Structural Adjustment Credit (US$45 million) that will be
considered by IDA's Board of Directors on June 3, 1999. The Bank is also providing emergency
support through a Public Expenditure Support Credit, which will help safeguard budgetary discipline
during the crisis period. Present projections indicate that macroeconomic stability will be
maintained, with inflation dropping to 7% in 1999 and to 3% in 2001. However, under the current
circumstances, it is extremely difficult to make reliable forecasts of economic developments in
'Based on the ECA Guidelines for the Economic Analysis of Lines of Credit.
- 60 -



Albania. Given the uncertainty of the Kosovo situation, the estimates for 1999 and beyond are
merely preliminary and will be modified as the situation evolves.
Investment Environment. Despite decades of policies pursuing autarky and aiming at self-
sufficiency across all commodities, prices and trade have been liberalized in Albania after 1993;
today there are no significant price distortions that will affect the inputs and outputs of potential
microcredit investments. Especially noteworthy given years of policy interventions in wheat and
flour prices that ended in mid-1996, Albania has established a largely distortion-free incentive
framework in the agricultural sector, in which price interventions are absent and trade is fairly open.
To further reduce interventions in private markets and maintain the distortion-free incentive system,
the Structural Adjustment Credit will support the Government's intention to refrain from
reintroducing price interventions and increasing import tariffs on agriculture and food products
beyond their September 1998 levels, and will aim to reduce the overall import protection through the
introduction of a new tariff structure with only three tariff bands in 1999.
Financial Sector. (See also Part B.2. of the PAD) Albania's financial sector is extremely
weak. The banking sector is dominated by two insolvent state-owned banks-the National
Comrnercial Bank (in the process of privatization) and the Savings Bank (privatization planned to
start in year 2000)-which account for about 85 percent of total assets, 70 percent of total loans, and
92 percent of all deposits. In addition, there are about eight foreign or joint venture banks without
branch networks, and preliminary licenses to operate have been granted by the Bank of Albania to
three additional institutions. The fact that the Government is continuing to proceed with privatization
of the National Commercial Bank despite the Kosovo crisis is a positive sign of Government's
commitment to proceed with financial sector reform.
Interest Rates. Since October 1995, interest rates have been decontrolled, except the rates on
lek time and savings deposits. The Bank of Albania sets minimum deposit rates for deposits
collected by the state banks. The floor rate is used and viewed as a prudential regulatory measure,
rather than used for monetary policy purposes. There are no market-determined benchmark interest
rates. Treasury bill rates are largely set up from budget financing considerations.
Analysis of Alternatives
The Project has a two-thronged approach: to increase the flow of credit to intended
beneficiaries over the short term; and, over the medium term, to develop new sustainable
microfinance institutions, building on the know-how of the Albanian Development Fund's (ADF)
credit programs. The Project's focus on institution building and development of new, sustainable
financial intermediaries is justified by the extraordinary weakness of banking infrastructure in
Albania, resulting in a complete lack of viable intermediaries to reach rural populations and urban
microentrepreneurs. (See Part D. 1 of the PAD for a discussion of alternative Project designs
considered.)
Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
Five-year business plans, which include sensitivity analysis, have been prepared for both the
SCA system and Besa Foundation, and will be updated annually. (Sensitivity analysis and financial
projections are discussed in Annex 5.)
Fiscal Impact
The Project is expected to have a positive net fiscal impact for the Government. (See Part
E.2 of the PAD.)
-61 -



Institutional Capacity
The participating lending institutions-the Rural Finance Fund (RFF) and Besa
Foundation-are established from the existing ADF rural and urban credit programs, which have
highly successful track records. The Project supports their expansion and institution building
through technical assistance (under parallel financing arrangements) and capacity building grants.
Adoption by RFF and Besa Foundation of Operational Manuals and Finance and Administrative
Manuals satisfactory to IDA are Conditions of Effectiveness.
Poverty Analysis
The Project aims to develop sustainable microfinance institutions, which will serve low-
income persons and rural and urban microentrepreneurs without access to formal financial
institutions. However, the Project's emphasis on sustainability implies that borrowers must be able to
undertake investments that yield sufficient financial rates of return to pay market interest rates.
Consequently, the very poorest may not be eligible for microloans. Worldwide microfinance
experience suggests that microcredit is not the most appropriate tool for reaching the poorest, who
often require grant or other assistance before taking on debt.
Performance Indicators
Performance indicators-including detailed performance indicators for the rural SCA
system and Besa Foundation-have been agreed at negotiations. (see Annex 1).
-62 -



Annex 5
Albania Microcredit Project
Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities
Financial Projections for the Rural Savings and Credit Association Network
The business plan for the rural savings and credit association (SCA) system includes
financial projections for the five-year Project period for: (a) new SCAs; (b) existing village credit
funds (VCF) transformed to SCAs; (c) untransformed VCFs (until Project Year (PY) 2), and (d) the
entire network of new and transformed SCAs.
The financial sustainability of individual SCAs is critical to developing the SCA system.
The projected income statement and balance sheet for a new SCA established in a flat coastal area is
shown in Table A. A new SCA is expected to produce net earnings of US$190 at the end of the first
year, growing to inflation-adjusted net earnings of US$1,424 at the end of the fifth year. The
financial projections assume that net earnings are reinvested. The projected income statement and
balance sheet of a VCF transformed to an SCA is shown in Table B. Transformed SCAs, many of
which are located in hilly areas, are expected to have smaller outstanding loan balances than new
SCAs located in flat coastal areas. Net earnings increase from US$160 in the first year to US$1,026
in the fifth year. Financial projections for the entire network of new and transformed SCAs is shown
in Table C.
Sensitivity Analysis.  The business plan includes sensitivity analysis for inflation,
delinquency, savings mobilization, and operational costs. Financial projections are highly sensitive
to both inflation and delinquency. A substantial increase in inflation would imply fewer borrowers
(terms of trade of farmers will likely deteriorate), smaller loan size, shorter term loans, and smaller
amounts of loans outstanding, thereby negatively impacting the financial position of SCAs as well as
the Rural Finance Fund. Growing delinquency would also have a strong impact on SCA
sustainability-a 1 percent decline in the repaymnent rate would be equivalent to 87 percent decline
in net earnings by Year 5, underscoring the importance of maintaining the high repayment rates
achieved with the VCF system. A decline in savings mobilization would result in a smaller capital
grant from RFF, and subsequently a larger loan from RFF, decreasing the profitability of the SCA.
Higher savings mobilization would have a positive impact on SCA profitability.
Financial Projections for Besa Foundation
The Besa Foundation business plan includes financial projections for the Project period.
Assumptions behind financial projections are shown in Table D, projected income statements are
shown in Table E, and projected balance sheets are shown in Table F.
According to the financial projections, Besa Foundation will be able to cover its operating
costs by PY 3. In PYs 1 and 2, there are net losses of US$184,000 and US$101,000 respectively
before grant income.
Sensitivity Analysis. The business plan includes sensitivity analysis for a decrease in the
interest rate spread, which could occur if there are higher than expected operating costs or if there is
an increase in competition. Sensitivity analysis indicates that the interest rate spread could be
reduced up to four percent, and Besa Foundation would still be able to generate positive revenues
excluding grant income by PY 5.
-63 -



Annex 5, Table A: Financial Position of a New SCA
ASSUMPTIONS (in USS)
Capitalization
Membership fee paid-in by members (nominal share)                                                    S5
"Proportional share" paid annually by borrowers (% of loan outstanding)                           2.00%
Contribution to capitalization of SCA union (% of equity)                                        30.00%
Inerest Rates
Interest earned on bank accounts (in % above inflation)                                           0.00%
Interest paid on time deposits (in % above inflation)                                             3.00%
Interests paid on ADF/Union credit lines (in % above inflation)                                   0.00%
Interest earned on loans to final borrowers (in % above inflation)                               11.00%
Provisiondng
Provision write off on microloans                                                                 1.00%
Provision write off on investment loans                                                           2.00%
Operating costs
Management cost for SCA (in % of the outstanding credits)                                         2.00%
Fixed costs for the SCA in year I and 2                                                             $50
Fixed costs for the SCA in year 3, 4, and 5                                                        $100
BALANCE SHEET (in USS)
LIABILITIES                              PY     |  PY2        PY3        PY4       PYS
Number of members                                                     53         55        57         59        61
Membership share paid in by members                                  265        275       285        295       305
"Proportional shares" paid by borrowers                              344       958       1 778     2 855     4 219
Share capital (membership and proportional)                          609      1 233     2 063      3 150     4 524
RFF grant contribution                                             0 609      2 883     5 483    10 230    15 504
Statutory reserve (retained earnings)                                  0        190       588      1 174     2 147
External credit line borrowed                                     16 347    26 036    31 886    36 582    41 697
Time deposit                                                           0      1 650     3 420      7 080    10 980
Total savings                                                          0      1 650     3 420      7 080    10 980
Total labilities and equity                                       17 565    31 992    43 440    58 216    74 853
ASSETS
Fixed assets                                                           0          0         0          0         0
Paid-in share to the Union of SCAs                                   365      1 292     2 440      4 366      6 653
Fixed and intangible assets                                          365      1 292     2 440      4 366     6 653
Microloans outstanding                                            17 200    20 700    23 000    25 850    28 200
Investment loans outstanding                                           0    10 000    18 000    2S 000    40 000
Total loan outstanding                                            17 200    30 700    41 000    53 850    68 200
Short term placements Into banks                                       0          0         0          0         0
Total Assets                                                       17 565    31 992    43 440    58 2161   74 853
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
Financial expenses
Interest paid on time deposits                                         0        132       274        566       878
Interest paid on external credit lines                              1308      2083       2551       2927      3336
Provisions on loan portfolio (1% Micro, 2% Investment.)              172        407       590        819      1 082
Total financial expenses                                            1480       2622      3414      4 311      5 296
Financial income
Interest earned on Union share                                         0          0         0          0          0
Interest earned on placements into banks                               0          0         0          0         0
Interest earned on loans to members                                2 064      3 684      4 920     6 462      8 184
Total financial income                                             2 064      3 684      4 920     6 462      8 184
Gross Earnings                                                      0 584     1 062      1 506     2 151      2 888
Operating costs for association                                      344        614       820      1 077      1 364
Fixed costs for association                                           50         50       100        100       100
Net Earnings                                                       0 190      0 398      0 586     0 974      1 424
- 64 -



Annex 5, Table B: Financial Position of an SCA Transformed from a VCF
ASSUMPTIONS (in USS)
Capitalization
Membership fee paid-in by members (nominal share)                                               $5
"Proportional share" paid annually by borrowers (% of loan outstanding)                      2.00%
Contribution to capitalization of SCA union (% of equity)                                   30.00%/
Inerest Rates
Enterest earned on bank accounts (in % above inflation)                                      0.00%
Interest paid on time deposits (in % above inflation)                                        3.00%
Interests paid on ADF/Umon credit lines (in % above inflation)                               0.00%
Interest earned on loans to final borrowers (in % above inflation)                          11.00%
Provisioning
Provision write off on raicroloans                                                           1.00%
Provision write off on investment loans                                                      2.00%
Operating costs
Mnagement cost for SCA (in % of the outstanding credits)                                 2.00%y
Fixedcosts for the SCA in year I and 2                                                         $50
Fixed costs for the SCA in year 3, 4, and 5                                                   $100
BALANCE SHEET (in USS)
LIABILITIES                            PY1       PY2       PY3       PY4       PY5
Number of members                                                 53        55        57        59        61
Menbership share paid in by members                              265       275       285       295       305
"Proportional shares" paid by borrowers                          458       962      1 596    2 452     3 425
Share capital (membership and proportional)                      723      1237      1881      2747      3730
RTF grant contribution                                          0 723     2 337     4 731     7 467    11 050
Statutory reserve (retained earnings)                              0       160       471      0 934     1 647
External credit line borrowed                                  21 888    21 467    23 891    30 277    29 861
Time deposit                                                       0      1 100     2 850     4 720     7 320
Total savings                                                      0      1 100     2 850     4 720     7 320
Total liabilities and equity                                   23 334    26 301    33 824    46 145    53 608
ASSETS
Fixed assets                                                       0         0         0         0         0
Paid-in share to the Union of SCAs                               434      1 120     2 125     3 344     4 928
Fixed and intangible assets                                      434      1120      2125      3344      4928
Microloans outstanding                                         12 900    15 180    16 698    18 800    20 680
Investment loans outstanding                                   10000    10 000    15 000    24 000    28 000
Total loan outstanding                                         22 900    25 180    31 698    42 800    48 60
Short term placements into banks                                   0         0         0         0         0
Total Assets                                                   23 334    26 300    33 823    46 144    53 608
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
Financial expenses
Interest paid on time deposits                                      0        88      228       378       586
Interest paid on external credit lines                           1751      1717      1911     2422      2389
Provisions on loan portfolio (1% Micro, 2% Investment.)           329       352      467       668      0 767
Total financial expenses                                        2080      2157      2606      3468      3742
Financial income
Interest earned on loans to members                             2 748     3 022     3 804     5 136     5 842
Total financial income                                          2 748     3 022     3 804     5 136     5 842
Gross Earnings                                                  0 668     0 865     1 198     1 668     2 100
Operating costs for association                                  458        504       634     0 856     0 974
Fixed costs for association                                        50        50       100       100       100
Net Earnings                                                    0 160     0 311     0 464     0 712     1 026
-65 -



Annex 5, Table C: Financial Position of Network of SCAs (New and Transformed)
(US$)                                           PY1        PY2         PY3        PY4         PY5
New Savings and Credit Associations              0          30          80         135        195
Village credit funds transformed in SCAs         12         36          82        145         145
Number of SCAs in the network                    12         66         162        280         340
Village credit funds rerauung                   145         120         80         0           0
Total Villages (SCAs and VCFs)                  157         186        242        280         340
Number of members of the associations           636        3,522      8,742      15,320      19,060
Number of members of the VCFs                  7,685       6,600      4,560        0           0
Total number of members                        8,321       10,122     13,302     15,320      19,060
BALANCE SHEET (USS)
LlABIlTIES and EQUITY                           PY1        PY2         PY3        PY4        PY5
Membership share paid in bymembers             3,180       17,610     43,710     76,600      95,300
"Proportional share" paid by borrowers         5,496      32,851     109,233    260,960     481,796
Share capital (membership & "proportional")    8,676      50,461     152,943    337,560     577,096
Capital contribution from the RFFMinion        8,676      63,661     263,043    698,300    1,452,766
Statutory reserve (retained earnings)            0         1,920      15,196     57,033     149,018
Total Reserves                                 8,676      65,581     278,239    755,333    1,601,784
Owners Equity                                  17,352     116,042    431,182    1,092,892   2,178,880
External credit line borrowed                  3,380,154   4,173,731   5,499,169   6,460,567   8,640,922
Time deposit                                     0         13,200    110,100    360,740     875,670
Total Savings                                    0         13,200    110,100    360,740     875,670
Total liabilities and equity                 3,397,506   4,302,973   6,040,451   7,914,200   11,695,472
ASSETS
Fixed assets                                     0           0          0          0           0
Paid-in share to the Union of SCAs              5,206      34,813     129,355    327,868    653,664
Fixed or intangible assets                      5,206      34,813    129,355    327,868     653,664
Microloans outstanding                        2,112,300   2,948,160   4,091,096   4,808,332   6,519,808
Investment loans outstanding                  1,280,000   1,320,000   1,820,000   2,778,000   4,522,000
Total loans outstanding                       3,392,300   4,268,160   5,911,096   7,586,332   11,041,808
Bank accounts                                    0           0          0          0           0
Total Asset                                   3,397,506   4,302,973   6,040,451   7,914,200   11,695,472
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
Financial expenses
Interest paid on time deposit                    0         1,056      8,808      28,859      70,054
Interest paid on external credit lines         395,112    449,914    523,613    516,845     691,274
Provisions on loan portfolio                    3,948      17,278     49,991     103,643    155,638
Total financial expenses                      399,060     468,248    582,412    649,348     916,965
Financial income                                      _     _____                      _ _
Interest earned on placements into banks         0           0          0          0           0
Interest eamed on loans to members            407,076     512,179    709,332    910,360    1,325,017
Total financial income                        407,076     512,179    709,332    910,360    1,325,017
Gross earnings                                 8,016      43,931     126,919    261,012     408,052
Operating costs for association                 5,496     27,355      76,382     151,727    220,836
Fixed costs for association                     600        3,300       8,700     17,300      25,100
Net earnings                                    1,920      13,276     41,837     91,985      162,115
- 66 -



Annex 5, Table D: Besa Foundation Financial Projection Assumptions
FINANCIAL ASSUMPTIONS
PYl        PY2        PY3         PY4         PY5
Average Loan Period (in months)                       12         14         15           16          16
Inflation                                         0.1075       0.06        0.04        0.04         0.04
Reimbursement Rate                                  0.98       0.98        0.98        0.98         0.98
Loan Loss Provisions                                0.02       0.02        0.02        0.02         0.02
Loan Fees                                           0.01       0.01        0.01        0.01         0.01
Interest Spread                                     0.18       0.18        0.18        0.18         0.18
Interest rates                                    0.2875       0.24        0.22        0.22         0.22
Branches                                            7.75          9         10           10         - 10
Branch Staff                                          18         21         23           27          29
Headquarters Staff                                    10         10         10           10          10<
REVENUES AND LOAN PORFOLIOS
Nu______nber_______                             PYI        PY2         PY3         PY4         PY5
Numnber of Loans                                   1,884      2,448       2,940       3,648        4,056
Average Size of Loans                              2,500      2,750       3,000       3,250        3,250
Disbursements                                   4,710,000   6,732,000   8,820,000   11,856,000   13,182,000
Reimbursements (capital)                        2,855,514   4,260,922   6,034,310    8,076,322   10,452,586
Interest                                         460,931    673,550    939,238    1,343,434    1,744,167
Loan Fees (life insurance)                        47,100     67,320      88,200     118,560      131,820
Initial Loan Balance                            1,909,607   3,764,093   6,235,171    9,020,861   12,800,539
Ending Loan Balance                             3,764,093  6,235,171   9,020,861   12,800,539   15,529,953
Average Loan Balance                            2,836,850   4,999,632   7,628,016   10,910,700   14,165,246
Average Cash Balance                             100,000    150,000    250,000      250,000      250,000
AnnualLoanFundsRequired                         1,016,408   3,608,685   6,359,080   10,109,029   12,610,437
-67 -



Annex 5, Table E: Besa Foundation Projected Income Statements
INCOME STATEMENTS (in USS)
PYI         PY2         PY3        PY4         PY5
Financial Income
Loan Interest                            460,931      673,550    939,238    1,343,434    1,744,167
Loan Fees                                 47,100       67,320     88,200     118,560     131,820
Interest Income Bank Accounts             -           -           -           -
Total Financial Income                   508,031     740,870   1,027,438    1,461,994    1,875,987
Financial Costs of Lending Funds
Interest on Loan from GOA                109,264      216,521    254,363     404,361     504,417
Loan Loss Provision                       56,737       99,993    152,560     218,214     283,305
Net Financial Marin                      342,030     424,356    620,515      839,419    1,088,265
Operating Espenises
Salaries
Head Office:
Base Salary                               35,500       37,275     39,050      40,825      42,866
Bonus                                     12,600       13,230     13,860      14,490      14,490
Branch Offices:
Base Salary                               72,900       89,303    102,465     125,753     140,940
Bonus                                     25,524       31,267     35,875      44,029      49,346
Subtotal Salaries                        146,524      171,075    191,250     225,097     247,642
Life Insurance                             3,108        3,785      4,396       4,928       5,195
Health Insurance                           3,500        5,500      6,000       6,000       6,000
Administrative Costs                      48,858       57,015     67,725      69,900      71,825
PerDiem/Travel                            44,800       53,380     61,210      68,725      75,240
Marketing                                  5,000        7,500      8,500       9,500      10,500
Staff Training and TA                    212,892      167,107    149,125     147,510     139,764
Legal Services                             2,500        2,750      3,000       3,250       3,500
Computer Services                            500         750       1,000       1,250       1,500
Depreciation                              33,587       31,318     46,246      65,185      55,006
Miseellaneous                             25,000       25,000     30,000      30,000      30,000
Total Operating Costs                    526,269      525,181    568,452     631,345     646,172
Net Income from Operations              (184,239)    (100,825)    52,063    208,074     442,093
Grant Income
Technical Assistance                     100,000       75,000     50,000      50,000      50,000
Additional Operating Grant               300,000      150,000    125,000     100,000      75,000
Grant Income Total                       400,000      225,000    175,000     150,000     125,000
Net Income before Taxes                  215,761      124,175    227,063     358,074     567,093
Tax                                       64,728       37,253     68,119     107,422     170,127
Net Income after taxes                   151,033       86,922    158,944     250,652     396,966
-68 -



Annex 5, Table F: Besa Foundation Projected Balance Sheets
BALANCE SHEET (in USS)
PYI         PY2         PY3          PY4            PY5
Bank Credit Operations                      150,000     250,000     250,000       250,000        250,000
Bank General Opemtions                      150,000     174,938     174,142       175,964        174,905
Loan Portfolio                            3,764,093   6,235,171    9,020,861    12,800,539     15,529,753
Loan Loss Reserve                          (56,737)    (99,993)   (152,560)     (218,214)       (283,305)
Staff Scooter Loans                          17,000       7,490       3,402       -          -
Total CurretAssets                        4,024,356   6,567,606    9,295,845    13,008,289     15,671,355
Fixed Assets                                201,790     177,034     220,716       280,469        223,785
Less Depreciation                            33,586      31,318      46,247        65,184         55,005
Total Long Term Assets                      168,204     145,716     174,469       215,285        168,780
TOTAL ASSETS                              4,192,560   6,713,322   9,470,314     13,223,574    15,840,133
Current Liabilities
Total Current Liabilities
Long Term Borrowing                         865,884   3,248,402    5,695,604     8,940,473     10,895,222
Total Long Term Liabilities                 865,884    3,248,402    5,695,604    8,940,473     10,895,222
TOTAL LIABILTIES                            865,884    3,248,402    5,695,604    8,940,473     10,895,222
Donor Funds Cumulative                    3,175,643   3,226,963    3,377,810     3,635,549     3,900,395
Prior Year Retained Income or Loss          -           151,033     237,957       396,900        647,552
Cunrent Year Net Income/Loss                151,033      86,924     158,943       250,652        396,964
TOTAL EQUITY                              3,326,676   3,464,920    3,774,710     4,283,101     4,944,911
TOTAL LIABILITY & EQUITY                  4,192,560   6,713,322   9,470,314     13,223,574    15,840,133
-69 -



Annex 6
Albania Microcredit Project
Procurement, Disbursement, and Financial Management Arrangements
Procurement Responsibilities
1.    Implementation of the Project will require procurement of goods and services and selection
and employment of consulting firms to carry out consulting and other assistance services. The
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be responsible for overall procurement activities, and
procurement procedures will be fully described in the PIU Finance and Administration Manual. The
Microcredit Project PIU will be attached to an existing Ministry of Finance PIU, which is
experienced in managing IDA projects and in carrying out procurement in accordance with IDA
guidelines.
2.    The Rural Finance Fund (RFF) and Besa Foundation will be the implementing agencies for
the lines of credit to rural savings and credit associations and to urban microentrepreneurs,
respectively. RFF and Besa Foundation will also be recipients of capacity building grants to cover
operational losses associated with managing the lines of credit. RFF has been established from the
existing Albanian Development Fund (ADF) Rural Credit Department; and Besa Foundation has
been established from the existing ADF Urban Credit Department. Thus, they have staff experienced
with procurement and project implementation under the Rural Development Project and Urban
Works and Microenterprise Pilot Project. The procurement procedures of RFF and Besa Foundation
will be fully described in their Finance and Administration Manuals. Adoption of the Manuals,
satisfactory to IDA, by their respective Boards of Directors, is a Condition of Credit Effectiveness.
3.    Due to the outbreak of hostilities in Kosovo, which prevented a procurement specialist from
joining the Appraisal Mission to carry out a full procurement assessment, an abridged assessment of
the procurement capacity of the PIU, RFF, and Besa Foundation was carried out with the assistance
of the Resident Mission.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
4.    Procurement for goods financed from IDA Credit proceeds will be conducted in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January
1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. The Project
components not financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with national regulations or the
cofinancing institutions' procurement regulations. A General Procurement Notice will be published
in the Development Business of the United Nations in June 1999. Procurement of consultants will be
conducted in accordance with Guidelines -  election and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers dated January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents for Goods, Small Works, and Standard Request for Proposals and Standard
Form of Consultants' Contracts will be used. The Project procurement arrangements are shown in
Table A below. Details are included in the Procurement Plan.
Lines of Credit
5.    Loans to Savings and Credit Associafions (SCAs). Loans to SCAs will be onlent by SCAs to
their members for small farm and off-fann activities. Subloans to final borrowers, which will not
exceed US$8,000 per loan, will average only US$400-US$600 each for microloans; and US$2,500-
US$3,500 each for investment loans. Based on experience under the Rural Development Project,
subprojects will include purchase of livestock, tools, and agricultural inputs; small rural investments
(e.g., greenhouses, bakeries); and small trade and services. Procurement will be performed by final
borrowers, following established private sector or commercial practices acceptable to IDA. The
aggregate amount of such procurements will not exceed US$5.2 million.
- 70 -



6.    Loans to Urban Microentrepreneurs. Subloans, which will not exceed US$10,000 per loan,
will average US$2,500-US$3,500. Based on experience under the Urban Works and Microenterprise
Pilot Project, subprojects will include small trade, small production (e.g., wood processing, snack
stands), and services (e.g. barber shop, car wash). Procurement will be performed by subborrowers,
following established private sector or commercial practices acceptable to IDA. The aggregate
amount of such procurements will not exceed US$5.2 million.
Capacity Building Grants
7.    The Project will provide annual capacity building grants to RFF and Besa Foundation to
cover institution building costs associated with managing the lines of credit and scaling up activities,
until the RFF and Besa Foundation become operationally sustainable. The capacity building grants
will be agreed annually with the PIU, based on institutional business plans, and subject to
performance indicators. Capacity building grants will be progressively smaller each year. The
aggregate amount of capacity building grants will not exceed US$0.2 million for the RFF, and
US$0.5 million for the Besa Foundation.
Goods
8.    National Shopping (NS), based on comparing quotations from at least three suppliers, will
be used for contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 each. A contract for PIU and Bank of
Albania office equipment will be procured on this basis, for an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$22,000.
Consulting Services
9.    The Credit will finance services totaling about US$0.8 million. Consultants for assignments
of a standard or routine nature estimated to cost less than US$50,000 each will be selected through
the Least Cost Selection method.
10.   Consultants' services for five annual Project audits (estimated to cost a total of about
US$165,000) and for five beneficiary assessments (estimated to cost a total of about US$119,000)
will be procured through the Least Cost selection method. There are five contracts with
individuals-two contracts for SCA regulation and supervision experts (US$294,000), a contract for
a financial management specialist (US$64,000), and two contracts for microfinance specialists to
undertake the mid-term evaluation (US$50,000)-that will be procured according to selection based
on the comparison of CVs. The Credit will finance study tours for supervision and regulation of
SCAs (aggregate of US$23,000), which mainly involves visits to Central and Eastern European
regulatory institutions; and training for PIU staff (aggregate amount of US$55,000). A schedule for
training activities and study tours will be prepared on a six-months basis and submitted to IDA for
no objection (see details in Table Al).
Incremental Operating Costs
11.   The Credit will finance incremental operating costs of about US$0.1 million consisting of
salaries and operating costs of the PIU to oversee and manage the Project, including: (a) PIU staff
salaries (excluding those for civil servants); (b) maintenance and operation of equipment procured or
used under the project; and (c) office supplies. Incremental costs will be procured on the basis of an
annual agreed budget.
-71 -



Bank's Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
12.   Prior review thresholds are as follows:
Consulting Services - Bank prior review will be required for all terms of reference,
irrespective of the contract value.
- Contracts greater than US$25,000 and less than US$100,000 with firms, and all
annual Project audits and annual beneficiary assessments: the Bank will be notified
of the results of the technical evaluation prior to the opening of the financial
proposals. Following the opening of the financial proposals and evaluation thereof, a
full evaluation report will be submitted to the Bank.
- With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or more
for employment of individual consultants: the qualification, experience, terms of
reference, and terms of employment of the consultant will be furnished for the
Bank's prior review;
- Contracts less than US$25,000 with individuals: terms of reference;
- All training related expenses (tuition, fee, transportation, per diem, and trainers' fee)
will require prior approval.
Post Review
13.   All contracts not subject to the Bank's prior review will be subject to post review, on a
selective basis. One out of five contracts for goods and services and one out of fifty contracts under
the lines of credit will be subject to ex-post review. At least one supervision mission a year will
include a procurement specialist whose main responsibility will be to conduct ex-post reviews of the
procurement process and documentation, and provide his or her findings.
Disbursement
14.   Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C): Credit, capacity building grants, goods, consulting
services, and PIU incremental operating costs.
15.   Special account: To facilitate timely project implementation, the PIU will establish,
maintain, and operate, under conditions acceptable to IDA, a Special Account denominated in US
dollars in the Bank of Albania. The maximum authorized allocation of the Special Account will be
limited to US$800,000. There will be no initial restriction on the authorized allocation because: (a)
the Project is a follow-up to three previous IDA-financed projects and no start-up lag is expected;
and (b) nearly all expenditures (all credit and capacity building grants) will be made from the Special
Account. Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months and must
include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
16.    Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs): Reimbursement of expenditures made from the
Special Account may be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) certified by the
Director of the PIU for the following items:
Lines of Credit
Capacity Building Grants
Goods: contracts amounting to less than US$50,000 equivalent
Consulting services-firms: contracts amounting to less than US$100,000 equivalent
Consulting services-individuals: contracts arnounting to less than US$25,000 equivalent
Training, studies, and operating costs: all contracts
-72 -



The required supporting documents will be retained by the PIU for at least one year after receipt by
the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. This
documentation will be made available for review by the auditors and by visiting IDA staff upon
request.
17.   Operating Costs. The Microcredit PIU will have no role once the Project is completed, and
will therefore be disbanded. Given the temporary nature of the PIU, it has been agreed that the IDA
Credit will disburse 100 percent for eligible PIU incremental operating costs.
Financial Management
18.   General. The PIU, which is within the Ministry of Finance and has substantial experience in
implementing projects financed by the Association, will be responsible for the overall financial
management of the Project. The PIU will, amongst other things, oversee and coordinate the Project,
manage Project expenditures from the Special Account, monitor the compliance of the RFF and Besa
Foundation with the Subsidiary Agreements, ensure compliance with the Development Credit
Agreement, and maintain the Project's financial records.
19.   Accounting Systems. The RFF and Besa Foundation already have in place basic financial
management and accounting systems but these systems will need to be fully automated prior to
Effectiveness in order to properly manage the finances of the Project. For the PIU, a system will be
developed similar to the one under development for the Second Irrigation and Rehabilitation Project.
Adequate funds have been earmarked in the Project to finance these initiatives.
20.   Staffing. The PIU currently includes a Director, Financial Controller/Accountant, and a
Procurement Manager. A Driver and an Assistant, who will provide support for procurement and
accounting activities, is in the process of being hired. It has been agreed that a Microcredit Project
Manager, with substantial financial and accounting experience, will also be hired. Since this Project
will not entail a large volume of activities at the PIU level, the proposed staffing appears adequate to
meet the needs of the Project. However, if required, the Project has sufficient funding to sustain
additional staffing. Due to the fact that the RFF and Besa Foundation have been formed from
existing entities, they each already have a complement of financial management staff. However, as
their financial management systems will need to be strengthened prior to Credit Effectiveness, their
staffing arrangements may also need to be revisited
21.   Disbursements and Funds Flow Mechanism The Project will initially disburse under the
Association's traditional Statement of Expenditure (SOE) method, with the option of moving to the
Project Management Reports (PMR)-based disbursement method at the mutual agreement of the
Borrower and the Association. A Special Account will be opened and managed by the PIU at a bank
acceptable to the Association. The RFF and Besa Foundation will have their own local accounts.
The PIU will transfer funds from the Special Account to these local accounts upon the submission by
the RFF and Besa Foundation of approved loan applications acceptable to the PIU. The RFF and
Besa Foundation will on-lend funds to the beneficiaries after the transfer of funds from the Special
Account to their local accounts.
22.   Internal Controls. Draft Finance and Administrative Manuals detailing, amongst other
things, the operational procedures and controls, have been developed for both the RFF and Besa
Foundation and these will be fully reviewed by the Association. These manuals will need to be
revised for the new systems and adopted as a condition of Effectiveness. Intermal controls for the
PIU, RFF, and Besa Foundation satisfactory to the Association will be in place prior to Credit
Effectiveness.
23.   Audit Arrangements. External audits will be perfonned annually in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing by independent auditors acceptable to the Association. The
- 73 -



scope of the audits will include: (a) the financial statements of the Project as maintained by the PIU;
and (b) the financial statements prepared in accordance with Intemational Accounting Standards of
both the RFF and the Besa Foundation. The audited financial statements will be prepared within six
months of the end of every fiscal year. Auditors have been contracted for the audit of the financial
statements for the period ending December 31, 1998, for all IDA-financed projects in Albania, with
a clause to extend the contract for the next three years. The terms of reference for the forthcoming
audits will be reviewed by the Bank prior to an extension of the contract. The selection of the
auditors is a condition of Effectiveness.
24.   Reporting Arrangements.  In addition to the submission of annual audited financial
statements, the PIU will produce full quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) beginning
approximately six months after Project effectiveness. However, by Project Effectiveness, the PIU
will produce PMRs 1A, IB, and IF.
25.   Next Steps. The timetable shown below for the strengthening of the Project's financial
management arrangements was agreed at Negotiations.
Organization
Draft of Finance and Administrative Handbook for the PIU - July 31, 1999
Final Finance and Administrative H[andbook for the PIU - October 31, 1999
Accountinz System
Chart of accounts and cost centers codified - July 15, 1999
Installation and initial training of new software - October 15, 1999
Complete installation and training of all users of new software - December 31, 1999
Project Management Reports
Finalized formats - August 15, 1999
Audit
Contract for 1999 audit - September 30, 1999
Project Reporting
26.   The PIU will prepare proper Quarterly Progress Reports and submit them to the Bank in a
timely fashion.
Implementation Schedule
27.   The project will be implemented over a five-year period.
-74 -



Annex 6, Table Al: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)a'
Expenditure Category                       Procurement Method                     Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB         NCB          Other        N.B.F
1. Credit
Subloans to Savings and                                     6.48                         6.48
Credit Associations                                        (5.18)bl                     (5.18)
Subloans to Urban                                          12.50                        12.50
Microentrepreneurs                                         (5.24) b/                    (5.24)
2. Capacity Building
Grants
Capacity Building Grants to                                 0.23                         0.23
Rural Finance Fund                                         (0.23) c/                    (0.23)
Capacity Building Grants to                                 0.75                         0.75
Besa Foundation                                            (0.45) c/                    (0.45)
3. Goods                                                    0.02                         0.02
(0.02) d/                   (0.02)
4. Services                                                 2.69                         2.69
Technical assistance and                                   (0. 77)                      (0.77)
training
5. PIU Incremental                                          0.12                         0.12
Operating Costs                                          (0.12)i'                     (0.12)
Total                                                   22.78                        22.78
(12.00)                      (12.00)
Note: a/ Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
b/ Procurement under credit lines will follow established private sector or commercial practices; the
upper limit for individual Subloans will be $8,000 for rural beneficiaries and $10,000 for urban
beneficiaries.
c/ Capacity building grants will be agreed annually on the basis of institutional business plans.
d/ One national shopping package estimated at US$22,000.
e/ Consulting contracts consist of: two individual contracts for supervision and regulation of SCAs
(aggregate of US$294,000); five contracts for Project audits (aggregate of US$168,000), and five
contracts for beneficiary assessments (aggregate of US$119,000) to be procured under Least Cost
Selection; one individual contract for financial management specialist (aggregate of US$64,000);
and two individual contracts for microfinance specialists for the mid-term review ($50,000).
Training includes: foreign training and study tours for supervision and regulation of SCAs
(aggregate of US$23,000), which mainly involves visits to Central and Eastern European
regulatory institutions, and training for PIU staff (aggregate amount of US$55,000). Training and
study tours will be undertaken in accordance with six-month training programs, prepared on a
rolling basis and submitted to the Bank for prior approval.
f/  Incremental Operating Costs: includes salaries (other than civil servant salaries) and other PIU
operating costs. Incremental operating costs will be procured on the basis of annual budgets and
work-programs.
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
-75 -



Table A2: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services                                 Selection Method
Expenditure         QCBS        QBS       SFB        LCS        CQ        Other      N.B.F.     Total
Category                                                                                        Cost
A. Firms             0.00       0.00      0.00       0.29       0.00       0.06       1.46       1.81
(0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.29)     (0.00)     (0.06)     (0.00)     (0.35)
B. Individuals       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.41       0.47       0.88
(0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.41)     (0.00)     (0.41)
Total   0.00       0.00      0.00       0.29       0.00       0.47       1.93       2.69
(0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.29)     (0.00)     (0.47)     (0.00)     (0.77)
Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Conimercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Table A3: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                            Contracts Subject to
Threshold            Procurement           Prior Review
Expenditure Category         (US$ thousands)          Method              (US$ millions)
1. Works                              N/A.                   n/a                   0.00
2. Goods                              <0.05                  NS                    0.00
3. Services                           0.05                   LCS                   0.29
4. Miscellaneous                       n/a                   nVa                   0.00
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: 0.29
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Once every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits
-76 -



Annex 6, Table B: Project Procurement-Related Information and Review Thresholds
(US$ million equivalent)
Section 1: Procurement Review
Goods       ICB       NCB          IS            NS        Minor Works   Other Methods   Percentage of Loan Amount
Subject to Prior Review
Procurement n.a.       n.a.     n.a.           <US$0.050    n.a.             Commercial
thresholds:                                    (US$0.022)                    Practices <$0.01
individual                                                                   ($10.42)
and
aggregate
Prior
Review
Consultants   QCBS      QBS    Fixed Budget        LCS        Qualifications    Individual
Procurement n.a.       n.a.     n.a.           <US$0.05
method                                        (US$0.29)
thresholds
Prior Review                                   All           Only TOR        Only TOR         US$ 0.29 or
(US$0.29)                                      1%
Ex-post     Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism:
Review      The Bank will monitor procurement activities, contract management, and Project record keeping dung periodic supervision
missions. At least one supervision mission per year will include a procurement specialist to conduct ex-post review. One out of
five contracts for goods and services and one out of fifty contracts under the lines of credit will be subject to ex-post review.
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agenoy it Procurement and Techical Assistance requirements
Primary responsibility for overseeing implementation of procurement procedures will rest with the staff of the PIU.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or    Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year ready by
Country Procurement Strategy Paper status:  negotiations
Country Procurement Assessment Report dated  Yes ?   No  /
1997



Estimated date   Estimated date of     Indicate if there is   Domestic Preference for Domestic Preference for Works, if
of Project      publication of General   procurement subject to   Goods: No          applicable: n/a
Launch          Procurement Notice:    mandatory SPN in
Workshop:       July 99                Development Business:
September 1999                         No
Retroactive financing: No                                           A         rouent N
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: Procurement implementation progress will be monitored through progress reports and
supervision missions. At least one sulpervision m-issiori per year will include a procurement specialist. She/he will be responsible for updating
the procurement plan, and conducting ex-post reviews. His/her findings will be included in the supervision reports for monitoring their
implementation.
00
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing: To be determined at appraisal.
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project:
Name: Naushad Khan, Procurement Specialist, Ext. 32699
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: A Project Officer in the Resident Mission will be responsible for
supervising project implementation and will provide procurement support.



Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category            Amount in US$ '000
Equivalent           Financing Percentage
(SDR '000)
(1) Subloans to Savings and Credit              4,650              100% of amounts disbursed
Associations                                    (3,440)
(2) Subloans to Urban Microentrepreneurs        4,650              100% of amnounts disbursed
(3,440)
(3) Capacity Building Grants
(a) to Rural Finance Fund                    200                     100%
(150)
(b) to Besa Foundation                       400                     100%
(300)
(4) Goods                                          20             100% of foreign expenditures
(20)            100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
85% of local expenditures
for other items procured locally
(5) Consulting Services and training              700                     100%
(520)
(6) Incremental Operating Costs of PIU            110                     100%
(90)
(7) Unallocated                                  1,270
(940)
Total      12,000
(8,900)
-79 -



Annex 7
Albania Microcredit Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                     Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Inception - Board                                              $290,000 (including
trust funds)
B. Project Schedule                            Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Tine taken to prepare the project (months)                            24
First Bank mission (identification)                               05/18/1997
Concept Review Meeting                        01/13/1998          01/13/1998
Pre-Appraisal mission departure               05/05/1998          11/09/1998
Appraisal mission departure                   09/07/1998          03/23/1999
Technical Discuassions                                            05/03/1999
Negotiations                                  11/02/1998          05/20/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 04/01/1999       09/15/99 (expected)
Prepared by: Albanian Development Fund
Preparation assistance: Japan PHRD Grant: US$396,000 (Government executed)
C. Bank staff/consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                                           Specialty
Kathryn Funk                           TTL, Rural Development Specialist, ECSSD
Michael Goldberg                       Microfinance Specialist, PSDSE
Maria Nowak                             Microfinance Consultant
Tbrahim Hackaj                          Project Officer, ECCAL
Dean Mahon                              SCA Regulation and Supervision Consultant
Timothy Lyman, Esq.                    Legal Environment Consultant
Rebecca Matthews Parent, Esq.          Legal Environment Consultant
Elena Galliano                          Social Scientist, MNSED
Rohit Mehta                             Senior Disbursement Officer, LOAEL
Naushad Khan                            Procurement Specialist, ECSSD
Arben Maho                              Procurement Specialist, ECSSD
Ramendra Basu                           Certified Financial Specialist
Manilena Payos                          Financial Analyst, ECSSD
Ahmed Jehani                            Sr. Counsel, LEGEC
Nikolai Soubbotin                       Counsel, LEGEC
Jacob Mann                              Team Assistant, ECSSD
- 80 -



Annex 8
Albania Microcredit Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
The PIP comprises:
(a) the Rural Finance Fund Five-Year Business Plan;
(b) the Besa Foundation Five-Year Business Plan;
(c) detailed terms of reference for technical assistance; and
(c) the procurement plan.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Beneficiary Assessment: ADF Rural Microcredit Component; Elena Galliano; October 1998
C. Other
Environmental Data Sheet for Projects in the IBRD/IDA Lending Program
Beneficiary Assessment Report: ADF Rural Credit Program; Co-Plan; July 1998
Beneficiary Assessment Report: ADF Urban Credit Prograrn; Institute for Contemporaxy Studies, November 1998
Legal and Regulatory Environment for Microfinance Institutions in Albania: A Summary Report and
Recommendations; Timothy R. Lyman, Esq. and Rebecca Matthews Parent, Esq.; Day, Berry & Howard, April
1999
- 81 -



Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual                  Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                             disbursements a/        Supervision Rati
Project ID    Year                Borrower                            Purpose
IBRD       IDA       Cancel.      Undisb.       Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj   Imp Pr
Number of Closed Projects: '1
Active Projects
AL-PE-8258       1993   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA               TRANSPORT/INFRASTRUC                       0.00       18.00        0.00           .56          .08        0.00       S          S
AL-PE-8269       1994   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA               SCHOOL REHAB. AND CA                       0.00        9.60        0.00          1.10          .63        0.00       S          S
AL-PE-8265       1994   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA               SOCIAL SAFETY NET                          0.00        5.50        0.00           .46          .34        0.00      S           S
AL-PE-8252       1994   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA               LABOR MARKET DEVELOP                       0.00        5.40        0.00           .67          .58        0.00       U          U
AL-PE-8260       1994   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA               DURRES WATER SUPPLY                        0.00       11.60        0.00          3.65        1.59         0.00      U           S
AL-PE-8266       1994   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA               HOUSING                                    0.00       15.00        0.00           .91          .32         .05       S          S
AL-PE-8273       1995   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA               RURAL DEVELOPMENT                          0.00        6.00        0.00           .53          .50        0.00       S          S
AL-PE-8272       1995   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA               TAX ADMIN. MODERNIZ.                       0.00        4.00        0.00          1.60        1.52         0.00       S          S
AL-PE-8267       1995   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA               RURAL ROADS                                0.00       15.00        0.00          2.48        2.90         0.00       S          S
AL-PE-8253       1995   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA               HEALTH SERVICES RENA                       0.00       12.40        0.00          7.16        6.52         0.00      S           S
AL-PE-8270       1995   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA               IRRIGATION RENABILIT                       0.00       10.00        0.00           .11       -1.79         0.00       S          HS
AL-PE-36060      1996   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA               NATIONAL ROADS                             0.00       25.00        0.00         19.55        9.19         0.00       S          S
AL-PE-34491      1996   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA               POWER TRANSM. & DIST                       0.00       29.50        0.00         19.22       15.54         0.00      HU          U
AL-PE-8271       1996   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA               FORESTRY                                   0.00        8.00        0.00          5.13        1.39         0.00       5          5
AL-PE-34181      1996   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA               URBAN WORKS & MICRO                        0.00        4.00        0.00           .38          .69        0.00       S          S
AL-PE-35787      1996   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA               AGROPROCESSING DEVEL                       0.00        6.00        0.00          1.94        2.23         0.00      NA          S
AL-PE-54384      1998   ALBANIA                           RECOVERY PROG. TA                          0.00        5.00        0.00          3.69        1.23         0.00       S          S
AL-PE-51602      1998   MINISTRY OF FINANCE               PRIVATE INDUSTRY REC                       0.00       10.25        0.00          8.15        8.21         0.00      HS          HS
AL-PE-40975      1999   MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION          LAND DEVELOPMENT                          0.00        10.00        0.00          9.67          .07        0.00       S          S
AL-PE-45312      1998   GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA             HEALTH RECOVERY                            0.00       17.00        0.00         16.69        3.13         0.00       S          S
AL-PE-40818      1998   GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA             DURRES PORT                                0.00       17.00        0.00         15.93        5.48         0.00       S          S
AL-PE-65825      1999   GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA             PUB. EXPEND. SUPPORT                       0.00       30.00        0.00         30.00        0.00         0.00
AL-PE-51309      1999   GOVT. OF ALBANIA                  COMMUNITY WORKS                            0.00        9.00        0.00          8.81          .17        0.00       S          S
Total                                                                                               0.00       283.25        0.00       158.39        60.52          .05
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (TBRD and IDA):                  119.74              112.38               232.12
of which has been repaid:                    0.00                0.00                 0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  283.25               112.47              395.72
Amount sold                      :                 0.00                 0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                 0.00                0.00
Total UndisbOrsed                :               158.39                 1.43              159.82
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b.       Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S =
satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, H8  - highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-
901), August 23, 1994.



Annex 10
ALBANIA
Country at a Glance
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                      Central       Low-         _     - _ __-
Albania        Asia   Income          Development dlamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                                 3 3         476       2,048                     Life expectancy
GNP per capsta (Atlas metnod, US$)                              760       2,320        350
GNP (Atlas mefhod. US$ billions)                                2.5       1,106        722
Averafge annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                                  0.3         0,2         2.1                      _ 
Labor force ()                                                 -2.9         0 5         2.3       GNP                                  p Groas
MIost recrent estima3rte jtateat year available, 199147)}                                         perta                  ,             pnrlm arynt
capita                  ~~~~~~enrollm ant
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)            20
Urban population (% of totalpopulafion)                          38          67          26
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                 71          69          59                           1
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                         33          25          75
Child malnutrition (% of children under5)                                                                    Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% orlpopulalion)                            ..                     71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15J)                             ,,           ,,         47
Gross prim ary enrollment f% of school-age population)           87          92          91              - Albania
M ale                                                                                100                      Low-income group
Female                                                                                i1
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976      19S6        1996        1997
Econom IC ratios'
GDP (USS Oillions)                                              2.2         2 7         2.3
Gross domestic investment/GOP                                  30.9        20.5        16.0                         Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                              15.1        13.7        11. 8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                     30.5        -6.8        -9.1
Gross national savings/GDP                                                 11,5         4.1
Current account balancelGOP                            ,,      -0.1        -9.0       -11.9       D
Interest paym entslGDP                                          0.0         0.6         09        Domesti .av                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                  0.0        27.9        335        Savings
Total debt servicelexports                                      0.0         3.9         6.5
Present value of debt/GDP                               .         .        28.2
Present value of debtlexports                                              87.7
Indebtedness
1976-86   1987-97       1996        1997    1993-02
(average annual growt/l
GDP                                        2.0 -C.9             9.1         -7.0                          -      lbanla
GNP per capita                                        2.2       7.9         7.3                                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                        1S 3      12A4       -21,3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976      1986        1996        1997       Growth rates of outputand investmentV(%)
(% of GDP)                                                                                        5
Agriculture                                             ,      34.0        55.4        82.6 2
Industry                                                       44.2        21.1        128.2     li-
Manufacturing                                         .         ..          ..          ..     I   -
Services                                                ,,     21.8        23.5        19.2        0 s1
Private consumption                                            60.2        94.1        97.6      t-c93    94    ss5                  s
General governm ent consumption                                 9.3        12.6        11.4                 _ GDI rie c5GnDP
Imports of goods and services                                  15.5        41.0        36.9      1
1976-86   1987-97         1996       1997       Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                           2.8       5.7         8.1         5 0      300
Industry                                              1.9     -12.0         7.7       -19.4      2c0
M anufacturing                                                                                  D.
Services                                              1.2      -1.3        12.9       -24.2      isa
Private consumption                                             6.2        19.9        -5.3      so
G enera l governm ent consum ption                             -5.0         2.6       -17.2        a                   .  __
Gross domestic investment                             0.1      20.7          7.1      -28.9      -x i      5(    as    ss    55   96    9
Imports of goods and services                                  21.1        27.6       -17 6               -Exports          O.Imports
Gross national product                                          2.5         9 1        -7 1
Note 1997 data are preliminary estim ates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are m issing, the diamond will
be incom plete.
- 83 -



Albania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996       1997       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                            0
(% change)                                                                                250
Consumer prices                           ,                           12.7      32.1      200
Implicit GDP deflator                                      -2.4       14.8      30.8      150
IsO
Government finance                                                                         of
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                        0
Current revenue                                           48.7        18.3      16.9               92    93    94    95    9C    97
Current budget balance                                    25.0        -7.5      -8.5               -'GDP deflator  -CP-CP
Overall surplus/deficit                                    -0.1      -11.9     -12.3
TRADE
1976    1986        1996      1997       Export and import levels (US$mn)
(US$ millions) 
Total exports (fob)                                        311        229        167     1* o0
Minerals and fuels                                                    39        46      |
Food, beverage, and tabacco                                 ,         25        18       80                                 *
Manufactures                                                ,        152        99       6000
Total imports (cif)                                        317        921        685       400
Food                                              .323  164    0JJJJJJj
Fuel and energy                                   .         ..        50        71       20
Capital goods                                     .         ..       204        99      |20             s       lf      i    .
091   92   93   94   95   96   97
Export price index (1995=100)
Import price index (1995=100)                                            ,                           Exports       aimports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986        1996      1997      CCurrent account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services                              327        37D        270       0
Imports of goods and services                              336       1,104       843      10
Resource balance                                             -9      -734       -576
Net income                                          ..       0         64         51         5-
Net current transfers                                                 428        250      30
Current account balance                                     -3       -242       -276      -40
Financing items (net)                                        2        290        295
Changes in net reserves                                      1         -48       -19      -50 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)             ..        ..       323        342
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)                            8.0      104.5     149.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986        1996      1997                                                  t
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                0        0        781        768
lBRD                                             0         0          0                                 G 5|
IDA                                              0         0        139        155                                  B 139
Totai debt service                                  0        0          34        37
lO3RD                                            0         0          0
IDA                                              0         0          1          1                                        C: 4
Composition of net resource flows                                                                               0:                   |
Official grants                                  0         0         77         77         F 300
Official creditors                               0         0         83         64
Private creditors                                0         0          2         -2
Foreign direct investment                                            97         42
Portfolio equity                                 0         0          0          0
World Bank program
Commitments                                      0         0         63         40      A - IBRD                        E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                    0         0         32         16      B - IDA   D - Other multilateral    F - Private
Principal repayments                             0         0          0          0      C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                        0         0         32         16
Interest payments                                0         0           1         1
Net transfers                                    0         0         31         15
Development Economics                                                                                                         5/28/99
- 84 -



MAP SECTION



IBRD 30235
18,30'                     1961                       19M'         'oh           20'100'                     2                          21 ' '00'
D.REP. F YUGOSLAVIA
SERBIA    ONTENEGRO)
42-W -
J
ocy
FYR            4) '30'-
MACEDONIA
41-001-
40 3
MU,                  'RUSSIAN
-11" m",
9911-111K, _rIA  FED.
el               r
POLAND
UKiZAINE
CZECH
REP.
AUSTRIA
HUNGA
ROMANLA
GREECE
RKEY                                                                                                N
20 30,                    21 00
MAY 1999



