                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 34627

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                    (TF-23508 TF-25529 IDA-32530)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 12.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                                    TO

                                                ALBANIA

                                                 FOR A

                                       MICROCREDIT PROJECT




                                           November 22, 2005




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective 06/20/2005)

                             Currency Unit = Albanian LEK
                                    LEK 1 = US$ 0.0098
                                    US$ 1 = LEK 102

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 - December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF    Agricultural Development Fund
BOA    Bank of Albania
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
GNI    Gross National Income
MFI    Micro-Finance Institution
MOF    Ministry of Finance
NGO    Non-governmental Organization
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PAR    Portfolio-at-Risk
PIU    Project Implementation Unit
QAG    Quality Assurance Group
RFF    Rural Finance Fund
ROA    Return on Assets
ROE    Return on Equity
SCA    Savings and Credit Association
SDI    Subsidy Dependence Index
SLA    Subsidiary Loan Agreement
VCF    Village Credit Fund

                           Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                         Country Director      Nadir Mohammed
                           Sector Manager      Marjory-Anne Bromhead
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Pierre-Olivier Colleye

                                           ALBANIA
                                      Microcredit Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30

Project ID: P051310                                                  Project Name: Microcredit Project
Team Leader: Pierre Olivier Colleye                                  TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 22, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Microcredit Project                                      L/C/TF Number: TF-23508; TF-25529;
                                                                                                     IDA-32530
   Country/Department: ALBANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Micro- and SME finance (48%); Banking (45%); Central
                            government administration (7%)
                  Theme: Rural markets (P); Small and medium enterprise support (P);
                            Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Legal
                            institutions for a market economy (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/13/1998                                     Effective: 11/05/1999                11/05/1999
     Appraisal: 03/01/1999                                         MTR: 03/12/2002                  03/12/2002
      Approval: 06/22/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT. OF ALBANIA/RURAL FINANCE FUND; BESA FOUNDATION;
                                           BANK OF ALBANIA
                      Other Partners:      Swiss Development Agency, Open Society Institute of the Soros Foundation

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Director:                Laura Tuck                                     Kevin Cleaver
Team Leader at ICR:             Pierre-Olivier Colleye                         Kathryn Ann Funk
ICR Primary Author:             Sandra Broka


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project's development objectives set during appraisal were: (a) in rural areas, to increase farm and
off-farm investment and savings services and progressively establish a sustainable (self-financing) savings
and credit association network and federation; (b) in urban areas, to develop self-employment and
micro-enterprises, and to progressively establish a sustainable (self-financing) micro-credit institution.

Key performance indicators to measure achievement of development objectives included: (a) outreach:
number of SCAs and SCA members, number of active rural and urban micro-loan clients; (b) financial
performance: portfolio at risk, adjusted operating costs/average performing assets, equity to debt ratio,
subsidy dependency index, financial income/adjusted operating expenses; (c) SCA and Union institution
building: creation and development of SCA Union.

Background and Context

The Government of Albania requested IDA's assistance to address its CAS-supported agenda of restoring
sustained private sector growth after the 1997 civil (pyramid scheme) crisis, which had resulted in
increased poverty and unemployment in the country. The Microcredit Project was designed to encourage
private sector development and poverty alleviation by increasing the availability of financial services to
rural farmers and entrepreneurs and to urban microentrepreneurs and self-employed.

Following the collapse of communism in early 90's, Albania's agricultural cooperative and state farm land
was rapidly privatized, creating over 400,000 new family farms, most of which lacked inputs and basic
tools. There were no functioning markets for inputs or outputs, and no financial intermediaries. In early
1993, with the financial assistance of the World Bank, the Government launched a rural poverty alleviation
program, focusing aiming to jumpstart a rural market economy by providing small credit through village
credit funds (VCF), and creating employment and improving infrastructure through a community-based
infrastructure works program. The Rural Development Fund - a foundation with legal and fiscal autonomy
- was established to implement the project.

The rural VCF program proved highly successful, to a large extent due to the participation of the villagers
themselves. The loans not only helped to develop farm and off-farm activities, but also promoted
entrepreneurship and economic responsibility. However, this institutional setting for the microcredit
programs proved not to be conducive to developing sustainable financial institutions, as both the rural and
urban microcredit programs required subsidies to cover their operational costs. This lack of
self-sustainability was a major weakness that limited the future growth and impact of the programs.

It was in this context that the Government requested IDA's support, through the Microcredit Project, in
order to build sustainable urban and rural microcredit programs. It became clear that the rural VCF
program could have a substantial impact on rural development in Albania if it evolved into a private,
sustainable system of savings and credit associations. Likewise, the urban microcredit program could
facilitate small-scale private sector development throughout Albania without burdening the Government's
budget if it evolved into a private, sustainable microcredit foundation. The development of a private urban
microcredit institution (BESA Foundation) and the promotion of private, democratically-governed savings
and credit associations in rural areas were also instrumental in the strengthening of civil society.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.



                                                      - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of the following four major components: (a) Rural Credit and Savings Association
Network; (b) Urban Microcredit; (c) Legal and Regulatory Environment; and (iv) Project Management.

The Rural Credit and Savings Associations Network Component supported the establishment and
extension of a private, sustainable network of Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs) in rural areas ­
building on the successful portfolio of the Village Credit Funds (VCFs) - and the progressive development
of an SCA Union. The VCF's, while being highly successful in delivering credit to rural areas, were not set
up as a network of legally registered, financially and operationally sustainable financial institutions. The
project, therefore, addressed the need for creation of an institutionalized rural finance system. It needed to
develop a whole new set of methodologies (on organizing and training villagers into cooperative-type
institutions with their proper governance, developing financial products, control mechanisms and so on).
The SCA Union, owned by its members, was to be established as a training, financing and representation
organization, to ensure availability of necessary services for a comprehensive development of the SCA
system.

The Urban Microcredit Component also focused on institutionalization of a formerly state-managed
urban credit program, by establishing BESA Foundation, a private, sustainable microcredit NGO
institution that would provide small loans to microenterprises in the capital city and small towns. This
institution was to become fully financially sustainable by the end of the project.

The Legal and Regulatory Component supported a set of key activities to ensure that the future SCA
system is regulated and supervised in a manner to ensure financial safety and soundness, while taking into
account the special characteristics and mutual nature of SCAs. It was clear at the time of design that in
addition to the credit products provided under the VCF, SCAs would also need to provide savings services
as they (i) were important but unavailable in rural areas, (ii) provided additional sources of financing for
the network and (iii) would align incentives for proper management for this type of villagers-managed
institution. However, because of the psychological trauma left from the pyramid scheme, the Government
and IDA also agreed that no deposits should be accepted by the network until (i) a proper legal and
regulatory system was in place, (ii) the SCA network had shown a strong track record and (iii) a proper
and trained supervisory body was established. Under this component, technical assistance and training were
to be provided for the development of an appropriate legal, regulatory, and supervision framework for
development of the SCA system in Albania.

The Project Management Component ensured management and coordination through a small Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance. During Project implementation,
the PIU was to be responsible for coordinating and monitoring overall Project activities, managing the
Special Account and administering disbursements, reporting to Government and IDA on Project progress,
and ensuring financial management and procurement in accordance with IDA guidelines.

The design of all components was clearly linked to the Project's development objectives described above.
The Project focused on establishing and strengthening self-sustainable micro-credit institutions to
promote development of private sector in rural and urban areas. The Project built on the experience of
the previous Bank's operations in the sector.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised to any significant degree.




                                                    - 3 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Project was not reviewed by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). The team rated the quality at entry
as satisfactory, based on (i) the consistency of project objectives with the priorities for poverty alleviation
and development of self-sustainable micro-credit institutions and small private business in rural and urban
areas, as stated in the CAS; and (ii) the project design included institutional strengthening.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project's development objectives of: (a) increasing farm and off-farm investment and savings services
and progressively establish a sustainable (self-financing) savings and credit association network and
federation in rural areas; (b) developing self-employment and micro-enterprises, and to progressively
establishing a sustainable (self-financing) micro-credit institution in urban areas, were satisfactorily
achieved, as the Project:


 l Provided financial services to about 17,500 urban and rural farmers micro-entrepreneurs, with
     an outstanding net loan portfolio at the end of the project of US$ 34.0 million equivalent

 l Established an operationally sustainable network of SCAs with a strong a private Union of SCAs,
     thus creating beginnings of a private, in the future fully sustainable SCA industry

 l Established a sustainable micro-credit NGO established to serve a wide range of urban
     micro-entrepreneurs and self-employed

 l Designed and adopted a legal and supervisory framework for SCAs and set up appropriate
     capacity to supervise, to ensure enabling environment for the future development of the SCA
     system

The project provided financial services to about 17,500 farmers and microentrepreneurs in urban
and rural areas who had no access to the banking sector, with a net outstanding loan portfolio of
investments at the end of the project of US$ 34.0 million equivalent. The project has achieved its
objective to increase farm and off-farm investment and savings while maintaining a very healthy portfolio,
with a Portfolio at Risk (30 days) of 1.1% for the BESA Foundation and 0.65% for the SCA network (last
audited figures) while constantly maintaining repayment rates for the VCFs at over 99%. The savings
services have also met a high demand and, while still in their early stages, had already reached US$ 1.3
million by the end of the project.

The project established an operationally sustainable network of SCAs, together with a private Union
of SCAs, thus creating beginnings of a private sustainable SCA industry. The Rural Program of the
state-run Agricultural Development Fund (ADF) was transformed into a private network of Savings and
Credit Associations, which in turn have established a member-owned Union of SCAs. Membership of
SCAs has grown to over 11,500 with an outstanding loan portfolio of US$ 14.0 million equivalent. The
institution has developed all its policies and all necessary methodologies and procedures, and has fully
trained its staff, running the institution with increasing efficiency. By the end of the project, the SCA
Network had achieved full operational sustainability and showed a positive trend towards full financial and
self-sufficiency, as planned in the project's indicators.

The project also established a sustainable microcredit NGO to serve a wide range of urban
micro-entrepreneurs and self-employed. BESA Foundation was created by Soros' Open Society and took


                                                      - 4 -

over the microcredit portfolio of the ADF's Urban Program. By the project closing, it has become the
largest micro-finance institution in the country, with a US$ 20.0 million outstanding loan portfolio
accounting for 36 percent of the total microfinance industry. The institution is well on the way to achieving
financial and operating sustainability and has made considerable progress at securing commercial lending
to continue its expansion strategy, an important step to reduce dependence on government funding.

Finally, the Project designed and adopted a legal and supervisory framework for SCAs to ensure an
enabling environment for future development of the SCA system and to build the capacity for the
industry to be properly supervised. A key achievement of the component was the creation of an enabling
environment for continued sustainable development of SCA industry. The Bank of Albania took the lead,
with considerable consultation with all stakeholders, to draft an appropriate law for Savings and Credit
Institutions, together with the accompanying prudential norms and licensing procedures. It also completed
work, with international technical assistance, on setting up a complete supervision methodology together
with the drafting and implementation of inspection and accounting manuals and the training of a small but
strong specialized supervision unit for the SCAs and their Union.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Rural Credit and Savings Association Network (At Appraisal: US$ 8.1 million, of
which IDA US$ 5.4 million; At closing: US$ 12.26 million, including IDA US$ 5.98 million)

Rating at ICR: Satisfactory

The component has succeeded in creating an operationally sustainable SCA system, and beginnings of what
could become a much larger, nationwide industry of SCAs, providing access to financing to thousands
more of rural households, small farmers and small-scale rural entrepreneurs.

The project used a comprehensive approach, which included: (i) developing all procedures and
methodologies for the network; (ii) creating, training and monitoring 92 operationally sustainable Savings
and Credit Associations (SCA) and organizing them into a network, and (ii) creating a strong Union to
provide a range of services of SCAs.

Savings and Credit Associations (SCA). The SCAs created under the project had two origins: 41 were
created through transforming Village Credit Funds (VCFs), and the remaining SCAs were newly
established. The VCFs, created under the World Bank's Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project (Cr.
2461-ALB) and Rural Development Project (Cr. 2680-ALB), were village-based credit groups with
villager-elected credit committees that made the loan decisions and assured repayment. The program,
started in 1993, proved highly successful, including its financial shock-resistance, when during 1996-1997
pyramid scheme crisis in the country, repayment rates in the VCFs never fell below 99%.

Yet, to ensure the sustainability of the VCF system, which would have been difficult due to (i) the less
formal nature of the groups and (ii) the fact that they were operated from a much larger government
agency, the project focused on transforming VCFs into a more formal, operationally sustainable form of
micro-finance institutions, Savings and Credit Associations (SCA), and building the supervision and
financing system for the SCA network. By the closing of the project, 129 VCFs had been folded into the
SCA network creating 41 SCAs, 6 VCFs closed down, and the remaining portfolio was transformed into
small Social Funds in Kruja (the collected repayments were returned to the village for financing of
village-level public investment needs), and 26 VCFs were simply liquidated, due to their small size,
remoteness or other reasons which proved their transformation into an SCA unfeasible.




                                                     - 5 -

In order to implement this activity, the project created the Rural Finance Fund (RFF), a not-for-profit
temporary private institution, with a Board was chaired by the Deputy Minister of Finance. This institution
managed the Government's credit line for the VCFs and the SCAs and was in charge of the development of
the entire industry.

The Albanian Union of Savings and Credit Associations was established in January 2002 as a
second-tier institution, fully private, which belonged to the member SCAs and replaced the Rural Finance
Fund which transferred all assets and staff to the Union. The Union carries out three main functions: (i) it
develops and trains SCAs, (ii) acts as an apex institution by providing financing to the SCAs, and (iii)
carries out monitoring and data collection of the SCAs on behalf of the Bank of Albania, the official
supervisor of the SCA system.

The Union's 92 SCAs have a total membership of 11,500 members, cover 8 regions (Durres, Kavaja,
Lushnja, Fier, Tirana, Elbasan, Vlora, Gramsh) and 401 villages (13 percent of the total number of villages
in the country). On average, each SCA, through its members, provides indirect services to about 3,000
village inhabitants. Indeed, because of the limitation appropriately set by the SCAs of only one loan per
household, a beneficiary assessment estimated that the number of people profiting from a single loan was
typically more than just the member. At closing, the total assets of the system (including the Union and the
SCAs) had reached US$ 14.7 million equivalent, equity US$ 2.1 million equivalent, net loan portfolio US$
14.05 million equivalent, and deposits in the system were US$ 1.3 million equivalent. The SCA Union has
24 percent of the total microfinance portfolio (US$ 55 million equivalent) and 33 percent of the total
number of active microfinance clients (22,800) in Albania. The poverty outreach indicator (average loan
size as a percentage of GNI) is 89%.

SCA portfolio quality and characteristics. As of mid-2005, there were 7,645 loans outstanding in the
SCA system with the average loan size per member of US$ 1,845 equivalent. The portfolio quality has
historically been very good, and PAR 30 days was 0.99% in June 2005, a little up from PAR30 of 0.65%
at the end of 2004 but still better than the targets. The maturity of loans ranged between 1 and 3 years, with
majority of loans around 2 years. The interest rate for on-lending to SCAs (i.e. the rate charged by the
Union to its SCA members), set annually by the General Assembly of Shareholder of the Union, was 11
percent for 2005, which is just below the 12.2 percent average on-lending rate in the commercial banking
sector in Albania. The rate for on-lending from SCAs to their members in 2005 was 17 percent, as set
annually by the Board of the SCA Union. The portfolio almost equally finances agricultural and
non-agricultural activities: 27% trade and services, 26% each agricultural production and livestock, 8%
handicrafts, 3% rural tourism, and 10% other types of economic activities. It should be noted that the
agriculture-related lending by the SCA system (about US$ 7.3 million of the outstanding portfolio) in 2005
was more that the agricultural lending in the whole banking sector of Albania, which amounted to US$ 5
million equivalent.

Financial and Operational Sustainability of the SCA system. Overall, the system initially concentrated
on the development of the methodologies and systems and careful training of the villages while the portfolio
grew at a rather modest pace. However, the last two years of the project saw a much faster growth, once
the system was in place, to the point where future growth was constrained by the availability of long-term
resources, not by the demand nor the capacity of the institution to provide such services: if the total assets
of the system grew only 11 percent in 2003, the pace doubled in 2004 at 24 percent, and in the first 6
months of 2005 the assets have grown already 13 percent from the end-2004. The loan portfolio has grown
at a little more modest rate, on average by 15 percent for the last three years. The profitability of the Union
is improving. Since the Union was established in 2002, the net result before donations has grown from a
LEK 23.3 million (US$ 174,000 equivalent) loss at the end of 2002, to LEK 8.2 million (US$ 88,100


                                                       - 6 -

equivalent) net profit at the end of 2004. For 2005 the Union projects a profit of about US$ 150,000
equivalent.

Subsidy Dependence Index (SDI) for the whole SCA system (SCA Union and the SCA Network) was
66.4% at the end of 2004, down from 133% a year before, a very positive trend. The SCA Network by
itself has a negative SDI of -3.1% at the end of 2004, down from 3.4% the year before, which shows that
the SCAs have begun operating on fully sustainable basis. However, an important reason for such a good
SDI is that during this "build up period" the SCA network has been receiving training and post-creation
support free of charge. However, as the system strengthens, it is expected that the SCAs will receive
several of the Union's services for fee which will also have a positive impact on the SDI of the Union. Such
a fee paying concept was introduced already in 2004.

Interest rate on the subsidiary loan. The actual interest rate the Union paid to the MOF on the subsidiary
loan was 2.5% throughout the life of the project, as set forth by the MOF. The PAD indicated an interest
rate, positive in real terms, based on the minimum 6­month deposit rate established by the Bank of Albania
minus 6 percent. The rate of 2.5% according to the formula was established in 2001, and the Government
made a decision, to which IDA concurred, not to adjust the interest rate, because very low interest rate on
deposits in the country during 2002 ­ 2005 would have forced the rates to become negative.

Training of SCA staff. SCA Union provides quite an extensive training program (initially financed by
donors, primarily the Swiss Development Cooperation and delivered by FIDES, an international consulting
company which specialized in microfinance institutions) to the members of the Management Board,
Supervisory Council and accountants of the newly created/transformed SCAs. The training includes
subjects such as preparation of lending documents, transacting with clients, filing of refinancing
applications with the Union. The Union ensures that every new product launched is supported by an
appropriate training program for the SCAs.

Technical Assistance to the Union of SCAs. To ensure that SCA system is built in a sustainable way, the
Union of SCAs also received international technical assistance from FIDES, also financed by the Swiss
Development Cooperation. The technical assistance focused on: (i) developing the methodology for creation
and operation of SCAs, including charter and regulation, and assistance in the SCA creation process; (ii)
elaboration of training modules for SCAs; (iii) participated in the field work with the Union's loan officers;
(iv) implementation of an accounting program in the SCAs and the Union; (iv) development of an
accounting manual and related staff training.

Key Performance Indicators. The SCA system has fully met all the key performance indicators
established at Appraisal, except for the number of SCA members (11,488 vs. expected 18,000) and the
number of SCAs and transformed VCFs (92 SCAs in 401 villages vs. 340 expected at Appraisal), which
fell short for several reasons:
(i)      the VCFs (over 145 existed at the beginning of the project) were too small to be each transformed
         into a separate SCA (the average number of VCFs per SCA was 3.6). As a result, many more new
         SCAs were to be established that originally expected, which was a longer process due to the need
         to build trust relationship among the members of the SCA. On average, the Union assists in
         creation of about 18 SCAs per year;
(ii)     it became clear, during the Mid-Term Review, that in order to strengthen the industry, the bond of
         association would need to be broadened. Indeed, very small SCAs serving one village only were
         not deemed a sustainable model if these SCAs were to be able to afford a professional staff. It was
         therefore decided that, rather than serving 340 villages with 340 SCAs, the Union should
         concentrate on still serving over 340 villages, but with fewer SCAs. Therefore, the PAD indicator


                                                     - 7 -

         was modified by the Project team to monitor the number of villages served, not solely the number
         of SCAs;
(iii)    the average micro-loan size was about 4 times larger than projected in the PAD (about US$ 440),
         which limited the number of borrowers able to access the available funding;
(iv)     the management of the Union decided, and IDA agreed, to limit the number of loans at any time to
         one per household, which was a careful approach considering that loan decisions were based on the
         capacity of the households to repay them. This typically meant that, in any household, instead of
         two heads of households joining the SCAs, only one did.

Future challenges of the SCA industry. Currently, the SCAs are concentrated in eight regions in the
Western part of Albania. Under the project, a deliberate decision was made to focus on these regions, so
that the methodology for creation of SCAs, provision of post-creation services, and mechanisms to ensure
the operational and financial sustainability of the system could be appropriately developed and tested. With
these tools developed, the SCA Network should expand nationwide, to provide sustainable access to
financing in rural areas in the whole country. About 1.7 million people (55 percent of total population) live
in rural areas, yet the whole microfinance market is only about 23,000 clients, of which less than 50
percent are in rural areas. With the demand for investment funds increasing, the growth potential in the
microfinance sector is significant. Two key factors currently restrain such expansion: (i) the need for
further technical assistance support to the Union, in particular support for new product development, staff
training, MIS development, to ensure that the system continues to develop in a cohesive and sustainable
manner, and (ii) limited sources of funding for the SCA Union to meet the growing demand for loanable
funds.

Also, under the subsidiary loan agreement (SLA) between the MOF and the Union of SCAs, the Union
started repaying principal on the subsidiary loan in 2004. Indeed, the project design did not include a
feature under which the repaid amounts would be flowed back to the MFIs, contrary to Moldova where the
Government is re-lending the reflows to the SCA industry. As a result, the available funding base in the
Albanian industry is shrinking. The Union is attempting to fill in the gap through various measures,
including: (i) a 10-year loan from the Istituto of Credito Official (Spain) in the amount of EUR 2 million
and (ii) the acceleration of the collection of deposits as a source of financing. While this borrowing partly
relieves the pressure, it only partly addresses the funding gap issue, in view of the potential for growth of
the SCA system in the future. The Union's Business Plan for 2005-2010 projects an outreach scenario of
30,000 members by 2010.

Members' savings, which in most countries are the main source of funding for the SCAs, will, over time,
become such also in Albania. In addition to being an important service to the rural poor, the funding of
credit unions by deposits also ensures a stronger governance as the members carefully manage and take
appropriate prudential measures to protect their own money. In the case of Albania, savings are not yet
sufficient to compensate for the decrease in the Government's credit line. This is due to two main reasons:
(i) the SCAs initially were not authorized to accept savings until there was a proper legal and regulatory
framework and a supervision authority in place to supervise them, and (ii) the restrictions currently put on
savings (local current and long-term only) do not allow the SCAs to fully take advantage of all savings
available. The challenge for the institution will therefore be to adapt its financial products and offer more
appealing and flexible savings instruments, in order to take a full advantage of the potential demand and
increase the level of savings to a level that will more than compensate for the progressive withdrawal of
public funding.



Component 2: Urban Microcredit (At Appraisal: US$ 13.6 million, of which IDA US$ 5.7 million; At


                                                     - 8 -

closing: US$ 11.36 million, including IDA US$ 5.51 million)

Rating at ICR: Satisfactory

The component has created BESA foundation, an urban micro-credit organization, which has become the
largest player in Albania's microfinance market with 36 percent market share in terms of loans outstanding
and the second largest in terms of people served (with 24% of market share). BESA, established through
transformation of the urban credit program of the Albanian Development Fund, which was created under
IDA's Urban Works and Microenterprise Pilot Project (Cr. 2770-ALB) was founded as an NGO by the
Open Society Foundation of Albania with assistance of Soros Foundation in April 1998 and registered by
the District Court of Tirana in May 1999.

BESA Foundation provides micro-loans to registered micro-businesses and the self-employed in Tirana and
other urban centers through its branch network, which includes nine full-fledged branches and 10 satellite
offices throughout the country. The outstanding net loan portfolio as of mid-2005 was LEK 2.04 billion
(US$ 20.0 million equivalent), which is the largest micro-finance portfolio in the country (equivalent to 36
percent of the total US$ 55 million microfinance portfolio). BESA has over 5,800 borrowers, which puts it
in the second place by the number of borrowers in the micro-finance sector (25 percent of the total), with
the average loan size of US$ 3,400 equivalent. Fifty four percent of BESA's borrowers have had more than
one loan, which indicates a high customer satisfaction rate.

Financial results of BESA Foundation. BESA has experienced strong growth since it was established,
showing a very high demand for such services and the satisfaction of its client base. However, during
recent years, management decided to slow down the growth (i) because of a lack of financial resources and
(ii) to give the institution time to strengthen its systems (particularly controls and MIS) together with its
portfolio. Assets grew at an annualized rate of 40% in 2003-2004, before halving the growth to 20%
(annualized) in 2005, to reach LEK 2.2 billion (US$ 22.0 million equivalent). Capital amounted to US$ 9.8
million equivalent (as of June 30, 2005), of which about 40% comes from retained earnings. The net loan
portfolio, amounting to US$ 20.0 million equivalent as of June 30, 2005, grew on average about 30% a
year since 2002. BESA has been profitable since registration in 2002, even without the subsidies and
donations received from the project funds, the main purpose of which were capacity building, including
upgrading of the MIS. The audited profit of 2004 (excluding subsidies and donations) amounted to LEK
124.1 million (US$ 1.34 million equivalent). The operating ROA as of end-2004 was 6.1% and operating
ROE was 12.4%. The Subsidy Dependence Index (SDI) shows a positive downward trend from 99.2% in
2003 to 33.9% at the end of 2004, and compares positively to the project target below 50% at the project
end.

BESA predominantly finances trade, which as of mid-2005 accounted for 71.9 percent of the outstanding
loan portfolio, followed by services (16.8%), handicrafts (5.2%), transport (2%), building and construction
(1.8%), tourism (less than 1%), and the remaining 1.8% in other types of activities. The majority (93
percent) of loans in the outstanding portfolio has maturities longer than one year, and the interest rate to the
ultimate borrowers, annualized, is at about 24 percent. The portfolio at risk (30 days) is very low, at 1.1%
of the outstanding portfolio, and PAR30 for loans above 1 year is much lower than for loans of up to 1
year, 0.7% and 2.4%, respectively.

BESA Foundation's next steps. In the immediate future, BESA faces two challenges. First, by the end of
2005, BESA is planning to get licensed as a non-bank financial institution, supervised by the Bank of
Albania, which will require additional strengthening of the institution. The second challenge, in view of
BESA's shrinking loanable capital base due to the repayments of the principal of IDA credit proceeds,


                                                      - 9 -

relates to improving BESA's ability to borrow from commercial sources. Becoming a supervised NBFI
should facilitate attainment of this goal. BESA is working on mobilizing commercial funds to replace its
loanable capital base. Thus, in 2004, it signed a loan agreement with Istituto Credito Official (Spain) for
EUR 2.5 million of 10-year funds. BESA has also borrowed short-term money from a local bank to deal
with its short-term liquidity issues. However, to fully cover its needs for loanable funds, or, at least replace
the principal of IDA credit proceeds (US$ 6.2 million equivalent), which represents 56% of BESA's
long-term liabilities of loanable funds, it will need to seek additional sources of funding.



Component 3: Legal and Regulatory Environment (At Appraisal: US$ 0.5 million, of which IDA US$
0.3 million; At closing: US$ 0.15 million, including IDA US$ 0.15 million)

Rating at ICR: Satisfactory

A key achievement of the component, through provision of technical assistance to the Bank of Albania, was
the creation of an enabling environment for sustainable development of SCA industry in the future through
developing a comprehensive framework for supervision of the SCAs and the Union. In particular, the
following was developed under the project: (i) a new SCA law; (ii) new prudential norms, licensing and
supervision of SCAs; (iii) an Accounting Manual and an Examination Manual for the Bank of Albania; (iv)
Regulations on Off-site and On-site Inspections; (v) Human Resource Management Manual; (vi) reporting
systems between the BOA and SCA system and (vii) the training of a well qualified team of experts within
the BOA. The systems and documents are used in the day-to-day operations of both the BOA and the SCA
system, and provide the reporting and supervision framework.

Three main aspects of this component are noteworthy:

(i)      The drafting of the laws and regulations, which was lead by the Bank of Albania, followed a highly
inclusive process with all stakeholders, including the microfinance institutions, the Ministry of Finance,
local and international experts. The exercise was particularly challenging, as the regulatory environment
was to regulate two very different SCA systems: the Albanian Union of SCAs, funded by the project and
primarily credit-based, and the Jehona Union, a more traditional urban/profession-based credit union
providing primarily deposit services. The Bank of Albania was able to develop a framework that would
both ensure prudential behavior by both types of institutions while allowing them to grow.

(ii)     The staff appointed by the Bank of Albania consisted of highly qualified staff with banking
supervision/regulation experience. This required a particular (and successful) effort by the staff to truly
understand the particularities of microfinance industry, the specifics of the two existing SCA network,
through considerable time spent in the field and attending various international training programs.

(iii)    The supervision structure set up by the Bank of Albania seems highly appropriate. Indeed, the
BOA could not possibly provide the human and financial resources necessary to perform full on-site and
off-site supervision of all small SCAs in the country. Instead, it set up a mechanism whereby the Unions
would be in charge of day-to-day monitoring, data collection and reporting on an exception basis to the
Bank of Albania: (i) providing only basic data, on a quarterly basis, for institutions that met all prudential
norms and full financial data for the ones that did not; and (ii) providing full financial data for all SCAs on
a yearly basis. At the same time, the BOA did not delegate any authority to the Union and would maintain
the right to conduct on-site supervision of any SCA or their Union at any time.




                                                      - 10 -

Component 4: Project Management (At Appraisal: US$ 0.6 million, of which IDA US$ 0.6 million; At
closing: US$ 0.19 million, including IDA US$ 0.19 million)

Rating at ICR: Satisfactory

This component financed the project implementation and administration function, which was performed by
a small Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance. The PIU
implemented all technical support aspects of the project, including coordinating the overall activities of the
project, reporting to the Government and IDA, financial management, disbursement, Special Account
operation, and procurement, which have been performed successfully.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project had a systemic approach by focusing on building a sustainable micro-finance system, to ensure
its operations for a long time beyond project closing, and building such systems is costly and
time-consuming. The success of the micro-finance institutions created under the project should also be
assessed in the context of the impact and benefits to the ultimate beneficiaries, i.e., borrowers of the SCA
system and BESA. The PAD did not attempt to estimate the overall economic and financial rates of return
of the project due to the infeasibility to identify a priori the types of sub-projects to be financed. The ICR,
similarly, will not attempt to calculate the aggregate rate of return for the whole project. Yet, it is important
to ensure that the project financed business activities which made economic sense. As part of ICR
activities, a survey was done among the beneficiaries of the project, to assess the changes in business
activities in the households which were members of the SCA during the period 2001 (beginning of the SCA
establishment process) ­ 2005 (project closing).

The summary finding of the survey include: (i) the revenues in the households of the members of SCA had
increased by 63% from 2001, and the net income by 61%; (ii) farmers have changed cropping patterns by
switching to higher-value crops; (iii) yields have increased, for example, vegetable yields increased by 74%,
forage by 29%, vineyards by 7%, orchards by 3.3%, cereals by 2.7%; and (iv) employment of family
members increased by 6% over the period, and non-family employment, including that of seasonal workers,
increased as well. A more detailed discussion on the survey results is in Annex 3.

Annex 3 also provides a more detailed discussion on the financial and operational sustainability of the
micro-finance institutions created under the project, which has an overall positive impact on the
micro-finance industry in the country.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The project's short-term objective was to increase the flow of credit to intended beneficiaries over
short-term. As described in Section 4.3 above, more than 17,000 urban and rural farmers and
micro-entrepreneurs have had access to financial services as a result of project activities. The total flow of
funds to rural areas from the two MFIs amounted to US$ 10 million equivalent in 2005. In comparison,
lending to agriculture and processing by Albania's commercial banks in 2005 amounted to only US$ 5
million equivalent. Adequate mechanisms were installed and maintained to ensure that the loans provided
were used for profitable activities, which ensured an overall positive rate of return. The credit committees
of the SCAs, trained by the Union, ensured that only financially viable projects with adequate rates of
return allowing repayment of the borrowing and a profit margin for the sub-borrower, were financed.
Similarly, BESA approved for financing only sub-projects with substantially positive rates of return, as
appraised by its lending staff.




                                                      - 11 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was substantial. The staff of Bank of Albania, supervisor
of the SCA industry, through the provision of technical assistance, has gained a deeper understanding of
the operational peculiarities of the SCA industry and the broader micro-finance industry, and has been
equipped with skills for supervision of micro-finance sector. It is a key impact of the project that a solid
basis have been laid for supervision and regulation of the micro-finance sector, as it will enable further
growth of this still relatively underdeveloped sector in Albania.

Albania's microfinance sector has been strengthened through the building a strong urban micro-credit
institution and a network of sustainable savings and credit associations, which ensure access to finance in
rural areas where otherwise such services would be very limited. Both institutions have become large
players in the microfinance sector, increasing the performance standards for the whole industry.

Community empowerment, which was remarkable under the VCF program, has been continued under this
project, in particular in the Savings and Credit Associations. The governing and management bodies are
elected by the members of the SCAs, thus ensuring that the community participates in the important
decision making in the SCAs, including the lending decisions. The governance of the SCA in the villages
and its cooperative nature, require the organization of secret ballot elections. Most villages had never
learned how to run such elections and often referred to the establishment of their SCA as a first step
towards real democracy. In several cases, the structure of the SCA was chosen as a basis for other
community activities because of its strong governance.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Economic and political volatility. Two such key factors influenced the project preparation activities,
which extended the project preparation period: (i) the unprecedented scale of the collapse of the pyramid
schemes, which affected more than half of Albania's population; and (ii) the conflict in neighboring
Kosovo, which brought waves of refugees into Albania at the time of project appraisal. Yet, the impact of
these events on project activities was minimal, mostly due to the commitment of the Government and
project beneficiaries, who continued the project activities and maintained high repayment rates on the
outstanding VCF portfolio.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
No Government interference in lending decisions. The Government decided from the beginning of the
project not to interfere with the lending and strategic decisions of the institutions. While both microfinance
institutions had members of the Government on their Board, their role was purely limited to a facilitating
and advisory role while the institutions were building it up their capacity.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The achievements of the project to a large extent were due to the commitment, skills and implementation
capacity of the project's implementing agencies, the SCA Union and BESA. The implementing agencies
successfully managed their respective components, including effectively coordinated the implementation
efforts of IDA, technical assistance donors (Japanese PHRD program and the Swiss Development Agency)
and the Government.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project costs at closing are close to those at Appraisal. In addition to IDA's US$ 12.0 million (SDR
8.9 million), the project was co-financed by the Swiss Government in the amount of US$ 590,000 (CHF
749,000) and Japanese PHRD Preparation Grant in the amount of US$ 396,000.



                                                      - 12 -

The PAD had initially identified the need for approximately US$6.5 million in credit lines from unidentified
"other sources". However, despite multiple efforts by the Government and the microfinance institutions, the
donor financing did not materialize, as they were not considered a key priority for the donor community.
The Government, therefore, agreed to cover the financing gap itself, with an additional credit line of US$ 4
million, divided equally between the two institutions, and commercial banks themselves stepped in with an
additional 7.0 million of credit lines, including Credins of Albania (US$ 1.3 million equivalent), and
Spain's Istituto Credito Official with US$ 5.7 million equivalent. The Swiss grant financed capacity
building of the RFF's Development and Training Unit (later part of the SCA Union) to develop a savings
and credit association system and train its members. The Japanese PHRD grant financed the following
activities: (i) carrying out studies and making recommendations on all legal aspects of the rural and urban
micro-credit programs; (ii) defining appropriate and sustainable institutional arrangements for both
micro-finance programs, and related workshops and training; and (iii) establish financial management and
accounting systems for both micro-credit programs and provide extensive training to project staff in
financial management and accounting.

No major reallocations were made among the project components or disbursement categories.

                                                  PAD                                          At Closing

 Component                                 Total Indicative Costs IDA Financing   Total Costs       IDA Financing
 Component 1. Rural Savings and Credit              8.1                   5.4            12.26             5.98
 Associations
 Component 2. Urban Micro-credit                   13.6                   5.7            11.36             5.51
 Component      3.   Legal  and  Regulatory         0.5                   0.3             0.15             0.15
 Environment
 Component 4. Project Management                    0.6                   0.6             0.19             0.19
 Total Project Costs:                              22.8                  12.0            23.96             11.84




6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project was designed to develop specialized micro-finance institutions by spinning off operations from
an existing state-owned agency, the Albanian Development Fund (ADF), into more sustainable financial
systems separately for urban and rural lending. BESA, the urban lending arm of the ADF has become a
financially and operationally sustainable NGO MFI, which also is increasingly becoming able to secure
commercial sources of funds to replenish the diminishing lending capital base as the IDA subsidiary loan is
repaid according to the repayment schedule.

In respect to the rural finance system, the preconditions for sustainability have been laid through the
conversion of credit-only Village Credit Funds (VCFs) into Savings and Credit Associations (SCA). The
latter could also collect savings, reduce their dependency on donor funding and ultimately become
financially and operationally sustainable financial services system servicing rural areas. The SCA Union,
which was created to build the SCA network, train and finance and monitor their activity, was set up as a
privately-owned institution, which ensures its full commitment to providing best service to its owners, the
SCAs.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:




                                                            - 13 -

The project has achieved its objective of establishing sustainable (self-financing) urban microfinance
institution, and has created an operationally sustainable microfinance system in rural areas, as was
originally planned. Both institutions have a strong management, a growing client base, high quality loan
portfolio and sustainable operations. BESA Foundation, the urban microfinance institution, has decided to
formalize its status and apply for an NBFI license from the Central Bank of Albania. The SCA Union
intends to focus on reorganizing itself as a sustainable financial institution (apex) for SCAs, rather than an
SCA servicing agency, and would benefit from additional assistance in this process. Its long-term
prospective will depend on its capacity to diversify its funding base, both externally (outside commercial
sources of credit) and internally (through various savings products) to keep on growing at a reasonable
pace. Were it to expand rapidly to cover a much larger area of the country where financial services remain
unavailable, a desirable strategy, more funding from the government or the donor community would be
required.

The legal and operational framework created under the project will ensure conducive environment for
further development of the SCA industry in the country, and the technical assistance provided to the Bank
of Albania ensured adequate supervision capacity in the country to accommodate further expansion of the
microfinance sector. The Government of Albania, together with the BOA will remain involved in guiding
the strategy for successful development of the SCA industry.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project preparation took 18 months from the first identification mission (September 1997), to delivery
to the Board (May 1999). The political and economic instability after the collapse of the pyramid schemes,
which affected more than half of Albania's population made the preparation particularly challenging. In
addition, at the time of project appraisal Albania was facing another crisis, as the conflict in Kosovo was
brought waves of refugees into Albania. However, the Bank team's work continued, as under the
circumstances, providing support for larger and sustainable microfinance programs, thus helping farmers
undertake investments and helping urban residents start up and expand self-employment and
microenterprises, remained critical. Because this operation was a stand-alone microfinance project, it
allowed the team to consist solely of microfinance experts, drawing best practice worldwide.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance in respect of supervision activities is considered satisfactory. Throughout the
implementation period, the task team visited Albania on regular basis, on average twice a year, with
exception of the first 18 months of the project implementation, when missions visited the country on
average every quarter. The task team experienced three changes in the task team leaders in 2000, 2001 and
2002. However, that did not affect the project implementation efforts, and the project was able to maintain
it satisfactory rating. The following factors contributed to the successful implementation of the project: (i)
the task team made an effort to overlap the missions with the technical assistance providers financed by
other donor agencies, which contributed to better coordination of the implementation activities financed by
several donor agencies; (ii) the project team included a microfinance specialist at all times, which insured
key competencies for effective decision making and implementation activities. The team also worked
closely with the co-financiers, primarily Open Society and the Swiss Development Cooperation, which
provided additional microfinance experts to the supervision team and joined the majority of the missions to
ensure consistent strategies.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is satisfactory.



                                                    - 14 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The government was fully committed to establishment of a sustainable microfinance sector in the country
after the failure of the pyramid scheme, which was of unprecedented scale and affected half of the
population of the country. A key factor in the Government's interest was that the Government saw
establishment of such microfinance institutions as a vehicle of providing financial services to farmers, rural
entrepreneurs and urban microentrepreneurs, assisting in implementation of its agenda of restoring
sustained private sector growth to address the poverty and unemployment issues

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance during the project implementation was equally satisfactory, as it continued
to remain fully engaged. While most of the implementation of the project was executed by the three main
partner institutions (the two microfinance institutions and the Bank of Albania), the Ministry of Finance
fully supported the program, participated in the supervision mission, helped resolve any problems that
arose but remained at a distance for decisions that were to be naturally taken by the private institutions.
Finally, the Government played a key role, stepping in when the project was unable to secure additional
sources of funding, by providing a large additional credit line.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Ministry of Finance maintained a fully staffed Project Implementation Unit to manage a series of
IDA-financed projects, including the Microcredit Project. The PIU performed all its duties, including
financial management, procurement and supervision, fully satisfactorily.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

(1)      The legal and regulatory environment should be designed early on in the process, to make
sure that this environment is conducive to the growth of the industry and that the supervisor works
closely with its supervisees. After the collapse of the pyramid schemes in 1997, the Government and IDA
had agreed on two conditions that had to be met before a microfinance institution would be allowed to start
collecting deposits: (a) a proper legal and regulatory framework should be in place; and (b) the supervisor
should be sufficiently trained to ensure prudent management of these deposits. The Bank of Albania played
a critical role in the design of the legal and regulatory framework for microfinance institutions since the
very beginning of the project, through:

(i)      making a considerable effort to understand the nature of the microfinance industry and how it
differed from the traditional banking sector. This effort included working closely with the SCAs,
participating in international training programs on microfinance, and networking with other supervisory
authorities in the region.

(ii)     organizing a series of workshops, involving local and international experts, the Government and
the microfinance stakeholders to draft en enabling law and regulations for the industry. This exercise
was particularly challenging as it was meant to supervise two very different networks of SCAs (one
primarily credit-driven financed by the Project and the Jehona Union, a traditionally deposit-driven
network, created with technical assistance and financial support from the Irish League of Credit Unions).

(iii)    setting up a supervisory system, which both, took into consideration the limited resources of the



                                                    - 15 -

BOA to supervise very small financial institutions, and recognized the important role that the Unions of
SCAs could play in monitoring their members. Under this system, the BOA is the only authority in the
country in charge of the supervision of the SCAs. However, it also works closely with the two Unions,
which monitor the SCAs throughout the year, compile their financial data, verify compliance with
prudential norms and report to the Bank of Albania, (a) basic data for the SCAs that meet all prudential
norms, and (b) full financial data for the ones that do not. The BOA, in the meantime, continues to conduct
on-site and off-site of the SCAs and their Unions and constantly reviews the legal and regulatory
framework to make sure it does not require updating.

(2)      Do not initiate a project with a major financing gap if this gap is critical for the project to reach
its development objectives. The PAD had identified a financing gap of about $6.5 million for which the
project was to seek additional funding from other donors. Unfortunately, because of changes in the
priorities of the donor community in Albania, these US$6.5 million did not materialize despite considerable
attempts by the Government, with support from IDA. This lack of financing not only endangered output
objectives, such as number of beneficiaries or total investment in rural or urban areas but, more
importantly, it endangered one of the key critical objectives which was to bring the institutions to a level
where they could reach sustainability. A solution was eventually found, where the Government decided to
step in by providing its own funds to cover the majority of the gap, while the microfinance institutions
managed to compensate for the balance by obtaining funding from commercial financial institutions.

(3)      Stand alone microfinance or rural finance projects are more likely to be best practice than
small microfinance components within larger non-finance projects. One of the key success factors of
this project was that it concentrated primarily on building the sustainability of the microfinance institutions
and did so within a broader financial sector approach. It also allowed the IDA team to consist primarily of
microfinance specialists who were able to bring considerable international best practice into its design and
supervision. The danger with microfinance components within larger non-financial projects remains that the
microfinance components will often aim at financing income-earning activities facilitated by other
components of the project, but will often fail to put enough emphasis on the institutional building aspect of
the financial institutions.

(4)      Savings cannot be expected to replace credit lines in the short-term, therefore, reflows may
have to be used for a fairly extended period of time. The project was designed so that, before its closing,
the microfinance institutions would already have to start repaying the Government the principal of their
15-year credit lines. It was expected that the institutions would gradually build up their deposits, capital
and/or creditworthiness to allow them to borrow from commercial sources (at the time, a reasonable
assumption). By the end of the project, however, it is clear that the potential for deposits to replace the
credit lines or to have commercial banks replacing the credit lines may not be as large or as fast as initially
anticipated, partly also due to the restrictions on deposits imposed by the project (e.g., long-term only and
in local currency). In other similar projects, such as Moldova's Rural Investment Services Project, the
Government has committed to re-flowing the funds back into the microfinance industry well past the
closing date of the project.

(5)      A budget support funding mechanism directly to the microfinance institutions, instead of a
cumbersome micromanagement of the project's expenses and procedures, has proven to increase the
level of responsibility and ownership in the MFIs. One of the innovative aspects of this project was the
funding mechanism of the microfinance institutions, whereby rather than financing specific equipment,
training or other expenses, IDA and the co-financiers provided an annual subsidy, based on the broad
five-year action plan and interim yearly business plans. These plans had clear objectives and benchmarks,
both quantitative (e.g. outreach, sustainability) and qualitative (e.g. fully train board on governance issues,


                                                     - 16 -

install new MIS system, establish Union of SCAs), and they were regularly updated and agreed upon. To
reach these objectives, the Government, the donors and the MFIs agreed yearly on the level of operational
subsidy that would be provided for the institution, with a step-down provision for the subsidy to reach zero
before project closing. The funds were transferred to the general treasury of the MFI, which used its own
procedures, based on local commercial practices, to manage the funds at it saw fit. In case the objectives
were not met at the end of the year, the donors and the Government could decide to reduce the amount of
subsidy for the following year. This approach had several advantages: (i) it created stronger ownership for
the microfinance institutions, which could best allocate the funds to reach its objectives, (ii) streamlined the
project's support to the institutions with their own policies and procedures, (iii) considerably reduced
fiduciary supervision for the benefit of more strategic and technical support and supervision on the side of
IDA and (iv) provided even strong incentives for the institutions to reach their targets.

(6)      Building microfinance institutions from a start-up position takes a long time. Although the
lending activities in both rural and urban areas had been initiated for several years under different projects,
the Microcredit Project had to build MFIs from scratch. International practice shows that five years in such
cases is very little. Both the Government and the microfinance institutions are hoping for continued
support, through either a follow-up operation or support through other existing operation so as to continue
IDA's strategic and technical support to both the Government and the microfinance institutions. It is the
opinion of the task team that even in the absence of additional IDA-financed credit lines to scale up these
very successful institutions, some additional technical assistance both to the two MFIs and to the
microfinance industry in general could have a considerable impact towards building an institutionally
sustainable industry.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                     MINISTRY OF FINANCE OF THE REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
                                        MICROCREDIT PROJECT
                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT



Achievement of Objectives and outputs

Component: Rural Savings and Credit Association Network

The Rural Credit Program, which is the oldest project and the most extended one over the rural zones of
Albania, started in the year 1992 in the context of the Albanian Development Fund. Its main objective was
alleviation of poverty in the rural zones.

Based on the positive results of this program, on the evaluation of the rural population's needs and on the
evident impact of the credits disbursed within the period 1992-1999, the World Bank, in agreement with the
Albanian Government, in April 1999 approved the funding of the Microcredit Project, the objectives of
which were:

1.       Creation of the Saving and Credit Associations network and support to the progressive
development of their Union, in accordance with the Law on SCAs.
2.       Extension of the intervention zone of the rural credit system by extending the network in the
coastal zones,
3.       Enlargement of the range of financial services provided for the farmers.



                                                    - 17 -

After the project closure, it is clear that all the objectives are realized successfully and easily monitored, as
defined in the Project Appraisal Document:

(1)      Creation of the Saving and Credit Associations network and support to the progressive
development of their Union, in accordance with the Law on SCAs.

The micro-finance structures created during the previous project were transformed into a well-organized
network of Savings and Credit Associations, which also assisted with the preparation of all legal and
regulatory acts (the Law on Savings and Credit Associations; the Licensing, Reporting and Supervision
Regulations of the Bank of Albania; registration procedures at the court house, etc.). The first SCAs were
created in May 2000 and the experience gained so far confirms that the SCAs are dynamic structures, self-
financed, capable to respond on time and with quality to the economic projects- related ideas of the rural
zones' inhabitants.

The SCAs created their Union in accordance with the project's schedule in May 2002. It is a voluntarily
union of the Savings and Credit Associations (SCA), owned by its members, and consists of 92 SCAs in 8
districts of the country. The Union operates according to the Law and its own Statute, and has the
following main functions: (i) represent the SCAs in relations with the Government, donors, etc; (ii) provides
technical support and training to the SCAs; (iii) carries out SCAs auditing in accordance with both the
Bank of Albania's and also internal regulations; and (iv) provides credit lines to SCAs and invests SCAs
deposits surpluses.

The Union is governed by The General Assembly, which consists of the SCAs representatives, Union's
members, and it is the top decision- making body; and the Board of Directors and Supervision Committee,
the members of which are elected by the SCAs General Assembly (one SCA, one vote).

The legislation, the regulatory acts and the organizational/operational way of the SCA system are prepared
in full accordance with the project's envisagement and the expectations of the Government and the
donators. This legal framework is a significant achievement not only because it enables and regulates the
operation, but also because it serves as a basis for all the similar initiatives in terms of the creation of the
financial cooperatives. An example for this is the Union JEHONA, supported and funded by Irish League.

(2)      Extension of the intervention zone of the rural credit system by extending the network in the
coastal zones

The SCAs network and their Union are continuously developing by adjusting themselves to the new
realities in the village and by fulfilling ever better their members' demands. The existing network of 92
SCAs already has 12,300 members, inhabitants of the rural areas. This network includes 426 villages of 8
districts (Tirana, Elbasan, Gramsh, Durrës, Kavaja, Lushnja, Fier and Vlora). The SCA network covers 50
% of the villages in the intervention zone. The loan portfolio of the network is over 14 million USD.

(3)      Enlargement of the range of financial services provided for the farmers

Since the beginning of the activity in 1993, over 40,000 small loans have been disbursed and these loans
have financed several activities such as: agriculture, livestock, trade, tourism, etc. The loan portfolio of the
network increased significantly each year by 20-25 % by maintaining high quality loan portfolio (in 2004,
PAR30 was 0.65 %). This is because the ASC Union has taken constant measures to minimize the risk
through strict supervision of the activity's progress and by increasing the responsibility of the members,


                                                       - 18 -

securing their participation in the decision- taking process.

In conformity with the projects objectives, over the two past years, a deposit product was set up carefully,
which turned out to be a successful initiative. The fast growth of SCA deposits (US$1.6 million to date)
not only increased the financial resources of the SCAs but it also fully confirms the confidence of the
members in the system and the capacity of SCAs to provide various financial services with high quality and
in conformity with the ever- increasing demands of the rural areas.

Impact of the project activities. During the evaluation period, under the initiative of the Government and
the donators, several impact-related studies were carried out, which revealed that the project had a
significant impact on alleviation of poverty in the village, in particular, by:

·        Lending for economic activities in the village, creating jobs and improving living standards in the
rural areas.
·        Increasing the areas of greenhouses, vineyards, fruit-growing trees, etc.
·        Livestock development, by increasing the number of animals, increasing the forage area and
creation of the milk- processing units, etc.
·        Promotion of self-initiative and micro-enterprise spirit among the rural area inhabitants;
·        Collection of small savings by transforming them into credits for productive activities;
·        Promotion of banking "culture" in the rural area;
·        Establishment of the first structures of the civic society in the village, capable to manage the credit
system and other development projects;
·        Promotion of the first micro-finance institutions in the rural zone (SCA), established and managed
by the community who previously had no access to financial services.

Due to above, the rural zone population shows a tremendous interest in the financial services provided by
the SCAs. In conclusion, it is worth mentioning that the experience gained so far confirms that the system
is active and successful. It contributes to the strengthening of the rural financial sector and is trustful to its
members. This system also meets the demand of the rural area population for financial services and
contributes in a significant way to the rural area development in Albania.

Through the sustainable growth of the main indicators of the activity and maintenance of high quality loan
portfolio, the Union and SCA network are consolidating ever more their own identity by combining the
financial performance with a social one, the business with democracy, professionalism with the dynamism
of the elected members.

Main Indicators of the Activities Financed by the SCA Network:

                     Indicators                             As of Sept 2005
No. of Villages                                                   426
No. of SCAs                                                        92
No. of SCA members                                              12,287*
No. of Active Loans                                               8,038
Average loan size (outstanding), US$                              1,755
Number of issued loans (during the period)                        3,280
Disbursed amount (within the period), US$                      5,740,455
SCA portfolio (in the Union), US$                             11,481,496
SCAs Network Portfolio, US$                                   15,020,057



                                                      - 19 -

SCA Network total deposits, US$                               1,652,670
SCA Network own funds, US$                                    2,309,161
SCA Union's Portfolio at risk                                  0.50%
* As of September 30, 2005




                             10%
                    3%                                        26%
             8%                                                                      Agriculture

                                                                                     Trade& services

                                                                                     Livestock

                                                                                     Handicraft

                                                                                     Tourism
             26%                                                                     Others
                                                           27%




Component: Urban Microcredit

Based on the Council of Ministers Decision No. 207, dated 28 April 1999, the urban microcredit activity
was transferred from the Albanian Development Fund to a new institution, BESA Foundation, established
by Soros Foundation. The BESA Foundation is a non-governmental, non-political and non-profit
organization. Its mission is to promote small and micro enterprises in Albania through establishment of a
private and sustainable microcredit institution, which in turn finances micro and small entrepreneurs. The
clients of BESA Foundation include people from all socio-economic groups. The BESA Foundation also
provides technical assistance to entrepreneurs, including qualifications and studies.

The Albanian Government, through the Ministry of Finance, has significantly supported BESA in
providing additional funds or recommendations to potential donors, such as Spanish Cooperation Agency.

By the end of 2004 BESA had already provided 20,979 loans for the total amount of US$ 96 million, thus
the objective of its foundation may be considered achieved.

BESA's clients represent all social groups. At the end of 2004 the structure of loan portfolio was as
follows: (i) private entrepreneurs ­ 88.3%; (ii) unemployed ­ 6.6%; (iii) employed 4.1%; retirees ­ 1% and
others less than 1% of the total loan portfolio. By the types of economic activities, BESA's portfolio
consisted of: (i) trade ­ 59%; (ii) services 26.7 %; (iii) production 8.5%; (iv) transport ­ 3.2%, and 2 % -
other types of business.

The financial sustainability of BESA was achieved in 2003.

Expansion of BESA's activities. According to the PAD, by the end of the year 2003 the number of the
regional offices should have been extended to 10. This objective is achieved and exceeded. By the end of
2004 BESA had opened 9 Regional Offices and 11 Branches, which covers more than 50 towns. This has
increased proxoimity to its potential clients.



                                                    - 20 -

Component: Legal and Regulatory Environment

The first law on savings and credit associations and their unions was approved in March 1996. This law
established the basis for the unions, voluntarism, profession, community and the obligation to provide
statistical reports to the Bank of Albania. By the time it was approved, this law resolved some problems,
especially by setting the legal framework for the establishment of microfinance institutions. On the other
hand, this law did not indicate the licensing / supervising institution.

In order to improve the legal framework regarding the microfinance institutions a working group was
created in March 2000. The objective was to formalize the microfinance institutions and to supervise them
by a specialized institution. The scope of working group itself was integrated within the frame of
Microcredit Project, where the Bank of Albania was involved in the following aspects:

1.       Improvement of the legal framework by approving a new law.

2.       Establishment of the supervisory framework based on the new law, including the following
elements:
·        Regulatory framework (licensing and supervising),
·        Analyzing Framework (off-site),
·        On site inspection framework.

3. Supervising capacity building through:
·        Seminars & workshops & videoconferences,
·        Technical assistance,
·        Logistical support.

The new law on Savings and Credit Associations was completed in July 2000, and approved in May 2001.
An important aspect of this law is the establishment of the Bank of Albania as the regulating agency for the
SCA and their unions.

Bank of Albania, as the regulating agency, achieved the following results:

(i)      June 2001-August 2002: with assistance from the World Bank, prepared the regulating framework
(licensing & supervising). During this period, about 130 savings and credit associations have been licensed,
joined in two unions, which are also licensed. The first on-site inspections of both unions were conducted
October 2003-June 2004, providing appropriate recommendations to improve their operation in the future.

(ii)     October 2004- May 2005: benefited from the technical assistance provided by the project in the
following aspects:

·        Improving the supervision regulation framework,
·        Drafting of the on-site examination framework and the matrix of evaluation,
·        Drafting of the accounting manual for SCA and their unions,
·        Two on-site inspections.

(iii)    Based on the schedule established in project, the BOA staff attended several training courses in



                                                     - 21 -

Albania and abroad. A number of workshops and videoconferences with the World Bank were organized
during the project, which contributed to sharing the experience with other countries in the field of
microfinance.



Component: Project Management

The project implementation and coordination has been satisfactory throughout project implementation
period. The PIU has played a crucial in coordinating the project activities with different institutions and
stakeholders involved in the project. Beneficiary institutions and their relevant departments and staff have
been actively involved in all aspects of project activities starting from TOR, to the evaluation of the
outputs. Procurement, disbursement and financial management have been conducted in a professional,
transparent and timely manner. This has allowed the timely completion of the planed activities. The PIU
has   been    very   efficient  in   managing    the   financial  resources    allocated for   the   project
management/implementation.

The contribution of the Government to the project went beyond the forecast. Besides the local contribution
allocated almost every year by the budget, the Government decided to allocate USD 4 million from escrow
funds of AGA Agency to BESA and SCA Union.

Almost every year representatives of the BF, SCA Union and BOA participated to the regional, European
and international conferences on Microfinance, sharing their experience and benefiting from other country
experience. High ranking officials of the Government (Deputy Minister of Finance and Deputy Minister of
Economy) and Board members of both institutions (BESA Foundation, SCA Union) participated in some of
the events. Overall, this has been a small but very valuable investment with a big impact.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase in outstanding investments in urban US$30 million                               US$ 34 million
and rural areas through microfinance
institutions
Degree of Financial Sustainability             >90% for Besa Foundation, >70% for Union  93.5% for Besa Foundation, 78% for Union
                                               of SCAs                                   of SCAs
Portfolio at Risk 30 days                      Less than 4% for either institution       1.1% for Besa Foundation, 0.99% for Union
                                                                                         of SCAs
Equity to Debt Ratio                           More than 20% at all times                80.9% for Besa Foundation, 68% for Union
                                                                                         of SCAs


Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
Client Outreach - Number of SCA members        11,000                                    11,488
Client Outreach - Number of active clients for 5,500                                     5,887
Besa
Client Outreach - Number of new SCAs and 92                                              92
transformed VCFs
Operating Cost - Union of SCAs (adjusted       <25%                                      14%
operating costs/average performing assets)
Capital Adequacy (equity as % of               >10%                                      45.4%
risk-weighted assets) for Besa Foundation
Subsidy Dependence Index                       <70% for Union for SCAs, <50% for Besa    66.4% for Union of SCAs, 33.9% for Besa
                                               Foundation                                Foundation
Degree of Financial Sustainability             >70% for for Union of SCAs, >90% for Besa 78% for Union of SCAs and 93.5% for Besa
                                               Foundation                                Foundation
Creation of Development and Training Unit      April 2000                                April 2000
(DTU) for the Union
Creation of first 12 SCAs                      September 2000                            September 2000
Creation of SCA Union                          January 2002                              January 2002
Transfer of first group of at least SCAs to    December 2002                             December 2002
Union
Transfer of remaining DTU assets and           June 2003                                 June 2003
personnel to Union

1End of project




                                                                - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 Appraisal       Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                  Estimate         Estimate           Appraisal
                        Component                               US$ million       US$ million
Component 1: Rural Savings and Credit Associations                    8.10             12.25                1.51
Component 2: Urban Micro-credit                                     13.60              11.36                0.83
Component 3: Legal and Regulatory Environment                         0.50              0.15                 0.3
Component 4: Project Management                                       0.60              0.19                0.32

Total Baseline Cost                                                 22.80              23.95
                          Total Project Costs                       22.80              23.95
                   Total Financing Required                         22.80              23.95


Table 2. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) US$million equivalent
                                                   Procurement Method       1


    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB               Other 2         N.B.F.         Total Cost

1. Sub-loans -SCAs                   0.00              0.00              5.75            0.00             5.75
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)            (5.10)           (0.00)       (5.10)
2. Sub-loans Urb.Benef               0.00              0.00              5.68            0.00          5.68
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)            (5.03)           (0.00)       (5.03)
3.A Cap. Bulding Grant -             0.00              0.00              1.31            0.00          1.31
RFF                                  (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.88)           (0.00)       (0.88)
3.B Cap. Bulding Grant -             0.00              0.00              0.48            0.00          0.48
BF                                   (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.48)           (0.00)       (0.48)
4. Goods                             0.00              0.00              0.01            0.00          0.01
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.01)           (0.00)       (0.01)
5. Consultant Services and           0.00              0.00              0.59            0.00          0.59
Training                             (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.20)           (0.00)       (0.20)
6. Incremental Operating             0.00              0.00              0.14            0.00          0.14
Costs                                (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.14)           (0.00)       (0.14)
7. Unallocated                       0.00              0.00              0.00            0.00         0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.00)
    Total                            0.00              0.00             13.96            0.00         13.96
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)            (11.84)          (0.00)      (11.84)
  1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
  2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
    contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
    operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                  - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

At Appraisal, the objectives of the project were focused in two main directions: to increase the flow of
credit to intended beneficiaries over short-term, and, over the medium term, to develop new sustainable
microfinance institutions, building of the know-how of the Albania Development Fund (ADF). The
discussion in this Annex, therefore, will concentrate on two key impacts of the project: (i) impact of the
project activities on the ultimate borrowers at the household level, and (ii) financial and operational
sustainability of the micro-finance institutions created under the project.

Beneficiary Assessment

The PAD did not attempt to estimate the overall economic and financial rates of return of the project due to
the infeasibility to identify a priori the types of sub-projects to be financed. Although there has recently
been some development in developing tools to assess impact of microfinance institutions, the actual impact
is difficult (and often expensive) to measure because of the informal nature of the business as microfinance
institutions tend to increase, or at least smooth out the cash flow of the beneficiaries with funds which are
mixed with several other sources of informal finance. The literature on microfinance clearly indicates
considerable indirect benefits of improved access to financial services, including on education and health.
But direct causality at project level is much more complex to show. A more common strategy in the
industry has been to (i) ensure that the institution itself becomes financially sustainable, (ii) that it be able
to assess the return on their client's investments and that (iii) clients are given the opportunity to provide
feedback so that financial products and services can be improved and (iv) monitor the number of repeat
clients as a sign that previous loans have provided positive returns. Such mechanisms were installed and
maintained under the project, to ensure that the loans provided are used for profitable activities, which in
turn ensured an overall positive rate of return. The credit committees of the SCAs, trained by the Union,
made sure that only financially viable projects with adequate rates of return were financed. Similarly,
BESA approved for financing only sub-projects with substantially positive rates of return, as appraised by
its lending staff. To assess this approach, as part of ICR activities, a survey was done among the
beneficiaries of the project, to assess the impact of the project activities at household level. All surveyed
members were active, and had had from one to three loans.

The survey compared economic activities of SCA members over a time period, specifically, 2001
(beginning of the SCA establishment process) and 2005 (at the closing of the Project). Developments at an
average SCA level would include:
·        Change in number and profile of business activities in the area. At the village level, the main
types of activities did not change: crop production, livestock, trade, handicrafts. However, additional new
businesses were opened, and the profile of economic activities changed. While in 2001, mostly restaurants
and wholesale shops were opened, 2005 was characterized by more diversified activities (such as two milk
processing plants, greenhouses, orchards, five new shops, two gas stations, and a meat processing plant
were opened at a village surveyed).
·        Land cultivation increased. The area under cultivation increased from 60 percent to 90 percent of
total.

At the household level, the following developments were noted during the survey:
·        The revenues in the households of the members of SCA had increased by 63% from 2001, and the
net income by 61%.
·        Although the total land under ownership did not change over this period, however:
(i)      Changes in cropping patterns were observed: the farmers were switching to higher-value crops,
such as greenhouses (up by 165% over the period), vineyards (up 94%), orchards (up 9%), vegetables (up


                                                     - 25 -

4%), while the area under cereals have gone down by 12% and under forage by 9%.
(ii)     Total area of land under cultivation increased only by 3%,yet the increase in yields in some cases
was much more. For example, vegetable yields increased by 74%, forage by 29%, vineyards by 7%,
orchards by 3.3%, cereals by 2.7%
(iii)    Employment of family members increased by 6% over the period, as well as registered some
increase in non-family employment, including seasonal workers.

Sustainability of Micro-finance Institutions

The project had a systemic approach by focusing on building a sustainable micro-finance system, to ensure
its operations for a long time beyond project closing, and building such systems is costly and
time-consuming. This Annex provides a more detailed discussion on the financial and operational
sustainability of the micro-finance institutions created under the project, which has an overall positive
impact on the micro-finance industry in the country.

Establishment of SCA System: the SCA Network and SCA Union

The PAD states that the financial sustainability of individual SCAs is critical to developing the SCA
system. Overall, the system, both the Union and the Network, initially grew at a rather modest pace, while
the methodologies were put in place, but accelerated during the last two years: if the total assets of the
system grew only 11 percent in 2003, the pace doubled in 2004 at 24 percent, and in the first 6 months of
2005 the assets had grown already 13 percent from the end-2004. The loan portfolio has grown at a little
more modest rate, on average by 15 percent for the last three years. The profitability of the Union is
improving, and its net result before donations reached LEK 8.2 million (US$ 88,100 equivalent) at the end
of 2004. The SCA Network, which does not receive any cash donations, had a LEK 19.6 million (US$
214,000) profit at the end of 2004.

Subsidy Dependence Index (SDI) for the whole SCA system (SCA Union and the SCA Network) was
66.4% at the end of 2004, down from 133% a year before, a very positive trend. The SCA Network by
itself has a negative SDI of -3.1% at the end of 2004, down from 3.4% the year before, which shows that
the SCAs have begun operating on fully sustainable basis. The Union is fully operationally self-sufficient
(fully covers its operating costs from operating revenues). The main reason for such a high SDI in the SCA
system is the Union-delivered SCA training and post-creation support, which are financed by donor
agencies during the initial stages of the system's operations. However, as the system strengthens, it is
expected that the SCAs will received training based on a fee.

Table 1: Financial Results of the SCA Network




                                                     - 26 -

M I C R O C R E D I T P R O J E C T -                        F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S                                                         S C A N e t w o r k        S C A N e t w o r k      S C A N e t w o r k
                                                                                                                                                                  2 0 0 2                   2 0 0 3                   2 0 0 4
I N C O M E S T A T E M E N T
I n t e r e s t i n c o m e f r o m V C F l o a n s                                                                                                                                 0                       0                           0
I n t e r e s t i n c o m e f r o m S C A l o a n s                                                                                                              3 7 , 7 3 6 , 2 9 7     1 0 4 , 5 8 3 , 7 5 1      1 5 8 , 6 0 7 , 1 0 2
I n t e r e s t i n c o m e f r o m i n v e s t m e n t s                                                                                                                           0                       0                           0
I n t e r e s t i n c o m e f r o m o t h e r f i n a n c i a l s e r v i c e s                                                                                          7 2 , 4 3 0            6 0 6 , 6 3 9               2 0 6 , 0 3 9
                                                        T o t a l o p e r a t i n g i n c o m e                                                                 3 7 , 8 0 8 , 7 2 7     1 0 5 , 1 9 0 , 3 9 0      1 5 8 , 8 1 3 , 1 4 1
I n t e r e s t e x p e n d i t u r e f o r c r e d i t l i n e s                                                                                                2 4 , 6 0 2 , 7 0 3       6 9 , 9 6 4 , 9 9 8        9 8 , 5 8 6 , 7 5 6
I n t e r e s t e x p e n d i t u r e f o r S C A d e p o s i t s                                                                                                      1 2 8 , 9 9 2         2 , 2 9 4 , 9 3 9          4 , 2 3 9 , 0 2 8
O t h e r f i n a n c i a l e x p e n d i t u r e s                                                                                                                    2 9 3 , 7 4 9            4 5 6 , 4 5 5               5 5 0 , 3 1 4
P e r s o n n e l c o s t s                                                                                                                                            6 4 7 , 2 2 0         2 , 4 8 6 , 1 6 8         2 , 9 7 8 , 8 7 9
A d m i n i s t r a t i v e e x p e n s e s                                                                                                                            3 8 5 , 3 5 5         1 , 5 4 6 , 7 8 0        2 1 , 5 8 5 , 2 1 1
D e p r e c i a t i o n o f f i x e d a s s e t s                                                                                                                        7 4 , 6 9 0            2 6 8 , 2 1 8               3 4 7 , 2 5 5
P r o v i s i o n s f o r l o a n l o s s e s                                                                                                                                       0        3 , 8 3 3 , 8 7 5        1 0 , 9 2 7 , 4 5 9
                                                   T o t a l o p e r a t i n g e x p e n d i t u r e s                                                          2 6 , 1 3 2 , 7 0 9       8 0 , 8 5 1 , 4 3 3      1 3 9 , 2 1 4 , 9 0 2
                                                          N e t o p e r a t i n g i n c o m e                                                                   1 1 , 6 7 6 , 0 1 8       2 4 , 3 3 8 , 9 5 7        1 9 , 5 9 8 , 2 3 9
N o n - f i n a n c i a l i n c o m e                                                                                                                                               0                       0               2 5 4 , 9 2 1
N o n - f i n a n c i a l e x p e n d i t u r e s                                                                                                                   7 , 5 2 1 , 2 9 1        7 , 5 6 9 , 7 0 6                          0
                                            N e t i n c o m e / ( l o s s ) b e f o r e d o n a t i o n s                                                          4 , 1 5 4 , 7 2 7      1 6 , 7 6 9 , 2 5 1        1 9 , 8 5 3 , 1 6 0
D o n a t i o n s , g r a n t s                                                                                                                                                     0                       0                           0
                                                              N e t i n c o m e / ( l o s s )                                                                      4 , 1 5 4 , 7 2 7      1 6 , 7 6 9 , 2 5 1        1 9 , 8 5 3 , 1 6 0


B A L A N C E S H E E T
C a s h a n d b a n k a c c o u n t s                                                                                                                               2 , 9 2 9 , 0 1 5        5 , 6 5 1 , 3 0 3          4 , 6 2 0 , 7 6 8
S h o r t t e r m i n v e s t m e n t s                                                                                                                                             0           4 4 0 , 0 0 0               6 7 0 , 0 0 0
O t h e r s h o r t t e r m a s s e t s                                                                                                                                6 7 6 , 8 4 4            9 9 5 , 1 2 5           1 , 1 2 6 , 0 1 5
G r o s s l o a n p o r t f o l i o                                                                                                                            5 7 6 , 4 6 3 , 1 5 0     9 6 0 , 1 6 6 , 9 1 8  1 , 2 2 7 , 3 6 6 , 9 9 0
le s s : P r o v i s i o n s                                                                                                                                                        0      - 3 , 8 3 3 , 8 7 5         - 9 , 2 9 7 , 7 9 7
F i x e d a s s e t s                                                                                                                                                  5 0 0 , 5 0 0         2 , 5 0 2 , 5 0 0          3 , 0 8 5 , 9 6 2
le s s : D e p r e c i a t i o n                                                                                                                                        - 7 4 , 6 9 0         - 3 4 2 , 9 0 8             - 6 4 0 , 1 8 2
                                                                    T o t a l a s s e t s                                                                      5 8 0 , 4 9 4 , 8 1 9    9 6 5 , 5 7 9 , 0 6 3  1 , 2 2 6 , 9 3 1 , 7 5 6

B o r r o w i n g s                                                                                                                                            5 1 6 , 0 9 6 , 0 7 4     8 1 3 , 9 7 0 , 5 0 6      9 4 1 , 8 4 2 , 8 3 3
S C A d e p o s i t s                                                                                                                                            1 2 , 3 1 6 , 2 1 9       3 8 , 1 1 2 , 0 8 3      1 0 3 , 8 1 0 , 1 3 9
O t h e r l i a b i l i t i e s                                                                                                                                             9 , 7 7 2        3 , 5 6 2 , 5 6 0        1 3 , 0 1 1 , 4 1 9
                                                                  T o t a l l i a b i l i t i e s                                                              5 2 8 , 4 2 2 , 0 6 5    8 5 5 , 6 4 5 , 1 4 9   1 , 0 5 8 , 6 6 4 , 3 9 1
M e m b e r s h a r e s                                                                                                                                          3 6 , 1 9 4 , 3 3 1       7 1 , 1 4 2 , 5 1 2      1 0 3 , 4 4 0 , 4 3 9
A d d i t i o n a l c a p i t a l ( g r a n t s )                                                                                                                      5 0 0 , 5 0 0         2 , 5 0 2 , 5 0 0          3 , 0 7 5 , 3 8 0
R e s e r v e s                                                                                                                                                  1 1 , 5 2 9 , 2 6 3       1 9 , 0 9 8 , 9 6 9        4 7 , 2 1 0 , 4 2 1
R e t a i n e d e a r n i n g s / l o s s o f l a s t y e a r                                                                                                         - 3 0 6 , 0 6 7           4 2 0 , 6 8 2          - 5 , 3 1 2 , 0 3 4
R e t a i n e d e a r n i n g s / l o s s o f c u r r e n t y e a r                                                                                                 4 , 1 5 4 , 7 2 7      1 6 , 7 6 9 , 2 5 1        1 9 , 8 5 3 , 1 5 9
                                                                    T o t a l c a p i t a l                                                                     5 2 , 0 7 2 , 7 5 4     1 0 9 , 9 3 3 , 9 1 4      1 6 8 , 2 6 7 , 3 6 5
                                                     T o t a l l i a b i l i t i e s a n d c a p i t a l                                                       5 8 0 , 4 9 4 , 8 1 9    9 6 5 , 5 7 9 , 0 6 3  1 , 2 2 6 , 9 3 1 , 7 5 6

C O S T O F F U N D S
I n t e r e s t e x p e n d i t u r e f o r b o r r o w i n g ( a b o v e )                                                                                                                7 2 , 2 5 9 , 9 3 7      1 0 0 , 8 8 1 , 6 9 5
A v e r a g e b a l a n c e o f b o r r o w i n g s                                                                                                                                      6 9 0 , 2 4 7 , 4 4 1      9 4 8 , 8 6 7 , 7 8 1
I N C O M E S T A T E M E N T ( b o o k v a l u e ) c o s t o f B o r r o w i n g s                                                                                                                1 0 . 5 %                   1 0 . 6 %

T o t a l f i n a n c i n g ( i . e . s h a r e c a p i t a l c o n t r i b u t i o n s + b o r r o w i n g s + d e p o s i t s )                              5 6 5 , 1 0 7 , 1 2 4     9 2 5 , 7 2 7 , 6 0 1  1 , 1 5 2 , 1 6 8 , 7 9 1
A v e r a g e v a l u e o f F i n a n c i n g r e c e i v e d                                                                                                                            7 4 5 , 4 1 7 , 3 6 3  1 , 0 3 8 , 9 4 8 , 1 9 6
E f f e c t i v e c o s t o f F i n a n c i n g r e c e i v e d                                                                                                                                      9 . 7 %                     9 . 7 %

P o r t f o l i o y i e l d                                                                                                                                                                        1 3 . 6 %                   1 4 . 5 %
E f f e c t i v e m a r g i n ( o n - l e n d i n g i n t e r e s t r a t e l e s s e f f e c t i v e c o s t o f F i n a n c i n g )                                                                 3 . 9 %                     4 . 8 %

P R O F I T A B I L I T Y A N D E F F I C I E N C Y
O p e r a t i n g r e t u r n o n a v e r a g e a s s e t s e m p l o y e d                                                                                                                          3 . 1 %                     1 . 8 %
O p e r a t i n g r e t u r n o n a v e r a g e e q u i t y                                                                                                                                        3 0 . 0 %                   1 4 . 1 %

A d m i n i s t r a t i v e e f f i c i e n c y ( e x c l . l o a n p r o v i s i o n )                                                                                                              0 . 5 %                     2 . 2 %
A d m i n i s t r a t i v e e f f i c i e n c y ( i n c l . l o a n p r o v i s i o n )                                                                                                              1 . 0 %                     3 . 2 %
N o t e : a b o v e c a l c u l a t i o n s b a s e d o n a v e r a g e y e a r - e n d l o a n p o r t f o l i o
O n l e n d i n g m a r g i n ( Y i e l d l e s s A d m i n i s t r a t i v e e f f i c i e n c y i n c l . l o a n p r o v i s i o n )                                                             1 2 . 6 %                   1 1 . 3 %

P e r i o d - e n d e x c h a n g e r a t e ( p e r B O A ) , L E K : U S $                                                                                            1 3 3 . 7 4 0            1 0 6 . 5 8 0                 9 2 . 6 4 0



S U B S ID Y D E P E N D E N C E I N D E X , S D I
C o n c e s s i o n a l b o r r o w e d f u n d s ( a v e r a g e ) , a                                                                                                                  6 6 5 , 0 3 3 , 2 9 0      8 7 7 , 9 0 6 , 6 7 0
M a r k e t r e f e r e n c e r a t e , m *                                                                                                                                                        1 1 . 9 %                   1 0 . 5 %
W e i g h t e d a v e r a g e a n n u a l c o n c e s s i o n a l i n t r a t e , c ( a b o v e )                                                                                                  1 0 . 5 %                   1 0 . 6 %
A v e r a g e a n n u a l e q u i t y , e                                                                                                                                                  8 1 , 0 0 3 , 3 3 4      1 3 9 , 1 0 0 , 6 4 0
R e p o r t e d a n n u a l p r o f i t , p                                                                                                                                                1 6 , 7 6 9 , 2 5 1        1 9 , 8 5 3 , 1 6 0
S u m o f a l l o t h e r a n n u a l s u b s i d i e s , k                                                                                                                                  2 , 0 0 2 , 0 0 0              5 7 2 , 8 8 0
A v e r a g e o u t s t a n d i n g l o a n p o r t f o l i o , L P                                                                                                                      7 6 8 , 3 1 5 , 0 3 4  1 , 0 9 3 , 7 6 6 , 9 5 4
A v e r a g e o n - l e n d i n g i n t e r e s t r a t e , I                                                                                                                                      1 7 . 0 %                   1 7 . 0 %
S D I = ( ( a ( m - c ) + ( ( e * m ) - p ) + k ) / ( L P * I )                                                                                                                                      3 . 4 %                    - 3 . 1 %
N o t e : e x c l u d e s U S $ x r a t e l o s s e s o f G O A
* A s s u m e d t o b e a w e i g h t e d a v e r a g e r a t e o f d e p o s i t s w i t h m a t u r i t i e s a b o v e 1 2 m o n t h s a n d t h e l e n d i n g r a t e i n
t h e b a n k i n g s e c t o r o n l o a n s w i t h m a t u r i t i e s a b o v e 3 y e a r s , i f t h e f u n d i n g i s p r o v i d e d 5 0 : 5 0 f r o m b o t h s o u r c e s




                                                                                                                                - 27 -

Table 2: SDI Calculation for the SCA system
UNION + SCA NETWORK
                                                                                2003                 2004
SUBSIDY DEPENDENCE INDEX, SDI
Concessional borrowed funds (average), a                                        629,836,911        819,529,747
Market reference rate, m *                                                             11.9%              10.5%
Weighted average annual concessional int rate, c (above)                                2.6%               2.3%
Average annual equity, e                                                        601,519,296        677,809,885
Reported annual profit, p                                                          9,173,173        28,046,754
Sum of all other annual subsidies, k                                              52,149,608        12,425,404
Average outstanding loan portfolio, LP                                          766,398,097      1,087,201,118
Average on-lending interest rate, I                                                    17.0%              17.0%
SDI = ((a(m-c)+((e*m)-p)+k)/(LP*I)                                                    132.9%              66.4%
Note: excludes US$ xrate losses of GOA
* Assumed to be a weighted average rate of deposits with maturities above 12 months and the lending rate in
the banking sector on loans with maturities above 3 years, if the funding is provided 50:50 from both sources



Establishment of BESA Foundation

BESA Foundation is well on its way of achieving full financial sustainability: its SDI of 33.9% at the end
of 2004, a significant drop from 99.2% at the end of 2003, meant that BESA had already reached the PAD
target of SDI below 50% by the end of the project. BESA is a profitable financial institution: at the end of
2004 its pre-donation profit was LEK 124.1 million (US$ 1.33 million equivalent). The donations, which
dried out with the closing of the project were provided as capacity building grants, including for upgrading
their MIS system.

The overall financial results of BESA project strong growth since its establishment, although in the recent
years the growth of assets has slowed down from 40 percent in the early years to 20 percent (annualized) in
2005. Capital amounts to US$ 9.8 million equivalent (as of June 30, 2005), of which about 40% comes
from retained earnings. The net loan portfolio, amounting to US$ 20.0 million equivalent as of June 30,
2005, grew on average about 30% a year since 2002. The operating ROA as of end-2004 was 6.1% and
operating ROE was 12.4%.

Table 3: Financial Results of BESA Foundation




                                                                     - 28 -

M I C R O C R E D I T P R O J E C T -                     F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S                                                                           B E S A                      B E S A                     B E S A
                                                                                                                                                                           2 0 0 2                     2 0 0 3                       2 0 0 4
I N C O M E S T A T E M E N T
I n t e r e s t i n c o m e                                                                                                                                              2 3 8 , 3 6 2 , 0 0 0        3 1 6 , 9 5 2 , 0 0 0       3 5 8 , 3 3 2 , 0 0 0
O t h e r i n c o m e                                                                                                                                                      1 7 , 0 2 1 , 0 0 0          1 9 , 5 1 0 , 0 0 0            8 , 0 8 4 , 0 0 0
                                                               T o t a l o p e r a t i n g i n c o m e                                                                  2 5 5 , 3 8 3 , 0 0 0        3 3 6 , 4 6 2 , 0 0 0       3 6 6 , 4 1 6 , 0 0 0
I n t e r e s t e x p e n s e                                                                                                                                              2 2 , 0 3 2 , 0 0 0          2 5 , 4 7 9 , 0 0 0         2 4 , 5 7 7 , 0 0 0
P e r s o n n e l s a l a r y c o s t s                                                                                                                                    7 6 , 1 1 3 , 0 0 0          8 7 , 7 2 1 , 0 0 0      1 2 5 , 8 0 2 , 0 0 0
A d m i n i s t r a t i v e e x p e n s e s                                                                                                                                7 0 , 1 9 1 , 0 0 0          8 5 , 7 6 5 , 0 0 0         6 4 , 2 1 7 , 0 0 0
D e p r e c i a t i o n o f f i x e d a s s e t s                                                                                                                          1 3 , 5 3 6 , 0 0 0          1 5 , 2 4 2 , 0 0 0         1 5 , 1 0 0 , 0 0 0
P r o v i s i o n s f o r l o a n l o s s e s                                                                                                                              5 5 , 9 9 3 , 0 0 0          3 0 , 8 6 2 , 0 0 0         3 3 , 4 1 6 , 0 0 0
                                                          T o t a l o p e r a t i n g e x p e n d i t u r e s                                                           2 3 7 , 8 6 5 , 0 0 0        2 4 5 , 0 6 9 , 0 0 0       2 6 3 , 1 1 2 , 0 0 0
                                                                N e t o p e r a t i n g i n c o m e                                                                       1 7 , 5 1 8 , 0 0 0          9 1 , 3 9 3 , 0 0 0       1 0 3 , 3 0 4 , 0 0 0
R e c o v e r y o f p r e v i o u s l y w r i t t e n - o f f l o a n s                                                                                                       6 , 1 9 5 , 0 0 0           8 , 2 6 7 , 0 0 0         1 7 , 8 3 2 , 0 0 0
O t h e r i n c o m e                                                                                                                                                            4 2 5 , 0 0 0            9 , 6 5 8 , 0 0 0            3 , 0 1 0 , 0 0 0
                                                    N e t i n c o m e / ( l o s s ) b e f o r e d o n a t i o n s                                                         2 4 , 1 3 8 , 0 0 0        1 0 9 , 3 1 8 , 0 0 0       1 2 4 , 1 4 6 , 0 0 0
D o n a t io n s , g r a n t s                                                                                                                                                5 , 5 4 7 , 0 0 0       2 8 0 , 8 6 1 , 0 0 0         3 9 , 2 8 8 , 0 0 0
                                                                    N e t i n c o m e / ( l o s s )                                                                       2 9 , 6 8 5 , 0 0 0        3 9 0 , 1 7 9 , 0 0 0       1 6 3 , 4 3 4 , 0 0 0


B A L A N C E S H E E T
C a s h a n d b a n k a c c o u n t s                                                                                                                                      5 7 , 0 9 1 , 0 0 0          5 5 , 0 5 2 , 0 0 0         9 9 , 5 4 5 , 0 0 0
S h o r t t e r m i n v e s t m e n t s                                                                                                                                                      0                            0       1 2 6 , 4 2 8 , 0 0 0
O t h e r s h o r t t e r m a s s e t s                                                                                                                                    2 4 , 9 6 0 , 0 0 0            1 , 1 1 9 , 0 0 0         2 6 , 4 4 6 , 0 0 0
G r o s s l o a n p o r t f o l i o                                                                                                                                  1 , 3 6 4 , 6 7 9 , 0 0 0    1 , 5 5 8 , 5 1 0 , 0 0 0    1 , 7 1 2 , 1 7 4 , 0 0 0
le s s : P r o v i s i o n s                                                                                                                                            - 1 0 4 , 9 4 2 , 0 0 0      - 1 2 0 , 4 4 4 , 0 0 0     - 1 2 8 , 5 9 4 , 0 0 0
F i x e d a s s e t s                                                                                                                                                      6 6 , 2 2 2 , 0 0 0          7 4 , 8 6 1 , 0 0 0         7 8 , 2 0 7 , 0 0 0
le s s : D e p r e c i a t i o n                                                                                                                                          - 2 7 , 4 7 2 , 0 0 0        - 4 2 , 9 5 3 , 0 0 0       - 5 6 , 6 1 5 , 0 0 0
                                                                          T o t a l a s s e t s                                                                      1 , 3 8 0 , 5 3 8 , 0 0 0    1 , 5 2 6 , 1 4 5 , 0 0 0   1 , 8 5 7 , 5 9 1 , 0 0 0
C a p a c i t y b u i l d i n g g r a n t                                                                                                                                  4 0 , 6 2 1 , 0 0 0          3 8 , 1 4 6 , 0 0 0            4 , 9 4 8 , 0 6 4
G r a n t s f o r o n - l e n d i n g                                                                                                                                                                                               3 6 , 8 0 1 , 9 6 2
C o m m e r c i a l b o r r o w i n g s                                                                                                                                                      0                                                        0
O t h e r b o r r o w i n g s                                                                                                                                            9 4 8 , 4 5 3 , 0 0 0        7 1 3 , 8 9 7 , 0 0 0       8 3 6 , 2 3 1 , 0 0 0
D e f e r r e d i n c o m e                                                                                                                                                                  0                            0         3 3 , 7 8 7 , 7 8 3
O t h e r l i a b i l i t i e s                                                                                                                                            3 2 , 5 5 7 , 0 0 0          2 5 , 0 1 6 , 0 0 0         3 3 , 3 0 2 , 0 0 0
                                                                      T o t a l     l i a b i l i t i e s                                                            1 , 0 2 1 , 6 3 1 , 0 0 0       7 7 7 , 0 5 9 , 0 0 0       9 4 5 , 0 7 0 , 8 0 9
D o n a t e d e q u i t y p r i o r y e a r s                                                                                                                           2 5 7 , 0 0 0 , 0 0 0        2 6 2 , 5 4 7 , 0 0 0       5 4 4 , 2 2 2 , 9 6 2
D o n a t e d e q u i t y c u r r e n t y e a r                                                                                                                              5 , 5 4 7 , 0 0 0       2 8 0 , 8 6 1 , 0 0 0         3 9 , 2 8 8 , 4 3 0
R e t a i n e d e a r n i n g s o f t h e p r e v i o u s p e r i o d s                                                                                                   7 2 , 2 2 2 , 0 0 0          9 6 , 3 6 0 , 0 0 0       2 0 4 , 8 6 3 , 4 4 2
R e t a i n e d e a r n i n g s o f t h e c u r r e n t y e a r                                                                                                            2 4 , 1 3 8 , 0 0 0        1 0 9 , 3 1 8 , 0 0 0       1 2 4 , 1 4 5 , 2 0 6
                                                                         T o t a l c a p i t a l                                                                        3 5 8 , 9 0 7 , 0 0 0        7 4 9 , 0 8 6 , 0 0 0       9 1 2 , 5 2 0 , 0 4 0
                                                            T o t a l l i a b i l i t i e s a n d c a p i t a l                                                      1 , 3 8 0 , 5 3 8 , 0 0 0    1 , 5 2 6 , 1 4 5 , 0 0 0   1 , 8 5 7 , 5 9 0 , 8 4 9


C O S T O F F U N D S
I n t e r e s t e x p e n d i t u r e f o r b o r r o w i n g ( a b o v e )                                                                                                2 2 , 0 3 2 , 0 0 0          2 5 , 4 7 9 , 0 0 0         2 4 , 5 7 7 , 0 0 0
A v e r a g e b a la n c e o f b o r r o w i n g s a n d g r a n t s f o r o n l e n d i n g                                                                                                          7 9 3 , 4 6 4 , 9 8 1    1 , 0 1 5 , 6 5 8 , 3 0 2
I N C O M E S T A T E M E N T ( b o o k v a l u e ) c o s t o f B o r r o w i n g s                                                                                                                                3 . 2 %                     2 . 4 %

T o t a l f i n a n c i n g ( i . e . s h a r e c a p i t a l c o n t r i b u t i o n s + b o r r o w i n g s )                                                           9 8 9 , 0 7 4 , 0 0 0        7 5 2 , 0 4 3 , 0 0 0   1 , 4 5 6 , 5 4 4 , 3 5 4
A v e r a g e v a l u e o f F i n a n c i n g r e c e i v e d                                                                                                                                         8 7 0 , 5 5 8 , 5 0 0    1 , 1 0 4 , 2 9 3 , 6 7 7
E f f e c t i v e c o s t o f    F i n a n c i n g r e c e i v e d                                                                                                                                                 2 . 9 %                     2 . 2 %

P o r t f o l i o y i e l d                                                                                                                                                                                      2 1 . 7 %                   2 1 . 9 %
E f f e c t i v e m a r g in ( o n - l e n d i n g i n t e r e s t r a t e l e s s e f f e c t i v e c o s t o f F i n a n c i n g )                                                                             1 8 . 8 %                    1 9 . 7 %

P R O F I T A B I L I T Y A N D E F F I C I E N C Y
R e t u r n o n A s s e t s ( b e f o r e d o n a t i o n s )                                                                                                                                                      7 . 5 %                     7 . 3 %
R e t u r n o n E q u i t y ( b e f o r e d o n a t i o n s )                                                                                                                                                    1 9 . 7 %                   1 4 . 9 %

O p e r a t i n g e f f i c i e n c y ( e x c l . l o a n p r o v i s i o n )                                                                                                                                    1 1 . 9 %                   1 1 . 6 %
O p e r a t i n g e f f i c i e n c y ( i n c l . l o a n p r o v i s i o n )                                                                                                                                    1 4 . 0 %                   1 3 . 7 %
N o t e : a b o v e c a l c u l a t i o n s b a s e d o n a v e r a g e y e a r - e n d l o a n p o r t f o l i o
O n l e n d i n g m a r g i n ( Y i e l d l e s s A d m i n i s t r a t i v e e f f i c i e n c y i n c l . l o a n p r o v i s i o n )                                                                             7 . 7 %                     8 . 2 %

P e r i o d - e n d e x c h a n g e r a t e ( p e r B O A ) , L E K : U S $                                                                                                        1 3 3 . 7 4                  1 0 6 . 5 8                    9 2 . 6 4

S U B S I D Y D E P E N D E N C E I N D E X , S D I
C o n c e s s io n a l b o r r o w e d f u n d s ( a v e r a g e ) , a                                                                                                                                8 3 1 , 1 7 5 , 0 0 0       7 9 3 , 4 6 4 , 9 8 1
M a r k e t r e f e r e n c e r a t e , m *                                                                                                                                                                      1 1 . 9 %                   1 4 . 3 %
W e i g h t e d a v e r a g e a n n u a l c o n c e s s i o n a l i n t r a t e , c ( a b o v e )                                                                                                                  3 . 2 %                     2 . 4 %
A v e r a g e a n n u a l e q u i t y , e                                                                                                                                                             5 5 3 , 9 9 6 , 5 0 0       8 3 0 , 8 0 3 , 0 2 0
R e p o r t e d a n n u a l p r o f i t , p                                                                                                                                                           1 0 9 , 3 1 8 , 0 0 0       1 2 4 , 1 4 6 , 0 0 0
S u m o f a ll o t h e r a n n u a l s u b s i d i e s , k                                                                                                                                            3 1 9 , 0 0 7 , 0 0 0         4 4 , 2 3 6 , 4 9 4
A v e r a g e o u t s t a n d i n g l o a n p o r t f o l i o , L P                                                                                                                               1 , 4 6 1 , 5 9 4 , 5 0 0    1 , 6 3 5 , 3 4 2 , 0 0 0
A v e r a g e o n - l e n d i n g i n t e r e s t r a t e , I                                                                                                                                                    2 4 . 0 %                   2 4 . 0 %
S D I = ( ( a ( m - c ) + ( ( e * m ) - p ) + k ) / ( L P * I )                                                                                                                                                  9 9 . 2 %                   3 3 . 9 %
N o t e : e x c l u d e s U S $ x r a t e l o s s e s o f G O A
* M a r k e t r a t e i s e q u a l t o b a n k i n g s e c t o r o n - l e n d i n g r a t e f o r l o a n s w i t h m a t u r i t i e s a b o v e 3 y e a r s .




                                                                                                                                       - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                    Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)            Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                           Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/18/1997                6    Task Team Leader (1);                    S               S
                                             Sr.Advisor (1); Infrastructure
                                             Participation Specialist (1);
                                             Project Officer (1); Rural Credit
                                             Consultant (1); Soros Foundation
                                             Representative (1)
              11/18/1997                4    Task Team Leader (1);                    S               S
                                             Sr.Advisor (1); Infrastructure
                                             Specialist (1); Rural Credit
                                             Consultant (1)
              02/17/1998                5    Task Team Leader (1);                    S               S
                                             Sr.Advisor (1); Social Investment
                                             Fund Specialist (1);
                                             Infrastructure Specialist (1);
                                             Project Officer (1)
              11/09/1998                8    Task Team Leader (1);                    S               S
                                             Sr.Advisor (1);
                                             Civil/Environmental Engineer
                                             (1); Sr.Counsel (1); Procurement
                                             Specialist (1); Project Officer (1);
                                             Microfinance Consultant to the
                                             Urban Credit dpt. (1);
                                             Microfinance Consultant to the
                                             Rural Credit dpt. (1)

 Supervision
              11/15/1999                3    Private Sector Development               S               S
                                             Specialist (1); Microcredit
                                             Specialist (1); Financial
                                             Management Specialist (1)
              03/14/2000                3    Microfinance Specialist (2);             S               S
                                             Legal and Regulatory Specialist
                                             (1)
              06/08/2000                4    Task Team Leader (1);                    S               S
                                             Microfinance Specialist (1);
                                             Regulation/Supervision Specialist
                                             (1); Local Project Officer (1)
              10/11/2000                4    Team Leader (1); Senior Country          S               S
                                             Officer (1); Senior FSD
                                             Specialist (1); Local Project
                                             Officer
              02/21/2001                7    Team Leader (1); Representative          S               S
                                             of Swiss Development
                                             Corporation (1); Project Officer
                                             (1); Sr.Country Officer (1);
                                             Microfinance Consultant to the



                                              - 30 -

                            Besa Foundation (1);
                            Microfinance Consultant for the
                            Rural Finance Fund (2)
            10/15/2001    7 Mission Leader (1); Microcredit     S     S
                            Project Task Team Leader (1);
                            Project Officer (1); Sr.Private
                            Sector Development Specialist
                            (1); Microfinance Consultant to
                            the Besa Foundation (1);
                            Microfinance Consultant for the
                            Rural Finance Fund (2)
            02/21/2002    8 Team Leader (1);                    S     S
                            Intercooperation Consultant for
                            the Swiss Development
                            Cooperation (1); Representative
                            of Soros Foundation (1); Editor
                            (1); Consultant (1); Project
                            Officer (1); Microfinance
                            Consultant for the Rural Finance
                            Fund (2)
            09/01/2002    2 Task Team Leader (1); Project       S     S
                            Officer (1)
            11/05/2002    6 Team Leader (1); Project Officer    HS    S
                            (1); Financial Sector Specialist
                            (1); Intercooperation Consultant
                            for the Swiss Development
                            Cooperation (1); Microfinance
                            Consultant for the Rural Finance
                            Fund (2)
            06/01/2003    4 Task Team Leader (1); Project       HS    S
                            Officer (1); Financial Sector
                            Specialist (1); Sr.Financial
                            Management Specialist (1)
            02/09/2004    3 Task Team Leader (1); Project       HS    S
                            Officer (1); Operations Analyst
                            (1)
            11/22/2004    2 Task Team Leader &                  HS    S
                            Sr.Microfinance Specialist (1);
                            Sr.Project Officer (1)
            04/18/2005    2 Task Team Leader &                  HS    S
                            Sr.Microfinance Specialist (1);
                            Sr.Project Officer (1)
                                                                HS    HS

 ICR
            09/11/2005    2  Task Team                          HS    HS
                             Leader&Sr.Microfinance
                             Specialist (1); Microfinance
                             Specialist (1)



(b) Staff:




                            - 31 -

     Stage of Project Cycle                           Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
 Identification/Preparation                                                   299.5
 Supervision                                                                  577.3
 ICR
 Total                                                                        876.8
Supervision costs also include ICR prepration.




                                                     - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.      Project Appraisal Document ­ Republic of Albania: Microcredit Project ­ Report No: 19337 ALB,
May 28, 1999
2.      Agreed Minutes of Negotiations between Albania and the International Development Association,
including the Supplementary Letter
3.      Development Credit Agreement ­ Republic of Albania: Microcredit Project, Credit Number 3253
ALB, July 14, 1999
4.      Swiss Grant Agreement for Albania Microcredit Project, April 6, 2000
5.      Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the RFF (successor - SCA Union) and the MOF, October 14,
1999
6.      Subsidiary Agreement between the BESA Foundation and MOF, October 14, 1999
7.      Quarterly Progress Reports of the SCA Union and BESA Foundation
8.      Mid-Term Review Report, March 12, 2002
9.      Documents prepared under the project:
        9.1     SCA Law
        9.2     Prudential norms on licensing and supervision of SCAs
        9.3     Accounting Manual
        9.4     Examination Manual for the BOA
        9.5     BOA Regulations on Off-site and On-site Inspections
        9.6     Human Resource Management Manual
10.     Beneficiary Impact Assessment, June 2005
11.     Beneficiary Survey Results, September 2005
12.     Annual Audited Financial Statements of the Project and the Implementing Agencies SCA Union
and BESA for the project period




                                                 - 35 -

- 36 -

