Page  1
April 6, 2000
His Excellency
Anastas Angjeli
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana, Albania
Re:
Swiss Grant Agreement for Albania Microcredit Project
Grant Number TF023508
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (the 
Association) to indicate the Association’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds 
provided by Switzerland, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding seven hundred 
forty nine thousand Swiss francs (CHF 749,000) (the Grant) to Albania (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Association of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, 
this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kathryn Ann Funk
Acting Country Director
Country Department II
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
ALBANIA
By /s/ Anastas Angjeli
Minister of Finance
Date: July 10, 2001
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to cofinance  the Albania Microcredit Project. The 
activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
providing capacity-building grants to the Rural Finance Fund Development 
and Training Unit in order to develop a savings and credit association system and 
train its members.
2.
Implementation Generally
Page  2
2.1.
The Recipient shall, through the Rural Finance Fund, established as an 
independent entity with juridical personality pursuant to Government Decision No. 207 
of April 28, 1999: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) 
promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that 
purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the 
proceeds of the Grant as the Association shall reasonably request; (d) from time to 
time exchange views with the Association's representatives on the progress and results 
of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the 
Association to visit the territory of Albania for purposes related to the Grant.  
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Association shall so 
request, prepare and furnish to the Association promptly upon completion of the 
Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, on the 
results and impact of the Activities.
3.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
3.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the 
Association on its books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be 
withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 
3, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost required for the Activities and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
3.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the    % of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Item
(in Swiss francs)
to be Financed
(1)
Capacity building 
749,000
100%
grants for Rural
Finance Fund
Development and
Training Unit
TOTAL
749,000
3.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the 
Association, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$75,000, 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
February 1, 2000; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the 
territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of the Association or for services supplied from such 
territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, if such 
payment or import, to the Association’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations; and
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after December 31, 
2003 or such later date that the Association shall establish by notice to the 
Recipient (the Closing Date). However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date 
for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal 
application is received by the Association within four months after the Closing Date, 
after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account 
shall be canceled.
3.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Association a written application for withdrawal of such 
amount in the form specified by the Association.  Withdrawal applications shall be: 
(a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by Minister of Finance or such other person as 
he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such evidence in 
support of the application as the Association shall reasonably request.  Authenticated 
specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be 
provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal 
application for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient 
in form and substance to satisfy the Association that the Recipient is entitled to 
withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the 
carrying out of the Activities.  The Association shall pay the amounts withdrawn by 
Page  3
the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
3.5.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for capacity 
building grants.
3.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  The Association, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the 
Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant 
Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of 
this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Association.
3.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in US dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in the Bank of 
Albania on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Attachment I to this Annex.
4.
Accounts and Audits
4.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, 
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the 
Association such other information concerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
the Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such 
records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) 
above and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
5.
Suspension and Cancellation
5.1.
The Association may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right 
of the Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the 
following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to 
comply with any of its obligations herein specified; (b) the right of the Recipient or 
any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of Albania, to make withdrawals under 
any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement with the 
Association shall have been suspended.
5.2.
The Association may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of 
the Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time 
after the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have 
been suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 5.1 above; or (b) if the 
Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Association, within 
Page  4
six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment I
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible item" means the item set forth in the table in 
paragraph 3.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$100,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for 
a deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account under the 
eligible item, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in paragraph 4.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the 
Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 5.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
Page  5
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
