Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21551
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
THE SECOND FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION
PROGRAM CREDIT (FRDP II) AND THE SECOND FISCAL
RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT (FRDP TA II), CREDITS NOS.: 31460, AND 31470
DECEMBER 21,2000
Macroeconomics 1
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of December 2000)
Currency Unit        =         Malawi Kwacha
US$1.00         =        MK 80
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 - June 30
(as of July 1998)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADMARC            Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
CBM               Commercial Bank of Malawi
DSP               Divestiture Sequence Plan
ESAF              Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESCOM             Electricity Commission of Malawi
IBRD              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IDA               International Development Association
MDC               Malawi Development Corporation
MK                Malawi Kwacha
MOF               Ministry of Finance
MOU               Memorandum of Understanding
M[PTC             Malawi Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
MTEF              Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NBM               National Bank of Malawi
NFRA              National Food Reserve Agency
OED               Operations Evaluation Department
TEP               Temporary Employment Permit
Vice President          =        Callisto Madavo
Director                =        Darius Mans
Sector Manager          =        Philippe Le Houerou
Task Manager            =        Sudhir Chitale



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
THE SECOND FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM
CREDIT (FRDP II) AND THE SECOND FISCAL REST'RUCTURING ANI)
DEREGULATION PROGRAM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Table of Contents
PREFACE ........................I
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                   .I
INTRODUCTION.I
PROJECT OBJECTIVES                              .I
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS .II
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED .III
STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES .1
ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES                          .3
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                     .4
PROJECT SUSTANABILITY                             .5
BANK PERFORMANCE                                .5
BORROWER PERFORMANCE                              .6
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                                 .7
FISCAL RESTRUCTURING                             .7
PROMOTING DEVELOPMENT OF AGRICULTURAL MARKETS                 .8
ENCOURAGING DEVELOPMENT OF PRIVATE ENTERPRISES .10
43. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .14
FUTUREEOPERATION.14
APPENDIX: BORROWER'S ASSESSMENT .16
STATISTICAL ANNEX .20
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .20
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS .21
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .22
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATEI) AND ACTUAL (US$ THOUSANDS) . 22
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR IMPLEMENTATION .23
TABLE 6: MALAWI - KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS .24
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .25
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ..................................................  ..   26
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING .26
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .27
TABLE 10-- STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .28
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .28
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .29
T%BLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
THE SECOND FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM
CREDIT (FRDP II) AND THE SECOND FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND
DEREGULATION PROGRAM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR') for the Second Fiscal
Restructuring and Deregulation project in Malawi and the Second Fiscal
Restructuring and Deregulation program Technical Assistance Project for which
credits of SDR 65.7 million (US$ 90 million equivalent and SDR 1.5 million
(US$ 2 million equivalent), respectively were approved on I)ecember 3, 1998 and
made effective December 23, 1998. The project provided SDR 54.8 million to
support adjustment policies; an initial tranche of SDR 43.8 (US$61.7 million
equivalent) was disbursed on effectiveness and fully disbursed by December
1998. A second tranche of SDR 21.9 million was released in December 1999.
The Technical Assistance project component of SDR 1.5 million is ongoing and
the credit has therefore not been fully disbursed.
2.    The ICR was prepared by David G. Greene, Consultant, and Sudhir
Chitale, Senior Economist, and reviewed by Country Director. Preparation of
this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission of April 2000. It is
based on material in the project file. The borrower's comments are attached as
Appendix.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION RE,PORT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
THE SECOND FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM
CREDIT (FRDP II) AND THE SECOND FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND
DEREGULATION PROGRAM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Second Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program Credit (FRDP
II) sought to maintain the momentum of wide ranging reforms initiated by the
Government of Malawi elected in May 1994, supported by FRDP I, approved in
April 1996. FDRP I focused on expenditure prioritization through developmtent
and use of a medium term expenditure framework (MTEF), protection of
budgetary outlays in priority sectors, civil service reform to streamline and
increase the effectiveness of Government, continued deregulation of agricultural
production and marketing, especially for tobacco and maize, tariff and tax reform
to reduce protection and encourage exports, and privatization of state-owned
enterprises. FRDP II continued along the same path. It aimed at improving and
further institutionalizing the MTEF, accelerating civil service reform and
Government restructuring. FRDP II also complemented FRDP I by increasing the
focus on promotion of private sector led growth in the non-agriculture sector by
accelerating privatization of the power and telecommunications sectors and
improving the competitiveness and efficiency of the financial sector. The credit
provided SDR 65.7 million (US$ 90 million equivalent) to for balance of
payments and budget support. Simultaneously, a credit of SDR 1.3 million (US$
2 million equivalent) was provided as a Second Fiscal Restructuring and
Deregulation Program Technical Assistance Project.
Project Objectives
2.    The overriding objective of FRDP II was to reinvigorate the
Government's stabilization and adjustment program and create conditions for
accelerated GDP growth and poverty reduction. The program supported by the
credit assisted in (i) continuing government efforts to improve fiscal perform,ance
and achieve macroeconomic stability by reforming the structure of indirect taxes,
further strengthening tax administration and improving expenditure prioritization,
maffagement and control and restructuring government functions and the civil
service and (ii) encouraging growth of the private sector by further deregulation
of agricultural markets and development of markets for land and labor,
strengthening the financial market, accelerating privatization of government
enterprises and functions and encouraging private sector participation in the
development and improvement of infrastructure.



ii
3.    The first tranche, disbursed on effectiveness in December 1998, supported
implementation of public expenditure management and civil service reforms, and
initiation of private sector and infrastructure reforms. Implementation of policies
in public expenditure management, civil service reforms and private sector
development reforms against specified benchmarks was considered satisfactory
and the second tranche, disbursed in December 1999 following a partial waiver of
conditions relating to financial sector deregulation and outsourcing of government
functions.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Despite efforts by the Government, macroeconomic performance was less
than satisfactory. About the time FRDP II was being prepared in late 1997
macroeconomic management went off track. Weakened fiscal discipline resulted
in an increase in the deficit from 8% the previous year to 12 % of GDP in 1997/98
and to accelerating inflation, stagnation of private investment and a slowdown in
GDP growth to below 4% per annum. In addition, in early 2000, the government
identified public expenditure arrears. The Govemment has since put in place
strengthened commitment control system to avoid the accumulation of arrears.
On the whole, the Government has been making a strong effort to restore fiscal
balance and reduce inflation, but the macroeconomic situation remains fragile.
5.    Under FRDP II significant improvements continued to be made in the tax
and tariff regime and in export incentives. The privatization program was
administered competently and was accelerated and its coverage expanded. Some
of the second order problems of the private sector, temporary employment permits
and availability of land for industry were resolved. Positive steps were taken in
improving the legal and institutional framework for private sector participation in
the power and telecommunications sector, but progress in identifying potential
foreign investors was limited. Slower progress seems to have been made in
improving the financial sector regulatory framework and, here to, finding private
investors has proven to be difficult. Institutionalization of the MTEF as a tool for
prioritizing expenditures has been slow. However, recognition of its potential
usefulness increased and the system has been improved and its use broadened.
Shares of recurrent expenditures budgeted for pro-poor outlays, especially health
and education, have been increased, but the gains have been eroded by inflation
and increases in the client base. Progress of civil service reform has been
marginal: although the number of Ministries has been reduced and 18 government
services were outsourced, the size and functions of the civil service remained
basically unchanged and the problem of salary compression were not resolved.
Agricultural markets were liberalized, and under the F'RDP II program the
government attempted to put in place a workable maize price band system. In
practice the maize price intervention has not worked. Moreover, the role of
ADMARC in the sector has reduced and NFRA is being developed as an
emergency relief organization. Consequently starting this year the practice of
setting maize price band has been abandoned and the movement toward
privatizing ADMARC seems to be losing its momentum.



iii
6.    The two FRDP programs supported actions that will have beneficial
effects over the longer term, a new set of tools for setting budget priorities and
managing expenditures are being institutionalized, privatization of state
enterprises is proceeding at a reasonable pace and the regulatory frameworks for
utilities and the financial sector are being strengthened.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
7.    Despite their shortcomings, performance of the Bank and Government and
overall implementation of the project can be considered satisfactory.
Implementation of the program supported by FRDP II presents a mixed, but on
balance satisfactory picture and the reform effort is likely to be sustained. The
first tranche of the credit was disbursed on effectiveness and the second tranche
was disbursed in December 1999, after a partial waiver of conditions relating to
outsourcing of government functions and preparation of a new regulatory
framework for the financial sector.
8.    It is clear that Malawi will require rapidly disbursing external assistance
for some time to come, and that there is still a substantial agenda of policy issues
to be undertaken. The issues is how to package policy conditions and amounts of
assistance to maximize the degree and pace of implementation -- whether to
continue along the lines of FRDP I and II, multi-sector, multi condition (omnibus)
operations attached to US$ 100 million (or more) multi-tranched IDA credits, or
to switch to smaller, more focused operations with all conditions fulfilled before
loan approval. The former approach has the advantage of economizing on Bank
staff and not requiring much analysis of the appropriateness of the package of
conditions. However, large amounts of money riding on a single operation make
it more difficult to withhold either board approval or tranche release. It also adds
to the temptation to load the project with process conditions to make it look more
rigorous. The latter approach requires more detailed consideration of the
sequencing of reform and the conditionality should be attached to each operation
and may require a broader spectrum of staff participation in preparation and
supervision, especially if individual operations have sectoral focus.
9.    The experience of this project tends to reinforce the lessons associated
with FRDP I.
i.    The project demonstrates once again the synergy between
macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms.
ii.    Careful and extensive preparation, including a strong background
of economic and sector work, extensive collaboration with
government, consultation with stakeholders and coordination with
other suppliers of external assistance and is a necessary but not
sufficient condition for execution of complex adjustment



iv
iii.   Fiscal restructuring and civil service reform should begin with a
fundamental reconsideration of the role of government undertaken
at the political level. Restructuring of the government, the civil
service and the budget must have political leadership and be based
on decisions about the future role of the public sector.
iv.    Protecting pro-poor fiscal outlays may prevent further deterioration
of services but it cannot address deep-seated problems of equity,
efficiency and quality of public health and education.
v.    Issuance of policy statements, appointments of commissions or
commissioning studies is not proxies for "ownership," especially
when they precede stakeholder consultation or parliamentary
consideration. Governments may begin to think carefully about
their commitment only when definitive, irrevocable actions are
imminent.
vi.    The willingness of private domestic or foreign enterprises to invest
in privatized state enterprises or functions in a small, poor country
without an established record of good management, cannot be
taken for granted, even with improvements in the legal and
institutional framework.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
THE SECOND FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM
CREDIT (FRDP II) AND THE SECOND FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND
DEREGULATION PROGRAM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Main Report
Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    FRDP II was the second adjustment operation designed to support the
process of policy reform initiated by the Government of Malawi that was
democratically elected in May 1994. That Government, unlike its predecessor,
was and remains committed to broad-based development and poverty reduction.
The Govermment demonstrated this commitment early on with landmark decisions
ending restrictions on smallholder production of burley tobacco (and other
limitations on private agricultural trade) and eliminating primary school fees. The
Government initiated monetary and fiscal policies designed to stabilize the
economy, began reform of tariff and surtaxes, and improved export incentives. It
also began the long process of streamlining government and reforming the civil
service, prioritizing government expenditures to emphasize pro-poor prograuns
such as primary education and health care, and privatizing state owned
enterprises. The Government's program was supported by FRDP I of SDR 73.2
million, US$ 106.4 million equivalent, approved in June 1996, and an IMF ESAF
arrangement.
2.    The macroeconomic stabilization measures and structural reforms
supported by FRDP I initially resulted in significant reduction of fiscal deficits
and inflation. The economy responded well to falling inflation and deregulation
of agricultural markets and GDP growth averaging 8% in 1995-97, about a third
the result of recovery from the 1994 drought. Growth was broader based and
more equitable than in the past with rapidly increasing smallholder productLion of
burley tobacco, growing rural markets and emergence of a fledgling
nontraditional exports. However, implementation of both the stabilization effort
and structural reforms faltered in 1997. Failure of expenditure control led to a
widening of the fiscal deficit and a resurgence of inflation. Structural reform also
bean to lag. There was little progress in restructuring of expenditures, civil
service reform and privatization were slower than expected. Nevertheless., almost
all the specific conditions for release of the second tranche were met and the
program was completed, after a partial waiver of a few specific conditions, with
disbursement of the second tranche in September 1997.



2
assistance component in FRDP I, the project is expected to close in March 2001).
The credit provided SDR 65.7 million (US$ 90 million equivalent) for balance of
payments and budget support. Simultaneously, a credit of SDR 1.3 million (US$
2 million equivalent) was provided as a Second Fiscal Restructuring and
Deregulation Program Technical Assistance Project. The credits were approved
and made effective in December 1998 and the first tranche was disbursed
immediately afterwards.
4.    Both, FRDP I and II were prepared and implemented against the background of a
difficult and complex political economy, where the forces for reforms were quite closely
matched (and often outmatched) by forces against reforms. It was also based on home
grown reforms prepared in the middle of a macroeconomic crisis. The policy dialogue on
the FRDP n, some specific aspects of its design (e.g. fiscal reporting framework that it
supported), and the money it provided all had important contribution in the maintaining
the stability of economy. The credit helped to restore fiscal balances from the crisis of
late 1997. It helped to avert another one that could have arisen due to large terms of trade
loss in FY 1998-99 (close to 2% of GDP), and potential fiscal overruns from the closely
contested election of FY 1999. Similarly, the quick disbursement by FRDP H in
December, 1998 after the large terms of trade losses and the resulting 60% devaluation in
the Kwacha in mid - 1998 helped to restore confidence.
5.    The overriding objective of FRDP II was to reinvigorate the Government's
stabilization and adjustment program and create conditions for accelerated GDP
growth and poverty reduction. It was estimated that a GDP growth rate of 5%-6%
p.a. would be needed to produce a decline in the poverty head count ratio from
43% to 38% of the population. This, in turn, would require raising private fixed
investment from about 4% to 7% of GDP. Improvements in the targeting of
public expenditures and government services would also contribute to reduction
of poverty. The program supported by the credit was thus designed to (i) assist
continuing government efforts to improve fiscal performance and achieve
macroeconomic stability by reforming the structure of indirect taxes, further
strengthening tax administration and improving expenditure prioritization,
management and control; restructuring government functions and the civil
service, and (ii) support policies to encourage growth of the private sector by
deregulation and development of markets for land and labor, strengthening the
financial market, accelerating privatization of government enterprises and
functions and encouraging private sector participation in the development and
improvement of infrastructure.
6.    The adjustment component was made available in two tranches, the initial
tranche of SDR 50.9 million (US$ 74.4 million) was disbursed on effectiveness,
and,the second, SDR 21 million (US$ 30 million) was disbursed in December
1999. The first tranche supported implementation of public expenditure
management and civil service reforms, and initiation of private sector and
infrastructure reforms. The second tranche followed implementation of policies
in public expenditure management, civil service reforms and private sector
development reforms against specified benchmarks. Of the 12 specific conditions



3
for release of the second tranche, 10 were fully met and a partial waiver was
granted for the other two (relating to the regulatory framework for the financial
sector and the outsourcing of some government functions).
7.    The FRDP II Technical Assistance Project financed technical support,
training and equipment to: (i) implement policy reforms, including the medium
term expenditure framework, auditing and reviewing the development budget,
reformning expenditure control procedures and systems, and implementing civil
service reforms; (ii) evaluate the impact of structural reforms on Malawi's
economy, in particular by examining the effects of liberalizing trade and exchange
rate policy on manufacturing, and liberalizing agriculture production and trade on
agriculture; and (iii) develop the agenda for the next round of macroeconomic and
sectoral policy reforms through research into further constraints to growth. A
separate Privatization Technical Assistance Project (US $ 10 million) provided
assistance to implement the privatization program
Achievement of Objectives
8.   Implementation of the program supported by FRDP II presents a mixed,
but on balance satisfactory picture. Performance under FRDP I demonstrated the
links between stabilization and growth, with stabilization being the key to
promotion of investment and sustained growth. Unfortunately, macroeconomic
stabilization proved to be the weak link in the chain of adjustment. During ].995-
97, macroeconomic management improved, inflation subsided and this, coupled
with structural reforms, led to recovery of GDP growth. However progress c,n
macroeconomic stabilization proved difficult to sustain and about the time FRDP
II was being prepared in late 1997 macroeconomic management went badly off
track. Weakened fiscal discipline resulted in an increase in the deficit to 12 % of
GDP in 1997/98 and to accelerating inflation and a slowdown in GDP growl;h to
below 4% per annum partly as a result of high real interest rates and unstable
effective exchange rates.
9.    Despite increasingly tight budgetary controls and expenditure cuts, fiscal
deficits have proved difficult to control and inflation continues to be a severe
problem. On average, consumer prices rose by 40% per year over the last three
years. Some of the fiscal pressures are due to high level of public sector
borrowing especially by the statutory corporations. In addition, during 1999 and
2000, Malawi also faced external shocks such as the high oil prices, low tobacco
prices, the political problems in Zimbabwe and the devaluation of the Rand. All
these shocks led to a sharp devaluation in the Kwacha and have adversely alffected
the fiscal situation. In early 2000, an IMF mission requested by the Government
alsa.identified arrears on domestic public expenditures. Since then the
Government has strengthened the implementation of the cash budget and the
commitment control system to address the problems of expenditure control.
10.  Implementation of structural adjustment policies supported by FRD]? II
also presents a mixed picture. On the positive side, significant improvements



4
continued in the tax and tariff regime and in export incentives. The privatization
program is being administered competently and is being accelerated and its
coverage expanded. Some of the second order problems of the private sector,
temporary employment permits and availability of land for industry have been
resolved. Positive steps have been taken in improving the legal and institutional
framework for private sector participation in the power and telecommunications
sector, but progress in identifying potential foreign investors has been limited.
Slower progress seems to have been made in improving the financial sector
regulatory framework and, here to, finding private investors has proven to be
difficult.
11.   Progress in institutionalization of the MTEF as a tool for prioritizing
expenditures has been slow, largely because of "ownership" issues and
weaknesses in the underlying budgetary processes. However, recognition of its
potential usefulness is increasing and the system has been improved and its use
has been broadened. Shares of recurrent expenditures budgeted for pro-poor
outlays, especially health and education, have been increased, but the gains have
been eroded by inflation and increases in the client base. Progress of civil service
reform has been marginal: although the number of Ministries has been reduced
and 18 government services have been outsourced, but the size and functions of
the civil service remain basically unchanged and the problem of salary
compression has not been resolved. Agricultural markets have been liberalized,
but movement toward changing the maize pricing regime and privatizing
ADMARC seems to be losing its momentum.
12.   The FRDP programs supported actions that will have beneficial effects
over the longer term: a new set of tools for setting budget priorities and managing
expenditures are being institutionalized, privatization of state enterprises is
proceeding at a reasonable pace and the regulatory frameworks for utilities and
the financial sector are being strengthened. On balance, the preliminary judgment
is that, despite their shortcomings, performance of the Bank and Government and
overall implementation of the project can be considered satisfactory.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
13.   Malawi is extremely aid dependent. External assistance was equivalent to about
15.3% of GDP in FY 98/99 (net foreign borrowing, 8.9% and grants 6.4% of GDP) and
financed 58% of the budget in that year (75% of the development budget). Delays in IDA
disbursements, which account for about 30% total disbursements of official loans and
grants, can have strong negative repercussions for meeting macroeconomic targets and
carrying out vital programs. The critical role of exterpal assistance was heightened in
1998 by a US$ 77 million (13.6%) decline in export earnings. The urgency of securing
external assistance appears to have led to the Government agreeing to take actions it
hadn't thoroughly considered and to the Bank to hasten development of the adjustment
program, including process conditions in the policy mix and compromising on some less
than satisfactory performance to ensure the flow of disbursements.



5
14.   The government's technical and managerial capacity and institutional structure
are quite modest and the scope and complexity of the FRDP II program proved to be
beyond the Government's ability to implement it in the short time provided by the initial
April 1999 target for disbursement of the second tranche.
15.   An additional complication was the scheduled national election in May
1999, in which the incumbent government was reelected with a reduced
parliamentary majority. This may have occupied the attention of key
policymakers and accounted for the government's moving cautiously on more
controversial policy actions.
Project Sustainability
16.   Malawi will continue to need quick disbursing assistance for some time,
and there are no indications that the Government has reconsidered its commitment
to the types of reform supported by FRDP I and II and the program should be
sustainable. Nevertheless, the Government has expressed concern about the pace
of adjustment and whether Malawi is liberalizing faster than its neighbors and
competitors, which, given its weak infrastructure and low level of
industrialization, is putting it at a competitive disadvantage. The issue seems to
be not whether reform will proceed but whether the pace and scope of reform and
the lending instrument are appropriate and consistent with Malawi's capacity.
Although some important actions continue to be taken in connection with the
project, in many of these still represented initial or intermediate steps that
required intense follow up activities and/or further action. It is clear that the
reform agenda is too broad relative to implementation capacity and that the scope
and sequencing of reform should be reconsidered.
17.   The main threat to the sustainability of reform is the difficulty the
Government is experiencing in maintaining macroeconomic stability. The
macroeconomic situation remains fragile and inflation continues to be a problem.
Larger than anticipated fiscal deficits, high rates of inflation and low GDP growth
can erode the social and political support for reform.
Bank Performance
18.   Bank performance in the preparation and supervision of the project was
satisfactory. The reform package was formulated after.consultations with
stakeholders during preparation missions and discussions of the August 1998
Country Assistance Strategy. Analytical underpinning of the credit was provided
by the IBRD study, "Accelerating Malawi's Growth" (September 1997). This
study concluded that a wide range of policy initiatives was needed to promote
high investment and growth including improved fiscal management, better
prioritization of public expenditures to ensure adequate funding of social sector
programs, improved land policies to encourage greater utilization of estate lands,
improved infrastructure services, increased the supply of industrial sites and
streamlined procedures for approval of employment of skilled expatriate workers.



6
Many of the policy issues identified by this study, were further analyzed in the
consultant studies financed under the associated TA project. The status of these
studies is indicated in paras. 43- 44.
19.   The Bank used economic and sector work effectively, maintained a close
and continuous dialogue with the Government, encouraged broad consultation
with civil society and stakeholders and maintained close relations with the IMF.
Lessons were drawn from the OED performance audit of the last completed
adjustment credit, the Enterprise Development and Drought Recovery Program
(Cr. 2396-MAI) approved in May 1992 and closed in March 1996.
Unfortunately, the ICR for FRDP I, which might have revealed other relevant
lessons, had not yet been not undertaken because the project had not yet closed.
The Government requested such an assessment in its aide memoire commenting
in the report of the FRDP II identification mission.
20.   FRDP II also incorporated recommendations from the review of high
impact adjustment lending and other OED reports (i) being grounded in a multi
sector economic work "Accelerating Malawi's Growth" and other sector work; (ii)
obtaining Government commitment and ownership (iii) arranging for broad
consultations with civil society; and (iv) being well embedded in the country
assistance strategy and supported by complementary credits in the areas of
infrastructure investment and private sector development.
21.   The Bank continued to overestimate the Government's ownership of and
capacity to carry out the complex reform agenda. In addition, it did not
sufficiently consider some regional implications of the reform agenda:
unregulated informal trade with neighboring countries and the relative pace of
adjustment of Malawi and its neighbors and its effects of competitiveness.
Finally, the Bank also underestimated the difficulty of attracting foreign investors
to privatized state enterprises and even attracting domestic private investors.
Borrower Performance
22.   Given its technical and managerial limitations, the performance of the
Borrower was satisfactory. FRDP II was based on detailed reform programs
prepared by the Government and spelled out in its Letter of Development Policy.
Government ownership of the program was publicly affirmed by the issuing of a
White Paper (in November 1998). High-level attention was ensured by assigning
the Cabinet Committee on the Economy responsibility for overseeing
implementation of FRDP II as a key part of the overall economic reform program.
The project incorporated several features to help ensure government ownership:
significant actions were taken before board approval, including further
improvements reforms in expenditure management, rationalizing Government
functions and the civil service and strengthening the privatization program.
However, government ownership of the adjustment programs the program may
not be as strong as it appears. The Government seems consider its commitment
seriously only when definitive, irrevocable actions are imminent.



7
Assessment of Outcome
Fiscal Restructuring
23.   Implementing the MTEF. Both FRDP I and II supported the adoption
and expanded utilization of a Medium Term Expenditure Framework as a tool for
prioritizing Government outlays. However, the effort undertaken to
institutionalize the MTEF and make it an integral part of the budgetary process
has not yet completely succeeded. At the outset, establishment of the MTEF was
discussed and agreed between the Bank and MOF technical staff. There was little
or no participation by sector ministries or by higher levels of Government. As a
result, MTEF was seen as a MOF/Bank initiative, not related to the work of the
ministries. It was not fully integrated with the regular budgetary processes. After
five years of gradual implementation, it has not yet evolved into the useful
prioritization tool it was intended to be. However, there is increasing awareness
of its potential value and progress is being made in improving and implementing
the MTEF system (a condition of release of the second tranche). Moreover,
FRDP II continued improvement of the MTEF by (i) including all
ministries/activities in the MTEF; (ii) integrating the development budget process
into the MTEF; (iii) bringing the salaries budget into the MTEF by considering
staffing requirements linking the MTEF to the functional reviews of the
ministries; and (iv) integrating the budget and MTEF cycles.
24.   Protecting Pro-poor Outlays The MTEF prioritization exercise was
incorporated in the 1998/99 budget and allocations for critical, non-wage current
expenditures were increased: agriculture by 22% over previous year, health
(24%), education (49%), and police services (23%). Expenditure on road
maintenance was increased by over 100% and was expected to meet around 7.5%
of road maintenance requirements. At the sub-sectoral level, projected real
allocations for provision of teaching and learning materials in primary and
secondary education, pharmaceuticals, preventive medicine programs, water and
sanitation, and road maintenance were increased or maintained at 1997/98 levels.
Non-essential expenditures in other sectors were identifies and reduced or
eliminated. Satisfying a condition of release of the second tranche, quarterly
expenditure monitoring targets were established and complied with.
25.   Even though there have been increases in budget allocations, per capita
health spending has been eroded by inflation, leading to stagnation of per capjita
outlays since the mid 1990s and health outcome have worsened. The combination
of nlaria, respiratory infections, diarrhea and ailments associated with
childbearing and childhood and a worsening HlV/AIDs epidemic have reduce:d
life expectancy at birth to 44 years. Public sector primary health services have
continued to deteriorate, partly because heavy loss of clinical staff and patients
continue to bypass primary and secondary facilities, clogging tertiary hospitals. A
fundamental reconsideration of the Government's health strategy is needed. This



8
should start with analysis of the burden of various diseases and the cost
effectiveness of interventions. Decisions then have to be made about which
interventions are handled most effectively in the public sector and which in the
private sector. The staff requirements of the public health system, both numbers
and levels of training should grow out of this analysis, and help reshape the health
education. Similarly, although the share of education in the overall recurrent
budget increased, per capita outlays have been eroded by increases in enrollment
and inflation. In fact, the real value of primary education spending per student in
1997/98 prices declined from MK 608 in 1994/95 to MK 336 in 1997. Primary
education outcomes are unsatisfactory: only 30% of students achieve standard 8
within the minimum number of years and only 10% of primary school students
progress to secondary school. There is undoubtedly a need for a major increase in
primary education outlays, but sector management and teacher allocations need to
be addressed, as does the issue of user charges
26.   Improving Expenditure Control The government agreed as a condition
of release of the second tranche of FRDP II to improve expenditure monitoring
and control. The supervision mission of March 1999 noted that Government
expenditure controls appeared to have been tightened. Monitoring reports were
being produced on a regular basis and being reviewed by the Cabinet Committee,
which asked Ministries for to explain deviations for budgets and plans for
corrective action. The Committee has been screening requests to extra-budgetary
expenditures, accompanied by a clear identification of expenditures to be cut. In
early 2000, an IMF mission requested by the Government identified arrears on
domestic public expenditures which suggested some problems with the
underlying commitment control system. Under the 10 point plan, as of July 1,
2000, the Government has put in place new rules to avoid accumulation of
arrears. These rules require controlling officers in line ministries to maintain an
up-to-date expenditure and commitment register. Ministries which do not submit
the commitment and expenditure returns in time would not be funded. All
ministries and departments now can plan their expenditures on the basis of a
quarterly budget allocation provided by the MOF. The actual commitments
however, are restricted to a monthly Credit Ceiling Authority (CCA), which is
generally one third of the quarterly ceilings.
Promoting Development of Agricultural Markets
27.   Privatizing ADMARC The FRDP programs have supported liberalization
of the maize market, allowing private traders to take over the functions performed
by ADMARC, which was to be privatized and commercialized. In fulfilling a
condition of release of the second tranche of FRDP II, the Cabinet approved a
priv,atization program for ADMARC that had been prepared by consultants. The
program called for ADMARC's commercial and developmental functions to be
separated and the company prepared for privatization. The profitable cotton and
tobacco sections of ADMARC were to be separated off and privatized. Excess
and unused facilities were to be sold and 40 sale points in favorable locations with
a strong private trading presence were to be privatized. The remaining



9
unprofitable sale points, were to be turned over to the recently established
National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA), until alternative social safety net
measures could be developed. The new, slimmer ADMARC trading company
would be privatized by about 2002. The National Food Reserve Agency was to
be made the principal instrument for maize market interventions. These
interventions were to take place on clearly established market-based rules using
purchases and sales to keep the maize price within a band established relative to
export and import parity prices.
28.   The consultant's report indicated that despite evidence to the contrary, the
majority of stakeholders still believed that ADMARC is critical in Malawi s
agricultural marketing system because there is a lack of capacity in the private
sector. During the last quarter of 1999, the Government was began consultations
with representative stakeholders (consumers, smallholders and farmer
associations) to tie down the details of provision of marketing services in remote
rural areas. These consultations have not yet been completed. The proposal for
privatizing ADMARC seems to be losing momentum and the Government niow
appears to be having second thoughts. To begin with, in most crops excepi: maize,
ADMARC is not as important as it was in the past, handling less than 10% of the
crop. Even in maize ADMARC does not enjoy monopoly rights on buying of
maize from small holders. Finally, it has not been easy find private sector buyers
even for maize depots in the profitable markets. Consequently, ADMARC has
proposed dividing its operations into commercial and "social" (200 unprof itable)
units. It would then contract to run the "social" operations, compensated by
Government. Government, as the sole shareholder in ADMARC, would receive
the profits from commercial operations as a dividend. The development and the
future of the social functions of the ADMARC is closely linked to the
development of the NFRA as a strong emergency relief organization.
29.   Implementing the Maize Price Band The FRDP II program called for
the Government to update the maize price band semiannually, based on a formula
that includes the import and export parity prices. T'he principle is that maize
from Government stocks and imports would be soldc at the ceiling price to contain
excessive increases in consumer prices and purchased at the lower price band to
support producer prices. Experiments with setting a maize price band have
proved unsatisfactory. Government attempts to implement a maize price band
have highlighted the lack of a suitable mechanism and institution for managing it.
In practice, maize market interventions set a ceiling price that was too low and
discouraged the supply of maize by deterring imports by private traders and
taxing producers. Moreover, because large fraction of Malawi's population lives
near its lightly policed i6oiders, maize trade is virtually unregulated and there are
likeJLy to be large flows between countries, diminishing the effectiveness oi
country-specific interventions to stabilize prices. Appreciating these difficulties,
since early this year, the Government has abandoned the practice of establishing
the maize price band. As per the new institutional structure, supported by the
Bank, the NFRA is being focussed on purely emergency relief operations in times



10
of draught. The rest of the maize marketing is being left to a combination of
private sector and ADMARC.
30.   Refornming Land Policy Land policy is a socially and politically charged
issue and, not surprisingly, progress in development of a new land policy has been
slow. A new policy framework is needed to provide and safeguard the
development of a land market, protect the security of customary tenure by
stopping arbitrary non-compensated transfer of customary land into leasehold
tenure, provide a framework for managing conflicting claims on land between
customary cultivation and leasehold, introduce procedures for charging and
collecting estate rentals that progressively reflect the economic value of leasehold
lands. In March 1996 the Government appointed a Presidential Commission of
Inquiry to review of land problems and recommend principles for a land policy
that would foster a more efficient, environmentally sustainable and equitable land
tenure system. The Commission's report was issued in November 1999. The
Policy Planning Unit of the Ministry of Land and Valuation is reviewing its
recommendations to define the new land policy principles and identify
institutional changes needed to ensure at secure land tenure arrangements and
sound land lease procedures. These conclusions are due to be presented in mid-
2000. The Bank seems to have discovered that land issues are too complex to be
addressed effectively in an adjustment operation and there was no follow through
in FRDP II.
Encouraging Development of Private Enterprises
31.   Privatizing State Owned Enterprises The Government initiated the
process of privatization of state owned enterprises in late 1994. The process was
assisted by an IDF grant which ended in 1998, and a follow up US $10 million
Technical Assistance Project approved in June 2000, is providing assistance to
implement the privatization program. A Privatization Bill was approved by
Parliament in spring of 1996, and detailed operational procedures for privatization
were prepared drawing on international best practices. Implementation of
privatization has been delegated to a Privatization Commission, which began
work in 1997 and is orchestrating individual transactions.
32.   Progress of privatization was closely monitored under FRDP I and
considered satisfactory. The privatization program effort is being intensified
under FRDP II. In August 1998, the Government approved a "Divestiture
Sequence List" of 100 enterprises held by Government directly and indirectly
through MDC and ADMARC. Until recently utilities and ADMARC's
agricultural operations were not included in the privatization plan. Under FRDP
II G.xvernment has agreed to offer for sale companies and banks owned by MRC,
ADMARC and government and parts of ADMARC's agricultural markets,
warehouses and trading facilities and these are included in the divestiture
sequence list. As a condition of release of the second tranche, the government
agreed to privatize 15 enterprises 1998/99. This condition was fulfilled as 17
enterprises were brought to the point of sale between July 1998 and October 1999



11
33.   Facilitating Temporary Employment Permits As part of the FRDP II
program the government decided to facilitate issuance of Temporary Employment
Permits. A new policy was gazetted in October 1998 enabling investors to obtain .
TEPs easily. The new policy introduces "key posts", for which TEPs will be
granted automatically, the number depending on the size of the investment. The
outcome of applications would be communicated within 40 days. Pernanent
resident no longer need TEPs to work. Review of the issuance of TEPs indicates
that the lag in approvals had been reduced.
34.   Resolving Industrial Land issues. Availability of serviced industrial
land and ready-made factory shells has been deemed to be important for
manufacturing growth. There is a perception among manufacturers that serviced
industrial land is scarce, in the sense of being expensive or unavailable. There
appears to be excess demand for factory space and factory shells, possibly
because of preference of businessmen for rentals, given economic uncertainty.
The authorities ration land allocations, encouraging investors to invest in land
without necessarily using it for industrial plant. In the context of FRDP I the
government undertook to provide more serviced industrial land so as to ease the
shortage. Between April 1997 and March 1998 25 serviced industrial plots were
offered in Lilongwe, and 12 in other locales. Between April 1998 and March 1999
120 plots were issued in Lilongwe and 10 in Mzuzu. However, the general issue
of Government subsidization of enterprises through provision of land and factory
shells has not yet been addressed.
35.   Improving Infrastructure The reform agenda by was expanded under
FRDP II to encompass measures to improve and expand infrastructure,
particularly in the power and telecommunications sectors. There are only about
40,000 telephone lines in working order and 70,000 electricity customers.
Government-owned Malawi Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (MvIPTC),
has had chronic operational and financial problems, relies entirely on public
sources of financing, and has little commercial autonomy. In the electric power
sector, the main supplier, ESCOM, has had difficulties in providing reliable
power services and faces serious financial difficulties. T'hese problems have
suggested a need for fundamental restructuring of these utilities,
commercialization and/or privatization, and private sector entry and competition
and FRDP II supported the implementation of actions leading to this.
36.  Implementation of telecommunications sector reform is proceeding
relatively well. As a condition of second tranche release, the Government
approved a new Communications Policy and the Communications Act No. 41 of
199. provides for opening all non-basic telecommunications services (mobile,
data, Internet, paging) to private service providers. In fact, two cell phone
operators (also a condition of release of the second tranche) and two Internet
providers have entered the Malawian market. The Government is now in the
process of splitting Posts and Telecommunications into separate businesses. This
has, however, proved to be a difficult and time-consuming task because of the



12
absence of financial records. Advisers have been appointed to assist in securing a
strategic partner for Malawi Telecom (also a condition of release of the second
tranche).
37.   Progress was made toward power sector reform under FRDP II. Actions
were initiated to resolve ESCOM's financial problems and to encourage private
investment in the power sector. As agreed under the FRDP II, an Electricity Act
was enacted to establish an independent regulatory body, the Electricity Council,
to license electricity producers (including ESCOM) on equal terms. A Power
Sector Policy Statement clarifying licensing and tariff rate adjustment procedures
was prepared, and on the basis of this, a new draft of the Electricity Act has been
prepared. However, the new draft has not yet received cabinet approval. In the
interim, the Government has taken steps to corporatize and commercialize
ESCOM and establish its commercial and managerial autonomy. The
Government has also initiated financial restructuring of ESCOM by converting a
portion of its debt to Government to equity, raising electricity tariffs by 35% to
help ensure ESCOM's financial viability. Although the reforms, identified in the
FRDP II were implemented, further progress leading to privatization of ESCOM
or a restoration of its financial viability has been slow. The strategy for
privatization of ESCOM is still under discussion, but the emerging consensus at
the technical levels seems to be to unbundle it into separate generation,
transmission and distribution companies (all still owned by ESCOM), and start
privatization with the distribution company. This approach, however has not
gotten political approval. Similarly, there have been difficulties and delays in
implementing the automatic tariff formula approved in May 2000, leading to
liquidity problems in ESCOM and debt service arrears to the Government.
38.   Reforming the Financial Sector The two dominant commercial banks,
the National Bank of Malawi (NBM) and the Commercial Bank of Malawi
(CBM), which account for more than 90% of all banking sector assets, are
controlled by Government, ADMARC, the MDC and the quasi-private Press
Corporation. The level of efficiency of the financial sector is low, as indicated by
large interest rate spreads, the limited range of financial instruments, and high
profit margins. Accordingly the Bank urged and Government agreed in FRDP II
to review financial sector regulation to identify reformns to strengthen and unify
regulatory framework and to issue guidelines for the privatization of the two main
commercial banks (conditions of release of the second tranche). Progress in
revising the regulatory guidelines for the financial sector has been slow, owing to
longer than expected delays in the production of the consultants' reports. The
interim reports were prepared in November 1999 and the final reports were
expected by January 3 t, 2000. In the meanwhile the Reserve Bank of Malawi has
set wp an internal working group to review all the recommendations and prepare
detailed proposals for reform. These proposals are expected to be prepared by
early 2001.
39.   Progress has also been slow in reducing the public sector's stake in CBM
and NBM. The Government has decided to privatize the CBM by the strategic



13
partner approach. The Privatization Commission has appointed advisers but no
qualified buyer has expressed an interest. In the case of NBM, the Governrnent
has permitted Press Holdings to increase its 48% shareholding to 51% by
purchasing part of ADMARC's shares. IDA has recommended additional
safeguards, including strict ceilings on connected or related lending of
commercial banks.
40.   Studies Financed under FRDP II Technical Assistance The objective
of the technical assistance provided under FRDP II was to provide technical
support, training and equipment to implement policy ref'orms, evaluate their
impact on Malawi's economy, and develop the agenda for the next round of
macroeconomic and policy reforms. A separate privatization Technical
Assistance Project (US$ 10 million) provided assistance to implement the
privatization program.
41.   A Power Sector Policy study financed under the project recommended
focusing the initial stages of reform on the distribution sector and maximizing
private sector involvement in new generation and distribution facilities. The
study served as background for a stakeholder meeting for preparation the Power
Sector Policy Statement issued in June 1999. The consultant-prepared Financial
Sector Regulatory Review of August 1999 provided an overview of the sector,
outlined the key issues and recommended a package of macroeconomic,
microeconomic, regulatory and institutional measures, including
recommendations for restructuring and privatization of financial institutions. A
study by consultants facilitated revision of Temporary Employment Permit
Policy. It helped dispel the widespread perception that a large number of
foreigners work on TEPs displacing Malawians. It also provided
recommendations for streamlining the procedures for obtaining permits arid for
clarifying TEP status. It suggested making permits for key posts transferable and
determined by nature of industry, and responding to all applications within45
days. A consultant study dated October 1999 reviewed supply and demand side
constraints for Access to Industrial Land/Infrastructure based of a
questionnaire survey and structured interviews and focusing on land, services and
factory space. The survey found that the problem was not a shortage of space but
shortage of government subsidized space. It found that prospective investors in
light manufacturing were unwilling to build their own factory shells because of
the combination of high cost, risk and lack of well-defined property rights. In
addition, because of overlapping departmental responsibilities and cumbersome
procedures made obtaining industrial sites was cumbersome and time con 3uming.
It called for a comprehensive review of land legislation and regulations with the
aim of reforming the legal and regulatory framework and increasing the supply of
privately owned land.
42.   A study of the manufacturing sector was included in the TA cornponent
of the operation to review sector response to adjustment programs and trade
liberalization. The issues to be addressed include (i) whether there has been de-
industrialization, (ii) has there been switching from competitive to noncornpetitive



14
sectors, (iii) which sectors have contracted and which expanded (iv) what can be
done to improve performance, (e) whether the country has benefited from trade
agreements. The main issues defined above were addressed in a study carried out
by the Bank as a part of its non-lending services and additional work is being
carried out under the ongoing Privatization and Utility reform Project.
Consequently this study was dropped and the resources reallocated to other
aspects of the TA program. In addition, consultancy services assisted the
contracting out process and provided software and training to support the MTEF.
Finally, US$ 500,000 was allocated for training
43.    Key Lessons Learned
1.    The project demonstrates once again the synergy between
macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms that was
apparent in FRDP I. Reaping the full benefits of structural reform
depends heavily on fiscal discipline avoidance of inflationary
pressures.
ii.    Careful and extensive preparation, including a strong background
of economic and sector work, extensive collaboration with
government, consultation with stakeholders and coordination with
other suppliers of external assistance and is a necessary but not
sufficient condition for execution of complex adjustment
iii.   Fiscal restructuring and civil service reform should begin with a
fundamental reconsideration of the role of government undertaken
at the political level. Restructuring of the government, the civil
service and the budget must have political leadership and be based
on decisions about the future role of the public sector.
iv.   Protecting pro-poor fiscal outlays may prevent further deterioration
of services but it cannot address deep-seated problems of equity,
efficiency and quality of public health and education. This is
probably best done in sector specific operations, not in omnibus
operations such as FRDP.
v.    It is easy to overestimate government ownership of programs when
their conditions involve processes. Issuance of policy statements,
appointments of commissions or commissioning studies is not
proxies for "ownership," especially when they precede stakeholder
consultation or parliamentary consideration. Governments may
begin to think carefully about their commitment only when
definitive, irrevocable actions are imminent.
vi.   The willingness of private domestic or foreign enterprises to invest
in privatized state enterprises or functions in a small, poor country
without an established record of good management, cannot be



15
taken for granted, even with improvements in the legal and
institutional framework.
Future Operation
44.   Malawi will require rapidly disbursing external assistance for some time to
come, and there is still a substantial agenda of policy reforms to be undertaken.
The issue is how to package policy conditions with amounts of assistance to
maximize the degree and pace of implementation. In other words, whether to
continue along the lines of FRDP I and II, tranched, multi-sector, multi condition
(omnibus) operations attached to US$ 100 million (or more) multi-tranched IDA
credits, or to switch to smaller, more focused operations with all conditions
fulfilled before loan approval. The former approach has the advantage of
economizing on Bank staff and not requiring much analysis of the appropriateness
of the package of conditions. However, large amounts of money riding on a
single operation make it more difficult to withhold either board approval or
tranche release. It also adds to the temptation to load the project with process
conditions to make it look more rigorous. The latter approach requires more
detailed consideration of the sequencing of reform and the conditionality should
be attached to each operation. It may require a broader spectrum of staff
participation in preparation and supervision, especially if individual operations
have sectoral focus.






DEC-20-00 04:48  FROM: TREASURY           6
Appendix: Borrower's Assessment
Telegmr: FpiANCI. Ulongwc                                     MINISTY OF F3INANCE
Telephone: Lilongwe 7B9 355                                     P.O. BOX 30049
Telex: 44407                                                      LILONGWE
FAx: 799 173                                                        MAt.AWT
E-mail: flnanca@fi'nn4c,mnlInwi.na t
Ref No: 32/1/6                              18th December, 2000
The Executive Director
African Department
World Bank
Washington D.C. 20431
United States of America
Dear Sir
COMPLETION WREPORT:mIALAWI FISCAL RESTRUCTIRING AND
D2EREGUILATION P!ROGRA-MME (F!RDP)
I wish to acknowledge receipt of the Fiscal Restructuring and
Deregulatlon Programme (FRDP) completion report submitted for our
comments. At the time we received the report, Govemrnent was also in
the process of evaluating the impact of the two FRDP credits on the
Malawi economy. The completion report did, therefore, contribute to the
evaluation of the credits. We, however, had some comments on the
completion report itself.
The implementation performance of both FRDP I and FRDP II
credits was generally satisfactory. As indicated In the report, except for
activitles relating to civil service reform, commercialisation and
privatisation of ADMARC, telecommunicatlons privatisatlon, and the
separation of the Finance and Audit Act Into two separate Acts on
Finance and on Audit, all activities supported by the credits were finalised
In good time.
The good performance of the economy during the period 1995-
1998 was a result of the reforms supported by the two credits. Of
course, certaIn other factors could also have contributed to this
performance. In particular, the Civil Service Reform Ihelped to detect
overlaps between ministries, which prompted a reduction In the number
of ministries from 27 to 19. However, streamlining of the service has yet
to take place and consultancy work on the ratlonallsation of the Ovil
Service is expected to be completed by April 2001.



DEC-20-00 04:48  FROM:TREASURY      17
Appendix: Borrower's Assessment
In the agricultural sector, reforms have necessitated tremendous
change in the characteristcs of production systems as well as In input
and output markets.  Competition now flourishes more than was
previously the case when markets were of a monopolistic and
monopsonostic nature.  There also has been an increase in total
agricultural output of both food and cash crops. On the other hand,
however, reforms In the agricultural sector have meant an increase In the
cost of production and thereby negatively affecting the smallholder
farmer. Also, lack of proper training for smallholder farmers in tobacco
production has compromised qualify leading to lower prices of the crop.
Privatisatlon has led to increased Malawian participation in all
sectors and ownership de-concentration in listed companies. Further, It
has promoted Malawian participation In rare sectors like formal
manufacturing sector and promoted partnerships and share-ownership.
The most far-reaching Innovation in the tax system was the
introduction of the Malawi Revenue Authority, which among other things,
was to strengthen tax administration, expand the tax base and allow
Govemment to increase revenue. In expenditures, the Medium Term
Expenditure Framework (MTFF) was introduced to Improve allocations to
higher priority programs.
Reforms in the financial sector resulted, among other things, on the
size of the Treasury bill stock growing from less than 0.1 percent of
gross domestic product (GDP) to 9 percent of GDP by 1998. The
liberallsation of the financial sector has resulted in Increased number of
banks and hence competition within the financial sector. However, the
improvement of regulatory and promotional services by the Reserve Bank
of Malawi Is necessary, as identified by the Bank funded consultancy on
the Regulatory Framework for the Financial Sector.
The introduction of free primary education In 1994 has led to
enrolment Increases by nearly a million. Community-driven projects have
helped organise and enhance community- demanded projects In school-
tuilding, water supply, health clinics, roads and irrigation. The Poverty
Monitoring System (PMS) has helped to measure changes in the welfare
of the people through regular household surveys. Inflation has, however,
eroded the gains In the poverty reduction area while macroeconomic



DEC-20-00 04:48  FROM:TRERSURY       18
Appendix: Borrower's Assessment
stability has remained elusive. On the other hand, the HIV/AIDS
pandemic continues to take away Malawi's productive labour force and to
raise the number of orphans in the country.
In addition to implementation problems highlighted in the
completion report, lessons from the FRDP II have also shown the need
for simpler design of programmes and less cross conclitionalities if the
objectives of the programmes are to be attained. The timing of targets
should be reviewed with a view to limiting benchmark'; to those within
the control of the authorities and not the legislature. The short and long-
term benchmarks should also be clearly designated and a balance needs
to be achieved In accessing the importance of attaining each one of
them.
Procurement delays also contributed extensively to the slippage of
programmes under FRDP II.  For instance, the process to appoint a
consultant took nine months. This was a result of the requirement for a
"no objection" to come from Washington despite the presence of a
procurement expert within the Malawi World Bank Field Office. It also
took some time for the Malawi Government and the World Bank to agree
on key issues in the programmes. This took up time originally budgeted
for such consultations.
In most cases of non-compliance, the problem has been largely In
the design of the programmes, with ownership lying in the bureaucrats
and not the people to benefit from the reforms. The! paper exercises
have therefore suffered from lack of consultatlon and participation by the
wider community in Malawi. For the successor credits to be successful,
Government will need to increase its consultations with key stakeholders
including the members of the civil society.
Despite a series of earlier adjustment operations, there remalns a
backlog of policy constraints which the Government is committed to
removing rapidly. To this end, the Govemment will continue with the
pursuit of prudent financlal policies and additional efforts to deepen
structural reforms geared at creating an environment conductive to
private sector development,  promotion of domes,tic savings and
Investment, acceleration of production and export diversification, further
development of human  resources, and  Improverient In physical



DEC-20-00 04:49  FROM:TRERSURY         19
Appendix: Borrower's Assessment
infrastructure. The Government will, therefore, continue with measures
to further Ilberalise agricultural production and marketing arrangements;
restructure Government establishments and the civil service to improve
efficiency and effectiveness in providing public goods and services,
Improve public expenditure management, continue with the privatisation
programme, and implement further tax and tariff reforms, among other
measures.
We trust that you will find our comments useful. But should you
need further clarifications, please do not hesitate to contact us.
Finally, we wish to thank the Bank for the continued support It
gives to the Malawl Government.
Yours sincerely
R.P.      llmodzl
SECRETARY TO THE TREASURY
Cc: Mr David G. Greene
Consultant World Bank
Washington D.C.



Statistical Annex
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A          Achievement of Objectives          Substantial         Partial                 Negligible           Not Applicable
Macroeconomics policies                                                                                                      l
Sector Policies
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives                                         V
Institutional Development                                                                                  V
Physical Objectives                                                                                        V
Poverty Reduction
Gernder Issues                                                                                             /
Other Social Objectives                                                                                    /
Environmental Objectives
Public Sector Management
Private Sector Development                                                                                 V
Other                                                                          _
Project Sustainability            Likely              Unlikely                 Uncertain
C          Bank Performance                  Highly               Satisfactory             Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                               V
Preparation Assistance                                       V
Appraisal                                                    V
Supervision
D          Borrower Performance
Preparation                                                  V
Implementation                                               V
Covenant Compliance                                          V
Operation                                                                                          _
E          Assessment of Outcome             Highly               Satisfactory             Unsatisfact         Highly
l________ I                                   Satisfactory       I                         ory                 unsatisfactory



21
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Loan/credit title       Purpose                   Year of            Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Fiscal Restructu-    Structural adjustment,       1996        Fully disbursed,
ring and Deregulation  macroeconomic stabilization,              except for
Program (FRDP)       Medium Term Expenditure                    technical
Framework, agricultural marketing           assistance
liberalization, comprehensive civil         component
service reform
Following operations
1. Third Fiscal     Structural adjustment, auditing and  Expected    Not yet appraised
Restructuring and    procurement reform, Telecoms    for 2000
Deregulation Program  privatization, banking and
(FRDP III)           agricultural marketing privatization
2. Privatization and    Assistance for the privatization  June 2000   Effective
Utility Reform      elements of the FRDP II,
Project.             particularly Telecoms, the airline



22
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                              Date Planned             Date Actual/Latest
Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)          Oct. 4, 1997                 Oct. 4, 1997
Preparation                                         June 28, 1998                June 28, 1998
Appraisal                                           March 1998                    March 1998
Negotiations                                        Oct. 13, 1998                Oct. 13, 1998
Letter of Development/Sector Policy (if applicable)  N/A                         Sept. 24, 1998
Board Presentation                                  Dec. 3, 1998                 Dec. 3, 1998
Signing                                             Dec. 4, 1998                 Dec. 4, 1998
Effectiveness                                       Dec. 7, 1998                 Dec. 7, 1998
First Tranche Release (if applicable)               Dec. 23, 1998                Dec. 23, 1998
Midterm review (if applicable)                      N/A                              N/A
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if applicable)  Dec. 28, 1999                Dec. 28, 1999
Project Completion                                  June 30, 2000                June 30, 2001
Loan Closing                                        June 30, 2000                June 30, 2001
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY99           FY00
Appraisal estimate                       60,000          30,000
Actual                                   61,678          30,136
Actual as % of estimate                  103%            100%
Date of final disbursement                            Jan. 5, 2000



23
Table 5: Key Indicators for Implementation
Area                Progress on Indicators For the Progress on Indicators for the Second Tranche
First Tranche
A. Fiscal management
I     Fiscal              Fiscal situation improved in 1998/99, Primary deficit was maintained at low level in 1999/2000
primary deficit brought down to .3%
of GDP.
2     Expenditure          MTEF used to prioritize expenditures Expenditure prioritization continued in 1999/2000. The
rationalization    in 1998/99. The share of          Government also maintained the share of expenditures on critical
expenditures on goods and services  items such as teaching and learning materials, pharmaceutical
was increased.                   services, road maintenance and water development,
pharmaceutical services, road maintenance and water
development.
The Government strengthened expenditure control in the year
2000 by introducing the commitment control system.
3     Tariffs             Tariffs were reduced from 19% in   Tariff reform continued with further rationalization of Tariffs.
1996 to 14% in 1998/99
4     Rationalization of    Completed functional reviews of    30 agencies and functions were to be privatized. Only 18
Government          eight Ministries.                achieved. Partial waiver was granted.
Functions
B     Structural Reforms
I     ADMARC                                                Prepared a privatization and commercialization plan for
ADMARC
2     Privatization        Identified a number of public    Of the 24 firms identified in the DSP, 18 have been brought to the
enterprises as candidates for    point of sale involving 8969 employees.
privatization along a divestiture
Sequence Plan(DSP)
3     Communication                                         Enacted a liberal communications legislation. Appointed advisors
to advise on privatization of MTL, and licensed two cellular
operators.
4     Electricity         Amended the Electricity Act and   Clarified the licensing and tariff adjustment procedures. In the
enacted legislation to implement the  year 2000, however tariff adjustments have lagged behind and
electricity bill. Established the  ESCOM has financial difficulties.
Electricity Council to regulate the
sector.
5     Financial Sector    Carried out a review of the financial An information memorandum to obtain the strategic partner in
sector                           CBM was published. The sale not concluded due to lack of
Issued guidelines for the privatization investor interest. Govemment also sold a portion of its
of two Banks.                    ADMARC holdings in the NBM. Sufficient progress was,
however, not made on issuing extend RBM supervision to both
banking and non banking institutions. Partial waiver was
obtained.



24
Table 6: Malawi - Key Macroeconomic Indicators
Actual                                      Est.
1996      1997       1998       1999       2000
GDP growth (constant, percent)                       7.3       3.8        2.0        4.0        3.2
CPI (end-of-period, %)                               6.7       15.2       53.1       28.2       23.5
Treasury bill rate                                  30.8       18.3       33.0       42.9
Exchange rate (MK/$, End of period)                 15.3       21.2       43.9       46.4       64.1
Money and quasi money growth (%)                    38.8        2.2       55.7       33.6       30.0
Percent of GDP
Gross domestic investment                           11.6       12.2       13.3       14.8       15.9
Gross domestic savings                               3.0       0.9        6.0        3.1        3.1
Gross national savings                               0.4       -1.5       1.9        1.4        3.8
Current account balance (% of GDP)
Excluding grants                                 -11.2      -12.5      -16 8      -17.0      -15.5
Including grants                                  -7.2       -9.2       -73        -8.3      -7.9
Gross International reserves (months of imports)     3.0       2.6        4.0        4.1        3.5
Fiscal balance (percent of GDP)
Excluding grants                                  -13.6     -13.3      -10.7      -11.1      -9.9
Including grants                                  -8.8       -9.5      -2.3       -4.0        -2.8
Primary balance                                    0.8       -2.3      -0.3       -0.5        0.0
Debt/GDP ratio                                       95        101.3      132        143        145
Debt service/ Exports                               16.9       14.7       19.3       19.7       20.7



25
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study            Purpose as defined at              Status                    Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
Power Sector     Background for preparation of  Being implemented.        Recommendation that initial stages
Policy           Power Sector Policy and        Consultative meeting held    of reform focus on distribution sector
stakeholder meeting on power    in June 1999.            and maximizing private investment
policy                                                  in new generation and distribution
Financial Sector    Background for revision of  Issues Paper submitted    Provided overview of sector, outlined
Regulatory       financial sector regulatory                              key issues and recommendations for
Review           framework                                                restructuring and privatizing
financial institutions
Government of    Update progress of contracting  Progress report - November  Reviews status of program and
Malawi           out program                    1999                      suggests draft agreement format for
Consultancy on                                                            contracts and local purchase orders
Contracting Out
Government of    Same as above                  Being implemented
Malawi
Consultancy on
Contracting Out
Continuation
Budgeting        Assistance including software and  Proposal submitted April
Program for      training for activity costing  1999
Activity Costing   related to MTEF
and Prioritization
(1999/00 Budget)
Employment       Review recent revisions in TEP    Draft submitted -July 1999   Recommends improvements and
Permit Policy    policies and recommends                                  clarification of "key posts" and
improvements                                            simplification of approval processes
Manufacturing    Review response of             Proposal submitted July
Sector Study     manufacturing sector to        1998
liberalization program, including
extent of de-industrialization
shifts of more competitive
activities, including exports,
impact of trade agreements and
cross border initiatives
Access to        Survey end users to identify   Completed October 1999    Should lead to reconsideration of
Industrial       demand and supply side                                   policy of subsidized government
Land/Infrastructur  constraints on land, services and                     provision of factory shells as the
e                factory shells.                                          major source of industrial buildings.



26
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                 (US$ million)
Item                              Local  Foreign   Total         Local  Foreign   Total
costs    costs                costs    costs
1. Staff Costs including travel     -       0.5      0.5           -       0.5      0.5
Total                               -       0.5      0.5           -       0.5      0.5
Table 8B: Project Financing'
Appraisal estimate            Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                   (US$ million)
Item                           Local   Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign    Total
costs     costs                costs     costs
IBRD/IDA                         -          -        90          -         -        91.8
Co financing Institutions        -          -        0           -         -         0
Other External Sources           -          -         0          -         -         0
Domestic Contributions           -          -         0          -         -         0
Total                                                90                             91.8
1 Note that this excludes the FRDP 1I TA project.



27
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Benefits
The large development agenda facing Malawi needs many years of economic reform
effort. FRDP II reinvigorated the government's stabilization and adjustment program and laid the
basis for an acceleration in growth and poverty reduction. The program supported by the credit
assisted in (i) improving fiscal performance and reforming the structure of indirect taxes, further
strengthening tax administration and improving expenditure prioritization, management and
control and restructuring government functions and the civil service and (ii) encouraging growth
of the private sector by further deregulation of agricultural markets and development of markets
for land and labor, strengthening the financial market, accelerating privatization of government
enterprises and functions and encouraging private sector participation in the development and
improvement of infrastructure.
The financing provided by the credit of SDR 65.7 million (US$ 90 million equivalent)
was a crucial element of the overall financing requirements in support of the balance of payments
and the budget. The parallel TA credit of SDR 1.3 million (US$ 2 million equivalent) was also
crucial in carrying out the studies which laid the basis for new legislation in electricity, financial
sector, civil service reform and privatization of government functions.
Costs
The adverse impact of the tariff adjustments in the FRDP II on the manufacturing sector
was not as serious as anticipated at the time of appraisal. A study of the manufacturing sector
done in 1999 by the bank indicated that the number of small and medium firms had increased
during the course of the FRDP II period. Similarly the impact of privatizing selected Government
functions on employment was also not as serious as anticipated at appraisal. Most of the workers
who were laid affected were able to find jobs in the privatized service or other employment.
FRDP 11 also did not have any adverse impact on the poor. Although some of the tariff
adjustments in the electricity sector may have hurt the poor the expenditure shifts in the budget
towards health and education more than compensated for this. In addition a successful
implementation of the parallel Malawi Social action fund operation helped by creating
employment amongst the very poor.



28
Table 10 -- Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section    Covenant    Description of covenant                                 Comments
Type
C3147           111.3.01    5              Carrying out Project in accordance witlh    In compliance
the implementation of the Program.
C3147           111.3.02    3              Procurement of goods and consultants in   In compliance
line with Bank guidelines
C3 147          111.3.03    9              Reporting to the Association not later than  In compliance
6 months after the Closing Date a plan for
the sustainability of Program  activities.
Covenants types:
1. Accounts/audits                                  8. Indigenous people
2. Financial performance/revenue generation from    9. Monitoring, review, and reporting
Beneficiaries                                10. Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3 . Flow and utilization of project funds           I 1. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. Counterpart funding                                  allocation
5. Management aspects of the project or executing   12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral
policy/regulatory/institutional
agency                                                 action
6. Environmental covenants                          13. Other
7. Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status
C       covenant complied with                      A        Satisfactory Compliance
CD      complied with after delay                   B        Procurement followed Bank procedures and
CP      complied with partially                                      guidelines
NC      not complied with
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title              Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. (none)                               (none)



29
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                       Revised                    Actual
Stage of project cycle    Weeks    US$               Weeks       US$            Weeks         US$
Preparation to Appraisal    N/A       N/A               N/A         N/A             80.8        440.3
Appraisal                 N/A         N/A               N/A         N/A             48.6        149.3
Negotiations through Board N/A        N/A               N/A         N/A             20.1        37.2
approval
Supervision               N/A         N/A               N/A         N/A             24.8        81.3
Completion                N/A         N/A               N/A         N/A               8         25.0
Total             N/A         N/A               N/A         N/A             182.3       732.8
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Ratingz
Stage of project cycle   Month/   No. of Days   Specialization'    Implem.         Developm    Types of
Year   Persons  in                          Status      objectives  Problems3
Field
Through Appraisal         Oct. '97    4       18
Nov. '97   4        19
Appraisal through Board    Feb. '98    5      20
approval                  June '98            17
Supervision               March '99  6        18
Completion                            1       18
Total
Key to Specialized staff skills:
Country Economist, Economist, Agricultural
Economist, Resident Representative, PSD
Specialist, OECF Representative



MAP SECTION






IBRD 31130
32'                                          TANZANIA                                                36'
To D o, S
0   20  40  60  80  100
KILOMETERS
MALAWI
,  t    ;X.   ,:, ~~~~z$  Lake  - 
X       >  v    , ;:~~~~hikangawa   S, Avgstn 0 ,7                                            >/
Z A  M  B I A                          X                          :ibA' )KHATA/  PRINCIPAL ROADS -
-  -2  t   j  t   /8hbvmuluii@AW  ----  SELECTED UNPAVED ROADS
121                                         /1anda                                                                                   12-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wn
it (, ' ti ./k0mt1t$/~~ RIVERS
\\   f 'gowa                    _____  TOWNS
/   ,/t    \__*                               (D    DISTRICT CAPITALS
-       Mc r  }  ,,  ; 014awi  \  *    NATIONAL CAPITAL
j0(.                     f. (_> %  _>  |     J)      -----  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
/9     | '  )KASUNp pU'iXaluo7 -u                    ---  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
,-HINJI    '  D A2 '>so-'J's  'N    -*&                                MOZAMBIQUE
<  To Losoo       *Mchinj                             -ka               n         ila
14'
~~~~. ~~~~~~~~  *~T.N6
3~                                                                   <s:                  ->    5  cc
I--  .r         j       \        a       W        N4tceu'zkz ,,-,          e     'Chiuto
__        KENYA R)                                                            Bolk      MAdHINGA;
DEMOCRATIC          (.rl                                           MOZ   MBIQ   E                         O          (M;ia   /
REFUB FC OF    'V,URN -t-                                                                                     -, -. - '-    ("o;  i \ |\ fae
CONGO                                                                                                         ZOA
r S l t ~~TANZANIA    9T    pNCIAN                                                                                      !0 Mnunr,n                16'  Z
-            1                              ChkaaOCEAN                   LANJE
ZAMBIA                       >MOZA MIU l      6                                                                           To Eei,o;CX < i    a lf 
t (   r   (t_j    /     /    t                \                  \_,             \  \ (~~      This map was produced by the
>s                                                                               t ;i / ff  L,.  A6i  Mop Design Unit of The World Bonk.
> so~~~~_f   ffi  9Ez ><   *ib    i       \                   \.    8 C 4!p ~~~~~~~~~~~~~The boundaries, colors, denominations
\^ ZIMBABWE  J                                   X\\, t' \ XChirasna    and any other information shown on
<tI                           )                         R    z     <                  > 2sh6e,.        ''~     '          this map do Tot imply, on the port af
> j t*   ' 4,                         World 3ank Group, any j udg ment
<                           ,OTWN  .              s A                                             \                )       o  h legal status of any territory, or
z ~    ~     ''SUh r    EOSAA    .28                                                                          JfNan je  any endorsement or acceptance of
|   .  |  SOUTH  A  +            t                                                 B   <    5        such boundaries.~~~~T. TI. A`  u
Jw AFRICA                                                     34 /\_                                            36G'br 0
ANGOLA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Otbr20



