Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: P 7273 MAI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
A PROPOSED CREDIT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
iN THE A\MOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 65.7 MILLION AND SDR 1.5 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR
THE SECOND FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM
AND THE
'.ECO\D FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
NOVEMBER 10, 1998
Tlhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
WVorld Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 1, 1998)
Currency Unit =  Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$ I =  MK42.875
MK I =  US$0.0233
SDR I      US$1.369863
MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
July I to June 30
(as of July 1998)
Vice President :C allisto E. Madavo
Country Director :Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager :Ataman Aksoy
Task Team Leader : Ahmad Ahsan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ADMARC             Agricultural Development and MIarketing Corporation
BOP                Balance of Payments
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CBM             :  Commercial Bank of Malawi
COMESA             Common Market for Eastern and Southem Africa
ESAF               Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESCOM              Electricity Supply Corporation i(previously, Commission).
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GOM                Government of Malawi
HIAL               High Impact Adjustment Lending
IBRD               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                International Development Agency
IDF                Institutional Development Fundl
IMF                International Monetary Fund
LDP                Letter of Development Policy
MDC                Malawi Development Corporation
MK              .  Malawi Kwacha
MPTC               Malawi Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
MT              :  Metric Tons
MTEF               Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
OED                Operations Evaluation Department
PAR                Project Audit Report
PCR                Project Completion Report
PFP             :  Policy Framework Paper
PRP             .  Permanent Residence Permit
PSD                Private Sector Development
RBM                Reserve Bank of Malawi
SPA                Special Program of Assistance to Low-income Debt Distressed
Countries in Sub-Saharan Africa
TA              :  Technical Assistance
TEP                Temporary Employment Permiit
TOR                Terms of Reference
VAT                Value Added Tax
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may nol: otherwise be disclosed without
World Ban}c authorization.



MALAWI
SECOND FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM (FRDP)
AND FRDP II TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Table of Contents
I.        INTRODUCTION .......................................................1
II.       ECONOMIC  DEVELOPMENTS AND  PROSPECTS ........................................2
Box 1: Policy Reforms Undertaken by the Government Since 1994 ..................  3
III.      THE REFORM  PROGRAM ......................................................6
A.        Improving Public Sector Efficiency .......................................................6
Improving Public Expenditures .......................................................6
Rationalizing Government Functions .......................................................8
Tax Policy Reforms .......................................................9
B.        Supporting Growth Through Private Sector Development ..............................9.... 9
Box 2: Policy Reforms Supported by FRDP II .........................................  10
Privatization ......................................................                                   11
Infrastructure Policy Reforms ......................................................                   12
Agriculture Markets and Storage ......................................................                 13
Maize Price and Marketing Reforms ......................................................               14
Facilitating Temporary Employment Permits ......................................................   14
IV.       IMPACT OF REFORMS ......................................................5    S
Box 3: Overview of FRDP II: Instruments, Intermediate Targets
and Outcomes ......................................................                                    16
V.   DESIGN OF CREDIT, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT .......  17
Lessons from Operations Evaluation Department Reports and
the High Impact Adjustment Lending ...........................................   17
Relationship with the Country Assistance Strategy ..........................    18
Disbursement Procedures and Implementation Arrangements .............  18
VI.    BENEFITS, RISKS AND GOVERNMENT OWNERSIHIP ...........................   19
VII.      CONCLUSION ......................................................                                      20



Annexes
Annex I             Matrix of Policy Reforms
Annex II            Government of Malawi's Letter of Development Policy
Annex 1I- I         Expenditure Prioritization Targets in the 1998/99 Budget
Annex II-2          Expenditure Prioritization/Medium Term Expenditure Framework
Preparation Plan for 1998/99
Annex II-3          Expenditure Monitoring and Control Procedures
Annex 11-4          Rationalization of Government Functions
Annex 11-5          Divestiture Sequence Plan
Annex II-6          Implementation Plan for Telecommunication Sector Reforms
Annex III           Previous IDA Adjustment Operations in Malawi
Annex IV     :      Status of Bank Group Operations in Malawi: IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Annex V             Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
Annex VI     :      Malawi at a Glance
Annex VII    :      Malawi Social Indicators
Annex VIII   :      Key Economic Indicators and Key Exposure Indicators
Annex IX            Balance of Payments
Annex X      :      Procurement and Disbursement Procedures for the FRDP II TA
Project
Map                 IBRD No. 29374
The FRDP II credit and the FRDP II TA Project were prepared by an IDA team consisting of
Ahmad Ahsan (Senior Country Economist and Task Team Leader, AFTMI), Peter Moll (Country
Economist, AFTM 1), Tejaswi Raparla (Research Analyst, AFTM 1), Rose Thunyani (Senior Task
Assistant, AFTM1), Elizabeth Adu (Principal Counsel, LEGAL), Steve Gaginis (Disbursement
Officer, LOAAF), Jim Smith, Deputy Resident Representative (AFMMW), Maxwell
Mkwezalamba (Economist, AFMMW),. Stanley Hiwa (Agricultural Economist, AFMMW),
Ahmet Soylemezoglu (PSD Specialist, AFTPI), Arnold Sowa (PSD Specialist, AFTPI), Paul
Bermingham (Principal Financial Analyst, IEN), Anna Bjerde (Economist) and Paivi Koljonen
(Economist, AFTGI). Peter Miovic (Sector Manager, AFTM2), Gene Tidrick (Lead Specialist,
AFTMI), and Shahid Yusuf (Economic Advisor, DECVP) were reviewers. Overall supervision
and guidance were provided by Robert Liebenthal (Resident Representative), Ataman Aksoy
(Sector Manager) and Barbara Kafka (Country Director).



MALAWI
THE SECOND FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM CREDIT
(FRDP II) AND THE SECOND FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION
PROGRAM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (FRDP II TA)
SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Government of the Republic of Malawi
Guarantor:                 Not applicable
Beneficiary:               Republic of Malawi
Amounts:                   SDR 65.7 Million (US$90 Million equivalent) and SDR 1.5
Million (US$ 2 Million equivalent).
Terms and
Commitment Charge:         Standard IDA Terms, with 40 years maturity and I 0-year
grace period.
Co-financing:              Co-financing discussions are taking place with the African
Development Bank and the Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund of the Government of Japan.   Staff from  these
organizations participated in the IDA Appraisal mission for the
credit.
Disbursement:              The FRDP II Credit will follow the Bank's new simplified
disbursement procedures for structural adjustment credits.
Under the revised procedures the Credit will be disbursed
against satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program
and not tied to any specific purchases. Once the Credit is
approved by the Board, and becomes effective the proceeds of
the first tranche of SDR 43.8 million will be deposited by IDA in
an account at the Reserve Bank of Malawi at the request of the
Borrower. The second tranche of SDR 21.9 million will be
disbursed after the second tranche conditions on expenditure
prioritization, rationalization of Government functions and
privatization have been met. The disbursement and procurement
procedures for the FRDP II TA project are laid out in detail in
Annex X of the text.
Objectives:                The proposed programs will support policy reforms to accelerate
economic growth and poverty reduction and technical assistance
to help implement policy reforms. The adjustment credit aims to
maintain the momentum of policy reforms launched by
Government of Malawi since 1994 by improving public



expenditure management and promoting private sector
development. The credit will help to meet the balance of
payments financing requirements that Malawi faces this year that
have increased due to a sharp fall in export earnings, and to
implement policy reforms by maintaining economic stability and
mitigating the transitional costs of adjustment.
Objectives FRDP II
TA Project:                FRDP II Technical Assistance Project has been designed to
provide necessary technical support, training and equipment to
meet three objectives: (i) implement policy reforms, including
the medium term expenditure framework, auditing and
reviewing the development budget, reforrning expenditure
control procedures and systems, and implementing civil service
reforms; (ii) evaluate the impact of structural reforms on
Malawi's economy, in particular by examining the effects of
liberalizing trade and exchange rate policy on manufacturing,
and liberalizing agriculture production and trade on the
agriculture sector; and (iii) develop the agenda for the next ound
of macroeconomic and sectoral policy reforms through research
into further constraints to growth.   A separate proposed
Privatization Technical Assistance Project (US $ 10 million) will
provide assistance to implement the privatization program.
Government Commitment:    The Government of Malawi has a credible track record of
implementing policy reforms (see Box 1, pp. 3 of President's
Report).  The FRDP II credit is primarily based on detailed
reforms programs prepared by the Government in the areas of
expenditure management, rationalization of Government
functions and privatization. Following this, the basis of the legal
documents, the Development Credit Agreements has been the
Government's Letter of Development Policy which details, in
the text and in Annexes all these reforms. This ownership of the
design of the program will be publicly affirmed by the
Government issuing and disseminating a White Paper (in
November 1998) presenting this reform program to the people of
Malawi. The Cabinet Committee on the Economy will oversee
the implementation of the FRDP II as a key part of its overall
economic reform program. This committee will be assisted by a
Task Force of officials led by the Ministry of Finance to
supervise and to coordinate the implementation of the program.
Benefits:                 The reform program, supported by this credit, will benefit the
people of Malawi by leading to accelerated reduction in poverty
in two ways: (i) helping to create conditions -- macroeconomic
stabilization, improvement in infrastructure and major advances
in privatization --for a broad based GDP growth of between 5% -
6% p.a. in the 1999 - 2001 period; this high case scenario
ii



should, ceteris paribus, lead to a decline in the poverty head
count ratio from 43% to roughly 38% of the population in the
next five years; and (ii) by improving the targeting of public
expenditures and Government s:rvices towards the poor.
Risks:                     The key risk arises from the possibility that the commitment to
policy reforms may be unsteady, especially in the face of
approaching elections in May 11999. However, in early 1998, the
political economy changed mairkedly as a reconstructed cabinet
committee on the economy has now the authority to make and
implement key decisions on the economy. Nevertheless, in the
run up to the elections these ris:ks will persist: there will be, inter
alia, pressures to relax expendliture controls, provide subsidies
on inputs and on credits to farmers, avoid difficult decisions in
areas such as retrenchment of unqualified civil servants, and sell
large assets to non-indigenous persons.
However, these political risks are moderated by the GOM's
appreciation of the gains that can be obtained through
implementing these reforms and by making the people aware of
the benefits of these reforms. Government can get credit for
welfare improvements from directing public expenditures to
goods and services that benelit the poor, and lead to a more
equitable distribution of income and opportunities, generating
growth and employment through deregulation and private sector
development, implementing safety net programs to help the poor
such as the starter packs program of 1998/99 that will distribute
0.3% of GDP in input packages to smallholder households,
expanding the public works program and the smallholder credit,
and providing a temporary subsidy to Government sales of
maize to ease the burden of a sharp increase in prices.
The second risk arises from the lack of capacity to implement
this multi-pronged operation. This risk is being addressed by
providing technical assistance and by setting up a high level
Government body to oversee the implementation of these
reforms and mobilize necessary resources for doing so.
The final set of risks are posecl by exogenous shocks such as the
effects of drought or large terms of trade losses, such as those
between 1992 and 1994, and 1998, on savings, investment and
growth. The risks posed by these exogenous shocks are best
addressed in the long run by economic growth, employment and
diversification through implenmenting structural reforms that are
supported by this credit. In the short run the disbursements from
this credit will provide the economy a buffer against these
shocks and thereby help the Government maintain the course of
reforms.
...



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF TH[E PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 65.7 MILLION
(US$ 90 MILLION EQUIVALENT) TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI FOR
THE SECOND FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM (FRDP
II) AND SDR 1.5 MILLION (US$ 2 MILLION E]QUIVALENT) FOR
THE SECOND FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (FRDP II TA)
I.    Introduction
1.    This memorandum seeks approval to extend a SDR 65.7 million (US$ 90 million
equivalent) structural adjustment credit to Malawi in support of policy reforms to accelerate
economic growth and poverty reduction, and a Technical Assistance Project of SDR 1.5
million (US$ 2 million equivalent) to help implement poliicy reforms.' The credit aims to
maintain the momentum of policy reforms launched by the (Government of Malawi since 1994
by improving public expenditure management and promoting private sector development.
The credit will help to meet the balance of payments financing requirements that Malawi faces
this year that have increased due to a large fall in export earnings, and to implement policy
reforms by maintaining economic stability and mitigating the transitional costs of adjustmnent.
2.    The proposed credit will support Government's policies to reduce poverty in three
ways. First, by creating the policy environment for higher private sector investment and
efficiency, leading to a sustained and diversified growth of GDP of around 5 to 6 % per annum
-- without which there may be no reduction in poverty in Malawi.2 Second, by supporting
Government policies to redirect expenditures into social sectors and programs that benefit the
poor. The targeted growth rate combined with a better targeting of public expenditures to the
poor -- i.e. a more equitable distribution -- should lead to an accelerated reduction of poverty.
Third, the financing of the credit will help Government to maintain macroeconomic stability in
a year affected by a large terms of trade shock (a 28% drop in tobacco prices) and a US$ 60
million (over 3% of GDP) cut in export earnings.
3.    This credit comes at a critical period, when Malawi is at a crossroads: it can deepen
reforms launched in 1994 which led to economic stabil:ity, and liberalized the economy,
especially in agriculture, with impressive results (see Box 1, pp. 3). Or Malawi can slip into a
costly period of instability and lost growth, as it did in the second half of 1997 and early 1998.
A broad range of key policy reforms undertaken by the Government in recent months (see Box
2, pp. 10) underscores the Government's renewed commitment to deepen structural reforms
and sustain growth and poverty reduction.
' The implementation of these policy reforms will also be supported by technical assistance provided from other
sources such as the Institutional Development II credit ($22 million), and the proposed Privatization TA credit
(US$ 10 million).
2 The study, "Accelerating Malawi's Growth" (September 1997) showed that, with unchanged income
distribution and population growth, Malawi needs an annual growth rate of GDP of 5.3% to reduce the absolute
number of people living below the poverty level.



4.    Malawi went off-track its macroeconomic program in December 1997, during a period
of uncertainty and large expenditure overruns. In March 1998, Government appointed a new
economic management team with wide authority to design and implement stabilization and
structural reforms. Subsequently, in May 1998, the Government and the IMF agreed on a Staff
Monitored macroeconomic program that, after satisfactory implementation, will now lead to
the renewal of the third year arrangement of the current Extended Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF). The staff papers recommending approval of this arrangement will be issued
to the IMF Board in early December 1998 for their Board meeting in mid-December 1998.
Given that Malawi is implementing a satisfactory medium term macroeconomic framework
and has started implementation of wide ranging structural reforms, and that there is a serious
foreign exchange shortage that can destabilize the economy over the medium term unless
quick balance of payments support is provided, this adjustment credit is being submitted for
consideration by the Bank's Board of Directors two weeks ahead of the Fund Board's
consideration of the third year ESAF Arrangement.
II.    Economic Developments and Prospects
5.    In the first 15 years after independence in 1964, Malawi's GDP grew at an average
annual rate of nearly 6%. But the fruits of this growth were poorly distributed3, and growth
itself was narrowly based on estate owned
agriculture, and large public and private Table 1: Some Economic and Social Indicators
conglomerates protected by pervasive barriers  Economic Indicators     Malawi  SSA
to entry. As a result, at the end of this period  Per capita income (USS)  220    490
Malawi emerged with one of the worst sets of  Population (millions)       10.3  583
human welfare indicators in the world [See    of which urban %            13     31
Table 1 and Annex VII for datal.  Then,  Agriculture as % of GDP         32      24
starting in the late 1970s, Malawi suffered from   Social Indicators     13      30
a series of exogenous shocks -- high import  Life expectancy (years)     43      52
costs due to disruptions in trade routes, oil  Adult illiteracy (%)      43      44
price shocks, the influx of refugees from   Infant mortality rate (per 000)   133  91
Mozambique, and droughts -- that disrupted  Child mortality rate (per 000)    225    157
Access to safe water (%)    54     47
even this pattern of growth.  Since 1981,  Primary enrollment (%)        81      75
Malawi has been implementing policy reforms,    Male                     84      82
supported by successive adjustment credits, to    Female                 77      67
stabilize and restructure its economy, but with  HIV prevalence
little sustained success. These policy reforms    among sexually active adults(%) 13  na
and .Iwomen in urban antenatal   3 1     na
mainly aimed to stabilize the economy, and       care clinics(%)
liberalize international trade, investment
licensing and financial markets, while
neglecting important structural regulatory constraints and entry barriers in product and factor
markets. The results were poor, and the growth rate of GDP during the 1981 -1994 period was
2.4% per annum, well below the annual population growth rate of 3 %.
3 Malawi's Gini coefficient of 0.62 makes its income distribution among the worst in the world
2



Box 1: Policy Reforms Undertaken by Government Since 1994
Fiscal, External Sector and Financial Policy Reforms
*  Implementation of stabilization policies that have brought down fiscal deficits (before grants) from 28 % of
GDP (1994/95) to 8% of GDP (1996/97), before increasing it again to 12% in 1997/98.
*  Reforms in tariff and surtax policies, that have reduced average weighted statutory tariffs from 19% 1994 to
around 14 % currently. Surtax refonns extended the base and rationalized rates.
*  In expenditures the share of education and health sectors increased lFrom around 14% of expenditures to 26%
in 1997/98. A medium term expenditure framework was introduced to manage expenditures.
*  The exchange rate was floated in 1994 and Malawi attained current account convertibility in 1995.
*  A treasury bill market was successfully launched avoiding inflationary borrowing from the Reserve Bank.
*  The stock exchange was opened in 1996.
*  Export processing zone (s) were introduced, while the processing oiF export duty drawbacks was improved to
increase incentives for exporters. There is now a fledgling export oriented manufacturing sector in garments
and cut flowers.
Civil Service Reforms
*  The ci-il service structure has undergone significant changes as 20,1300 new teachers were appointed in place
of 20,000 other temporary employees who were laid off.
*  A Civil Service Reform Action Plan was adopted and is now being implemented. Under this, the common
services cadre was abolished enabling better accountability and management in professional services.
-  The completion of the first phase of the Functional Reviews of the Government and rationalization of
Government ministries was completed in 1996. Based on that the number of Ministries have been reduced
from 27 (June 1997) to 19 (March 1998).
Agriculture
-  Restrictions on smallholder production of tobacco were removed by amending the Special Crops Act
*  Restrictions on private trading in fertilizer, seeds and burley tobacco were removed.
-  Subsidies on fertilizer were removed.
*  The agriculture financing system was revamped by introducing the Malawi Rural Finance Company on a
sound financial basis in place of the Smallholder Agriculture Credit Authority that went bankrupt.
Transport, and Private Sector Development
*  The Malawi Railways a parastatal, previously a big drain on Government finances, was restructured. A new
company was formed, and will be transferred to private management as a concession by end- 1998.
*  The minimum freight charges on domestic transport were eliminated (1996), and imports of second hand
transport and equipment were deregulated, leading to more competjition and services.
*  A Privatization Law was passed (1996) laying the legal foundations and the institutional framework for
privatization. Some 25 companies have been privatized.
Social Sectors
*  Primary education was made free in 1994. In response, enrollment increased by nearly a million.
*  Government has also launched a secondary education expansion program to accommodate the rising number
of primary school graduates (1997).
*  A Social Action Fund (MASAF) is being used to help organize and finance 988 (as of June 1998)
community demanded projects and support public works. The communities play a critical role in designing
and funding these projects in building classroom, boreholes, clinics, roads and irrigation.
*  A Poverty monitoring system has been launched to measure changes in the welfare of the people through
regular household surveys.
3



6.    Since 1994, however, with the advent of new political leadership, the pace of reforms
accelerated significantly (See Box 1, previous, for details). Supported by IDA adjustment --
the Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Credit approved in April 1996 -- and investment
credits, the Government removed restrictions on small-holder production of burley tobacco and
other cash crops, liberalized the trading of agriculture outputs and inputs, launched major
programs of privatization, civil service reforms and expenditure prioritization, implemented
substantial tariff and surtax reforms, and attained current account convertibility. At the same
time, large investments in education, health and community development took place.
7.    The economy responded well to these reforms. Macroeconomic balances were
stabilized as fiscal deficits (before grants) were reduced from 28% in 1994/95 and 15% in
1995/96 to around 8% in 1996/97, mainly through expenditure adjustments. The average
annual inflation rate4 fell from 83% in 1995 to 9 % in 1997, interest rates declined and the
exchange rate, floated in 1994, was stable as foreign exchange reserves rose to more than four
months of imports by end 1996. Growth averaged more than 10 % p.a. in the last three year
(1995 - 1997), although around a third of this growth was based on recovery from the 1994
drought. Equally significant, this recent growth has been more broad based and diversified
than anytime in the past, and is being led by the small-holder economy and the service sector.
Smallholder production of burley tobacco -- the most valuable cash crop produced by Malawi -
- has increased threefold since 1993. This has injected US$ 185 million in earnings in the last
two years into the smallholder economy, and generated growth of trading, markets and other
secondary activities in the countryside.  A non-traditional exports sector has emerged,
exporting garments and cut flowers and has grown by 80% in US Dollar terms between 1995
and 1997, albeit starting from a small base.
8.    But macroeconomic performance slipped again in the second half of 1997 mainly as a
result of loss in expenditure control.  A higher than budgeted wage bill, excessive travel
related expenditures, and a shortfall in income tax collections resulted in an increase in the
1997/98 fiscal deficit to 12 % of GDP, while the primary deficit' -- targeted to be zero -- was
4.6% of GDP. At the same time gross official foreign exchange reserves declined to 2.1
months of imports of goods and non-factor services at end-1997 and the exchange rate
depreciated by nearly 60% in 1998. This large depreciation reflected the correction of the
previously misaligned rate, terms of trade losses, depreciation in the currencies of major
trading partners as well as lack of confidence in the private sector on the Government's
commitment to stabilization and reforms.
9.    In addition to continuing problems in expenditure management, Malawi's growth
prospects confront deep-rooted structural problems, vulnerability to shocks and an overall
inhospitable climate for the private sector. This is reflected in low private fixed investment
and gross domestic savings rates which have averaged around 4 % (gross private investment
including inventories was more than 3% of GDP) and 1.5% of GDP6 respectively, in the last
4 The change in the average annual CPI index over the previous year's average CPI index.
5 Primary deficit is defined as overall deficit less interest payments and foreign financed development
expenditure: (All Expenditure - Revenues) - (Interest Payments + Foreign Financed Development Expenditures).
6 This refers to only the measured investrnent which probably underestimates investment in smallholder
dwellings, the purchase of transport (e.g. the large sale of bicycles in the countryside) and other such activities.
4



two years.' Crowding out by high Government consumption and domestic borrowing (5% of
GDP in 1997/98), a shallow and oligopolistic financial sector, deteriorating infrastructure, the
dominance of inter-locking public sector ownership in production, trade and finance, and
bureaucratic red tape all deter private investment and savings. Malawi's economy also remains
highly vulnerable to shocks: as in 1998, there were also large income losses between 1992-
1994 (cumulatively 10% of GDP) due to deterioration in terms of trade. Poor rainfall in 1997
led to a 23 % drop in maize production -- the main staple. Hence a key task clearly is to
accelerate the diversification of the economy to make it less vulnerable to such shocks.
10.   As noted, Government launched wide ranging reforms in 1995 and 1996 supported by
the last IDA adjustment credit, the Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program. This new
credit will complement the previous adjustment credit by focusing more on reforns to promote
private sector led growth in the non-agriculture sector, through accelerating privatization and
infrastructure development thereby diversifying the economy and making it less vulnerable to
shocks. Alongside, public sector management reforms will increase the focus of Government
functions and expenditures on public goods and services, and strengthen expenditure
monitoring and control systems.
11. This program of policy reforms is also underpinned by a strong stabilization program that
is expected to be supported by the renewal of the IMF ESAkF program. Under this program
GDP growth, expected to decline to 4% in 1998, is projected to increase to around 5% in 1999
and even higher thereafter as the economy adjusts to exchange rate depreciation and the export
price shock of 1998. The primary fiscal balance in 1998/99 is expected to improve by around
4.5 % points of GDP, compared to 1997/98, even though the budget accommodates
Government expenditure for the May 1999 elections, an increase in development expenditures
and provision for a temporary subsidy on maize sold from Government stocks as a social
safety net measure 8. The program includes a large repayment of domestic Government debt
(by over 6% of GDP in 1998/99), which will ease pressure on interest rates and the exchange
rate, an increase of external reserves to more than 3 months of imports of goods and non factor
services by end of 1998 and to around 4 months by end-1999, and a tight monetary policy --
with declining net domestic assets in 1998 -- which still accommodates a real increase of credit
to the private sector. Inflation is expected to average around 30% in 1998 and then decline to
around 25% in 1999 as the effects of the 1998 exchange rate depreciation is expected to cause
high inflation in the first half of 1999. The program is also expected to supported through
1999 by an increase of external assistance to around US $ 340 million in 1999 both through
lending and grants. Malawi's external debt burden is high vhich makes it a severely indebted
low income country. However, debt sustainability anal,ysis carried out for the last CAS
(August 1998) have confirmed previous findings that M:alawi's external debt position is
expected to improve over the medium term, thereby making it ineligible for the HIPC
initiative. Given Malawi's borderline situation, Malawi's debt position will be continuously
monitored. The next debt sustainability analysis will be undertaken before end-1998.
7 Private total investment has averaged around 8% in the past three years. However, this includes nearly 3% of
inventory changes.
' The landed price of maize imports has increased by nearly 100% in 1998/99 mainly because of depreciation.
The maize subsidy thus cushions maize buyers by allowing more graduail increase in the price of maize in one
year.
5



III.  The Reform Program
12.   The proposed credit supports structural reforms in two main areas: (a) public sector
reforms to improve the quality and management of public expenditures, restructure
Government functions and the civil service in line with priorities; and (b) private sector
development reforms through privatization and improving infrastructure policies (Box 2, p. 10
provides a full list of the policy reforms undertaken under this credit). A complementary
package of investment operations and technical assistance is designed to help implement these
measures and longer term institutional reforms [See Annex I]. These reforms are based on
consultations with stakeholders during the preparation missions and discussions on the August
1998 Country Assistance Strategy.
13.   The main analytical underpinning of the credit has been provided by the study,
"Accelerating Malawi's Growth" (September 1997). This study concluded, inter alia, that a
wide range of policy reforms was needed to promote high investment and growth rates
including (i) good fiscal management, i.e. keeping budget deficits low, avoiding domestic
financing of deficits, and prioritizing expenditures to ensure adequate funding of key social
sector items; (ii) improving land policies to encourage higher utilization of estate lands through
facilitating sale and sub-lease arrangements, streamlining land transfer and titling
requirements; (iii) improving infrastructure services and inviting private sector participation in
infrastructure; and (iv) increasing the supply of industrial land sites and streamlining
procedures for the approval of employment of skilled expatriate workers. The proposed
reform program focuses on some of these key recommendations: improving expenditure
management, accelerating privatization and private sector development, and improving
infrastructure.
A.   Improving Public Sector Efficiency: Expenditure Policy Reforms,
Rationalization of Government Functions and Tax Reforms.
14.  Improving Public Expenditures: Improving the quality and management of public
expenditures is among the most important challenges facing Malawi. A significant positive
shift in public expenditures has taken place in favor of the social sectors in Malawi as the share
of education and health increased from 14% of all aggregate expenditures in 1993/94 to a
planned 29% in 1998/99. As a result, the share of Malawi's expenditures in social sectors
compares favorably with many other countries. Hiowever, public expenditures have continued
to be a problem in three respects.
15.   First, public expenditures and functions have been thinly spread over too many
activities. Given existing trends, recurrent expenditures are expected to be 20% less than
requirements in 2005 even after assuming that non-essential areas are excluded. Critical
expenditures on public goods (such as road maintenance, which received only 40% of its
required expenditure in recent years) and key social sector programs where there are strong
externalities -- such as primary education, and primary health care programs -- have been
inadequately funded. The full implementation of the Government's secondary school
6



expansion program would require that education's share of the recurrent budget rise from 23%
at present to nearly 40% in the next three years, if cost recovery is not improved.
16. Second, as there will be probably be a cut in the goods and service budget in real terms in
the 1998/99 fiscal year, compared to 1997/98, it becomes even more important to prioritize
expenditures.9 Without prioritization, such expenditure cuts can become unsustainable and
damaging. Third, weaknesses in prioritizing the budget have been compounded by poor
expenditure monitoring and control procedures.  As a result, actual expenditures deviated
sharply from budgets, as in 1997/98 when travel and travel related expenditures were 50%
higher than budgeted in the first nine months of the fiscal year, while expenditures on teaching
and learning materials were only 40% of what had been budgeted.
17. Government has used the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) -- introduced
under the FRDP credit, to prioritize expenditures in the last three years. First introduced in the
planning for recurrent expenditures only in four ministries in 1996 and then gradually extended
to other Ministries, the MTEF introduced a process of strategic thinking under which key goals
of the Ministries were defined and mapped to programs and sub-programs. The costs of these
programs were to be estimated and prioritized within the overall resource envelope depending
on their relevance to the objectives. This exercise was to provide the basis for activity based
budgeting and prioritization of expenditures based on the importance of these activities. All
these steps represent important advances.
18. However, the MTEF process was undermined in the past by some serious weaknesses in
implementation including: (i) lack of involvement of senior managers -- both Ministers and
civil servants; (ii) lack of clear decisions on inter-sectoral and intra-sectoral allocations based
on explicit choices and trade-offs under which expenditures in non-essential items are reduced
sharply or completely cut providing room for more expenditures in priority areas; (iii) lack of
clearly defined and prioritized strategies, programs and outputs of Ministries and the costing of
such programs and outputs; (iv) delays in preparing and forecasting the sectoral allocations and
indicative ceilings in a timely manner; and (v) failure to effectively integrate the development
budget and the programming of aid resources into the MTE,F budget. As a result, the MTEF
turned into more of a pro forma accounting exercise than a strategic resource allocation plan.
19.   The Government is now addressing these problems.  The MTEF has been made
comprehensive and integrated with the budget process. Two rounds of expenditure
prioritization for the 1998/99 budget increased allocations of expenditures on current non-
wage expenditures for agriculture (by 22% over previows year), health (24%), education
(49%), and police services (23%) sectors. The expenditure on road maintenance has been
increased sharply by over 100% and is expected to meet around 75% of road maintenance
requirements. At the sub-sectoral level, allocations have been increased or maintained in real
terms for high priority items such as provision of teaching and learning materials in primary
and secondary education, drugs, preventive medicine progrems, water and sanitation, and road
maintenance; [Annex II. 1 of Letter of Development Policy (LDP) shows details of expenditure
This large cut arises from the need to accommodate expenditures on the national and local Government
elections that will take place in May 1999, and an increase in the wage bill of more than 20%.
7



prioritization]. At the same time, non-essential public expenditures in all other sectors, and
especially in foreign affairs, works,. office of the Vice President, and other administrative
departments have been reduced or eliminated. In addition, the Government has introduced
clear procedures that engage both the Cabinet and senior civil servants in preparing the
1999/2000 MTEF through prioritizing programs, costing them and allocating resources in line
with priorities and within indicative ceilings that are provided early, and integrating
development and recurrent budgets in a consistent manner [See Annex 11.3 of LDP for details
of the medium term expenditure framework implementation plan].
20.   Alongside expenditure prioritization, new  expenditure monitoring and control
procedures have been introduced to ensure that actual expenditures are allocated as budgeted
unless explicitly sanctioned by approved virement procedures [See Annex II.2 of Letter of
Development Policy for details of new expenditure monitoring and control procedures].
Under the new system, monthly expenditure data from Ministries, especially on core programs
and major areas of deviation, are received and distributed to the Special Cabinet Committee on
the budget and the Finance and Audit Committee of Principal Secretaries by the 25th of the
following month to identify, correct or approve deviations (if expenditures are more than 10%
above or 25% below pro-rated budgeted levels). There has also been agreement on reporting
arrangements between the Government and the World Bank on key targets. In the area of
expenditure controls, Government has issued clear instructions to enforce virement rules and
punitive measures against violators. Alongside, a circular has also been issued notifying that
all Government procurement will be done on a cash basis. Lastly, and most significantly, the
Special Cabinet Committee on the Budget has been made responsible for reviewing all
requests for extra-budgetary expenditures -- the source of most expenditure overruns in the last
year -- and approving them only after financing from expenditure cuts elsewhere or additional
resources have been explicitly identified.
21.   Rationalizing Government Functions: Rationalizing government and civil service
functions in line with the new more focused definition of the role of the Government is another
key area in need of reform, and one directly related to expenditure prioritization and
government efficiency. The problem in Malawi is not so much with the size of the civil
service, but more with the breadth of its functions and its composition. There are 120,000
civil servants in Malawi (population: 10.6 million) of which some 55,000 are teachers, health
workers and police personnel. However, lack of focus in Government functions results in
understaffing in priority areas (e.g. nurses, teachers and police), but overstaffing and wage
compression in general. Lack of clear job descriptions and accountability, inadequate linkage
between performance and career path, inadequate salary levels and a compressed salary
structure, and the lack of adequate training of the civil service all lead to deteriorating
efficiency and morale.
22.   The Government has been undertaking civil service reforms since 1995, under which
the composition of the civil service has changed significantly as 20,000 temporary employees
and industrial class workers were retrenched and replaced by school teachers. Under the
preceding adjustment program, the FRDP I, the Government prepared a Civil Service Reform
Action Plan that is now being implemented.  Accountability of civil servants has been
increased by eliminating the common service cadre, and establishing clearer, specialized career
8



paths within Ministries. Some 3,300 civil servants have been discharged in the past two years
as a part of the rationalization of the civil servants. A civil service salary and a job evaluation
study is to be completed by December 1998 to prepare for clearer job definitions and civil
service salary reforms and wage decompression.  The number of Ministries has been
consolidated from 27 to 19, though without significantly adjiusting the size or composition of
the civil service. Consequently, the effectiveness of this reduction has been limited.
23.   Government is now undertaking a program of eliminating, privatizing and outsourcing
functions, agencies and departments. Progress in this area has been held up by delays in
completing detailed functional reviews of Ministries (a condition of rationalizing four
Government services was waived before disbursing the second tranche of the previous
adjustment credit). But now, based on recommendations from the detailed functional reviews
of five major ministries and the overall strategic review of all ministries undertaken in
1996/97, the Government has taken the decision to eliminate, outsource or privatize 47
functions [See Annex 11.4 of Letter of Development Policy] in five major ministries that now
employ more than 60% of the civil service. The rationalization of 30 of these functions is
expected to be carried out by end-March 1999. The civil service composition and deployment
will also change through a program for the separation and recruitment of civil servants in line
with priority functions. The budget includes provisions for separation benefits.
24.   Tax Policy Reforms: Government has continued tariff and surtax policy reforms to
increase efficiency of the tax system while protecting revenues. Tax policy -- especially high
taxes on raw materials, intermediate and capital goods comb:ined with low taxes on final goods
from COMESA countries and other countries with which Malawi has bilateral agreements -- is
routinely cited by the private sector as among its top constraints. There has been steady
progress in this area as average weighted tariffs have decreased from 19% to 14% while surtax
(which credits taxes paid on inputs, like a VAT) rates halve been rationalized and the base
extended. In April 1998 the Government eliminated all taxes on exports which it first
introduced in 1994 as a temporary fiscal measure.
25.  In the 1998/99 budget, the maximum tariff rate on consumer goods was reduced from
35% to 30%, while those on selected intermediate goods, raw materials and capital goods was
reduced from 10% to 5 %. Combined with the removal of the export taxes, this tariff reduction
amounts to major gains in promoting Malawi's internationa]b trade. The revenue shortfall will
be partly offset by another extension of the base of the surtax that presently covers only
manufacturing and imports. The planned introduction of a well staffed, properly funded and
motivated Malawi Revenue Authority is also expected to, improve revenue collection and
efficiency of the tax system.
B.  Supporting Growth through Private Sector Development
26.   The 1997 study, "Accelerating Malawi's Growth" concluded that raising private fixed
investment would be a decisive condition for increasing GDP growth rates to the targeted 5-
6% range. Second, it also concluded, that while agriculture (:35% of GDP) would be the main
9



Box 2: Policy Reforms Supported by FRDP II
Implemented Before Board (December 1998, US$ 60 million equivalent)
A. Fiscal Restructuring and Public Sector Management
*   Established expenditure level targets (specified in amounts and shares of expenditures that have been increased) on
key sub-sectoral items in education, health, roads and agriculture sectors in the 1998/99 budget. Identified
expenditure cuts to finance expenditures on priority sectors.
*   Introduced agreed system to monitor (wage, and current expenditure targets on a monthly basis) and control
expenditures, including monitoring of priority expenditures by IDA.
*   Established agreed procedures and timetable for expenditure prioritization under the MTEF in 1999.
*   Started implementing policy to eliminate, outsource and privatize 47 specifically identified functions (30 by end
March 1999) activities, and agencies in the 5 major Ministries, and re-deploy civil service based on the detailed
functional reviews.
*  Reduced tariffs on final goods from 35% to 30%, on selected intermediate goods, raw materials and capital goods
from 10% to 5%. Changed all zero rated surtaxes (except on exports) to exempt (in the case of unprocessed
agriculture sector goods, and merit goods) or to 20%.
B. Privatization and Deregulation
*  Approved and publicized a National Communications Policy statement. This policy, among other things, specifies
the Govemment's intention to offer a stake in Malawi Telecoms to a strategic partner, through an international
competitive tender; licensed a second cellular operator introducing competition.
*  Published the bill laying the proposed legal framework for implementing the approved communication policy, in
particular, to create a separate telecommunications regulatory body, to split posts and telecommunications into
separate legal entities, and to facilitate further liberalization and private participation in the sector.
*  Approved a detailed time-bound program, and implementation plan, to bring to point of sale a list of assets (the
"divestiture sequence list") including banks, held by MDC, ADMARC, ADMARC Investment Holdings and
implementation of the communications policy, in particular finding a strategic partner for Malawi telecoms;
*  Enacted Electricity Act that establishes independent regulatory body, invites private sector entry into the sector,
licenses all electricity producers (including ESCOM) and distributors; corporatized ESCOM under the Companies
Act.
*  Initiated debt restructuring and adjusted tariffs to make ESCOM viable; started reorganization of ESCOM.
*  Gazetted a clear temporary employment permit (TEP) policy for expatriates such that all TEP applications are
responded to within 40 working days.
*  Announced policies to widen the maize price band for 1998/99 and reforms of maize marketing arrangement.
Before Second Tranche (April 1999, $ 30 million equivalent)
A. Fiscal Restructuring and Public Sector Management
*  Implement agreements of the first tranche on meeting agreed public expenditure targets in the first two quarters of
the 1998/1999 fiscal year, on public expenditure monitoring and control procedures, and preparing the MTEF.
*  Implement the rationalization of 30 Government functions as per agreed timetable.
B. Privatization and Deregulation
*   Implement agreed action plan for bringing to the point of sale government's interests in at least 15 enterprises.
*  Prepare privatization/commercialization program for ADMARC.
*  Implement agreed plan to reform telecommunications sector, as per first tranche (i.e. enact communications law,
appoint investment bankers/consultants to secure strategic partner for Malawi Telecoms).
*  Review Electricity law, in line with agreement with IDA, to establish clear procedures for licensing, tariff rate
adjustment mechanisms that provides adequate incentives to private investors and establishes autonomy of
electricity council from the Government.
* Finish review of financial sector regulatory framework to identify reforms to strengthen and unify regulatory
framework, restructure and privatize the financial sector, and issue guidelines for the privatization of the two main
commercial banks - on the basis of the study agreed to in the first tranche.
10



source of growth in the near term, growth would have to be driven by manufacturing and other
non-agricultural activities in the medium term and beyond.
27.   Achieving these objectives will be a significant challenge, as private sector
performance, especially in the industrial sector, has been weak, and measured private sector
fixed investment has been virtually stagnant since 1992 due lo several factors, as noted earlier:
(i) the continued macroeconomic instability of the last few years that has crowded out private
investment, created price and exchange rate instability and generally signaled an unstable
economic management; (ii) the continued presence and dominance of public or semi-public
parastatals that control most of the economy through their size, inter-locking ownership in
production, trade and financial sectors; (iii) inadequate and deteriorating public sector
infrastructure, especially in telecommurnlcations and power; (iv) regulatory obstacles to the
supply of key factors of production such as skilled labor and serviced industrial land sites;(v)
the inefficient utilization of land in estates and inadequate land husbandry due to inequitable
and unclear landholding rights, and (vi) interventions in the maize markets through large scale
public sales at below market prices, taxing producers and maize traders.
28.   The reform program supported by this credit addresses some of these areas through: (i)
reducing fiscal deficits and eliminating domestic deficit financing, such that it can "crowd in"
the private sector; (ii) implementing a privatization program including the shares of major
commercial banks; (iii) preparing reforms in the financial sector regulatory framework that can
meet the needs of a more diversified and privatized financial sector; (iv) improving
infrastructure services through commercializing and corporatizing operations and inviting
private sector investment; and (v) promoting agricultural production and trade through a more
liberalized maize pricing policy. Problems on the supply of industrial land sites and land
reforms will be addressed separately by the proposed private sector development project and
reforms currently being prepared by the Presidential Commission on Land Reforms.
29.   Privatization: Private sector development in Malawi has been constrained in the
generation of new markets, capital, technology, and management partly because of the
dominance of parastatal companies. While public sector parastatals account for around 20%
of GDP, their influence is greater because of the oligopolistic nature of the formal sector in
Malawi and the integration of these firms in inter-lockiing ownership of other firms in
manufacturing, agriculture, trade, transport and finance.  At present, some 100 wholly or
partly public sector owned banks, transport companies, utilities and industries (in grain
processing, textiles, chemicals, tobacco, tea, leather, building, and packaging) maintain a
dominating presence in non-agriculture economic activity in Malawi.  In the case of the
financial sector, Government owns around 70% of all assets, directly or indirectly through its
ownership of public holding companies such as ADMARC Holdings and Malawi
Development Corporation (MDC). Interlocking ownership structures have resulted in the two
dominant commercial banks, the National Bank and the Commercial Bank, which account for
more than 90% of all banking sector assets, being controlled by Government, ADMARC, the
MDC and the quasi-private PRESS corporation. Predictably, the level of efficiency of the
financial sector -- measured by interest rate spreads and the limited range of financial
instruments -- is relatively low, while profit margins are high.
II



30.  In 1996, the Government embarked upon an ambitious privatization program, executed
by a Privatization Commission, but with modest success so far. Some 25 companies have
been partially or fully privatized in the last two years. Nevertheless, compared to some other
countries in the region -- such as Ghana, Uganda, and Mozambique -- the pace of privatization
has been slow and halting. While the Privatization Act has laid a clear legal basis, there is
need to accelerate the implementation of the privatization program. Moreover, until recently,
the utilities, agriculture and financial sectors activities have been excluded. In the case of the
financial sector, privatization is further complicated by the need to review and reform, as
required, the regulatory framework in order to ensure that prudential standards meet the needs
of the changing landscape where four new private banks have entered and the two main banks
are being wholly privatized.
31.   Under the FRDP II program the Government has accelerated the pace of privatization
by approving (in August 1998) and starting to implement a privatization plan, the "Divestiture
Sequence List" of assets, held by Government directly and indirectly through MDC and
ADMARC HoIdings'(See Annex 11.4 of LDP for the list of firms and the timetable for
privatization). Under this plan, another 15 to 20 firms (including the concessioning of Malawi
Railways, the sale of shares of Banks) will be offered for sale between October 1998 and
March 1999. In the financial sector the Government has sold 12 % of the total shares in the
Commercial Bank of Malawi (CBM) through the stock exchange and is expected to sell
another 14% of public sector shares in the National Bank of Malawi through the stock
exchange before March 1998. Government subsequently plans to offer for sale all remaining
public shares (24% in the Commercial Bank and 40% in the National Bank) in both banks to
strategic partners or through the stock exchange. The specific guidelines for privatizing these
remaining shares will be finalized by March 1999. Government will also complete a study by
March 1999 on the financial sector regulatory framework to undertake needed reforms. The
aim will be to issue, by June 1999, regulatory reforms that meet the needs of the new post
privatized financial sector where four private banks and the further privatization of the two
main commercial banks will have brought new demands on the regulatory framework.
32.  Infrastructure Policy Reforms: A survey of the private sector, conducted for the 1997
World Development Report, identified the deterioration of Malawi's infrastructure to be the
principal constraint to private business. There is one telephone line for every 300 people, one
pay phone for every 22,000, virtually no service in the rural areas, and the waiting time for a
telephone connection can be as long as ten years. The sector is dominated by the Government
owned Malawi Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (MPTC), which acts as regulator
and sole provider of basic voice telephony services. It suffers chronic operational and financial
problems. It relies entirely on public sources of financing, and has little commercial
autonomy. These poor telecommunication indicators severely undercut Malawi's
competitiveness in today's global economy. In the power sector, the main supplier, ESCOM
has had difficulties in providing reliable power services resulting in large losses to industry
and the economy. ESCOM has faced serious financial difficulties, making it difficult for it to
meet its maintenance needs, invest in new capacity, and service its debts.
' ADMARC Holdings is a subsidiary of ADMARC which focuses on activities in the agriculture sector.
12



33.  Resolving financial and institutional problems such as the presence of a large foreign
exchange denominated debt (in the case of ESCOM), and the lack of managerial and pricing
autonomy that results in weak commercial orientation requires fundamental restructuring of
these utilities. At the same time, the interest of foreign capital to invest in utilities in
developing countries also presents an opportunity to increase investment and productivity,
while freeing valuable public resources for other important public goods. However, enabling
this to happen will require clear Government policy and legislation to commercialize and, as
appropriate, privatize whole or parts of these utilities, and allow private sector entry and
competition in these sectors.
34.   To achieve this in the telecommunications sector, the Government has approved a
Communications policy which provides for opening up all non-basic telecommunications
services (mobile, data, internet, paging) to new private service providers; the splitting of posts
and telecommunications into separate businesses; securing an established international
telecommunications operator as a strategic partner for Malawi Telecom through an
international competitive tender; improving access to conmmunications in the rural areas,
through a combination of Malawi Telecom's service obligations once the strategic partner has
been' secured, licensing small local operators, more effective use of the postal infrastructure,
increased deployment of pay phones, and other mechanisnms yet to be developed; and the
creation of an independent regulatory body. A bill has been published, and expected to be
approved by March 1999, that will lay out the legal framework for the implementation of the
approved policy.  Simultaneously the Government will use the proposed Privatization
Technical Assistance Project to assist the Government in implementing these policies.
35.  In the power sector the Electricity Act has been enacted, establishing an independent
regulatory body (the Electricity Council) that will license alil electricity producers (including
ESCOM) on equal terms. In the next stage of reforms Government will review the electricity
law by end-March 1998 further clarifying licensing and tariff' setting procedures to increase the
transparency of licensing and tariff setting rules so that they give investors necessary
incentives and assurance. These revisions will also establish the autonomy of the Electricity
Council. The Government has taken steps to corporatize and commercialize ESCOM (now
called the Electricity Supply Corporation instead of the Electricity Supply Commission) by
incorporating it under the Companies Act to establish commercial and managerial autonomy.
The Government has also initiated financial restructuring of' ESCOM by converting a section
of ESCOM's debt to Government to equity, adjusting ESCOM's tariffs (by 35% in July 1,
1998) and another 35% (due in November 1, 1998) all of which will enable ESCOM to make
its financial position viable. ESCOM is also implementing an organizational restructuring
under which seven distinct cost centers have been set up to cover generation, transmission and
distribution.
36.   Agriculture Markets and Storage: At present ADMARC is dominant in most of
marketing and storage capacity in agriculture. It operates 344 markets and depots, and has a
storage capacity of 468,000 tons, much of which is currently unutilized. In the 1996/97
season, the agency used only 132,000 tons of space, of which 54,000 tons of space was rented
13



out. In addition, ADMARC's crop operations include profitable activities such as tobacco and
cotton, which can provide a good base for private sector ownership. Historically, ADMARC
has used its profits from these activities to support its development-oriented role. However,
the significance of this latter role has lessened sharply over recent years; in the last year
ADMARC acted mainly as a channel for Government's maize procurement, imports and sales
where the costs were borne by the budget. At the same time as ADMARC's development role
is becoming ambiguous, its dominance in marketing and storage, deters the growth of
competitive, private trading.
37.   To address these issues Government is now preparing a program by March 1999 for the
privatization and commercialization of ADMARC that will clearly identify ADMARC's assets
-- markets, depots and marketing activities, such as tobacco, cotton and fertilizer -- for
privatization and their recommended mode of privatization.   This program will seek to
identify 20 to 30 markets that are profitable and which could be immediately offered for
privatization through the privatization commission. The program will also recommend
modalities for privatizing and commercializing the rest of ADMARC in a time bound plan
while giving consideration to Government's objectives of using ADMARC, with necessary
budgetary subventions, to serve outlying markets and vulnerable areas.
38.   Maize Price and Marketing Reforms: Government will continue the process of
gradually reducing its interventions in the maize market. It currently intervenes in the maize
market through the wholesaling operations of the Strategic Grain Reserve (SGR), sales through
ADMARC and by implementing a maize price band. The principle is that maize from
Government stocks and imports will be sold at the ceiling price of the band to contain
excessive increases in consumer prices and purchased at the lower price band to support
producer prices. In practice maize market interventions in the past year have suffered from the
low ceiling price of the band that discourages the supply of maize, as it deters imports by
private traders and taxes producers. Partly as a result of these adverse incentives, lower
supplies of maize resulted in very high open market prices at the end of the season. The
Government has addressed this problem in two ways by increasing the selling price of
Government maize from MK3.95 per kg. to MK 6.50 per kg. for sale of small quantities in
rural areas and to MK. 8.50 for sale in larger quantities in urban areas. While it is clear that the
MK 6.50 price is below import parity price, the Bank has supported this subsidized price as a
transitional social safety net measure to cushion the shock of the doubling of the landed cost
price of this basic staple. For the next season, 1999/00 the Government has decided to replace
the SGR with the National Food Reserve Agency and to make it the principal instrument for
maize market interventions that will take place on clearly established price based rules instead
of discretionary practice. The trigger prices for intervention will be the floor and ceiling prices
of the band which will be based on the export parity price and the import parity prices
respectively, and which will be adjusted periodically.
39.   Facilitating Temporary Employment Permits.   Difficulties and uncertainties in
employing skilled expatriate labor are another major constraint to private sector activity in
Malawi, where the secondary school enrollment ratio is only 1 1%, and expertise and
experience are scarce. Obtaining employment permits (called temporary employment permits
14



or TEPs) for skilled expatriate workers in Malawi has taken as long as two years and can act as
a critical constraint for private sector activity, especially foreign investment. The difficulties
in obtaining TEPs are evident in that as of late 1996 there were only 54 TEPs issued to firms in
the manufacturing sector.
40.   To address this constraint Government has undertaken the following measures to
simplify and liberalize the TEP approval process: (i) gazetting a clear, well publicized liberal
TEP policy; (ii) making the approval of the "key posts" automatic through a separate
application process; (iii) making the number of "key posts" to be determined not only by the
magnitude of the investment but also by its level of exports; (iv) allowing existing companies,
both Malawian and foreign owned, to have the same rights to, acquire TEPs as new firms; (v)
restoring the rights of Permanent Residence Permit (PRP) holders to work in Malawi; and (vi)
making the approval process time-bound such that all TEP applicants are responded to within
40 working days of application.  Government has also introduced a monthly monitoring
system to enforce the implementation of this newly liberalizecl policy.
IV.   Impact of Reforms
41.    The reform program, supported by this credit, should lead to an accelerated reduction
in poverty in two ways: (i) helping to create conditions -- macroeconomic stabilization,
infrastructure improvements and privatization -- for a broad based GDP growth of between 5
% - 6 % p.a. in the 1999 - 2001 period; this high case scenario should, ceteris paribus, lead to a
decline in the poverty head count ratio from roughly 43% to 38% of the population in the next
five years; (ii) by improving the targeting of public expenditures and Government services
towards the poor. A GDP growth target of between 5 % to 6 % represents a pragmatic
medium term target in that it reduces the number of poor living in poverty, and also represents
an attainable and reasonably ambitious target, in the light of recent experience. An overview
of the design of the credit and its expected impact is presented in the flow chart in Box 3 in the
next page.  However attaining such a target will depend on the continuation of normal
weather. Furthermore, given increasing prospects of slowdown of the global economy and its
deleterious effects on demand for Malawi's exports, it is possible that actual growth rates in
the medium term will be lower than targeted. Nevertheless lthe reform program supported by
this credit will lay the foundations for sustained, higher rates of growth and poverty reduction
in the longer term.
42. The key question is, of course, how can the Governmeint create the environment for the
necessary rate of private investment to support such a growth performance ? Here again past
experience shows that proper fiscal management -- running low fiscal deficits and avoiding
domestic financing of deficits -- will be critical, along with a functional public sector that can
enforce law, security and contracts, provide priorities such as proper maintenance of
infrastructure and investments in human capital. A private fixed investment rate of more 7%
of GDP, one that could support the targeted growth rate, was attained between 1988 and 1991.
In addition to providing the macroeconomic stabilization policies to reattain this investment
rate, the reform program supported by this credit will also help to attain this target by
providing a more hospitable and competitive climate for the private sector to operate through
improving infrastructure services (which itself will lead to increase in investment rates),
15



BOX 3: OVERVIEW OF POLICY REFORMS UNDER THE SECOND FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND
DEREGULATION PROGRAM: INSTRUMENTS AND TARGETS
PoliCY Instmments                                                    Intermediate Tareets                           Outcome Tarsets
Private Sector Development
*  PrivatizinglOOparastatals(15-20,byMarch 1999)           l                     privaeF1xCd
h/Investment                     Rtsfo\/Broad  based 
*  Financial sector regulatory reform and privatization                  4% of GDP (1997) to 7%                        GDP Growth of
*  Liberalizing employment of skilled expatriates                        improving efficiency of            a               to 6% p.a
\1~~~~~~~~~ investment/\/
Improving Ifmstnwcture Efficienc>
*  Reforming regulatory framework to promote private sector
entry into power and telecom sectors
*  Commercializing power and telecommunications utilities
*  Securing a strategic partner for Malawi telecoms                      Macroeconomic
t                                     /             /  ~~~~~~~~~~~     ~     ~    ~        ~      ~~Stabilization  Reuto .o. f
*  Low inflation and                        Reducton of
interest rates in second                 poverty rates
Fical Restruduring                                                          halfof 1999                              from 43%  of
*  Maintaining primary fiscal balance                                   *  Stability in real                         population to at
effective exchange rate                  least 38%  in 5
.   Reducing domestic financing of deficits and retiring           \        Increase in real credit  /ars.
domestic debt                                                           flows to the puivate   /
\sector/ 
* ImFroving budgeting, monitoring and control of\/
expenditures, and financial control over pars-statals    
Implement na the Medium Tenn Expenditure                                 Greaterefficiency in                          Improved
Framework and Functional Rationalization                                  public spending and                          distribution of
. Costing and prioritizing sector programs and outputs                    services: more                               public goods
expenditure goods and                        pbi   od
*  Preparing three year expenditure frameworks                            services for priorities and                  and services
\    the poor(SeeAnnex Il-                   and income
*  Auditing, evaluatimg and integrating the Development               \   .fordetails)
Budget with the recurrent budget and sector programs
16



creating opportunities for the private sector through privati2ation, and finally by facilitating
availability of skilled expatriate labor.
43. The program supported by this credit will also support poverty reduction by making the
pattern of growth more broad based and equitable. In the short run growth will continue to be
driven by the smillholder sector (which now produces burley tobacco and thereby enjoys the
benefits of exchange rate adjustments),. the growth of small scale trading and services in the
rural economy and creating more scope for the private sector through the planned
privatization of government trading and cropping activities. These measures will benefit the
smallholder sector and improve income distribution as indicaled by the evidence from the past
few years. Containing inflation will help to maintain food security of the bottom one-third of
smallholders who are net buyers of maize. Lastly, improvements in the business climate along
with trade reforms should encourage the private sectcor to develop labor intensive
manufacturing, strengthening the recent trend of garments and other exports. The share oflabor
in income should increase from this development. Directing public expenditures to goods and
services that benefit the poor -- teaching and learning mateaials in primary schools, a more
expanded secondary education program that is less costly and elitist but includes greater
numbers of primary school leavers, preventive medicine, and immunization should also lead to
a more equitable distribution of income. Lastly Government programs will help the poor by
expanding targeted poverty and food security programs such as the starter packs program of
1998/99, that will distribute 0.3% of GDP in input packages to smallholder households. The
result of all this will be to lead to a faster reduction in poverty, than could be achieved through
an increase of incomes alone.
V. Design of Credits, Disbursement Procedures and Implementation Arrangements
44.   The FRDP II credit has been designed to focus on two main critical areas: public
expenditure and civil service reforms and reforms to generate private sector development. The
credit will be disbursed in two tranches of $ 60 million in (December 1998) and $ 30 million
(April 1999). The first tranche (see Box 2 in page 10) supports the implementation of public
expenditure management reforms and civil service reforms, wrhile at the same time it initiates
private sector and infrastructure reforms through key policy decisions.  The second tranche
will follow implementation of policies in public expendilture management, civil service
reforms and private sector development reforms against specified benchmarks. This design
was adopted after consideration of an alternative: simultaneously processing two adjustment
credits, one focusing on public sector and expenditure management and the other on private
sector development issues. However, processing two operations simultaneously would have
over-stretched capacity in a year when the Government was engaged in restoring
macroeconomic stability and responding to a large terms of trade shock. At the same time,
leaving out any one part of the reform agenda, expenditure management or the private sector
development reform, would have significantly undermined the beneficial impact of the
program.
45.   The FRDP II Technical Assistance Project has been designed to provide necessary
technical support, training and equipment to meet three olbjectives: (i) implement policy
17



reforms, including the medium term expenditure framework, auditing and reviewing the
development budget, reforming expenditure control procedures and systems, and
implementing civil service reforms; (ii) evaluate the impact of structural reforms on Malawi's
economy, in particular by examining the effects of liberalizing trade and exchange rate policy
on manufacturing, and liberalizing agriculture production and trade on the agriculture sector;
and (iii) develop the agenda for the next round of macroeconomic and sectoral policy reforms
through research into further constraints to growth.
46. Lessons from OED and Review of High Impact Adjustment Lending (HIAL): The
credit's design draws on important lessons from OED's Performance Audit Report on the last
completed adjustment credit (the Entrepreneurship Development and Drought Recovery
Program closed in 1997) and its recent Country Assistance Note. These lessons include: (i)
stabilization without structural adjustment is unlikely to be sustained; (ii) coordinated and
sustained implementation of a broad range of policy interventions is a prerequisite to a relevant
investment response; (iii) deficiencies in the financial sector, competitive environment, and
provision of infrastructure and services can forestall investment response; (iv) protection of
social expenditures and ensuring quality of expenditures is critical; and (v) using relevant
monitorable indicators is important for ensuring progress and success. The credit also draws
on recommendations from the review of high impact adjustment lending and other OED
reports " in (i) being grounded in a multi-sector economic work, "Accelerating Malawi's
Growth, and other sector work; (ii) obtaining Government commitment and ownership (see
paras. 50-51 below); (iii) arranging for broad consultations with civil society; and (iv) being
well embedded in the country assistance strategy and supported by complementary credits in
the areas of infrastructure investment and private sector development.
47.  Relationship with the Country Assistance Strategy and Supporting Credits: The
objectives of this operation are the central objectives of IDA's Country Assistance Strategy.
The policy reforms supported by this credit are supported by several ongoing and planned
Bank investment and technical assistance credits.  Expenditure prioritization and the
rationalization of Government functions are supported by technical assistance provided under
the Institutional Development II credit, and sector work under projects such as Secondary
Education, Population Health and Nutrition, Agricultural Services, and the proposed Roads
Rehabilitation Project. Tax policy reforms are being supported by assistance provided by IDA,
IMF and the U.K. Privatization and private sector development are being supported by
investment and technical assistance under an IDF grant for privatization, and by a planned
Privatization Technical Assistance Project, and a proposed Private Sector Development project
currently under preparation. An IDF grant and the Environmental Support Project are
supporting land policy reforms. In addition the Malawi Social Action Fund credit, which
includes a public works program, will serve as a safety net for people adversely affected by
market liberalization -- such as through fertilizer and food price increases.
"World Bank Structural and Sectoral Adjustment Operations, The Second OED Overview, 1992.
I8



48.   Disbursement Procedures and Implementation Arrangements:  The FRDP II
Credit will follow the Bank's new simplified disbursement procedures for structural
adjustment credits. Under the revised procedures the Credit will be disbursed against
satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program and not tied to any specific purchases
and no procur,ment requirements will be needed. Once the Credit is approved by the Board,
and becomes effective the proceeds of the first tranche (and in due course, the second tranche)
will be deposited by IDA in an account at the Reserve Bank of Malawi at the request of the
Borrower. If, after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the Credit are used for ineligible
purposes as defined in the Development Credit Agreement, IDA will require the Borrower to
either: (a) return the amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the
amount directly to IDA. The administration of this Credit will be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Finance. Although an audit of the deposit account will not be required, the Bank
reserves the right to require audits at any time. The disbursement procedures under the Second
FRDP Technical Assistance Project are described in detail in Annex X.
49.  Implementation of the policy and actions under the program will be monitored by the
Cabinet Committee on the Economy, supported by an inter-ministerial committee of officials
coordinated by the Ministry of Finance. The impact of this program in implementation will be
monitored by tracking the indicators mentioned in Annex I (Policy and Processing Matrix).
VI. Benefits, Risks and Government Ownership
50.   The substantial benefits of the credit have been discussed above (paras 41-43). The key
risk arises from the possibility that the implementation of policy reforms may be unsteady,
especially in the face of approaching elections in May 1999. T'his was reflected in the hiatus in
implementing policy reforms between late 1997 and early 1998 alongside general decline in
macroeconomic management and the economy going off-trackc the ESAF program. However,
recently the political economy has undergone an important change as the reconstructed cabinet
committee on the economy has been authorized to make and implement key decisions on the
economy. Nevertheless, in the run up to the elections these risks will persist: there will be,
inter alia, pressures to relax expenditure controls, provide subsidies on inputs and on credits to
farmers, avoid difficult decisions in areas such as retrenchment of unqualified civil servants,
and sell large assets to non-indigenous persons.
51.   To minimize the risk of derailing the reform program the credit includes several
features to obtain the Government's ownership and commitment to the program.  First, the
credit has been front loaded in initiating wide ranging, and in some cases irreversible, reforms
in expenditure management, rationalizing the role of Govermnent functions and civil service
and privatization. Second, the second tranche, complemented by co-financing, will be
disbursed following the implementation of well specified benchmarks. Further, Government
will have demonstrated commitment, by preparing and disseminating a White Paper (in
November 1998) detailing its program of policy reforms for public information. Hence there
will be a publicly affirmed commitment to the program. The second risk arises from the lack
19



of capacity to implement this multi-pronged operation. This risk is being addressed by
providing technical assistance and by setting up a high level Government body to oversee the
implementation of these reforms and mobilize necessary resources and capacity for doing so.
52.   The final set of risks are posed by exogenous shocks such as the effects of drought or
large terms of trade losses, such as those between 1992 and 1994, and 1998, on savings,
investment and growth. The effects of these risks are to some extent factored into the base
case trend growth rate [in Annex VIII] which presents a lower GDP growth scenario of less
than 4.5%, as the trend growth rate, than the high case scenario of a growth rate of between 5%
to 6% is the target of these forms supported by this credit. Ultimately, the risks posed by these
exogenous shocks are best addressed in the long run by generating private sector growth and
diversification through implementing structural reforms that are supported by this credit. In
the short run the disbursements from this credit will provide the economy a buffer against
these shocks and thereby help the Government maintain the course of reforms. In addition,
IDA and the donor community will be ready to provide additional support in case further
assistance is needed to weather exogenous shocks.
VII. Conclusion
53.   Since the advent of democracy and the election of a new Government in 1994 a wide
range of policy reforms have stabilized and deregulated the economy resulting in higher and a
more evenly distributed growth, especially in agriculture. The challenge now is to sustain the
momentum of these reforms by unlocking policy and regulatory constraints to greater public
sector efficiency and private sector growth, especially in non-traditional and off-farm sectors.
The proposed credit aims to assist the Government in attaining these goals.
54.  I am satisfied that the proposed Credit and Project (the Second FRDP Credit and the
Second FRDP TA Project) will be effective in this purpose and would satisfy the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve them.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by
Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C.
November 10, 1998
20



ANNEX I: MATRIX OF POLICIES, PROGRESS BENCHMARKS AND SUPPORTING OPERATIONS
Develaot                 Diagnosis                         Policies                             Intermediate             Outcome             Other IDA
Objeetives and Outcomes                                                                         Progress Benchmarks      Benchmarks          Instruments
A. Resrncturing of Fil   * Overall: Macroeconomic instability    Lower deficits, avoid domestic  * Domestically financed    *  Lower inflation   *Macrow
Policies                 caused by high deficits and domestic   financing and repay domestic public  primary deficits will be  (to low teens by end  economic
And Civil Service        financing of deficits have led to  debt.                              reduced from an average of  1999, and to less  dialogue
Reforms                  crowding out of private investment.                                    4-5% of GDP in the last    than 10% by the   through Policy
three years to a balance.  following year)  Framework
Domestic financing of    from the current rate  Papers and
deficits will be stropped  of above 28%     Adjustment
and domestic debt stock  average.           Operation.
will be reduced sharply  * Lower interest
during the current fiscal  rates to the high
year                     teens by late 1999
compared to above
E* stablish expenditure level targets    * Implement expenditure   40%/ rate now.
Expenditure Management                                     (specified in amounts and shares of  targets set in Letter of  * Increase in      *Dialogue and
* Government expenditure   * Share of expenditures in social  expenditures) on key sub-sectoral  Development Policy      private fixed      sector work
management to be         sectors, education and health have  items in education, health, roads and    (Annex 11.1)       investment rates to   taking place
improved through         increased from 14% of all         agricul    ectors in the 1998/99                              8% by 2000 from     under FRDP IL
prioritization, improvement  expenditures in 1993/94 to 26 % in    budget such that real expenditures (of                4% now.             IDII, the
in monitoring and control.   1997/98. But public expenditures and   FY 1997/98). *a  Mitn expenditure                       Ir i             Secondary
functions are still thinly spread over    * Make expenditure cuts on non-  Maintoin expenditure   Inease in hi     School Project,
too many activities.              priority items and increase ost     monitoring and control    delivery of high   Population
precoery itos fance expenditurest   procedures.               priority outputs and   Health and
recovery to finance expenditures.                             services on the basis  Nutrition
*Expenditure monitoring and controls   * Introduce agreed system to monitor   * Reduce deviations of  of benchmarked  Project,
are weak leading to large deviations    (wage, and current expenditure targets  expenditures from budgeted  outputs of social  Agricultural
between actual and budgeted amounts.  on a monthly basis) and control  amounts                  goods and services.  Services Project
expenditures.                                                                    and MALSIP.
* Establish procedures and timetable    * Implement MTEF plan to
for expenditure prioritization under the   prioritize expenditures on    * Improvement in
MTEF in 1999.                       the basis of costing of   budgetary planning   *TA provided
* Strengthen the Medium Tern        programs and outputs.     and implementation.  Under the
Expenditure Framework by integrating it                       * Preparation of   Institutional
with the budget.                                              Sector Programs    Development II
* Audit and evaluate the development                          fully integrated with  Project
budget and integrate it with the recurrent                   the MTEF.
_____ ____ _____ ____ _____ ____ budget.                      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Matix of Policy Reforms and Progress Benchmarks                                                                                   Annex I of Presidents Report
Page 1 of 4



Development                Diagnosis                           Policies                              Intermediate               Outcome            Other IDA
Objectives and Outcomes                                                                              Progress Benchmarks        Benchmarks         Instruments
Civil Service Reforms                                                                                * Thirty Govemment         * A more focused
* Improve imnplementation    * Malawi's Government capacity is  * Rationalize departments, agencies and   functions to be abolished,    role of    *TA provided
capacity of the civil service   overstretched with too many functions.  Ministries by eliminating, outsourcing or  or offered to the private  Government  Under the
and Government, with      The civil service staffing composition   privatizing functions as appropriate.  sector for outsourcing or    increasing  Institutional
greater focus on priority  needs to be improved to strengthen  * Retrench, and redeploy Government    privatizing by April 1,   efficiency and     Development II
areas. Build a more       priority areas. Lack of focus in    staff in line with priorities.         1999.                      laying the scope   Project
qualified, better motivated    Government functions results in  *Conduct audit of civil service personnel  * Implement redeployment  for civil service
civil service.            understaffing in priority areas.    to reconcile personnel and payroll files    and retrenchment of civil    pay reforms.
on a consistent basis.                servants in line with
established benchmarks.
Tax Policy Reforms
* Malawi's tax structure underwent
*An efficient tax policy that  policy reforms in the late 1980s.  *Reduce tariffs on final goods from 35%   * Reduce top tariff rates  * Development of   * Dialogue with
will raise revenues and   These reforms introduced a VAT like   to 30%/, and on selected intermediate  from 35% to 30% and      competitive and    Bank staff.
minimize distortions and   surtax on manufacturing and imports.   goods, raw materials and capital goods    tariffs on intermediate and    efficient economy.  *TA provided
disincentives for the private   But the tax base remains narrow, and    from 10% to 5%. Change zero rated  capital goods to 5% in FY    * Higher export  under current
sector.                   as a result tax rates are high.     surtaxes (except on exports) to exempt    99                      growth (of around   Adjustment
Moreover, the current tariff structure    (in the case of unprocessed agriculture                   8s% pu a) and       Operation and
juxtaposed with regional trade      sector goods, and merit goods) or to 20%                         sustainng current   IMF
agreements lead to unduly low,      and includs distribution sector.                                 growth of exports
sometimes negative, protection.                                                                      of non-traditional
_goods.
B. Deregulation and       * Aside from macroeconomic and       * Accelerate pace of privatization                               *GDP growth rates
Private Sector            infrastructure problems, private sector   Extend the program to include utilities  * Bring to the point of sale  of 5 to 6% (from a   * IDF Grant for
Development               development is hampered by the       and the financial sector.             by mid-1999 agreed list of   GDP growth of    Privatization
Private Sector Development  pervasive presence of parastatals.                                       15 to 20 firms (including    2.4% in 1981-    Commission.
* Raise private sector    Some 25 firms, large and small were                                        shares in Banks) held by   1994).
investment that has been  privatized in the last year and half. The                                  ADMARC Holdings and        * Private fixed    * Proposed
sluggish (less than 4% of  privatization process has also helped to                                  MDC.                       investment share    Privatization TA
GDP and attract foreign   jump start the fledgling stock                                                                        raised to 7% of    Credit
direct investment through  exchange by the successful listing of                                                                GDP by 2000,
privatization, infrastructure   shares of large assets such as banks                                                            from around 4%
improvements, financial   and sugar companies. However, the                                                                     now.
sector and regulatory      pace of privatization remains slow and                                                               * Expansion of
reforms.                  its impact still marginal.                                                                            stock exchange.
Matrix of Policy Reforms and Progress Benchmarks                                                                                         Annex I of President's Report
Page 2 of 4



D_ _lspmmt                Diasosis                            Policies                              Intermediate Progress      Outcome            Other IDA
Objecvtivels_                                                                                       Benchmark                  Benchmarks         Instruments
* Inase Private           * The financial sector is publicly  * Review the financial sector         * Complete study on the    * A revised        * Proposed
Investneat through        owned, oligopolistic and            regulatory framework to identify and    regulatory framework     regulatory         Private Sector
developing a more         conservative. Government owns       implement reforms to strengthen and    (March 1999). Issue new    framework issued    Development
competitive financial sector.  around 700% of all financial sector  unify the framework, restructure and  regulatory framework (July  that maintains the   Project (FY 99)
assets, directly or indirectly while the    privatize the financial sector.  1999).                 relative soundness
two dominant commercial banks                                                                       of Malawi's
account for more than 900/o of all  * Issue clear guidelines on the mode                            financial sector.
banking sector assets. Efficiency -  of privatization of the remaining shares  * Issue specific guidelines  * Privatization of    * Proposed
measured by interest rmte spreads and    of the two main commercial banks  on the mode of          the two main        Privatization TA
limited financial instruments -- isprivatization of the two                                         banks by           Project
relatively low, while profits are high.                                  main commercial banks      1999/2000.
(March 1999)              * Reduced spread
Approve*and publicize a National                              (now 15% point)
* Infrastructure services, dominated    * uApprove and publicize a National t t   Implement reforms  between savings
Infrastructure Reforms    by the public sector, is arnong the top   Communications Policy statement that  telecommunications   and lending rates.   .
constraints to private sector      specifies the Government's intention to  sector: set up an
development according to a recent  offer a stake in Malawi Telecoms to a    independent regulatory  * Secure strategic    * Proposed
*Promote private sector   survey. There is one telephone line  strategic partner, through an        authority (1998), separate   partner for Malawi  Privatization TA
development and           for every 300 people, one pay phone    international competitive tender;  posts and telegraphs      Telecoms.           Project
privatization by          for every 22,000. In the power sector,    * Promote new entry and competition  appoint investment    * Increase in
restructuring and regulatory  the main supplier, ESCOM has had  in the cellular phone sector.       bankers and legal         telephone
reforms of the utilities  difficulties in providing reliable power                                  consultants to secure      penetration rate
sector inviting private   services resulting in large losses to  * Enact legislation laying the proposed  strategic partner for  from 0.33 to 0.5 by
sector participation in   industry, and the economy.          legal framework for implementing the    Malawi Telecoms (March   * (i) ESCOM's net
infrastructure.           ESCOM has faced serious financial   approved communication policy.         9l i                                   l
difficulties, making it difficult for it to   * Ena_t  t Act th199 9. 'Amed l    d                  revenue to be at
meet its maintenance needs, investAmnd in                                an gaztte least 1.5 times debt
meet its maintenance needs, invest in   independent regulatory body, invites    regulations to implement   requirements; (ii)
new capacity, and service its debts.  private sector entry into the sector,  electricity bill to clarify  ESCOM to
licenses all electricity producers   procedures for licensing    provide 30%/O of
(including ESCOM) and distributors; *  and tariff rate adjustment   annual capital   Power V
Corporatizes ESCOM under the          mechanisms and provides   expenditures; (iii)   Project
Companies Act; implement debt         incentives and assurance    private sector entry
restructuring and adjust tariffs to make  to private investors.  (iii) Increased
ESCOM financially viable; implement   establishes autonomy of    capacity to 240
long-term reorganization of ESCOM.    electricity council       MW with 13%
(March1999)               reserve.
Matrix of Policy Reforms and Progress Benchmarks                                                                                       Annex I of President(s Report
Page 3 of 4



D_vkpmt                   Diagnosis                         Policies                             Intermediate              Outcome            Other IDA
Obj0eti  and Otmes_                                                                              Progress Benchmarks       Benchmarks         Instru_ents
Puivlizutioi mAd Pwivate     There has been considerable
Sor Develoq net in the   growth of private sector activity in
Aarkuhme Sector           agriculture following deregulation in    * Prepare privatization and    *Privatize specific assets  * Sale of some 30    Proposed
the last two years. But there are still   commercialization program for  (markets, depots and    to 40 markets and   Privatization TA
* Pmmoe growth and        problems of inadequate incentives and   ADMARC. Based on this Govemment  cropping activities) of  depots to the     Project and the
private sector activity in  crowding out for private trade due to   to take decisions to privatize specific    ADMARC.     private sector by    proposed FRDP
agriculture sector that   large presence of ADMARC, and to    assets (markets, depots and cropping                         June 2000.         11 TA project
accounts for 40%/. of GDP.   uncertainty stemming from       activities) of ADMARC.
unpredictable interventions, especially                                * Maize Price Band                           *Agriculture
in the maize market. In addition,                                      widened in October 1998.   * More supply of   Services Project
ADMARC's considerable assets are    *Widen the maize price band gradually.   The band is eliminated or   maize from
underutilized, presenting opportunities  In 1998/99 the maize sale price  progressively widened to   increased
for the development efficiency and  incorporates around a 20 to 25% subsidy   gradually include import    production, trade
private ownership through the     (on import costs) to cushion the large  and export parity prices  and imports of
privatization of these assets.    increase in maize prices caused by large   before the 1999/00 season.   maize resulting
depreciation in August.                                       from greater
* The maize price band (as identified                                  * The National Food      incentives.
by buying and selling prices) has been  * Introduce a rules based maize market   Reserve Agency to be
too narrow. Large sale of public maize  intervention policy.           given the sole authority to
at considerably below import parity                                    conduct intra-seasonal
prices taxes maize production and                                      operations based on clearly
discourages development of maize                                       defined rules to implement
markets and trade.                                                     the maize price band.
Streamline Procedures for                                   * Streamline TEP Policies by: (i)
Employment of Skilled    * Difficulties in employing skilled  gazetting a clear, liberal TEP policy; (ii)  *Government will respond
Expatriates:             expatriate labor are a critical    make the approval of the "key posts" -    to TEP applications within   * Improvement in   * Dialogue with
constraint, especially for foreign direct  determined on the basis of investment  40 working days.  the business    Bank staff under
* Improve investment     investment in Malawi, where        and exports -- automatic through a   * Monitoring of processing   climate that will    IDA adjustment
climate by streamlining  secondary school enrollment ratio is    separate application process; (iii)  delays and approval data    encourage private   credit.
procedures for the       only I 10/o, and expertise is scarce.  allowing existing companies, both  will be done monthly to  investment.
employment of skilled     Obtaining employment permits (called   Malawian and foreign owned, to have the  ensure implementation of
expatriate employees by  temporary employment permits or    same rights to acquire TEPs as new   policy.
investors.               TEPs) for skilled expatriate workers in  firms; and (iv) restoring the rights of
Malawi can take as long as two years.   Permanent Residence Permit (PRP)
holders to work.
Matrix of Policy Reforms and Progress Benchmarks                                                                                   Annex I of President's Report
Page 4 of 4



ANNEX H
-L
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT PIOLICY



TdVam: Pog. Iwauo"W                                    NMINMa ora FDIAN3
lWsshsm LgLws 782 I                                      PA DM 30S
TId:44407                                                  LUAWOW 3
Pm: 78 1679                                                  MALAt
Ref. No. C3211152                   31 November 1998
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
International Development Association
1818 H Street. NW
Washington D.C. 20433
USA
Dear Mr. President
RE: SECOND FISCAL RESTRUCTURING
AND DEREGULATION PROGRAIM: LETTER
OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I am writing to request on behalf of Nlalawi Government a
Credit of US$ 90 million from the International Development
Association (IDA) in support of the continuation of our structural
reform  program  under the  proposetd  Second  Fiscal
Restructuring and Deregulation Program (FRDP 11). The Credit
will help to meet the balance of payments financing
requirements that Malawi faces in the interim that have
increased due to a sharp reduction (by USS 60 million) in export
receipts in 1998 because of declining prices for Malawi's
exports. The structural reforms anchored in a medium-term
strategy as reflected in the Government's White Paper on the
Structural Reform Program (to be issued in November 1998),
and the 7th Policy Framework Paper that will be supported by
the third year ESAF arrangement currently being negotiated
with the IMF. FRDP lI is designed to consolidate gains arising
from structural reforms undertaken under FRDP I and further
deepen the reform process with a view to ensuring
macroeconomic stability and promote sustainable economic
growth with poverty reduction.



2.  The requested Credit will provide the needed financing to
broadly address the following areas: (i) raise the quality of
public expenditures and services through prioritization;  (ii)
increase private sector investment and development through an
accelerated pace of privatization and reforms of the power,
communications and financial sectors; and (iii) - strengthen the
macroeconomic framework. The reform program is described
below and more details are provided in Annexes, which are
attached to this letter.
Background and Rationale
3.  Since 1994, Malawi has implemented a wide range of
policy reforms with the overall objective of poverty alleviation for
the people in Malawi. The key to achieving this objective was
the adoption of a set of prudent financial policies, designed to
restore and maintain macroeconomic stability. Complementary
structural reforms were initiated to redirect public spending to
priority areas such as health, education and the development of
infrastructure.  Specifically,  the  Government  removed
restrictions on smallholder production of burley tobacco and
other cash crops, liberalized the trading of agricultural inputs
and outputs, launched a program of privatization, undertook
civil service reforms and expenditure prioritization, implemented
wide ranging tariff and surtax reforms and attained current
account convertibility.  It was expected  that improved
macroeconomic management, better infrastructure, and
increased role of market forces in resource allocation would
induce the higher saving and investment needed to achieve the
high growth rates necessary for lowering poverty.
4.  The economy responded well to these reforms as
macroeconomic balances were stabilized and the average
annual inflation rate fell from 83 percent in 1995 to 9 percent in
1997. Growth averaged more than 10 percent during the three
2



year period between 1995 - 1997 with only a third of this growth
based on recovery from the 1994 droughit. Equally significant,
this growth has been more broad based and diversified than in
the past and it was led by the smaliholder economy, thus
reversing earlier patterns. In particular, the liberalization of
smallholder burley tobacco production alone has generated
US$ 185 million of revenues for the rural sector in the last three
years and led to the growth of tradingl, markets and other
secondary activities in the country side. In addition, a non-
traditional exports sector has emerged, ex(porting garments and
cut flowers to Europe, North America and to South Africa.
5   Notwithstanding this performance, the economy still
remains fragile. First, there are continuing problems in
expenditure management and prioritization, which resulted in a
large fiscal deficit in the fiscal year 1997198.  Second, deep-
rooted structural problems have constrained private fixed
investment which has remained low, averaging only 3 percent
of GDP in 1992-1997. Third, the agricultural sector remains
vulnerable to price shocks and poor rainfall. Fourth, crowding
out by high government consumption; an underdeveloped
financial sector; poor infrastructure; the dominance of inter-
locking public sector ownership in production,  trade and
finance; and regulatory obstacles in employing skilled expatriate
labor have all deterred private investment. Fifth, the continued
over dependence on tobacco as the main foreign exchange
earner has in recent times resulted in turnnoil and upheaval due
to reduced foreign exchange inflows resulting from poor prices
offered at the auction floors. This situation together with the
need to align the Malawi Kwacha to the currencies of our major
trading partners compelled the Government to devalue the
Kwacha against the United States DolIlar by 49 percent in
August 1998.
6.  The Second  Fiscal Restructuring  and  Deregulation
Program will therefore aim at addressing these structural
3



weaknesses and thereby sustain the momentum of the reform
program. It will especially focus on private sector development
in the non-agricultural sector and on public expenditure
prioritization, monitoring and control. The program will aim to
achieve an average growth rate of 5.3 percent in the next three
year period (1999-2001). This growth shall be achieved mainly
by improving the business climate and efficiency and increasing
private fixed investment rates to an average of 7 percent of
Gross Domestic Product. The targeted growth rate could by
itself lead to a decline in the poverty rate from 43 to 38 percent
of Malawi's population in the next five years. Combined with
better, more efficient targeting of public expenditures to the
poor, and the planned expansion of the safety nets, the share of
Malawians living below this poverty rate should decline even
further.
Medium Term Policy Framework
7.  In the medium-term, the Government will continue to
promote sustainable and effective economic management with
a view to maintaining macroeconomic stability through
reduction of fiscal imbalances and the domestic financing of
deficits.   The medium-term strategy  will place significant
emphasis on policies and structural reforms necessary to
deepen the past reforms and provide a lasting framework for
macroeconomic stability.  Greater efforts will  be made to
enhance domestic savings and investment; raise average
productivity, especially in agro-processing, export oriented and
light industries; enhance domestic competition especially in the
financial  sector  and  improve  the  country's  external
competitiveness. In the agricultural sector, the Government
plans to consolidate gains arising from the deregulation and
liberalization program which was aimed at removing distortions
in pricing and market structures that suppressed incentives and
competition. In addition, the Government will intensify efforts to
tackle long-term structural constraints facing the agricultural
4



sector and the farming community. In this connection, the
Government will undertake land reforms on the basis of the
recommendations of report by Presidential Commission of
Inquiry on Land Policy Reform which is expected to be issued in
January' 1999.
8.  The overall macroeconomic objectives in the medium-
term period are (i) a recovery in real Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) growth to an average of over 5.2 percent per annum, (ii)
a reduction in external imbalance beyond 1998/99 with a view
to attaining a more sustainable balance of payment position,
and (iii) re-prioritizing Government expenditure in favor of the
social sector within the context of Medium Term Expenditure
Framework and improving expenditure control and monitoring.
Attainment of these objectives will require donor support in the
form of external concessional resources over the medium term.
9.  Government has identified two broad constraints to the
achievement of its  goals,  namely:  poor  expenditure
management and low quality of public expenditures;  and
exceedingly low private sector investmeint. To address these
constraints, the proposed program will focus broadly on public
sector management and private sector dlevelopment.  Public
sector management will constitute expenditure prioritization,
strengthening and broadening of the Medium Term Expenditure
Monitoring (MTEF), expenditure control and monitoring, tariff
and surtax reforms and civil service reforms through the
rationalization  of Government functions. Private  sector
development will include: further privatizal:ion/commercialization
of entities including those in the financial, telecommunications,
and power sectors, instituting more effective policies on
Temporary Employment Permits, and enhancement of private
investment in agriculture.
Public Sector Management
5



10. Expenditure Prioritization:   Despite its success in
sharply reducing the fiscal deficit between 1995 and 1997, the
Govemment has faced continued problems with the planning,
quality and control of expenditures. To address these problems
Government is continuing with  measures for improving
efficiency in expenditure management through the MTEF which
has now been extended to all ministries and departments. The
1998/99 budget reflects a prioritization in allocation of resources
across sectors and also within individual ministries, resulting in
core programs and sub-programs being funded adequately and
funding in non-priority programs cut (see Annex 1 for these
targets). Prior to the allocation of funds for the financial year,
Government carried out prioritization exercises in Ministries with
a view to identifying priority programs and activities where more
funding was required and areas of less priority for reduced
allocation.
11. Some significant reallocations were made between
ministries in the 1998/99 budget. For example non-wage
current expenditures  for health, education and agriculture
sectors were increased by 24%, 49% and 22% respectively, in
the 1998/99 budget compared to the 1997/98 budget.
Expenditures in key areas such as road maintenance (through
the National Roads Authority's budget), water development,
and law and order were also significantly increased in real
terms.  At the sub-item  level, expenditures on water and
sanitation, and purchase of drugs, teaching and learning
materials have been considerably increased. On the other
hand, expenditures have been cut in areas such as external
travel and general administration and in the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs and Offices of the President and the Vice President.
These expenditure targets are set out in Annex 1. The share of
these priority expenditures will be maintained if expenditures
increase, while their levels will be protected in the event of cuts
in the goods and services budget.
6



12. The Government, through the Ministry of Finance, has
issued guidelines, a timetable and institutional mechanisms of
the budget and expenditure prioritization for the 1999/00 and
future budgets that will establish the MTEF as the resource
allocati6n rnechanism. As part of this Government will conduct
an in-depth prioritization of expenditures within sectors for the
1999/2000 budget and the medium term (1999/2000-2001/02)
starting from September 1998 by a properly conducted MTEF
exercise for ministries and departments. This exercise will
include the following:
(1)  prioritization of programs, sub-programs and ouputs
in different sectors based on the sector strategies as
defined in the log frames;
(2)  a review  of the costing process followed and
determination of cost co-efficients and costs of
these programs;
(3)  allocation of resources for the core programs, sub-
programs and sub-items basied on the costing and
within the indicative ceilings provided by the Cabinet
in January.
(4)  scaling down/eliminating low priority activities.
(5)  Integrating the recurrent andl development budget:
this will include a careful audit and review of the
development budget to firmly establish the sources
of financing of each projeclt, the type (capital or
recurrent) and the quality of these expenditures and
their consistency with overall sectoral targets and
the recurrent budget.
(6)  the development of coherent sectoral expenditure
plans with a medium term perspective and bringing
7



in of the forward budgeting with a three year rolling
budget.
This expenditure  prioritization exercise for the 1999/2000
Budget will be carried out by the Finance and Audit Committee
of Principal Secretaries which will report its recommendations to
the Cabinet Committee on the Economy and the Cabinet for
their endorsement. The organization and the timetable for this
exercise is given in detail in Annex 3 of the Letter of
Development Policy.
13. Expenditure Monitoring: In July 1998 the Government
introduced the following measures to improve expenditure
monitoring: (see Annex 2 for details of expenditure reports, their
frequency and distribution): preparation of detailed expenditure
monitoring procedures under which the Finance and Audit
Committee of Principal Secretaries (and co-opting other P.S.'s
as necessary) and the Special Cabinet Committee on
Budgetary Measures will review by the 25th of each month
actual expenditures, up to the previous month, on all sectors by
main votes, heads and sub-items. A special report will review
expenditures on priority programs, sub-programs, and sub-
items, and items where expenditure controls have proven to
be  difficult.  The aim will be to correct deviations from the
budget and adjust expenditures against changes in resource
availability.   To   enable control over salary payments,
expenditure monitoring will also include monthly comparison
and reconciliation of payroll and personnel based on the
ongoing audit of civil servants (expected to be completed by
December 1998).    To further consolidate expenditure
monitoring measures, the Government has strengthened
reporting mechanisms for the commercial parastatals with a
view to taking timely measures at protecting the budget. In this
connection all parastatals will submit to the Ministry of Finance
statements on financial liabilities, and copies of quarterly
financial reports that are now submitted to the Department of
8



Statutory Corporations.  The Government will also complete
between now and March 1999 a program of special audits for
ADMARC, PCC, and other major commercial parastatals who
all have Government-guaranteed external and domestic debt.
14.      Expenditure Control Prociedures:   Alongside
expenditure monitoring the Government has also introduced the
following measures to strengthen expenditure control:  (i)
enforcement of existing virement procedures under which all
reallocations within intra-sectoral sub-items will first have to be
approved by the Treasury; (ii) requiring a clear explanation by
the Controlling Officer of the Ministry concerned  for all
deviations of expenditures from budgetary allocations (on a pro-
rated basis) and their cash allocations; (iii) requiring that all
requests for extra-budgetary expenditures be pre-approved by
Special Cabinet Committee on Budgetary Measures, and after
expenditure cuts elsewhere and additional financing has been
explicitly identified.
15. Civil Service Reforms: The Government has been
undertaking civil service reforms under its Civil Service Reform
Action Plan that was approved in September 1997.
Accountability of civil servants has been increased by
eliminating the common service cadre and establishing clearer,
specialized career paths within Ministries. A job evaluation
study is to be completed by December 1998 to prepare for
changes in civil service and salary strucl:ures based on clearer
job definitions. The Government has cornpleted an audit of the
civil service and results of this survey will be published in
December. Based on this audit, Governrnent has undertaken a
monthly reconciliation of the personnel and payroll files. The
number of Ministries have been consolidated from 27 to 19
government is now implementing a program of eliminating,
privatizing and outsourcing, 30 agencies and functions [See
Annex 4 of Letter of Development Policy] in five major ministries
that now employ more than 60% of the civil service.  The
9



elimination, privatization and offer to outsource these functions
is expected to be implemented before end-March 1999.
Alongside this all affected civil servants in the rationalized
agencies will be categorized in three groups: (i) for
redeployment within Government; (ii) for private employment in
the contracted out or privatized service; and (iii) for
retrenchment. The budget includes provisions for separation
benefits for those who may have to leave the service. In the
past two years over 3,300 civil servants have been discharged.
16. Tariff and Surtax Reforms : The Government is
continuing with tariff and surtax policy reforms to increase the
efficiency of the tax system while protecting revenues. There is
steady progress in the reduction of weighted average tariffs
which have fallen from 19% to 14% while surtax rates have
been rationalized and the base extended.   During the
supplementary budget, in April 1998, the Government
eliminated all taxes on exports, and during the 1998/99 budget,
top tariff on consumer goods was reduced from 35% to 30%,
while those on selected intermediate goods, raw materials and
capital goods were reduced by five percentage points.
17. In order to compensate for revenue loss arising from tariff
rates reductions, Government will continue to review surtax
exempt goods and consider introducing positive rates as a
measure to expand the tax base. Through the IMF, a surtax
advisor has been assigned to review the surtax legislation and
strengthen tax administration.. The long term objective is to rely
on the domestic surtax which provides credits for tax paid on
imports as the main revenue source as opposed to import trade
revenues. In addition to the above measures, a Bill for the
establishment of the Malawi Revenue Authority (MRA) was
passed by Parliament in June 1998. It is expected that the MRA
will become operational in March 1999. The establishment of
the MRA, aided by technical assistance from IDA and the IMF,
is expected to improve revenue collection.
10



Private Sector Development
18. Privatization: Government has been implementing a
program of privatization for two years. 'There has been good
progress achieved with over 25 public enterprises privatized so
far. However, a number of public enterprises cutting across
various sectors still maintain a dominaiting presence in the
economy.  Consequently, government has drawn up and
approved a divestiture sequence plan with a view to divesting
all publicly owned assets in enterprises [See Annex 5 for this
list and timetable].  It is planned that between October 1998
and March 1999, at least 15 of the 20 enterprises identified in
Annex 5, and employing approximately 6060 persons, will be
brought to the point of sale. In addition, the implementation of
the country's privatization program which began in 1996 will
also include, the privatization of the country's financial sector
focusing on the privatization of the couintry's two commercial
banks, namely, Commercial Bank of Malawi Ltd. and National
Bank of Malawi liberalization of the telecommunications sector,
and the privatization and commercialization of ADMARC.
19. Financial Sector Policies: The Government of Malawi
has committed itself to bringing more competition in the
financial system and withdraw its direct and indirect interests
from the existing financial institutions. Thus the Privatization
Commission has sold part of Government and Malawi
Development Corporation's shares in the Commercial Bank of
Malawi through a public offering. In order to preserve the
financial soundness of parastatals, the Government has put a
freeze on commercial borrowing. The government will appoint
consultants to review the regulatory framework of the financial
sector, to recommend new regulations tco provide an adequate
regulatory framework in the post-privatized financial sector.
Based on this work, the Government will also issue by March
30, 1999 specific guidelines to the Privatization commission on
11



how the remaining public shares in the two main commercial
banks will be divested   with the objective of improving
management and efficiency in the financial sector.
20. Teledommunications Sector Policies: In the telecom-
munications sector, the Government has adopted the ambitious
targets of more than doubling the telephone penetration rate by
2000, and to more than three times the current rate by 2003.
This shall be achieved through increased private sector
participation. To this end, the Government has approved and
published new policy framework for the future development of
the communications sector. A Bill providing for an independent
regulatory body and the legal basis to implement the policy has
been approved by the Cabinet and published. The major
features  of the  policy  include:  (i) opening  up  all
telecommunications services (mobile, data, Internet, paging
with the exception of long distance and international voice
telephony) to new private service providers; (ii) the split of posts
and telecommunications into separate businesses; and (iii)
securing an established international telecommunications
operator as a strategic partner for Malawi Telecommunications
through an international competitive tender (see Annex 6 for
detailed implementation plan).
21. Temporary Employment Permits: In order to improve
the business climate the Government approved a new TEP
policy for processing and issuing TEPs. This new policy is
aimed at ensuring all investors, both existing and prospective,
can easily obtain TEPs for their key and necessary personnel.
The most important feature of the new policy is the introduction
of "key posts" which will entitle TEPs automatically. The new
policy was gazetted on October 2, 1998 and has the following
features: (i) the process of issuing key posts and non-key posts
will be clearly separated; (ii) key-posts TEPs will not be subject
to review other than verification of the investment itself and will
be issued immediately; (iii) the key posts for existing investors
12



will not be subject to restructuring and/or expansion activities
but rather they will be issued their entitlecl number of key posts
automatically upon application by convertiing any existing TEPs
to "key posts TEPs"; (iv) complete applications for TEP shall be
processed and results communicated within 40 working days;
and (v) permanent residents will not be required to apply for
TEP to work. Government has agreed to monitor monthly the
processing of TEP's and publicize such information.   In
addition, the Government will appoint independent assessors to
monitor the implementation of the new TEP policy.  The
independent assessors will submit their report to Government
by March 31, 1999.
22. Power Sector Policies: In order to improve the financial
position of ESCOM, Government recently approved a financial
restructuring plan of ESCOM. Under the plan, Government
loans to ESCOM were turned into equity and ESCOM was
allowed to increase its tariff by 35% with effect from 1st July,
1998. And in view of the depreciation of the Kwacha in August
1998, the Government has 'agreed that ESCOM further raises
its tariffs by another 35% in order for it to maintain financial
viability. Furthermore, in order to open up all areas of the
power sector to private entry, two Acts namely: the Electricity
Act, 1998 and the Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi Act,
1998 were passed during the July sitting of Parliament. ESCOM
has since been incorporated under the Companies Act as
Electricity Supply Corporation of MAalawi Limited (the
Corporation") and in order to commercialize its operations,
Government has excluded the Corporation from the Statutory
Bodies (Control of Contracts)Act. For the purposes of ensuring
that full financial disclosure obligations by the Corporation to the
Government are maintained, the Governrnent has subjected the
Corporation to the Finance and Audit Act. A new regulator
known as the Electricity Council has been established and will
start operating in October 1998. The Council will provide the
basis for fair competition among ESCOM and other private
13



operators.  However, Government will further clarify, with TA
from IDA as needed, specific licensing, tariff setting procedures,
and the autonomy of the Electricity Council, through subsidiary
legislation/amendment of this Act by March 1999.
23. Agriculture: The agricultural sector, which generates 36
percent of Malawi's GDP and is the largest employer has
experienced significant diversification in the past five years, and
private agricultural trade has increased.  However, many
problems remain, particularly with declining soil fertility and
falling food production. The Government is addressing these
problems, and is also developing programs in the areas of land
tenure, household food security and safety nets, irrigation
development and rural community organization. The decline of
food production, particularly maize, is due to, among other
things, the escalating cost of fertilizer. To increase incentives for
production and trade, Government has increased the maize
price from K3.75 to K6.50/kg, and this price will be gradually
raised towards the import parity price. The Government has
also decided to replace the Strategic Grain Reserve with an
autonomous National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA), and has
decided to reformulate its mode of operation so that it becomes
rules-based instead of discretion-based.  It has also been
decided that the Government policy for the purchase and sale
of maize by the NFRA in the 1999/2000 season should be in
accordance with the floor and ceiling prices of the maize price
band which will be adjusted periodically. The floor price shall be
based on the export parity price, and the ceiling price on the
import parity price.
24  The  government has  decided  to  privatize  and
commercialize ADMARC, and to provide alternative channels
for the social activity of enabling access to markets for farmers
in remote areas. To this end, the Government will appoint
consultants to design a program of commercialization and
privatization and to make recommendations concerning the
14



provision of markets in remote areas. 1The consultants will,
among other things, consider the viability of identifying some 20
to 30 markets which are profitable and wlhich could be turned
over for privatization  by  the  Privatiization  Commission
immediately; and will examine the non-cereals branches of
ADMARC's activity (cotton, tobacco, fertilizer) and make
recommendations as to whether these shiould be split off and
sold as separate entities or be retained in a single firm. The
consultants' report will be completed by the end of March 1999,
and the Government will proceed to implemient the program.
Program Management
Management
25. Management of the Structural RelForm Program to be
Supported by this Credit: The governmeint recognizes that the
proposed adjustment program to be supported by this credit is
multi-sectoral in its coverage. The Cabinet Committee of the
Economy will oversee the implementation of this program as a
key part of its overall economic reform  program.  This
committee will be assisted by a Task Force of officials led by
the Ministry of Finance to supervise and to coordinate the
implementation of the program. The task force comprises the
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation, the
Department of Statutory Corporations, the National Economic
Council, the Privatization Secretariat, andl the Reserve Bank of
Malawi.  The Government will also present this structural
reform program supported by this credit to the people of Malawi
in a White Paper that will publicized by the end of November
1998.
15



Conclu.ion
26. In conclusion it is important to note that in 1994, this
government pledged to forge ahead with forward-looking
economic strategies to improve the lives of the people. The
Government promised to do so through steadfast adherence to
a strategic program of prudent macroeconomic management,
economic liberalization, structural reforms, and outward looking
policies and the Government is still committed to this path of
economic development. The Government, therefore, wishes to
continue with the reform program through the Second Fiscal
Restructuring and Deregulation Program to deepen further the
reform process for the betterment of the people of Malawi. It is
therefore the Government's hope that it will grant the requested
IDA Credit to assist it with its proposed reform program.
Yours sincerely
MINISTER OF FINANCE
16



1997198  Share    1998199  Share
of ORT             of ORT
Total Budget for Other Recurrent Transactions (ORT)   3.563  (in %)      3,600  (in %)
I. High Priority MinistriesNotes
1. Education
A. Priority Items
Education, ORT                                     318.70     8.9%    475.30    13.2%
Sub-item: Teaching and Learning                   35.00     1.0%     83.00     2.3%
Program: Primary Education                         140.00     3.9%    188.00     5.2%
Sub-item: PrimaryTeaching and Learning            34.70     1.0%     50.00     1.4%
B. Low Priority Items
Sub-program: External Travel                       1.25    0.0%       1.41     0.0%
Sub-program: External Travel Allowance             1.10    0.0%       1.70     0.0%
Program: Administration and Support:                41.10     1.2%     96.30     2.7%
Sub-Program: Management and Support Services                         29.90     0.8%
2. Health
A. Priority Items
Health Overall ORT                                 43:2.80    12.1%    535.30    14.9%
Program: Preventive and Promotive Health Services   15.30     0.4%     29.50     0.8%
Sub-Program: Pharmaceutical Services             11:2.70    3.2%    200.40     5.6%
Sub-items:
Drugs and Vaccines/Medical Stores               112.40     3.2%    200.00     5.6%
Water and Sanitation                              16.80    0.5%     22.10     0.6%
Disease Outbreak Investigation and Management     0.30     0.0%     11.70     0.3%
3. Agriculture
A. Priority Items
Agriculture: Overall ORT                            103.30    2.9%    126.10     3.5%
Program:Agriculture Extension                                           10.70    0.3%
Sub-Program: Extension Methodology and System                          3.20     0.1%
Sub-Program: Media Services                                            4.30     0.1%
Program: Irrigation Development                      12.40    0.3%      13.20    0.4%
Sub-Program: Irrigation Technologies and and Development               1.00     0.0%
Sub-item: Purchase of Drugs and Medicine            0.50     0.0%      2.40     0.1%
B. Low Priority
Program: Animal Production and Veterinary Services  16.40    0.5%      15.80    0.4%
Sub-item: External travel                         3.90     0.1%      2.00     0.1%
Sub-item: Extemal travelling allowance            3.90     0.1%      2.50     0.1%
Sub-item: Hiring Costs                            1.10     0.0%      0.20     0.0%
Letter of Development Policy                                                          Annex 11-1
Expenditure Prioritization Results                                                   Page 1 of 2



Annex 11-1 of Letter of Development Policy
Government of Malawi's Expenditure Prioritization Targets and Ceilings
1997/98  Share    1998/99  Share
of ORT            of ORT
(in %)            (in %)
4. Road Maintenance Expenditures                   140.00    3.9%    245.00    6.8%
Previously under Department of Works,
and now under the National Roads Authority.
5. Water
A. High Priority Items
Water Overall ORT                                 38.10
Program: Water Resource Management                 0.10    0.0%      14.30    0.4%
Sub-Program: Water Resource Management                              7.60    0.2%
Program Piped Water Supply                                           18.70    0.5%
Sub-Program: Operations and Maintainance                           18.40    0.5%
Sub-Item: Maintenance of Water Supply             1.20    0.0%      5.00    0.1%
6. Police                                           89.30    2.5%    110.00    3.1%
A. High Priority Item
Program: Crime Combating                          4.20    0.1%     25.20    0.7%
II. Low Priority Ministries and Items
Program: Office of the Vice President               11.70    0.3%     10.70    0.3%
Program: Foreign Service                            73.40    2.1%     49.10    1.4%
Program: Administration and Support for Foreign Service  42.30    1.2%  35.00   1.0%
Sub-Items:
External Travel                            40.00    1.1%     34.00    0.9%
External Travelling Allowance              56.00    1.6%     53.00    1.5%
Fuel and Lubricants                       155.00    4.4%    177.00    4.9%
Transport Claims                           29.00    0.8%     23.00    0.6%
Motor Vehicles:Capital Expenditure on Purchas  92.00    2.6%  28.00    0.8%
Note: Following further adjustments and the exchange rate depreciation in September 1998, overall
recurrent expenditures are being increased. While allocations of the increase have not been
finalized it is known that the share of primary education, drugs and vaccines and agricultural
extension will increase even more than shown here.
Letter of Development Policy                                                        Annex 11-1
Expenditure Prioritization Results                                                 Page 2 of 2



Expenditure Monitoring Procedures
Introduction
I1.    The Ministry of Finance has initiated several measures for improving the expenditure
monitoring process. A proper expenditure monitoring system is crucial for expenditure control.
The monitoring system has to ensure:-
a) timeless in submission of expenditure data by the PMinistries and Departments;
b) accuracy of expenditure data;
c) processing and consolidation of expenditure data and creating a good database for
revenue and expenditure;
d) regular analysis of expenditure and generation of detailed as well as summary
expenditure reports with a regular feedback to the Ministries and Departments;
e) and timely distribution of reports along with graphs and tables to
Ministries/Departments, Principal Secretaries, Cabinet Committee and Cabinet.
2.    It has also been planned to improve the monitoring process by taking the following steps:
a) Timelines and Accuracy of data
-  Improve the timeliness in submission of expenditure data and ensure that all the
reports are received latest by the I 0th day of each month; Controlling Officers of
ministries and departments failing to submit reports in time will be summoned by
the Cabinet Committee for explanation;
*  Improve the accuracy of the expenditure data by a close scrutiny by monitoring
section. Errors and inconsistencies, if any, would get corrected by the concerned
Ministry before the data is recorded on the database maintained by the Treasury;
*  Software application is getting further enhanced to control the data input errors
and improve the data base as well as the production of reports.
*  detailed monthly expenditure and revenue reports for each vote would be sent by
the Treasury to the respective Controlling Officers for verification and
certification so that errors, if any, in the database can be rectified in time.
b) Processing and analysis of data
* monthly revenue and expenditure data should get fully recorded, processed and
consolidated by the 20th of each month;
Expenditure Monitoring                                        Letter of Development Policy
and Controls                                                         Annex 11-2: Page 1



*  all the reports should.get generated by the 22nd of each month. Accuracy of
these reports would be chanced and ensured by responsible officers of the
monitoring unit; the processing of data and generation of reports should not be
delayed due to non submission of reports by some of the ministries and
departments;
*  regular feedback between the treasury and ministries and departments would be
instituted; discussion of the expenditure performance with Controlling Officers
on quarterly basis;
*  detailed analysis of expenditure data with focus on core programs and sub-items
of priority on monthly basis;
*  Summary reports accompanied by tables, graphs and brief analysis would be
ready for distribution by the 24th day of every month.
*  Summary Reports would cover Revenue, Recurrent and Development
Expenditure and include:
3.    Summary of monthly expenditure and expenditure to-date compared to the approved
budget and cash funding by Vote and the percentage utilization of the approved Budget and
Funding;
a) Summary of monthly expenditure and expenditure to-date by Sub-items compared to
the approved provisions at the aggregate level;
b) Summary of expenditure on core programs and Sub-items of expenditure vs.
budgeted expenditure for the priority ministries like Health, Education, Agriculture,
Police, and Transport;
c) Special reports and analysis highlighting the Votes, Programs and Sub-items where
the expenditure has either exceeded the annual budget provision or the pro-rata
budget by 10% or there is under expenditure by 25%;
d) Summary report showing the amount of outstanding commitments including unpaid
bills for each Vote;
e) Summary of revenue performance for Customs, Income Tax and Departmental Fees;
and
f) A report on the fiscal performance vis-a-vis the Program Targets agreed with the
IMF and the World Bank (which would receive items (iii), (v) and (vi) of
expenditure reports mentioned in Lists B and C of Table at the end).
Distribution of Reports
4.    Summary reports would be distributed by the 25th of every month to:
Expenditure Monitoring                                      Letter of Development Policy
and Controls                                                       AnnexI11-2: Page 2



a) Special Cabinet Committee on Budgetary Measures,
b) Finance and Audit Committee of Principal Secretairies,
c) Controlling Officers and respective Ministers
Appendix I shows the distribution of the reports and frequency of distribution. It should be
noted that detailed expenditure reports for each vote would be distributed to the respective
Controlling Officers and Ministers. Special Cabinet Committee would be presenting selected
revenue and expenditure reports to Cabinet at appropriate times.
5.     Special Committee of the Cabinet would examine and discuss these reports in detail and
recommend necessary action for enforcing expenditure control.
Expenditure Control System
6.     The Ministry of Finance has also introduced expenditure control measures. Expenditure
control is seen as a critical issue in public expenditure management.The primary objective of
expenditure control is to ensure that:
a) expenditure is contained within the cash amounts released monthly by the Treasury;
b) expenditure does not exceed the sums approved annually by parliament as detailed in
the Budget Documents No. I and 2 under respective Votes/Heads; and
c) ministries and departments do not commit any expenditure exceeding the cash
balance as per cash book and the available approved provision under the
corresponding budget line, unless the approval for necessary virement has been
accorded by the Treasury.
7.    The Ministry of Finance has taken a number of steps and remedial measures to remove
the above weaknesses and strengthen the expenditure control system. The measures include:
a) strengthening of the monitoring system: The humran resource capacity in the
monitoring unit in the Treasury has been improved by increasing staff and intensive
providing training. Timeliness in the submission of monthly reports and accuracy of
expenditure data has been improved . Processing and analysis of expenditure data is
getting expedited. Summary reports accompanied by tables, graphs and brief
analysis have been distributed to the Special Cabinet Committee, and will also as,
matter of routine, be distributed to a Committee of Principal Secretaries, Controlling
Officers and the Cabinet.
b) Virement in the approved estimates: A Treasury Circular dated 10 August, 1998,
reiterating the Treasury instructions on the conditions and procedures for virement
has been issued. Controlling Officers have been informed that non-adherence to the
instructions could result into serious disciplinary action. Previously
Ministries/Departments were viring funds from one budget item to other budget line
Expenditure Monitoring                                        Letter of Development Policy
and Controls                                                         Annex 11-2: Page 3



without seeking the approval of Treasury. The Monitoring Unit will be producing
Report indicating the budget lines where expenditure has exceeded provision without
virement authority. Action will be taken against the Controlling Officers and his/her
officers for non observance of virement instructions.
c) Extra Budgetary Requests: In the past extra budgetary requests were processed and
approved by the Treasury. However it has now been decided that all these requests
will be submitted to the Special Cabinet Committee on Budgetary Measures for
consideration and direction. It has also been agreed that requests should be accepted
only after the necessary saving of resources have been identified in the budget.
d) Purchase of goods and services on credit basis: a gazette notice has been issued
informing the general public and business community that they should supply goods
and services to Ministries and Departments only on payment. Through this
government avoid overcommitment of expenditure and accumulation of unpaid bills.
In addition to the Gazette Notice, the Ministry of Justice is processing the
amendment of the Finance and Audit Act to give a legal sanctity to the Notice and
prevent the possible suing of Government by suppliers who violet the instruction.
e) Enforcement of expenditure control: Special Committee of Cabinet would closely
monitor the monthly expenditure and recommend necessary action for enforcing
expenditure control.
f) Review of the Finance and Audit Act: The Finance and Audit Act is proposed to be
reviewed to strengthen control systems, procedures and penalties to ensure legitimate
use of resources, transparency and accountability.
8.     A Committee of Principal Secretaries to be chaired by the Deputy Secretary to the
President and Cabinet or the Secretary to the Treasury will be formed to identify the problems
and issues in expenditure control and also design a set of measures to enforce expenditure control
in Ministries and Departnents. Other members of this Committee will be the Accountant
General, Auditor General, Principal Secretary (Finance) in OPC, and the Principal Secretary of
National Economic Council. The Committee will work for a month and submit its
recommendation to the Cabinet for approval by November 30. A Technical Assistance will be
sought to work with the Committee.
Expenditure Monitoring                                     Letter of Development Policy
and Controls                                                       Annex 11-2: Page 4



Table: Distribution of Expenditure Reports
By 10th of each month                By 20th of each month                      By 25th of each month.
A. Respective Controlling            B. Committee of Principal                  C. Special Cabinet                   D. Cabinet
Officers and Ministers                Secretaries                                 Committee
Frequency of Distribution:           Frequency of Distribution:                 Frequency of Distribution:           Frequency of Distribution:
Monthly                                 Monthly                                 Monthly                              Monthly
1. Vote Summary                     i. Salary Funding by Vote                   L  Salary Funding by Vote           i. Vote Summary
ii.  Major sub-item summary         ii. ORT Funding by Vote                     ii. ORT Funding by Vote              ii. Major sub-item summary
iii.  Program/sub-program            iii. Vote Summary                          iii. Vote Summary                    iii. Program/Sub-program
summary                                                                                                              summary
iv. Vote Summary (linking cash             iv. Vote Summary (linking cash       iv. Summary of Development
funding with expenditure)                   funding with expenditure)            Expenditure by Head
v.  Major Sub-item Summary                 v.  Major Sub-item Summary
vi.  Summary of expenditure on             vi.  Summary of expenditure on
core programs and sub-                     core programs and sub-
programs of expenditure vs                 programs of expenditure vs
budget provision.                          budget provision.
vii. Special Reports and analysis          vii. Special Reports and analysis
highlighting the Votes,                    highlighting the Votes,
Programs and Sub-items                     Programs and Sub-items
where the expenditure has                  where the expenditure has
exceeded the budget.                       exceeded the budget.
Expenditure Monitoring                                                     Letter of Development Policy
and Controls                                                                        Annex 11-2: Page 5



Annex 11-3: Plan of MTEF in 1998/99 for the Preparation of the 19912000 Budget and the Medium
Term Expenditure Framework
\t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -,),    \''  i I \I   14u, I)I.II,  I I ) It I ) ,  (
*  Formation of a Central Planning Committee  Ministry of Finance          November
or using the existing Finance and Audits                               1998
Committee (ST, PS Economic Affairs, PS
NEC, Chief Economist, NEC, DSPC) to
Oversee Expenditure Prioritization. This
committee will be responsible for
recomending allocations to priority sectors,
and on intra-sectoral allocations when the
Controlling Officer's allocations do not
reflect agreed national priorities.
*  Formation of the Central Implementation  Ministry of Finance            November 1998
Team (made of the Director of the Budget,
Director of Debt and Aid, Head of
Economic Services) to oversee the Budget
Preparation process.
*  Formation   of  MTEF   committees   in  Sector Ministries               November 1998
Ministries with Controlling Officers in the
Chair of these Committees.
*  Prioritisation    of   programmes,    sub-  Finance and Audits          October 1998 to
programmes and ouputs. in different sectors  Committee/ Sector         January 1999
based on the sector strategies as defined in  Minstries.
the log frames.
*  A  review  of the costing process followed  Finance and Audits          November 1998
and determination of cost co-efficients and  Committee/CIT/Line    to January 1999
costs of these programs.                        Ministries.
*  Scaling   down/eliminating   low   priority  Finance/Expenditure        November 1998
activities  through  a  public  expenditure  Office/Line Ministries   to January 1999
review.
*  Establishing 1999/2000 preliminary ceilings  Cabinet                    December-
and the three year (1999/2000 to 2001/02)  Committee/Finance and  January 1998
projections of sector resource  envelopes  Audits Comminee/CIT
using macro model.
Expenditure Prioritization                                           Letter of Development Policy
and MTEF Plan for 1998/99                                                    Annex 11-3: Page I



*  Preparation  of  intra-sectoral  allocations  CIT/Sector Ministries    January-March
through hearings for Controlling  Officers                              1999
and Sector Ministries.
*  Allocation  of  resources  for  the  core  Cabinet                      March 1999
programmes,  sub-programmes  and  sub-  CommitteelCommittee
items based on the costing and within the  of PSes
indicative ceilings provided by the Cabinet
in January.
*  Integrating the recurrent and development    Finance Arid Audits        November 1998
budget in the MTEF.                             CommitteefCIT          January 1999
--this will include an audit and review of
the development budget to firmly establish
the sources of financing of each project,
--the type (capital or recurrent) and the
quality of these expenditures and
--their consistency with overall sectoral
targets and the recurrent budget.
*  Preparation of Revised Ceilings and Core         Cabinet Commitee       April 1999
Expenditures and Expenditure Cuts for           Finance and Audits
Consideration and Decision by Cabinet.          Committee/CIT
*  Finalization of Budget Estimates.                CIT/Sector Ministries    April-May 1999
*  Submission of Budget to Parliament.              Early June             1999
Expenditure Prioritization                                           Letter of Development Policy,
and MTEF Plan for 1998/99                                                    Annex 11-3: Page 2



Annex 11-4: Rationalizationi of Government Functions
MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND POPULATION:
RATIONALIZATION OF GOVERNMENT FUNCTIONS
Current No. of              Type of              ExpectedlActual Date
No. Name of Function               Civil Servants           Rationalization            of Rationalization
I Regional Healfth Offices            70                Abolition of Offices         December 31, 1998
2 Cleaning Services                   2645                Contracting out               April 1, 1999
3 Transport Services                  415                 Contracting out               April 1, 1999
4 Building and Ground Mainte-      . 1132                 Contracting out            December 31, 1998
nance
5 Laundry Services                    159                 Contracting out               April 1, 1999
6 Security Services                   740                 Contracting out            December 31, 1998
7 Catering Services                    46                 Contracting out               April 1,1999
8 Audit Services                       5                  Contracting out               April 1, 1999
9 Drama, Band Graphics                 25               Contracting out and          December 31, 1998
redeployment
10 Mortuary Services                    29                 Contracting out               July 1, 1999
11 All establishment changes           5097          Creations, upgrading of posts       April 1, 1999
especially field staff, e.g.
Nurses and Doctors, etc.
Total:                              5,237
Letter of Development Policy
Raftonalization of Govemment Functions                                                              Annex 11-4: 1



MINISTRY OF EDUCATION: RATIONALIZATION OF GOVERNMENT FUNCTIONS
Current No. of             Type of                Expected/Actual
No.    Name of Function          Civil Servants          Rationalization        Date of Rationalization
1 Human Resource                     13          Redeplyment if posits exist         May 1, 1999
Management Registries                          elsewhere if no posts exist
HQ.                                            discharge the officers
2 Supplies Unit
Security Services                   8          Discharge                           April 1, 1999
3 Projects Implementation
Unit (PIU)                          14         Redeploy or Discharge               July 1,1999
a. Building and
Construction
4 b. Human Resource Section          14          Redeploy if posts exist elsewhe     July 1,1999
if no posts exist, discharge the
Officers
5 PIU
c. Procurement                      9          Redeploy elsewhenr if posts exi     July 1, 1999
if non exist, discharge the officers
6 d. Accounts                        17          Redeploy elsewher if posts          July 1, 1999
exists, if none exist, discharge the
officers
7 Domasi College of
Education
a. Academic                         I          Redeploy                          October 1, 1998
8 b. Human Resource                   3          Redeploy                          October 1, 1998
9 Malawi College of
Distance Education
a. Schools Broadcasting             5          Abolish                             July 1, 1999
UnK
10 b. Print Services                  80          Contracting Out                    June 30,1999
11 Teacher Training Colleges          27          Redeploy                            May 1, 1999
Administration
Letter of Development Policy
Rationalization of Govemment Functions                                                         Annex 11-4: 2



Ministry of Education (Continued)
Current No. of              Type of                Expected/Actual
No.    Name of Function           Clvil Servants          Rationalization        Date of Rationalization
12 Secondary Schools
a. Maintenance                      I           Discharge                           May 1, 1999
13 b. Laboratory                       2          Discharge                        31st December, 1998
14 c. Library                          1          Discharge                            May 1, 1999
15 Secondary Schools
Industrial Class
Employees
a. Kitchen                         225          Redeploy                         December31, 1998
16 b. Utility                          5          Discharge                            May 1,1999
TOTALS                             427
Letter of Development Policy
Rationalization of Governmnt Functions                                                           Annex 11-4: 3



MINISTRY OF WORKS AND SUPPLIES
RATIONALIZATION OF GOVERNMENT FUNCTIONS
Current Number               Type of              ExpectedlActual Date
No. Name of Function              of Civil Servants         Rationalization            of Rationalization
I Building Maintenance                 16                 Contracting out               April 1, 1999
2 Landscape Services                   24                 Contracting out               April 1, 1999
3 Laboratory testing services          39                 Contracting out               April 1, 1999
4 Building Construction               166                 Contracting out             Contracting out is
Planning and Design                                                                    underway
activities
5 Saloon care and Plant hire           12                 Contracting out               April 1, 1999
6 Security Services                    23                 Contracting out               April 1, 1999
7 Works Training Centre                80              Privatization or transfer        July 1, 1999
to National Con-
struction CoLncil
8 Vehicle Maintenance                 115                 Contracting Dut               April 1, 1999
Letter of Development Policy
Rationalization of Govemment Functions                                                             Annex 11-4:4



MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION
RATIONALIZATION OF GOVERNMENT FUNCTIONS
Current No. of             Type of             Expected/Actual Date
No.     Name of Function          CIviI Servants          Rationalization           of Rationalization
I Management of Depart-              16          Strengthening Management,       December 31,1998
ments at Ministry HQ.                          Policy and Decision Making
2 Administration and Finance         62          Upgrading and strengthe-        December 31, 1998
ning of Finance and
Administration
3 Security Services                  30          Contracting out services        December 31, 1998
4 Support Services                    5          Phasing out excess posts        December 31, 1998
5 Agriculture Extension and          591         Phasing out excess posts        December 31, 1998 -
Support Services in ADDs,                                                        December, 2001
RDPs, and EPAs
6 Agriculture Training               225         Restructuring NRC into          December 31, 1998 -
Institutions (NRC)                             Semiatonomous Institute           December 2001
7 Land Husbandry Training             9          Abolition of Training Centre    December 31, 1998
Centre
8 Agriculture Experimental           20          Abolition of 5 Research         December 31, 1998
Research Sub-stations                          sub-stations
9 Agriculture Research      To be determined     Contracting out                 December 31, 1998 -
Services i.e. Plant Protection  by the Ministry of                               December 2001
Quarantine, Seed Inspection  Agriculture and
and Certification, Multiplica- Irrigation
tion of plant materials and
seed for horticulture crops,
Farm mechanization,
Multiplication of agroforestry
seedlings Production of
cereal seeds, Production
of rhizobia, soil fertility
analysis, production of
legumes, fibres and oil
seeds
Letter of Development Policy
Rationalization of Govemment Functions                                                          Annex 11-4: 5



Ministry of Agriculture (Continued)
Current No. of            Type of             Expected/Actual Date
No.    Name of Function          Civil Servants         Rationalization           of Rationalization
10 Agriculture Research Dept.        805         Delinking Department of Agr.      July 1, 2001
and Research Station                          and Research Station.
11 Agriculture Extension             33          Upgrading and Strengthening    December 31, 1998
Services at RDP
12 Agriculture Extension              5          Upgrading and strengthening    December 31, 1998
Services at ADD
13 Agriculture Extension            3068         Upgrading and strengthening   December 31, 1998 to
Service at EPA                                                                 December 2001
Note:   i. These figures only reflect estimated expenditure on salaries and wages. Other related
costs have not been taken into account.
ii. Commercialization of Research services and the delinking of the Research Department
may not constitute actual savings because the feasility and cost of contracting out has
been assessed yet.
Letter of Development Policy
Rationalization of Govemment Functions                                                       Annex 11-4: 6



MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND CIVIL AVIATION:
RATIONALIZATION OF GOVERNMENT FUNCTIONS
Type of             Actual/Expected Date
No. Function                       Current Staffing           Rationalization             of Rationalization
1 Stevedore Services                    71                  Contracting Out              December 1, 1998
2 Weighbridge Operations                41                   Contracting Out             December 1, 1998
3 Vehicle Testing                       18                  Contracting Out              December 1, 1998
4 General Security Services             90                   Contracting Out             December 1, 1998
5 Vehicle Provision                     41                   Contracting Out             December 1, 1998
6 Maintenance of Airport                53                 Tranferred to ADL            Transferred already
Development
7 Grounds Maintenance and               179                Tranferred to ADL            Transferred already
Cleaning
8 Security of Airport                   80                 Tranferred to ADL            Transferred already
Premises and Equipment
Letter of Development Policy
Rationalization of Government Functions                                                                 Annex 11-4: 7



% of Shares  Mode of                             Number of
Public enterprise                 Holding body           Date of divestiture   to be Sold   Sales                                Employees
I Encor Products Ltd.               MDC - 0%                  Completed
2 Auction Holdings Ltd.             ADMARC - 48.9%
3 David Whitehead & Sons            ADMARC - 49%                 1998                51        Strategic Partner                          2400
4 National Bank of Malawi           ADMARC - 39.16%              1998
5 Investment & Development Bank of. ADMARC - 27.56%              2000
Mw Ltd.
6 Central Tobacco Properties . Ltd.    ADMARC - 0%             Completed
7 Packaging Industries (MW) Ltd.   MDC                           1998                24.9      Public Offer                                380
8 The I&E Malawi Ltd.               MDC                       1998/99/00             86        Strategic Partner                          2006
9 The Portland Cement Co. (1974) Ltd. MDC - 23%
10 Tourism Development & Investment. MDC - 76.5%                  1999
Co. of Mw Ltd.                    Indebank
11 Leopard Match Co. Ltd.            MDC - 30%                    1999
12 National Insurance Co. Ltd.       MDC - 5%                     1998                 5        Public Offer                                215
13 Commercial Bank of Malawi Ltd.    MDC                          1999
14 Malawi Book Service               GOVERNMENT                Completed
15 Limbe and Blantvre Rest Houses    GOVERNMFNT                Comnleted
16 Viply Ltd.                        GOVERNMENT           Under implementation
17 Stagecoach (Malawi) Ltd.          ADMARC - 70.75%              2001
20 Malawi Tea Factory Co. Ltd.       ADMARC - 40%               1998/1999             100       Private Placement                           230
21 Brick & Tile Co. Ltd.             MDC - 0%                   Completed
22 Mining & Investment Development  GOVERNMENT
Corporation
23 Kasungu Flue Cured Tobacco        GOVERNMENT           Under implementation
Authority                                                                          Na        Private Placement                           154
24 Smallholder Sugar Authority       GOVERNMENT           Under implementation        Na        Private Placement                           258
Divestiture Sequence List: Enterprises Aimed to brought to the Point of Sale by end-March 1999 are in bold letters.             Letter of Development Policy
ANNEX 11-5: Page 1



% of Shares  Mode of                           Number of
Public enterprise                Holding body          Date of divestiture  to be Sold   Sales                              Employees
25 Smallholder Coffee Authority     GOVERNMENT    Under implementation             NA       Assets will be transferred to a Trurst    657
26 Smallholder Tea Authority        GOVERNMENT    Under implementation             Na       Private Placement                         180
27 Lilongwe Smallholder Poultry Project GOVERNMENT              1998
28 Mzuzu Smallholder Poultry Project  GOVERNMENT                1998
29 Malawi Railways (1994) Ltd.      GOVERNMENT    Under implementation             100      concessioning                             995
30 Charcoal Production Fund         GOVERNMENT
31 Malawi Catering Services         GOVERNMENT                  1998               100      Concessionaire                            172
32 VIPCOR                           GOVERNMENT                  1999
33 Mpwepwe Boat Yard                GOVERNMENT    Under implementation             100      Strategic Partner                          40
34 National Seed Co. Ltd.           ADMARC - 22.5%              2000
35 Malawi Posts& Telecoms. Corp     GOVERNMENT                  1999
36  Kuti Ranch                      GOVERNMENT                  1998
37  Meru Ranch                      GOVERNMENT                  1998
38  Ngapani Farm                    GOVERNMENT                  1999
39  Mikolongwe Ranch                GOVERNMENT
40  Dzalanyama Ranch                GOVERNMENT                  1999
41  Lusangadzi Farm                 GOVERNMENT                  1999
42  Nasomba Farm                    GOVERNMENT
43  South Rukuru Farm               GOVERNMENT                  1999
44  Zomba Trout Farm                GOVERNMENT          Under implementation
45  Bwemba Dairy Ranch              GOVERNMENT                  1998               100      Strategic partner                           96
46  Choma Ranch                     GOVERNMENT                  1998               100      Strategic Partner                           73
47  Chipunga Farm                   GOVERNMENT                  2000
48  Nasawa Farm                     GOVERNMENT                  2000
49  Viphya Farm                     GOVERNMENT                  2000
50  Dwambadzi Ranch                 GOVERNMENT                  2000
5 1  Dept. of Fisheries Fish Farms  GOVERNMENT                  2000
52   Thuchila Farm                  GOVERNMENT                  1998
53   Kaombe Farm                    GOVERNMENT          Under implementation
Divestiture Sequence Ust: Enterprises Aimed to brought to the Point of Sale by end-March 1999 are in bold letters.         Letter of Development Policy
ANNEX 11-5: Page 2



% of Shares  Mode of                            Number of
Public enterprise                Holding body           Date of divestiture  to be Sold   Sales                               Employees
54   Lifidzi Farm                   GOVERNMENT           Under implementation
55   Kasikidzi Farrn                GOVERNMENT           Under implementation
56   Kabumbu Farm                   GOVERNMENT           Under implementation
57 Cold Storage Co. Ltd.            ADMARC - 100%               1999
58 Optichem (Malawi) Ltd.           ADMARC - 0%               Completed
59 Grain & Milling Ltd.             ADMARC - 25.64%             2000
60 Manica Freight Services Ltd.     ADMARC - 50%                1998                25       Designated Investment Vehicle              350
61 Bain Hogg Insurance Brokers Ltd. MDC - 25%                   1998                25       Designated Investment Vehicle               83
62 Plastic Products Ltd.            MDC - 49%                    1999
63 Bata Shoe Co. (Malawi) Ltd.      MDC - 49%                   1998                20       Designated Investment Vehicle              380
64 Malawi Finance Co. Ltd.          ADMARC - 60%                 1999
65 Finance Corporation Ltd.         ADMARC - 100%    Under implementation           75       Strategic Partner                           39
66 Indefund Ltd.                    MDC - 35.2%                  1999
67 Chillington Agrimal Ltd.         MDC -43.59%         Under implementation        44       Strategic Partner                          103
68 MPICO Holdings Ltd.              MDC                          1999               25       Satisfaction of Preemption rights           32
69 Malawi Dairy Industries          GOVERNMENT    Under implementation
Blantyre Dairy                 GOVERNMENT                   1999                60       Public Offer                                90
Ndata Farm                     GOVERNMENT                   1998               100       Strategic Partner                           11
Mzuzu Dairy                    GOVERNMENT                   1998               100       Strategic Partner                           36
New Capital Dairy              GOVERNMENT                   1998               100       Strategic Partner                           56
Katete Farm                    GOVERNMENT                   1998               100       Strategic Partner                           37
Head Office                    GOVERNMENT                   1998               100       Strategic Partner                           69
70 Air Malawi Ltd.                  GOVERNMENT                  2000
71 Air Cargo Ltd.                   GOVERNMENT                  2000
72 Plast & Vehicle Hire. Organisation  GOVERNMENT               2000
73 Government Press                 GOVERNMENT                  2000
74 District Rest House Chain        GOVERNMENT                Completed
75 UNDP Housing Fund                GOVERNMENT                  2000
75 Borehole Construction Fund       GOVERNMENT           Under implementation
76 Capital City Development. Fund    GOVERNMENT                 2000
Divestiture Sequence List: Enterprises Aimed to brought to the Poirn of Sale by end-March 1999 are in bold letters.         Letter of Development Policy
ANNEX 11-5: Page 3



% of Shares  Mode of                             Number of
Public enterprise                 Holding body           Date of divestiture    to be Sold   Sales                               Employees
77 Chemicals and Marketing Ltd.      MDC - 20%                    1999
78 Cory Mann George Ltd.             ADMARC - 50%                 1998
79 Malawi Savings Bank               GOVERNMENT                   2002
80 Central Medical Stores            GOVERNMENT                   2000
81 Government Hostel                 GOVERNMENT                   2000
82 Central Government Stores         GOVERNMENT                   2000
83 Forestry Resthouses               GOVERNMENT                    1998
84 The New Building Society          GOVERNMENT           Under implementation        30        Strategic Partner                           320
85 Malawi Rural Finance Co. Ltd.     GOVERNMENT                   2002
86 Stockbrokers Malawi Ltd.          MDC - 25%                    1999
87 Malawi Lake Services Ltd.         GOVERNMENT                   1999                100       Concessionaire                              215
88 Petroleum Control. Commission    GOVERNMENT             To be decided (TBD)
89 MDC                               GOVERNMENT                   TBD
90 ADMARC                            GOVERNMENT                   TBD
91 Malawi Housing Corporation        GOVERNMENT                   TBD
92 ESCOM                             GOVERNMENT                   TBD
93 Blantyre Water Board              GOVERNMENT                   TBD
94 ADMARC Investments Holding Co. ADMARC                          2003
95 Lilongwe Water Board              GOVERNMENT                   TBD
96 Lilongwe International Airport    GOVERNMENT                   TBD
97 Dwangwa Sugar Corporation         ADMARC -0%                 Completed
98 SUCOMA                            ADMARC 37.3%                  1998
99 Mchenga Coal Mine                 MDC -47.5%                  1998/99               54       Strategic Partner - bidding                 854
100 Malawi Int'l Transport Company    ADMARC - 100%                TBD
Divestiture Sequence List: Enterprises Aimed to brought to the Point of Sale by end-March 1999 are in bold letters.             Letter of Development Policy
ANNEX 11-5: Page 4



ANNEX 11-6: MALAWI TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORMS'
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
1.   Approval and publication of Communication  31 July, 1998       Ministry of Information
Policy Statement by Government
2.   Passing of Communications Bill by Parliament.  4th Quarter, 1998    Parliament
The Bill lays out the legal framework for the
implementation of the policy statement which
facilitates further liberalization and private
participation in the sector.
3.   Establishment of Malawi Communications     Ist Quarter, [999    Ministry of Information
Regulatory Authority (MACRA).
4.   Licence both cellular operators in a way which   December 31, 1998   MPTC
will ensure fair competition between them in
the market place, and make public those termns
of the licence which are not confidential.
5.   Licence to be issued to the existing       Ist Quarter 1999    MACRA
telecommunications service providers under the
new regulatory regime on terms which ensure a
level playing field.
6.   Appoint consultants (advisers) to assist in the    Ist Quarter 1999  Privatization Commission
transaction for private sector participation
(strategic partner) in Malawi Telecom.
7.   Prepare for the separation of posts from   In progress (IFrom  MPTC
telecommunications.                       Jan. 1998)
8.   Establish Malawi Telecom as a Company      3rd Quarter 1999
through the Company Act and create Malawi
Posts as a new Corporation through the new
Communications Act 1998.
9.   Implementation of the physical separation of    3rd Quarter 1999  MPTC
Posts from Telecoms.
10.  Secure Strategic Partner for Malawi Telecoms.  2nd Quarter 2000    Privatization Commission
Telecommunications Sector                                         Letter of Development Policy
Implementation Plan



Annex III: Previous IDA Adjustment Operations in Malawi
Op era .I io II                   Boardil           11) k          \1 xl:11)2V    I 111m)1(1.1I 1I;Ide jld(  I ;I\    I',,i,1,c         ''litll          llfidlil9llI'l  I'm;lj:1'1;;
\1)lUlil;ll  I c( -'tit    16;tt Itts Vlil SSe,,                                                 ,l. Io(t I,  Io, I.i
(t~~~~~~~R fo I In 1'l ;I 11 (          O   I'1C1-1|       \11:1112L"' IIICI) 1]t   11) I. In  RvIo In(',,I
SAL-I                             FY 81            45           Exchange      Interest Rates     Tariffs, Tax rates   Macroeconomic   Maize price                        Financial reforms of
Rate          Adjusted           and base             and sectoral     Adjustment                       MDC and Press
Adjusted                         Adjusted.            Planning                                          Holdings
capacity
SAL-I                             FY 84             55          Same           Same              Tariff and Tax                        Smallholder                       Some divestiture of
structure adjusted                    Price                            ADMARC's non-
adjustment                       marketing
Assets
SAL-III                           FY 86            30           Same          Same               Tax increases and    Preparation of 3   Same           Reduction in     Some divestiture of
tax system reforms.   year PSIP and                    items subject    non-market assets of
Programmatic                     to price         ADMARC;
Budget                            controls        MDC and PHL
______ ___  _ ______ ___  _ ______ _____   _____ _____ _____ Introduced                              Restructured
SAL-I11 Supplement                FY 87             10          Same           Samne                                                                                     Some of ADMARCts
non-marketing
Activities divested
Industrial and Trade Policy       FY 88             79          * Same         Revision of       *Introduction of     Reduction        Beef prices      Industrial
Adjustment Credit                                                 Removal    Reserve Bank        credit based surtax    of deficit     decontrolled     Licensing
of exchange    Act               system                                                 requirement
rate                             * Export                                               reduced
allocation                       Licensing reduced
requirements                     and duty drawback
for 65% of                       introduced
I_imports
Agriculture Sector                FY 90             70          Removal of                                                             *Price changes
Adjustment                                                      exchange                                                               of crops
Credit                                                         rate                                                                    *Limited entry
Credit                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~allocation                                               of smallholders
requirements                                                           in burley
for 65% of                                                             tobacco
imports                                                                *Private entry
allowed in
fertilizer trade
* Adjustment
of estate rents
Previous Adjustment Credits                                                                                                                                  Annex III
Page I of 2



Entrepreneurship                  FY 92            120         Exchange    _* .Expenditure    *Expand                                               _lnve.stment               ..  
Development                                                    Rate                                                targets set ffir    smallholder   rules
and Drought Recovery       ~Adjustments                                               .education.                    access to       liberalized
burley tobacco   * Investment
Program (EDDRP)                                                                                                     * Budgeting                      Promotion
reforms of                       Agency set up.
district and                     *Minimum
peripheral                       wage policy
health care.                     introduced.
Fiscal Restructuring and          FY 96            100                                         Tariff and Surtax    * Introduction    Deregulation of  Deregulation   Privatization
Deregulation Program                                                                           Reforms              of the Medium    smallholder      of transport    programn launched
Tenm             burley tobacco   tariffs and     under the newly
Fxpenditure      production.     imports.         passed Privati2ation
Framework                                         At
Liberalization                  At
*Civil Service    of trade in
Reform Plan     inputs and
and             tobacco.
Implementation
Land reforms
Previous Adjustment Credits                                                                                                                                Annex III
Page 2 of 2



Annex IV
Generated: 11/10/9S
Status of Bank Group Operations in Malawi
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                              disbursements a/
Project ID    Year              Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD       IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev' d
Number of Closed Projects: 57
Active Pro-jects
MW-PE-36038    1999   GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI             POPULATION/FP               0.00       5.00            0.00          5.21     0.00       0.00
PROJEC
MW-PE-49599    1999   GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI             MASAF II                    0.00      66.00            0.00         66.00     0.00       0.00
MW-PE-1670      199B   GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI            SECONDARY ED                0.00      48.20            0.00         48.63      .96       0.00
PROJECT
MW-PE-1664      1997   GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI            ENV. MANAGEMENT             0.00      12.40            0.00         10.70      .23       0.00
MW-PE-1648      1996   GOVERNMET OF MALAWI             FISCAL RESTR&DERE           0.00     112.20            0.00          3.84      .83       6.45
MW-PE-1668      1996   GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI            SOCIAL ACTION EUND          0.00      56.00            0.00         22.79    -3.91       0.00
MW-PE-42305    1996   GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI             PRIMARY EDUCATION           0.00      22.50            0.00          6.88     7.36       0.00
EM
MW-PE-1667      1995                                   NAT WATER DEV               0.00      79.20            0.00         52.54    16.87       0.00
MW-PE-34489    1995   GOVOVERNMENT OF MALAWI           MALAWI RAILWAYS             0.00      16.16            0.00         13.49    14.30       1.74
REST
MW-PE-1657      1994   GOVERtMENT OF MALAWI            INSTIT.DEV.II               0.00      22.60            0.00         10.73     9.39       0.00
MW-PE-1660      1993   GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI            AGRIC SERVICES              0.00      45.80            0.00         17.47    12.37       0.00
MW-PE-1677      1993                                   Rural Finl Svcs             0.00      25.00            0.00          7.40     6.61       0.00
MW-PE-1636      1992   GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI            LOCAL GOVT.                 0.00      24.00            0.00         10.24     6.43       0.00
MW-PE-1662      1992   GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI            POWER V                     0.00      55.00            0.00         26.67    27.55      11.19
MW-PE-1646      1991   GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI            PHN SECTOR CREDIT           0.00      55.50            0.00         21.60    23.64       0.00
MW-PE-1658      1991   GOVERNNMENT OF MALAWI           FISHERIES DEV.              0.00       8.80            0.00          2.81     2.68       0.00
Total                                                                              0.00     654.36            0.00        327.00   125.31      19.38
Active Projects      Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               306.80           1,248.20            1,555.00
of which has been repaid:                 0.00             146.09             146.09
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               654.36           1,066.50            1,720,86
Amount sold                     :                0.00                .72                .72
Of which repaid             :                0.00                 .72                .72
Total Undisbursed               :             327.00                1.76             328.76
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                                                                                                         Page



Annex V
Page I of 1
Malawi
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Sep-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company           Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1986/90                LFCM                     0.00     .19    0.00    0.00    0.00      .19    0.00    0.00
1995                   AEF Mal Stkbrkrs         0.00     .11    0.00    0.00    0.00       .11    0.00    0.00
1996                   AEF Mwaiwathu            0.00     .81    0.00    0.00    0.00       .81    0.00    0.00
1997                   AEF Maravi               .60    0.00    0.00    0.00       .60    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                   AEF Ufulu Garden         .31    0.00    0.00    0.00       .15    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                     .91    1.11    0.00    0.00       .75    1.11    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998                   HOFICO                   0.00     .30    0.00    0.00
1998                   IDHM                     0.00     .50    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:            0.00     .80    0.00    0.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 11/09/98



Annex VI
Malawi at a glance                                                             10/27/98
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCLAL                                         Saharan     Low-
Malawi    Africa  Income       Development dlamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                     10.3       614     2,048                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   220       500       350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     2.3       309       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (I)                                       2.7       2.7       2.1
Labor force (%)                                      2.6       2.6       2.3     GNP                             Gross
per                            pnrmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)              13        32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      43        52        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             133        90       78
Child malnutribon (% of children under 5)             27        27         ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                54        44        71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  43        43       47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  81       75        91                 Malawi
Male                                                84        82       100            -- Low-income group
Female                                              77        67       81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996      1997
IEconomic rstlos
GDP (USS billions)                         0.67      1.2       2.3       2.5
Gross domestic investment/GOP              26.3    12.3       12.4      12.3                    T
Exports of goods and services/GDP          30.4    23.0       22.7      24.3                    Trade
GrossdomesOcsavings/GDP                    17.8    10.1        0.8       2.1
Gross national savings/GDP                  14.9     6.3       -1.9     -0.3                      T
Current account balance/GDP                  ..    -6.0       -12.0    -12.6     Do .s\
Interest payments/GDP                       1.3      3.1       1.2       1.2     Domestic                    Investent
Total debVGDP                              44.6    98.0      101.8    101.9      Savigs                      n
Total debt service/exports                   9.1    47.4      22.9      14.5
Present value of debVGDP                      ..      ..      53.5      49.4
Present value of debt/exports                ..       ..    274.0    242.0   i
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 2.5     3.4    10.7        5.1       4.5                  Malawi
GNP per capita                     -0.8     0.7      9.5       2.5       1.9                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       3.2     3.8    16.4       12.9       2.3   1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                 1976    1986       1996     1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                39.2    43.1       36.8      36.3    20 T
Industry                                   18.5    21.5       18.2      17.5    10 
Manufacturing                             11.9    14.8       14.2     13.6      0 10  
Services                                   42.3    35.4       45.0      46.1    -10                        f 99   97
.20
Private consumption                        68.1    70.1       85.8      85.3    30o
General govemment consumption              14.1    19.7       13.3      12.7              -     GDI   -0--GDP
Imports of goods and services              38.9    25.1       34.2      34.5   I
(average annual growth)                 1976-86  1987-97      1996     1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports l%)
Agriculture                                  1.1     5.5       35.0      3.9    So T
Industry                                     1.9     2.7       3.6       1.1   j40
Manufacturng                               3.0      2.2      -1.4       0.6    30
Services                                     3.2     1.3       -5.3      8.7    20 +
Private consumption                          1.4     6.6      25.2       4.9     0
General govemment consumption                7.0    -2.6      -14.8      1.6   -10 +    92                    96   97
Gross domestic investment                   -7.1     4.2       5.0       7.1   .20 1
Imports of goods and services               -2.9     4.5      43.5      11.9                              Im     s
Gross nabonal product                        2.4     3.6       12.4      5.2
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex VI
Malawi
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996     1997      ifaton
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                         100 -
Consunfr prces                                        14.0      37.6       9.1     sO
Imrpi-it GDP deflator                        10.0    13.2       40.3      13.4    i e0
40 tB
Government flnance                                                                  20
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 o
Current revenue                                       22.4      17.1      16.1             92   93    4    95    s    97
Current budget balance                                -3.1      -3.0      -5. 1 -GD dPdator --cPI
Overall surplus/deflcit                              -13.8      -8.0    -12.3    |
TRADE
USmllin)1976    1986  1996  Export and Import lvals (US$ m1IlIons)
(US$ m7illions)                                                                  i
Total exports (fob)                                   248        483      567      32 -
Tobacco                                              135       300       331   14
Tea                                           ..      38        26        69
Manufactures                                                                    |                      I
Total imports (cif)                                    257       624      783      41r
Food                                                   2        5          3     2
Fuel and energy                                       32        59        79     139
Capital goods                                         74       277       340       o t1
Exportpriceindex(1995=100)                                       107       113          S1   92  93  94  96    e   s7
Import price index (1995=100)                                     99        93   1            Exports       l Impors
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                        107       121
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
m976    1986       1996     1997    r Cu ntraccountba lnetoGOP rato%)
(US$ Millions)
Exports of goods and services                 189     271        518      615               t                -
Imports of goods and services                249      296        727      872           *    92  93  94  05    e I *
Resource balance                             -60      -25       -209      -258      - T
Net income                                    -10     -61        -39      -41    -10
Net current transfers                                  44         72       65
-15..       I 
Current account balance                                -71      -272      -318
Financing items (net)                                  49        382      264    -20
Changes in net reserves                        36      22       -109       53   | 2$          
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ milons)          26       42        251      188
Conversion rate (DEC, locaVUSS)               0.9      1.9      15.3      16.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996     1997
(US$ millions)                                                                     ComposIdon of total debt 1997 (USS milIlons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          299    1,158     2.311     2,566
IBRD                                         0       85         42       34                 F 22 Ck SO
IDA                                         74      422      1,346     1,559           :E 312
Total debt service                             18     130        120       91
IBRD                                         0       11         13       11
IDA                                          1        5         18       20
Composition of net resource flows                                                     D:437
Official grants                                                 97       83
Officialcreditors                            29     111        121       76   |
Private creditors                           20      -32         -4       -3
Foreign direct investment                    10                 30       25    |      C 102  '..
Portfolio equity                              0
World Bank program
Commitments                                                                      A - IBRD                     E-8ibaa
Disbursements                                12      87        141       87      B-IDA    D --Ottr multiata    F-Private
Principal repayments                          0        5        17        17   j C-IMF                        G-Short-twm
Netflows                                     12      82        124       70   1II
Interest payments                             1      11         14        14
Net transfers                               12       72        110       56
Development Economics                                                                                              10127t98



Annex VII
Malawi Social Indicators
Latest single year               Same regionrincome group
Sub-
Saharan           Low-
1970-75      19804t5       1990-96               Africa       income
POPULATION
Total population. mid-year (millions)              5.2           7.2         10.0               596.4        3,236.2
Growth rate (% annual average)                  3.0           3.2           2.7                 2.7            1.8
Urban population (% of population)                7.7          10.4          13.9                31.7           29.1
Total fertility rate (births per woman)            7.8          7.6           6.5                 5.6            3.2
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index                            ..           ..          54.0
Urban headcount index                            ..            ..
Rural headcount index
INCOME
GNP per capita (USS)                              130           160           180                490            490
Consumer rice index (1987=100)                      ..           70           945                266            275
Food pnce index (1987=100)                         ..            68         1.226
INCOME/CONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
(% of income or consumption)
Lowest quintile
Highest quintile
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                                 ..           ..           2.3                  ..            1.5
Education (% of GNP)                              ..          3.5           3.3                 5.3            3.6
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)            ..
Not primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                             ..           43           100
Male                                           ..            46           100
Female                                                       41           100
Access to safe water
(% of population)
Total                                                          32            45                 45             76
Urban                                                        70            52                 63             80
Rural                                                        27            44                 34             72
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                                        49            99                 56             80
DPT                                                            52            98                 55             81
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)                             24            28
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                            41            42            43                 52             63
Male                                           40            41            43                 51             62
Female                                         42            42            43                 54             64
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)               191           147           133                 91             68
Under 5 (per thousand live births)              347           271           217                147             94
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                   479           429           553                448            231
Female (per 1,000 population)                 388           349           487                376            206
Matemal (per 100.000 live births)                 ..          250           620
World Development Indicators 1998 CD-ROM, World Bank



Annex VIl
Paep1 of 3
Malawi - Key Economic Indicators
Actual              Estimate           Projected
Indicato7              1993    1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture'                         44.8   22.3   26.9   33.2   33.0   32.6   32.0   31.4   30.8
Industry'                            22.1    19.3   17.4   16.5   15.9   16.1   16.2   16.3   16.4
Services'                            24.7   47.4   44.2   40.6   41.9   38.3   38.8   38.7   39.1
Total Consumption                     100.9   91.7   91.9   99.2   97.9   94.7   94.0   93.8   92.8
Grossdomesticfixed                     13.0   27.0   14.1    9.8    9.8    15.5   16.9   17.5   17.9
investment
Govemment Investment'                 5.1    8.9    6.7    4.9    5.2   14.0   14.2   14.6   14.7
Private investment                   10.1   20.4    9.9    7.5    7.1    4.3    6.0    5.9    6.2
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                        16.1   29.8   29.0   22.7   24.3   30.4   33.3   33.4   33.8
Imports (GNFS)                         32.2   50.8   37.5   34.2   34.5   43.3   47.5   47.7   47.5
Gross domestic savings                 -0.9    8.3    8.1    0.8    2.1    5.3    6.0    6.2    7.2
Gross national savingse          ,    -1.5    6.4    4.5   -1.9   -0.3         1.7    2.1    3.2    4.5
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                2071    1173   1465   2270   2519   1804   1735   1860   1996
(USS million at current
prices)
Gross national product per            200      170    170    180    221)    210    190    170    170
capita (USS, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(I/e, calculated from 1978
prices)
Gross domestic product at           9.7%  -10.2%   14.7%   10.7%    5.1'Xe   4.0%    4.5%    4.5%    4.5%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income               9.9%  -13.9%   20.8%   11.1%    5.2%    3.9%    3.6%    3.8%    4.3%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (Y, calculated
from 1978 prices)
Gross domestic product at           6.7%  -12.7%   11.6%    7.8%    2.4%    1.4%    1.9%    1.9%    1.9%
market prices
Total Consumptionh                  9.6%  -18.5%   14.1%   14.1%    1.8%    0.5%    0.8%    0.9%    1.0%
Private consumption                 15.6%  -29.3%   37.6%   22.0%    2.2%    2.0%   -0.1%    1.0%    0.9%
(Continued)



Annex Vill
Pae2 o3
Malawi - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual              Estimate            Projected
Indicatcr              1993    1994   1995    1996    1997    1998   1999   2000    2001
Balanee of Payments
(USSm)
Exports (GNFS)b                       338    352    424       518     615    548    577    621        674
Merchandise FOB                     321    327    404    483        567    509    535    576        625
Imports (GNFS)b                      667    600    548       727     872    781    824    887    947
Merchandise FOB                     627    536    474       624     783    689    727    784        837
Resource balance                     -329   -248    -125   -209    -258   -233   -247   -266    -274
Netcurrenttansfers                    150    131    147        72      65     -19    -18    -16       -18
(including official current
transfers)
Cwurrnt account balance              -222    -159    -25    -176   -234   -142    -176    -192    -199
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct               ..                    30      25      40      48      24      29
investment
Long-tern loans (net)'                195    146    109       115      76      89    229    215       215
Official                             163      77     172    121       76      97    210    217       215
Private                               32      69    -63       -6       0      -8      19      -2      -1
Other capital i (net, including        34        ..     ..   140       80      70    -21      -15     -15
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesd                    -7      29    -87    -109       53    -57    -80    -32        -30
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of              -15.9%  -21.1%   -8.5%   -9.2%  -10.2%  -12.9%  -14.2%  -14.3%  -13.7%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1978 prices)
Merchandise expors                   -3.3%    5.0%    2.6%   12.3%   10.2%    2.3%    6.0%    6.0%    6.1%
(FOB)
Primary                            -3.4%    1.7%    0.1%    5.6%    8.1%   -1.8%    5.0%    5.0%    5.0%
Manufactures                           ..      ..      ..      ..      ..      ..
Merchandise imports                -11.1%  -17.6%  -16.4%   32.7%   33.2%   -1.9%    3.0%    3.7%    4.2%
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)'
Current revenues                      17.9   21.8    19.8   17.1    16.1   23.5    19.7   20.3    20.9
Currentexpenditures                   21.5   49.3   27.8   20.1    21.1   25.0    19.0   17.7    16.8
(Continued)



Anne VIII
Pae 3 of 3
Malawi - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual              Estimate            Projected
Indicator              1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000   2001
Current account surplus(+)             -3.7   -27.6    -8.0   -3.0   -5.1    -1.6       0.7     2.6    4.1
or deficit (-)
Capital Expenditure h                   5.4    15.1     7.3     5.0     5.5    14.0    14.2    14.6   14.7
Foreign financing                      10.3    25.0    11.2    10.0    7.0    13.2    11.8    17.6   16.2
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP(atcurrentmarket                 19.0   26.4    17.4    15.6   13.4    13.5    13.7    13.9   14.!
prices)
Growth of M2 (/)                       41.8    56.4    43.7    39.9     2.2   34.1    32.4    18.7   14.4
Private sector credit growth          -71.3    60.1   -95.3    45.1    53.2    92.1    92.1    92.1    92.1
total credit growth (%/e)
Price indices( 1978 -100)
Merchandise export price               92.3    90.6   109.2   116.3   123.7   108.6   107.7   109.4  111.9
index
Merchandiseimportprice                119.7   124.0   131.2   130.0  122.6   109.9   112.7   117.1  119.9
index
Merchandise temns of trade             77.1    73.1    83.2    89.4   100.9   98.8    95.6    93.4   93.3
index
Real exchange rate                     97.0    68.6    59.6    82.3   91.8    65.8    59.7    59.7   59.7
(USSILCU)
Real interest rates
Consumer price index                 19.7%   34.7%   83.3%   37.6%    9.1%   28.0%   25.0%   12.0%    8.0%
(% growth rate)
a. GDP components are estimated at factor cost, and exclude net indirect taxes (not listed), so that the sum is not 1000/o.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Should indicate the level of the govemment to which the data refer.
C "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in USSILCU denotes appreciation.
g. Government investment raises in 1998 due to the inclusion, for the first time, of certain "development expenditures"
funded by donors in the budget.
h. Consumption declines because it is calculated as a residual and in 1999, reflects the increase in measured
government investment in 1998 & 99.
i. The increase in long-term loans in 1998 and 1999 is due to the inclusion in the budget, for the first time, of certain
donor-funded "development expenditures". These are partially reflected in calender year 1998 (which includes
half of FY98/99) and are fully reflected in calender year 1999.
j. "Other capital" is the sum of errors and omissions, changes in commercial banks' reserves and the difference
between central bank liabilities and net borrowing from the IMF.



Ann"x Vill 2
popq I Of I
Malawi - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual             Estimate           Projected
Indicator             1993  1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001
Total debtoutstanding and          1826   2025   2242   2311    2566   2291   2479   2685   2892
disbursed (TDO) (USSm)'
Net disbursements (USSm)'           217    115    340    125        66    136    227    207    208
Total debt service (TDS)             78      80    118      89      94    101    103      94      96
(USSm)'
Debt and debt service indicators
(%/-)
TDO/XGSb                         337.2  569.1  525.7  440.2   409.0  399.2  409.3  408.1  406.3
TDOIGDP                           88.2  172.6  153.1  101.8   101.9  127.0  142.9  144.4  144.9
TDS/XGS                           23.0   22.4   27.8   16.9    14.9   17.6   16.9   14.3   13.5
ConcessionalVTDO                  84.9   84.5   76.3   85.4    87.9   90.1   92.0   93.3   94.3
IBRD exposure indicators (%/6)
IBRDDS/publicDS                   18.8   13.1   15.7   15.3    11.8   10.9    9.7    9.6    6.2
Preferred creditor DS/public      62.2   68.4   56.3   74.1    75.1   75.2   74.5   71.8   70.7
DS (%)'
IBRD DSIXGS                        4.3    2.9    4.3    2.5       1.8    1.9    1.7    1.4    0.8
IBRD TDO (USSm)d                   67     65      55     42      34      26      17      9      4
Of whic h present value of
guarantees (USSm)
Share of IBRD portfolio ('/')   0.06%  0.06%       ..    ..        ..    ..
IDA TDO (USSm)d                   1062   1160   1251   1346    1559   1466   1589   1723   1831
IFC (USSm)
Loans
Equity and quasi-equity Ic
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (USSm)
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS' denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



Anncx Vll3
Short Term Estimates Table
Malawi
Actual             Estimate        Projected
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
GROWTH RATES
('l0 change)
Population                                      2.8     2.8      2.8     2.8     2.7     2.6     2.6      2.6     2.6
GDP (at market prices)                         -7.3     9.7   -10.2   :14.7    10.7      5.1     4.0      4.5     4.5
Consumption per capita                         -2.0     9.6   -18.5    14.1    14.1      1.8     0.5      0.8     0.9
Export of GNFS                                  -2.9    -5.1    10.3    -0.4    16.4    12.9     1.0      5.9     6.0
Import of GNFS                                 15.0    -7.8    -9.3   -111.2   43.5    11.9    -0.9       3.0     3.8
Total investment                              -20.5   -16.3    -7.5   -24.2      5.0     7.1     8.8      6.3     8.1
Agriculture value added                        -25.1    53.0   -29.3    38.2    35.0     3.9     2.7      2.5     2.5
Non-traditional exports
Money supply                                   21.8    41.8    56.4    43.7    39.9      2.2    34.1    32.4    18.7
Consumer prices                                22.7    19.7    34.7    83.3    37.6      9.1    25.6    25.5    12.9
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LEVELS
Interest Rates and Elasticity
Nominal interest rate (end-year, %)            20.0    25.0    40.0    50.0    27.0    27.0
Real discount interest rate (%)                 -2.7    5.3      5.3   -33.3   -10.6    17.9
Import elasticity                               -2.0    -0.8     0.9    -0.8     4.1     2.3    -0.2      0.7     0.8
National Accounts
(% of GDP)
Gross domestic investment                      19.9    15.2    29.3    16.6    12.4    12.3    18.2    20.2    20.5
Public investment                            10.2     8.4    15.3      9.2     6.6     7.1    14.0    14.2    14.6
Private investment                            9.7     6.8    14.1      7.4     5.8     5.1     4.3      6.0     5.9
Gross domestic savings                          0.7    -0.9      8.3     8.1     0.8     2.1     5.3      6.0     6.2
Private savings                               6.3     3.1    29.8    17.2      4.4     6.5     6.9      5.2     3.6
Gross national savings                          -0.7    -1.5     6.4     4.5    -1.9    -0.3     1.7      2.1     3.2
GNP current (millions US$)                    1,761   2,029   1,130   1,417   2,231   2,478   1,757   1,685   1,820
GNP constantl978 (millions USS)                466     512     451      520     585     615     635     663      697
Balance of Payments
(C% of GDP)
Exports of goods, services, and income receipts  23.6    16.4    30.3    29.1    23.1    24.9    30.8    33.7    34.1
Imports of goods, services, and income payments  44.9    34.3    55.1    40.9    34.1    36.8    46.3    50.8    50.6
Current account balance before capital grants  -20.6   -16.5   -23.1   -12.1   -12.0   -12.6   -16.6   -18.1   -17.3
Official current transfers                      3.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Current account balance before grants (mill. USS)  -371.3  -341.4  -270.7  -176.6  -272.5  -317.8  -298.7  -314.8  -321.7
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)           104.4    54.3    61.0   132.5   251.2   188.2   207.1   279.1   301.7
Gross external reserves (months of imports)     1.5     0.9      1.1     2.7     3.9     2.4     3.0      3.8     3.9
Gross external reserves
excluding gold (months of imports)             1.4    -0.1     0.2    *-1.8   -1.8     0.8     3.0      3.8     3.9
Key Indices and Exchange Rates
Export price index (index, 1987=100)          111.9    92.3    90.6   IC19.2   116.3   123.7   108.6   107.7   109.4
Import price index (index, 1987=100)          120.8   119.7   124.0   131.2   130.0   122.6   109.9   112.7   117.1
Extemal terms of trade (index, 1987=100)       92.6    77.1    73.1    83.2    89.4   100.9    98.8    95.6    93.4
Implicit GDP deflator (1987=100)              227.1   291.1   364.7   694.4  974.1  1,105.0  1,414.3  1,767.9  1,980.1
Real effective exchange rate (index, 1987=100)  106.7   108.6    76.9    66.8    92.2   102.8    73.7    66.9    66.9
Exchange rate (locaVUSS)                        3.6     4.4      8.7    15.3    15.3    16.4    30.6    41.5    45.3



Annex VWII 3
Malawi
Actual              Estimate          Projected
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Government Finance
(% of GDP)
Government deficit/surplus
excluding capital grants (incl. current grants)  -16.2    -9.1   -42.7   -15.3    -8.0   -10.6   -15.5   -13.5   -12.0
excluding all grants                           -16.2    -9.1   -42.7   -15.3    -8.0   -10.6   -15.5   -13.5   -12.0
including all grants                           -13.6    -6.0   -27.9    -6.5    -3.1    -6.9    -6.8    -6.8    -6.1
excl. capital grants & privatization receipts /a  -16.2    -9.1   -42.7   -15.3    -8.0   -10.6   -15.5   -13.5   -12.0
Total revenue, excluding all grants               21.8    17.9    21.8    19.8    17.1    16.1    23.5    19.7    20.3
Total revenue, including all grants               24.5    21.0    36.5    28.7    22.0    19.8    32.1    26.4    26.2
Grants, current and capital                        2.6      3.1     14.8      8.9      4.9     3.7      8.7      6.7      5.9
Capital grants                                   2.6      3.1     14.8      8.9     4.9      3.7      8.7      6.7      5.9
Current grants                                   0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Total expenditures                                38.0    27.0    64.4    35.2    25.1    26.7    39.0    33.2    32.3
Current expenditures                            28.9    21.5    49.3    27.8    20.1    21.1    25.0    19.0    17.7
Capital expenditures                             9.1      5.4    15.1       7.3     5.0      5.5    14.0    14.2    14.6
Debt and Financial Indicators
(millions of USS)
Total debt outstanding                           1,709    1,826    2,025    2,242   2,311    2,566   2,291    2,480   2,685
Total debt service paid                             89       72       74      108      89       95      101      101      93
Grossdisbursements/b                               158      194      147     227      180      119      129      196     178
IDA                                              86      146       59       73     141       87      101      136      150
IBRD                                              0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0
Net flows /b                                      106      151      100      161      124      55       50      118      106
IDA                                              82      142       53       66     133       78       91      123     134
IBRD                                             -9       -9       -7      -12      -9       -8       -8       -8       -8
Net transfers /b                                  106      151      100      161        ..      ..
IDA                                              82      142       53       66       ..       ..
IBRD                                             -9       -9       -7      -12       ..
Portfolio equity flows (from GDF) c                 ..       ..       ..      ..        0       0        0        0        0
Grants (excl. technical cooperation) (from GDF) /c  ..       ..       ..      ..       97      83      157      139      129
Foreign direct investment (from GDF) /c             ..       ..       ..      ..      30       25       40       48      24
Debt and Financial Indicators
Domestic bank credit to public sector (% of total)  44.5    56.6    5 )    47.2    48.1    48.0    38.8   111.8   142.6
Debt outstanding/exports /d                      403.2   537.2   569.1   525.7   440.2   409.0   399.2   409.5   408.1
Debt outstanding/GDP                              95.0    88.2   172.6   153.1   101.8   101.9   127.0   143.0   144.4
Debt service paid/exports /d                      21.0    21.3    20.7    25.4    17.0    15.1    17.6    16.7    14.2
Arrears on external debt/DOD /e                    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.9     0.8      1.2      1.1      1.0
Present value of DOD/exports (%)                     ..      ..       ..       ..       ..      ..
Present value of debt service/exports /d            ..       ..       ..       ..  286.0   257.0   235.0   231.0   238.0
Present value of debt servicelGNP                    ..      ..       ..       ..       ..    20.7    21.9    21.3    20.2
Social Indicators
Under 5 mortality rate
Female primary enrollment rate
(% of school age female population)               ..    77.0       ..       ..      ..       ..
a. Privatization receipts are equivalent to capital revenue.
b. Includes long-term debt, use of IMF credit and net short-term capital.
c. "GDF" denotes Global Development Finance.



Annex VIII 4
Alternative Scenarios            |    1994    1991    204    20011   200        2003    2004    2001   2006 AR9-a
Growth Rate of GDP
HIGH                   4.0%    5.0/.   5.5%    6. 0%    6.0%/c   6.0%/   6.0%/   6.0%/    6.0%    5.6%
BASE                   4.0%/    4.5%    4.5%    4.5%    4.5%    4.5%    4.5%    4.5%    4.5%    4.4%
LOW                    4.0%/o   2.5%    2.5%    2.5%    2.5%    2.5%    2.5%    2.5%    2.5%    2.7%
Real Per Capita Growth Rates:
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
HIGH                   1.4%    2.3%    2.8%    3.3%    3.3%    3.3%    3.3%    3.3%    3.3%    2.9%
BASE                   1.4%    1.9%/.   1.90/o   1.9%    1.9%    1.9/e   1.9%/    1.9%/e   1.9%/   L.8%
LOW                    1.4%   -0.1%   -0.1%   -0.1%   -0.1%   -0.1%   -0.1%   -0.1%   -0.1%    0.1%
As a Share of GDP in LCU:
Investment
HIGH                  18.2%   20.6%   20.9%   21.5%   22.00/%  23.0%   23.9%/  24.8%   25.3%   22.2%
BASE                  18.2%   20.2%   20.5%   20.9%   21.3%   21.8%   22.2%   22.6%   23.0/  2l.2%
LOW                   18.2%   14.0%    14.0%   13.90/  13.8%   13.8%   13.7%   13.6%   13.6%   14.3%
Private
HIGH                   4.8%    7.0%    9.0%   10.0%   11.0%   11.2%   11.4%   12.0%   12.0/   9.8%
BASE                   4.3%    6.0%    5.9%    6.2%    6.5%    6.6%    6.9%    7.1%    7.4%    63%
LOW                    3.8%    3.7%    4.2%    3.5%    2.8%       1.9%    1.4%     1.0%    0.90/   2.6%
Gross Domestic Savings
HIGH                   5.3%    8.2%    11.8%    13.5%   15.3%   17.0%/a  18.3%   19.5%   20.7%   14.4%
BASE                   5.3%    6.0%    6.2%    7.2%    8.2%    9.4%   10.2%   10.90/  11.70/   J.3%
LOW                    5.3%     1.7%    1.2%     1.5%    1.8%    2.2%    2.4%    2.6%    2.7%    24%
Govemment Defici(-YGDP
HIGH                 -13.7%  -10.8%   -7.4%    -5.6%   -4.3%   -3.8%   -3.5%   -3.2%   -3.1%   -62%
BASE                 -15.5%  .-13.5%   -12.0%  -10.6%  -10.2%   -9.3%   -8.8%   -8.3%   -7.8%  -10.7%
LOW                  -13.2%  -14.1%  -14.7%  -14.1%  -12.0%  -11.3%  -10.1%   -9.1%   -8.5%  -11.9%
CAB
HIGH                 -16.5%  -16.6%   -12.2%   -10.7%   -9.2%   -8.3%   -7.7%   -7.4%   -6.9% -10.6%
BASE                 -16.6%  -18.1%  -17.3%   -16.5%  -15.7%  -14.8%  -14.3%  -14.0%  -13.8%  -15.7%
LOW                  -16.5%  -16.00/%  -15.8%   -15.2%   -14.7%  -14.1%  -13.8%  -13.6%  -13.5%  -14.8%
Export real growth rate (GNFS)
HIGH                   1.0%    8.9%    9.0%    9.00/%   9.0%    8.0%    8.1%    8.1%    8.1%   7Z7%
BASE                   1.0%    5.9%    6.0%    6.0%    6.0%    6.0%    6.1%    6.1%    6.1%    5.5%
LOW                    1.0%    2.9%    3.0%    3.0%    3.0%    3.00/o   3.1%    3.1%    3.1%    2.8%
Exports/GDP
HIGH                  30.4%   37.0%   37.8%   38.8%   39.8%   40.4%   41.1%   41.9%   42.7/o  38.9%
BASE                  30.4%   33.3%   33.4%   33.8%   34.1%   34.6%   35.00/%  35.5%   36.00/.  34.0%
LOW                   30.4%   30.5%   30.4%   30.4%   30.5%   30.6%   30.7%   30.8%   30.9%   30.6%
Inflation (average)
HIGH                  28.0%   15.0%    9.0%    9.0%    9.0%    9.0%    9.0%    9.00/.   9.0%   I.8%
BASE                  28.0%   25.0%   12.00/%   8.0%    8 8.00/o   8.0%    8.0%    8.0%    8.00/  12.6%
LOW                   28.00/%  35.00/o  25.0%   20.0%   20.0%   20.0%   20.00/.  20.00/  20.00/  23.1%



Annx IX
Pape 1 of 2
Malawi - Balance of Payments
(USS millions at current prices)
Base-cave (most likely) projection
Actual                          Estimate                                    Projection
1993         1994         1995         1996        1997         1998          1999         20W          2001          2002         2007
TotalexportsofGNFS'                                      338          352           424          518        615           548          577           621          674           731         1102
Merchandise (FOB)                                    321          327          404          483         567          509           535          576           625          678          1026
Nonfactor services                                    17           25           19           35          48           40            42           45            49           53            76
Total ImportsofGNFS                                      667          600           548          727         872          781          824           887          947          1011         1432
Merchandise (FOB)                                    627          536          474          624         783          689           727          784           837          892          1256
Nonfactor services                                    40           64           74           103         89           92            96          103           III          119           176
Resource balance                                        -329          -248         -125         .209       -258          -233         -247          -266         -274          -280         -329
Net factor income                                        -42           -43          -47          -39         -41          -47          -50           -39          -37            44          -60
Factor receipts                                        2            4             3            7          13            7            8            14            13           14           21
Factor payments                                       44           47            50           46          54           55           58            53           50            58           8I
Interest (scheduled)                              29            34           37           29          33           29           26            24           33            33            0
Toa interest paid b                          27            32           36           29          33           29            26           24            33           33             0
Net adjustments to scheduled interest         2             2            1            0           0            0             0            0            0             0            0
Other factor payments                              15           13           13           17          21           26            32           29            17           24           8 1
Net private current transfers                             30           20            -4          -24         .19          -19           -18          -16           -18          -12          -12
Current receipts, ofwhich                             46            36           12            8          18           18           21            23           25            27           27
Workers' remittances                               0            0            0             0          0            18           21           23            25           27            27
Current payments                                      16            16           17           33          37           37           39            39           43            39           39
Net official current transfers                           120           III          152           97          83            0            0             0            0             0            0
Current account balance                                 -341          -271         -177         -272        -318         -299          -315         -322         -329          -336         -401
Officialcapitalgrants                                    120           III          152           97          83          157          139           129          130           119           99
Private investment (net)                                   0            ..           ..           30          25           40           48            24           29            32           47
Direct foreign investment                              0            ..           ..          30          25           40            48           24            29           32            47
Portfolio investments                                  0            0            0             0          0             0            0            0             0            0             0
NetLT'borrowing                                          195           146          109          115          76           S9          229           215          215           235          311
Disbursementsb                                       194          121          215           158        119           144          262          274           276          297           395
Repayments(scheduled)                                  -           47           47           78          41           43            44           54            62           56             0
Total principal repaid"                           ..          47           47           78          41           43            44           54            62           56             0
Net adjustments to scheduled repayments           0            0            0             0          0            0             0            0             0            0             0
Net other LT inflows                                   ..        72.0         -59.4         35.0        -2.0        -11.7         10.4          -5.0          0.5           6.3        -83.9
(continued)
a. Goods and nonfactor services.
b. Historical data from Debt Reporting System (DRS); other data projected by country operations division staff.
c. "Lr denotes 'long-term."



Page 2 df 2
Malawi - Balance of Payments (continued)
(USS millions at current prices)
Bse-case (most likely) projection
Actutal                         Estmate                                     Prjecion
1993         1994 -       1995         I99         1997         1998          1999         2000         2W01          202      2--   r7
Adjustnents to scheduled debt service                      2            2             1            0          0            0             0            0             0            0             0
Debt service not paid                                 2             2            1            0           0            0            0             0            0             0            0
Reduction in anarslprepayments(-)                     0             0            0            0           0            0            0             0            0             0            0
Other capital flows                                       32                                     140         so           70           -21           -15          -15          -15           -15
Net short-tert capital                               72            21          189            0           0           45           2,             0            0             0            0
Net capital flows n.e.i.d                           -34           -24           -3           -6          -6           25           46           -15          -15           -15          -15
Errors and omissions                                  -6                         ..         146          86            0            0             0            0             0            0
Change in net intemnational reserves                      -7           29          -87          -109         53           -57          -80           -32          -30          -35           -41
(- indicates increase in assets)
Memorandum items
Total grossreserves,ofwhich                           54            61          133          251         188          207           279          302          324           352          504
Total reserves minus gold                         -8            9           -89         -117         60           207          279           302          324          352           504
Gold (at year-end London price)                   62           52          221           368
Total grossreserves(inmonths'importsG&S)              0.9           1.1          2.7          3.9         2.4          3.0           3.8          3.9           3.9          4.0          4.0
Exchange rates
Annual average (LCU/USS)                                4.4           8.7         15.3         15.3        16.4         30.6         41.5          45.3         47.7          50.2         65.2
Atendyear(LCU/USS)                                      4.5          15.3         15.3         15.3        21.2         36.0         43.4          46.5         48.9          51.5         66.9
Index real average exchange rate (1978=100)            97.0         68.6          59.6         82.3        91.S         65.8         59.7          59.7         59.7          59.7         59.7
Cufrent Account Balance as % GDP                        -16.5        -23.1        -12.1         -12.0      -12.6         -16.6        -18.1        -17.3         -16.5        -15.7         -13.3
d. "n,e." denotes "not elsewhere inhtded P
e. "G & S" denotes "goods and services."
f. 'LCU" denotes "local currency units."
g. The index of the real exchange rate reflects USSILCU, so an increase is an appreciation at the real exchange rate.



L L                                    , .
For consideration on
Thursday, December 3, 1998
IDA/R98-1 64/1
FROM: The Secretary                                      November 20, 1998
MALAWI: Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Plrogram II (FRDP) and
FRDP II Technical Assistance Project
(Corrigendum)
1.    Attached is Annex X (Pages 1 to 4) for the President's Report and Recommendation
(P-7273-MAI) on a proposed credit to the Republic of Malawi f:or a Fiscal Restructuring and
Deregulation Program II (FRDP) and FRDP II Technical Assistance Project, which was
inadvertently omitted from the Report distributed on November 11, 1998.
2.    Questions on this document should be referred to Mr. Ahsan (x31672).
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Bank Group Senior Management
Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC, and MIGA
-,     I4Pi d ay bm', usead,   recpmit on  1.i
7~~71



AnnexX
Page 1 of 4
Annex X: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Malawi: Second Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Technical Assistance Project
The Second Fiscal Restructuring and Technical Assistance Project will provide necessary
consultancy support, training and office equipment to meet three objectives: (i) implement policy
measures being implemented under the Government's reform program supported by the FRDP II
structural adjustment credit from IDA; this will include providing consultancy support, training and
hardware for implementing the medium term expenditure framework, auditing and reviewing the
development budget, reforming expenditure control procedures and systems, and implementing civil
service reforms; (ii) evaluate the impact of structural reforms on Malawi's economy, in particular by
examining the effects of liberalizing trade and exchange rate policy on manufacturing, and liberalizing
agriculture production and trade on the agriculture sector; and (iii) develop the agenda for the next round
of macroeconomic and sectoral policy reforms through research into further constraints to growth. The
estimated project costs and procurement arrangements are shown in Table 1 below.
Table 1: Total Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (Million US $)
Malawi: Second Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Technical Assistance Project
Categories                      Procurement Method               Total
ICB             Shopping     Others
(National and
Intemat'l)
1 Office Equipment               0.1                0.2            0         0.3
2. Training and IEC Activities     0                  0          0.5         0.5
3. Consultant Services            0                  0           1.0        1.0
4. Contingencies                  -                  -           0.2        0.2
TOTAL                            0.1                0.2           1.7       2.0
Note: ICB = International competitive bidding.
Procurement
Procurement would be handled by the Ministry of Finance staff supervised by the Secretary to the
Treasury. The Secretary of the Treasury will also be assisted by the Inter-Ministerial Task Force to
Implement the Second Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program.
The project would procure goods and services in accordance with the "Guidelines, Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996
and September 1997. Consultants providing services to the project, would be hired in accordance with the
Bank's "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997 and
revised in September 1997.



Annex X
Page 2 of 4
Equipment and Goods. The project will finance the purchase of office equipment (US $ 300,000
equivalent). The equipment will be procured through ICB, NCB, Nati-onal Shopping and/or IAPSO. The
procurement methods are described in Table 2 below.
Table 2: Threshold for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Malawi: Second Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Technical Assistance Project
Expenditure Category        Contract             Procurement          Contracts
Value                Method              Subject
(Threshold)                             to Prior
Review
Office Equipment            US$ 100,000          ICB                 All
and above
Below US $100,000    NCB                 All
to US$ 20,000
Below US$ 20,000    National
and below            Shopping/lAPSO      None
Consultant                  US$ 100,000          QCBS                 All
Services                    and above for
firms
US$ 50,000          Individuzds          All
and above for
individuals
Below                QCBS                None
US$100,000           Single Source       All
for firms and
below US$
50,000 for
individuals
N.B All Terms of reference will be subject to prior review.
Consultant Services, Training and IEC.. The project will finance consultant services to a total amount of
US$ 1 million equivalent and training and information and education campaign costs of US $ 500,000.
Contracts with firms for assignments of US$ 100,000 equivalent and above will be awarded through the
Quality and Cost-Based (QCBS) method of selection. Contracts with  firms below US$ 100,000 or with
individuals below $ 50,000 will be awarded through the QCBS selection method or single sourcing.
Services of technical consultants and contractual technical specialists employed to manage project
components will be procured under individual contracts in accordance with the provision of paragraphs
5.1-5.3 of the "Consultant Guidelines"
Prior Review. All contracts for goods under ICB will be submitted to IDA for prior review. Contracts for
consultant, training and IEC services of US$ 100,000 or more for finns and US$ 50,000 or more for



Annex X
Page 3 of 4
individuals will be subject to prior review by IDA. Extensions to consulting contracts for firms and
individuals not originally subject to prior review will be subject to prior review when such extensions will
raise the contract values above US$ 100,000 of firms and US$ 50,000 for individuals. All NCB and
consultant contracts with a value below the thresholds established for prior review will be subject to
ex-post review by IDA on a sample basis. All single sourcing of consultants and all terms of reference
will be subject to prior review. All contract documentation will be retained by the Ministry of Finance
and made available to IDA for ex-post review upon request. Receipts and other supporting documents for
SOEs will be maintained on file in the PIU and made available to IDA for review during supervision
missions.
Disbursement
The project will be implemented over athree year period and will close on June 30, 2001. This IDA
project will finance 100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of local expenditures in the case of office
equipment, and 100% of all other expenditures. Government will also contribute further toward the project
through the time devoted to the project by public service staff, who will provide back-up support and
expertise.
Table 3: Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
Malawi: Second Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Technical Assistance Project
Amount In Million US $     Financing Percentage
1. Office Equipment                       0.3               100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
2. Training and IEC Activities           0.5                100%
3. Consultant Services                   1.0                100%
4. Contingencies                         0.2
TOTAL                                    2.0
Note: ICB = International competitive bidding.
Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs)
All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit will be fully documented, except for: (i)
expenditures under contracts with a value of less than US$ 100,000 each for equipment, goods and
consultant services provided by firms; (ii) expenditures under contracts with a value of less than US$
50,000 for individual consultants; (iii) expenditures under National Shopping procedures; (iv)
expenditures on training and IEC activities; and (v) incremental operating costs. These may all be claimed
on the basis of Certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation supporting expenditures
claimed against SOEs will be retained at the PIU and made available for review by IDA on request.
Disbursement and withdrawal procedures are detailed in the World Bank Disbursement Handbook (1992
edition).



Annex X
Page 4 of 4
SpecialAccount
To facilitate disbursement of eligible expenditures, the Government of Malawi will open a Special
Account (SA) in a commercial bank to cover local and foreign currencies of IDA's share of eligible
expenditures. The authorized allocation for the Special Account will be US$ 100,000. Upon credit
effectiveness or as needed, an amount of US$ 100,000 will be deposited in the SA. Replenishment
applications should be submitted at monthly intervals, after monthly bank statements are received and
reconciled, with appropriate supporting documents for local and foreign expenditures as required. To the
extent possible, all of IDA's share of eligible expenditures will be paid through the SA, except where
direct payment is the preferred option.



IBMD 2937
To Do, Es Soho ,9LAW
-k                        -A
71~                  MALAWI
T^sof th wosrold Barr.                                      y < St    ADMINISTRATIVE
boundofos= colos                                                           DIVISIONS
do nmfo-tions ond o                                                  REGIONS AND DISTRICTS
on ther  moporrotdo sotwn
The World son GrouPp/  RUMPH }
Orry judg,r, oo theilegol0
55OtuS of soy t rritory,  AJ,otoor           u
or soy eodorstment                                                         - Ru  PRINCIPAL ROADS
or o cceptorce of such
houodor,ss.              7                                          .r - , ,  RIVERS
ojf   f tEI+deniS   Lakle  ;0   TOWNS
*JJj F'              Mzuzu   :           \        O    DISTRICT CAPITALS
1  NK14   >    Z^*u         t         *     NATIONAL CAPITAL
Mrbo   Luaseleo /1fi        AUAt             -     DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
; ;-,u  {  Chitt&3pb h                         REGION BOUNDARIES
ZAMBIA                                                 e                  .-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
MOUWI t  Mo   \    KILOMETERS 0   20  40  60  80  100
t' ,{    d < $ ;,  /            t.1MILES 0  20    40      60
/ ,fz-,  TCISI  je \ iMOZAMBIQUE
To Luaka
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T  N owto >f
TA kASOtO -f y LILCONGOE                                                             G
MOZAMBIQUE                                                        /
s~~~~~%GOIA  '-N ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     UL  
6NGOIA  ~~S  J  W5X^tlAj  \                  9    ~~CHIKW Al J                        f'n
. ' r -   AFRICA j
F.   r9



