Report No. PIC5111
Project Name           Russia-Electricity Sector Reform - Technical Assistance
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Energy
Project ID                       RUPE50891
Borrower                         Russian Federation
Implementing Agency              Electricity Reform Supervisory Council
Date this PID Prepared           April 28, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date         May 5, 1997
Projected Board Date             June 5, 1997
Country/Sector Background
1.      The Russian power supply system is one of the world's
largest, comprising approximately 180 GW of generating capacity and
2.5 million km of high-voltage transmission lines. Generation is
predominantly thermal (68 percent), with hydro (22 percent) and
nuclear (10 percent) stations comprising the balance. Regionally,
however, over 50 percent of the hydro capacity is located in
Siberia and the Far East, while over 80 percent of the nuclear
capacity is located in the Northwest and Center regions. Generation
in 1995 totaled 843 TWh, roughly 20 percent below the 1990 output figure.
2.      Until 1992, the power sector was organized into vertically
integrated government agencies in each of the 72 regions. In that
year, the government carried out a partial restructuring of the
sector, establishing a nation wide holding company, RAO EES Rossii
(RAO), and converting the regional companies (Energos) into joint
stock companies. RAO was given ownership of the high voltage
transmission grid, large thermal and hydropower plants, dispatch
centers, and research and design institutes. The Energos retained
ownership of the smaller generating plants (which constitute
approximately 40 percent of system capacity), and became local
distribution/generation companies, supplying both power and heat to
final consumers. In addition, the Energos were instructed to
transfer 49 percent of their equity to RAO (See 1/). The nuclear plants
remained in the ownership of the government, and placed under the
management of Rosenergoatom. The government has sold a part of
their shareholdings in RAO, and currently holds approximately 52 percent.
3.      A federal regulatory agency, the Federal Energy Commission
(FEC), was established in 1995, with a mandate to organize the
wholesale market for electricity, regulate wholesale market tariffs
for power and energy, and define procedures for tariff setting at
the end-user level. The legislation also mandated the establishment
of Regional Energy Commissions (RECs) to regulate tariffs for the
sale of heat and power to customers in the Energo service areas.
The development of the regulatory bodies as functioning agencies
has been slow; however, activities have accelerated in recent
months, with the appointment of additional staff and the provision



of training to an initial cohort of key personnel.
4.      The power sector has experienced increasingly severe problems
over the past 5 years. Chief among these are: (i) high levels of
nonpayment, coupled with a marked increase in barter and other non-
cash settlements; (ii) uneconomic dispatch; (iii) declines in
operating efficiency of plants, in terms of both labor and fuel
intensity; (iv) inadequate levels of investment to cover regional
supply deficits and replacement of obsolete plants; and (v)
distorted pricing structures which favor residential and other
preferred customers at the expense of industrial and commercial
enterprises. These problems are attributed to a number of factors,
including lack of a commercial/competitive framework for sector
operations, weak regulation, and inadequate corporate governance.
5.      In order to address these problems, the Government has
adopted a program of reform for the power sector. Key components
are as follows: (i) reestablish effective governance of the
industry's natural monopoly elements by a combination of exercise
of the State's shareholdings and the establishment of an effective
regulatory regime; (ii) reform of the current financial settlements
systems to induce full and transparent payment for purchased
energy; (iii) reform of the dispatch system to introduce minimum
cost plant scheduling and operations, based, where possible, on the
establishment of competitive markets; (iv) decentralization of the
management of the sector by restructuring and reorganizing RAO EES
Rossii, and (v) ultimate divestiture of the State's shares in
generation and distribution assets. The Government has appointed an
Electricity Reform Supervisory Council to oversee and manage the
reform and restructuring of the sector, and proposes to establish
an Electricity Reform Implementation Unit (ERIU) which will be
charged with the detailed elaboration and implementation of the reform plan.
Project Objectives
6.      The objective of the proposed project is to improve the
short-term and long-term efficiency of the Russian power sector,
thereby ensuring the reliable supply of electricity to the
population and to economic entities at competitive prices. In this
regard, the project is directed at assisting the Government in
carrying out its proposed program of power sector reform by
supporting a program of Technical Assistance (TA) to agencies
involved in the reform process.
Project Description
7.      The project would finance foreign and Russian specialists to
work with the various sector and government agencies and with the
Electricity Reform Implementation Unit (ERIU) on implementation of
the reform agenda. TA would fall into three broad categories: (i)
assistance to the government in analyzing and elaborating a
detailed plan and schedule for realization of the reform concept,
including analyzing technical and institutional barriers to meeting
the objectives and identifying alternative solutions; (ii)
assistance in carrying out the activities necessary to implement
- 2-



the plan; and (iii) support for the development of power sector
entities, including corporatization and commercialization of
operating companies and institutional strengthening of the
regulators. A number of teams would be established to work with
each of the sector entities on issues related to the reform
process, and on cross-cutting issues such as training, public
participation, and social protection. Two teams would work with the
ERIU to assist in general project management and coordination and
to assist in policy analysis.
Financing
8.      The total cost of the technical assistance program is
estimated at $68 million. Financing for further preparation of the
work program would be provided by a $5.4 million Project
Development Loan from the Russian Center for Project Finance. The
proposed IBRD loan would be for $40.1 million, on standard IBRD
terms. Bilateral and multilateral agencies would provide grant
financing of $13.7 million, and the Government of Russia would
contribute the remaining $8.8 million.
Project Implementation
9.      The Electricity Reform Implementation Unit (ERIU), which is
being established to further develop and implement the reform
program in the power sector, would be responsible for
implementation of the technical assistance program, including the
Bank-financed components. Consultant support in project management
and coordination would be financed under the project. The ERIU
would operate under the oversight and guidance of the Electricity
Reform Supervisory Council. An international panel of expert
advisors, with experience in carrying out power sector
reform/restructuring in other countries, would provide general
policy advice and guidance to the Council.
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement
10.     Previous Bank/IDA involvement in the reform and restructuring
of natural monopolies has demonstrated a number of factors which
are important to a successful outcome, including (i) a focus on
establishing a sound financial basis for sector operations; (ii)
early and extensive support and training for sector enterprises as
they adapt to a more commercial environment; (iii) development of
broad based support for the program within the government, the
industry, and among consumer groups; (iv) careful attention to
social impacts of the reform program, and to putting appropriate
mitigation measures in place; (v) early resolution of issues
relating to the market structure; and (vi) parallel focus on
establishing a strong regulatory mechanism or mechanisms to ensure
that the public interests are protected during and after the
restructuring. A review of several decades of the Bank's worldwide
lending for the power industry found a declining trend in the
industry's pricing, financial, technical and institutional
performance, mainly due to governmental failure to address the
industry's fundamental structural problems ("The World Bank's Role
- 3 -



in the Electric Power Sector", World Bank Policy Paper, Washington
DC, 1993). Conflicts between the government's role as owner and its
role as operator of utilities have led to poorly defined
objectives, government interference in daily affairs, and a lack of
financial autonomy. The review recommended that Bank lending for
electric power should focus on countries with a clear commitment to
improving the performance of the power industry by
commercialization, corporatization and the establishment of a
transparent regulatory framework.
Program Objective Categories
11.     The project will support the Bank's objectives with respect
to encouraging and extending private sector involvement.
Environmental Aspects
12.     As a technical assistance project, the project is not
expected to have any direct impacts on the environment, and it is
therefore proposed that it be classified as Category C. However,
insofar as the project is successful in its development objectives
of increasing the efficiency and the commercial focus of the power
sector, it will benefit the environment by reducing the fuel
intensity of power production and encouraging more efficient use of
electricity by end users.
Project Benefits
13.     The proposed reform initiatives are expected to result in
substantial benefits to the Russian economy. These include: (i)
reductions in the fuel-related cost of power supply as a result of
more economic dispatch of plants, (estimated at as much as US$1
billion per year by the Russian Institute of Energy Research); (ii)
reductions in system operating and maintenance costs as a result of
better regulatory oversight, improved corporate management, and
competitive pressures; (iii) decreased investment needs through
better use of existing assets; and (iv) increased value of the
Government shareholdings in sector agencies as a result of reduced
regulatory risk, improved long-term earnings outlooks.
Risks
14.     Project risks related to the effectiveness of the power
sector reform program are similar to those identified in the
Structural Adjustment Loan; in particular that the reforms will not
be fully implemented and thus the expected efficiency gains will
not be achieved. This is being addressed by providing immediate and
extensive support to the program, and by concentrating initially on
areas which will yield high, early gains. Risks related
specifically to the technical assistance include the difficulties
in coordinating and absorbing an assistance of this magnitude, and
the difficulties in predicting and monitoring the effectiveness of
programs with extensive training components. Coordination has been
addressed through the establishment of a high-level working group
within the government to oversee the project, supported by a panel
- 4 -



of international experts to advise on policy matters, and by an
implementation team to assist the ERIU in project coordination.
Training risks will be addressed by providing a combination of
long-term on-the-job assistance coupled with formal training
programs, by a preliminary needs assessment, and by careful
selection of training candidates.
1/ Five Energos failed to comply fully with the decree - two remained
fully independent and three transferred less than 49 percent of their
shareholdings. RAO has since increased its ownership stake in most of the
other Energos, and now holds more than 49 percent of 53 Energos
(includinglOO percent of 9 Energos).
Contact Point:           Gary Stuggins, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-2607
Fax No.: (202) 477-3285
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending May 16, 1997.
- 5 -



