Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo. T7126RU
TECHNICAL ANNEX
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ELECTRICITY SECTOR REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT
May 16, 1997



CURRENCY EQuIVALENTS
(Figures are as of end of period)
CURRENCY UNIT = RUBLE (Rs)
1992                                      415
1993                                     1,247
1994                                     3,550
1995                                     4,640
1996                                     5,500
April 1997                               5,744
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
Energo              Regional Power Generation/Distribution Company
ERIU                Electricity Reform Implementation Unit
EU-TACIS            European Union - Technical Assistance, Commonwealth of
Independent States
FEC                 Federal Energy Commission
IMWG                Inter-Ministerial Working Group (for Electricity Sector
Reforms)
Genco               Generation Company - Subsidiary of RAO EES Rossii
GOR                 Government of Russia
GW                  gigawatt = million kilowatts
PDL                 Portfolio Development Loan
RAO                 RAO EES Rossii, Russian Unified Electric System Company
REC                 Regional Energy Commission
SAL                 Structural Adjustment Loan
TA                  Technical Assistance
TOR                 Terms of Reference
TWh                 terawatt hours = billion kilowatt-hours
US AID              United States Agency for International Development
UK KHF              United Kingdom, KnowHow Fund
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn
Director:           Yukon Huang
Division Chief:     Jonathan C. Brown
Task Manager:       Gary Stuggins



ELECTRICITY SECTOR REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                Russian Federation
Beneficiaries:           Electricity Reform Implementation Unit, Electricity Reform
Supervisory Council, RAO EES Rossii, Federal Energy Commis-
sion, Regional Energy Commissions, Regional A/O Energos
Amount:                  US$40.0 million
Terms                    US dollar single currency loan (SCL) for 17 years, including five
years of grace, at the Bank standard interest rate for LIBOR-based
SCLs.
Commitmient Fee:         0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, less any waiver
Financing Plan:
(US$ million)
Financingy Source                         Foreign    Local   Total  % of Total
PDL Loan                                   4.2        1.2       5.4        8
IBRD                                      27.5       12.6      40.0      57
US AID                                      8.7                 8.7      12
UK KHF                                      1.9       0.5       2.4       3
EU TACIS                                    1.6                 1.6       2
GOR                                                  12,1      12.1      17
Total                                     43.9       26.4      70.3     100
Percent of Total                            62         38      100
Net Present Value:       not applicable
Poverty Category:       not applicable
Project ID Number:      RU-PE-50891






RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ELECTRICITY SECTOR REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
I.    INDUSTRY DESCRIPTION AND STRUCTURE
A.   The Electricity Sector
1.    The electricity sector in Russia is the second largest in the world after the United States
in terms of generating capacity. Like the rest of the economy, the electricity sector has
suffered from economic downturn and turmoil during the transition to a market economy. The
electricity sector accounts for approximately 15 percent of industrial production, more than the
oil and gas industries combined. Measured GDP has fallen by 40 percent in real terms since
1991, but the decline in electricity production is only about half as large.
2.    Until 1992, the electricity sector was organized into vertically integrated companies in
each of the 72 regions (oblasts). In that year, the Government both converted the regional
companies (Energos) into joint stock companies and superimposed a nation-wide holding
company, RAO EES Rossii (RAO), over the Energos. RAO was given ownership of the high
voltage transmission grid (2.5 million km of high-voltage lines), the largest thermal and
hydropower plants, the dispatch centers, and research and design institutes. RAO was also
given a controlling shareholding in most of the regional Energos. RAO organized its power
stations into generation company subsidiaries (Gencos). Because of opposition from regional
authorities, some of these larger power stations were kept under regional control and remained
with the Energos. The nuclear plants remained in the ownership of the Government, and were
placed undLer the management of Rosenergoatom (see Table 1).
3.    Geineration is predominantly thermal (70 percent), with hydro (20 percent) and nuclear
(10 percent) stations comprising the balance. Regionally, however, over 50 percent of the
hydro capacity is located in Siberia and the Far East, while over 80 percent of the nuclear
capacity is located in the Northwest and Center regions. Generation in 1995 totaled 843 TWh.
4.    The Energos are integrated regional monopolies that distribute electricity to the final
consumers and own the smaller generating plants typically producing both electricity and heat,
on a monopoly basis, for local district heating systems. Though the size of plants owned by
the Energos is usually small, the number is large. Thus Energos manage 62 percent of the
generation capacity.
5.    With the exception of the entities owning the nuclear plants, the rest of the sector was
partially privatized (through vouchers and sales to workers and managers) but in such a way
that the Government retained a controlling interest in most of the companies either directly or
indirectly through RAO (Figure 1). The resulting ownership structure is complicated. In
brief, the Government is a 100 percent owner of the nuclear power plants and is majority
owner (currently holding approximately 52 percent) of RAO. RAO, in turn, is a 100 percent



- 2 -
Table 1: Ownership and type of generation capacity.
Capacity
By Owner                              (MW            %
RAO affiliated Generation Cos.       42,700          20%
Regional Energos'                   132,800          62%
Nuclear (Rosenergoatom/Minatom) 2    21,300          10%
Captive Generation                   18i500           9%
Total                  215,300         100%
By Type
Nuclear                              21,300          10%
Thermal                             150,100          70%
Hydroelectric                        431900          20%
Total                  215,300         100%
Source: RAO EES Rossii
'Includes plants leased from RAO
2Includes plant owned by Minatom
owner of the transmission grid and dispatch system, 49 percent or larger owner of the Gencos,
and 49 percent or larger owner of most of the 72 regional Energos. Two of the Energos are
not owned by RAO or the Federal Government.
6.    Sector Regulation. At the Federal level, the electricity sector is regulated by the
Federal Energy Commission (FEC), an independent agency established in 1995, whose seven
members are appointed by the President for four years. The FEC is mandated to organize the
wholesale market for electricity, regulate tariffs for the sale of electricity on the wholesale
market, and define procedures for tariff setting at the end-user level. In 1996, the Commis-
sion was given a budget and has hired about 100 staff. The Commission also regulates the
natural gas transmission and oil pipeline industry. Each of the 72 oblasts also has a regional
energy commission (REC). Many of these are not yet fully functioning. The development of
the regulatory bodies as functioning agencies has been slow; however, activities have
accelerated in recent months, with the appointment of additional staff and the provision of
training to an initial cohort of key personnel.
7.    Sector Problems. The power sector faces many serious problems including:
(a) Non-payment and non-cash payment. Estimates for 1996 indicate that consumers paid only
about 70 percent of their electricity bills (Figure 2). Of this payment, 84 per cent is by means
other than cash. These non-cash payments include barter transactions, bilateral settlements of
debts, and various kinds of promissory notes. The causes of this problem are complex, and
have variously been attributed to: (i) failure on the part of Government to fully fund the
purchases of budget organizations (which account for 40 percent of the arrears); (ii) periodic



- 3-
Figure l: Approximate Ownership Structure.
|Government|
|52%                                  |100%
RAO                     (osenergoatom*
EES byossii                          9 nuclear plants
49-100%                  49-100%
100%.
Generat ion Co's        Local Distribution"*
S*ns mission |       (Gencos)                 (Energos)
l     l             ~~~~~34 plants          72 companies
*One nuclear plant is owned directly by government
**RAO ownership in 3 Energos is less than 49%
RAO or Federal Government has no ownership in 2 Energos.
legal and/or political prohibitions against allowing electricity sector companies to refuse
service to customers that don't pay; and, (iii) compensating advantages of non-cash payments
with respect to the potential for tax avoidance, for understating income, and for extracting
high transaction charges.
(b) Uneconomic Dispatch. A major source of inefficiency in the sector is caused by the
operation of generation plants with high variable costs instead of those with low variable costs
in order to meet current demand. This has been estimated by the Russian Institute of Energy
Researc]h to increase costs by as much as US$1 billion per year. This is caused by poor
communications and control systems at the
dispatch centers, the unwillingness of some     Figure 2: Form of Payment
Energos to participate in a nationwide system of
economric dispatch, dispatching high cost plants
to ensure that they receive a minimum level of                                    Unpaid
revenue, and shortages of fuel at lower cost                                       30%
plants.
(c) Operating Inefficiency. The operating cost
of compianies in the sector is high. Wages are    Non-Cash
among the highest in the country. Over the last   Paymen
five years, employment has increased 40                                            Cash
percent even though production has decreased                                     Payrsnt
by about 20 percent. Fuel efficiency in                                            11%



- 4 -
generation is low both because of inadequate investment in maintenance and refurbishment.
Few activities are contracted out to competitive private companies.
(d) Investment Inefficiency. The level of investment is inadequate to meet the system's needs,
and the available investment funds are spent inefficiently. The sector spent over US$3 billion
on new facilities in the last two years and yet brought on line only 2,700 MW of new or
refurbished capacity. The Government has allowed the industry to raise capital by charging
higher prices to current consumers and placing these extra revenues in special "investment
funds." Thus the industry does not have to compete for capital on financial markets and, until
recently, has been accountable to no one for its use of this money.
(e) Distorted Pricing. Even though the electricity sector enjoys low labor, fuel and capital
costs, the price of electricity to the industrial and commercial sectors is equal to or higher than
that of many OECD countries. This is partially due to the high level of non-payment. Prices
are increased for those who do pay to compensate for those who don't which then encourages
nonpayment. Prices are further distorted because of cross subsidies between industry and
household consumers. Even though the cost of supplying industrial customers is below
households, industrial prices are 60 percent above the average while household prices are 60
percent below.
(f) Quality of Supply. The quality of the instrumentation and controls of the power system is
not up to the standards of the west. Frequency control is considerably below that of OECD
countries. As a result, transmission links to countries west of Russia require that a back-to-
back DC converter. Furthermore, as increased use of new technology increases in Russia,
consumers will demand improved quality of supply, as compensating for these problems at the
customer end is economically inefficient.
II. ELECTRICITY SECTOR REFORM
A.   History of Reform.
8.    The electricity sector lags behind most other sectors in terms of economic reform.
Though 70 percent of GDP is now produced in the private sector guided by competitive
market forces, the electricity sector remains largely majority owned by the state as a regulated
monopoly with little or no competition. Although this is the most common form of operation
of electricity sectors, globally, many countries have initiated reforms to decouple the
components of the sector that are not natural monopolies to enable competition. The
Government of Russia has recently committed to adopting this approach.
9.   In 1995 and 1996, the Bank supported the development of a concept for reform by the
Government. A PHRD grant funded a team of Russian consultants supplemented by Western
consultants, funded by USAID and the UK KnowHow Fund, to prepare a reform plan under
the guidance of a Government task force. Based on the work of this task force, the Govern-
ment adopted a concept for reform and restructuring of the sector in Decree No. 426 (April
28, 1997).



-5 -
10.   This concept for reform of the power sector along with reforms in other sectors would
be supported by a proposed Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL). The SAL has been prepared
in parallel with the IMF's Extended Fund Facility to ensure consistency and complementarity
between the macroeconomic program and structural reforms. The reforms of the power sector
that the Government has committed to under the SAL are (for details see Appendix 1):
Pricing. The Government's priority objective is to introduce pricing practices that will
encourage efficient production and usage. To this end, the Government will establish by June
30, 1997, principles and procedures for the pricing of electricity. The most acute pricing issue
are cross-subsidies which impose artificially high costs on industry while inefficiently
subsidizing households. The FEC has submitted a detailed proposal to decrease cross
subsidies, and by the end of July 1997, the Government will introduce a two-block tariff for
households.
Payment arrears. The Government's second objective is to reduce non-payment and non-cash
payments. In January 1997, the Government substantially reduced the list of "strategic
customers" whom energy providers had to supply even if they did not pay. The Government
has made adequate provision in the 1997 budget to pay for energy use by the remaining
strategic customers and will ensure that no arrears to energy suppliers result from their non-
payment.
Introducing competition: The third objective is to introduce competition in setting prices
where possible. To ensure the necessary restructuring of the sector, the Government took
steps in April 1997 to change management and improve government oversite of RAO. The
Government's program for the remainder of the year includes: (i) creating a non-profit
Wholesale Market Operator by September 30, 1997; (ii) making public, by the end of the
year, regulatory licenses for the participants in the wholesale market; and (iii) publishing a
plan to create independent generation companies in sufficient number for the functioning of a
competitive wholesale market by December 31, 1997.
Strengthening regulation. The fourth objective is to develop the institutional capacity of both
Federal and regional regulatory commissions so that they can effectively regulate those parts
of the sector that are unlikely to be competitive. This includes providing adequate financing
and office space and ensuring that officials are not allowed to receive financial consideration
from regulated companies.
B.   Government's Reform Concept
11.   The Government has adopted an ambitious concept for reform of the electricity sector
with the objective of improving its efficiency. The key elements of the concept are the
following:
Wholesale Market - The Government would establish competitive markets for the wholesale
trading of power in those regions in which such a market is, or can be made, feasible both
technical]Ly and economically. The price of electricity on the wholesale markets would be



-6 -
based, to the extent possible, on competitive bidding. The Government would establish an
independent wholesale market operator that would organize and manage the market and
manage payments and settlements.
Restructuring - To encourage competition, the Government would restructure RAO, focusing
first on commercialization of the different operating units within RAO, and ultimately on
divesting the State's (RAO's) shares in generation and distribution. Arrangement for
divestiture would ensure that the rights and interests of existing private shareholders in these
entities were protected.
Regulation - The Government intends to improve the quality of government regulation and
control. Substantial institutional capacity building is planned for the Federal Energy Commis-
sion (FEC) and the Regional Energy Commissions (RECs). The FEC would both manage the
introduction of competition where feasible, ensure that the participants compete fairly
according to established rules, and develop sound systems of regulation for those parts of
industry that are not competitive. The Government also intends to enact legislation requiring
the regulators to set tariffs so that: (a) electricity sector companies recover all reasonable costs
of generation, transmission, and distribution; and (b) tariffs are differentiated according to
differences in cost of providing service thus eliminating cross-subsidies.
12.   Most industry and government officials seem to accept the basic approach to these
reforms, namely, to privatize sector companies, introduce competition where feasible and to
improve regulation of those segments where competition is not feasible. There remain some
unresolved issues, however, with respect to the appropriate schedule for implementing some
aspects of the reform concept, including preconditions which must be satisfied before some of
the changes are introduced. In addition, sector entities will need considerable institutional
strengthening to enable them to operate effectively in the proposed new environment. Finally,
as competitive markets are introduced and divestiture moves forward, the agencies responsible
for these activities will require support in planning and effecting the transitions. The
Government has therefore requested World Bank assistance, in the form of a technical
assistance project, to support the realization of electricity sector reform.
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A.    Project Description
13.   The objective of the proposed project is to lay the groundwork for improving the short-
and long-term efficiency of the Russian electricity sector, thereby ensuring the reliable supply
of electricity to customers at competitive prices. In this regard, the project is directed at
assisting the Government in further evaluating, elaborating and carrying out its proposed
reform of the electricity sector by supporting a program of Technical Assistance (TA) to
agencies and commercial enterprises involved in the reform process. The TA program would
also assist the Government in implementing the specific actions which it has committed to
under the SAL.



-7 -
14.   The project would finance foreign and Russian advisors to work with the various sector
entities and government agencies and with the Electricity Reform Implementation Unit (ERIU)
on implementation of the reform agenda. TA would fall into three broad categories: (a)
assistance to the Government in further refining and developing its concept for reform and
elaboraling a detailed implementation plan and schedule for realization of the reform concept,
including analyzing technical and institutional barriers to meeting the objectives and identify-
ing alternative solutions; (b) assistance in carrying out the activities necessary to implement
the plan; and, (c) support for the development of electricity sector entities, including corpora-
tization and commercialization of operating companies and institutional strengthening of the
regulators. It is envisaged that the assistance would be structured in a matrix fashion, with
advisors assigned to each of the sector entities or groups of entities, and other advisors
assigne(d to address cross-cutting issues such as training, public participation, and social
protection on behalf of all of the sector entities. Two advisors would work directly with the
ERIU: one to assist in policy analysis and elaboration of the reform plan, and a second to
assist in. project management and coordination. The main objectives and functions of each of
the advisory teams are outlined below. Draft Summary Scopes of Work are attached as
Appendix 2 and Terms of Reference for the four priority tasks are attached as Appendix 3.
15.   ][mplementation Management and Coordination  Advisors would support the ERIU
in coordinating the work of other consultants, government agencies, sector companies, and
donors, and in carrying out general project management activities including scheduling,
budgeting, procurement and disbursements.
16.   Policy Analysis and Development Advisors would assist the ERIU in analyzing
policy issues necessary to refine the Government's concept for restructuring the sector,
develop an action plan for realizing the concept, and modify the concept and action plan as
new issues arise during implementation.
17.   RAO Commercialization  About five separate teams of advisors would work with
RAO, to introduce efficient management practices, improve the quality of Government
supervision and control over the enterprise as long as it remains majority state owned, and
facilitate restructuring of the company, including possible divestiture of its subsidiaries. Focal
areas of the assistance would include:
(a) Accounting and Financial Controls: This component includes establishing systems to
provide critical financial data to senior management, evaluating and modernizing the sys-
tem of financial controls, developing a system of internal audits, and developing a system
of financial reporting.
(b) Economics and Investment: This component includes determining the nature and extent of
investment projects now in progress and proposed, implementing a system to evaluate and
conduct feasibility studies, and developing an investment plan for the company.
(c) Corporate Finance: This component would develop a sound financial strategy that would
allow the company to access capital markets. Specific tasks would include determining the



-8 -
company's cost of capital, developing relationships with various commercial and invest-
ment banks that can assist in executing the financial strategy, and providing financial in-
formation about the company to the investment public.
(d) Personnel and Staffing: This component includes assessing the skills and capabilities of
the existing staff, developing a compensation and benefits plan, and developing a promo-
tion and recruiting strategy.
(e) Forensic Accounting: This component would address, on a priority basis, the adequacy of
systems in place to control fraud and corruption, to identify and rectify major shortcom-
ings in the current procedures, and to assist in the development of procedures and controls
to reduce the risk of such behavior in the future.
18.   Transmission Network Commercialization and Restructuring  After the restructur-
ing of RAO, the high voltage transmission grid is expected to be established as a separate
commercial entity. Assistance would be provided to help this entity become a commercially
viable business. This would include developing the organizational structure for this entity,
developing a business and investment plan, negotiating a regulatory license with the FEC, and
negotiating transmission service agreements with the Market Operator. The role of the
transmission company in debottlenecking electricity flows will also be addressed.
19.   Generation Commercialization and Restructuring  Assistance would be provided to
create independent and viable generation companies composed of the existing generation
assets. This would include developing technical and economic criteria for the creation of the
Gencos, proposals for grouping the plants into companies, and the licenses under which the
new Gencos would be regulated by the FEC. To ensure the viability of these new companies,
assistance would be provided to commercialize their operations including developing organ-
izational plans, investment strategies, accounting systems, and so forth. Extensive training
would be provided to managers to prepare them for more market-oriented operation.
20.   Federal Energy Commission Institutional Development Assistance would be
provided to improve the internal operation of the FEC and its regulatory methodology. With
regard to operation, the Project would provide assistance for improving the organizational
structure, internal procedures, a business and management plan, physical infrastructure for
information gathering, and developing a policy analysis capability so that the FEC can develop
its own regulatory methodology. With regard to regulation, the Project would assist in
drafting licenses for participants in the wholesale market (generation, transmission, distribu-
tion, market operator, and nuclear plants), developing a wholesale market agreement that all
participants in the wholesale market would follow, and developing a price-setting methodology
for those sector components that are unlikely to be competitive (e.g. transmission and
distribution networks).
21.   Wholesale Market Operator Support This organization would manage the market
according to established rules, coordinate with the dispatch center to assure that plants are
dispatched according to market principles to the extent technically feasible, and organize the



-9 -
paymerLts and clearing function for wholesale transactions. The Project would assist in
determining: the physical infrastructure (communications, computers, software, etc.) required
for this task; the legal and organizational structure and funding of the new organization,
including the Supervisory Council that would represent the interests of participants in the
market;: and, methodologies and algorithms to price power on the wholesale market in
response to competitive bidding.
22.   Regional Energy Commission Institutional Development To provide examples of
excelleince for the other oblasts, RECs in approximately five oblasts would be selected for
more comprehensive assistance. This would include helping them develop efficient tariff
structures, regulatory methods and procedures for local electricity markets, a model organiza-
tional structure, model business plans, and regulatory methodologies and procedures. An
information dissemination program would be developed to transfer the lessons learned to other
RECs. The Project would also help to establish an association of RECs so that their views and
interests can be effectively presented at the national level.
23.   Regional Energo Commercialization  In-depth assistance would be provided to those
Energos in the same oblasts selected for in-depth assistance to the RECs, with lessons learned
disseminated to Energos in other regions. Assistance would cover such issues as organization,
business, financial, accounting, and investment planning so that the Energos become more
commercial and thus can compete as buyers or sellers in the markets for electricity. Assis-
tance would also be provided in negotiating and understanding regulatory licenses with the
FEC.
24.   In addition to the assistance specific to particular entities in the sector, general
assistanice would be provided to all the entities using consultants and advisors under the control
of the ]ERIU. This cross cutting assistance would be in five areas:
(a) Public Participation and Communications: The Project would assist in developing a public
relations and communications strategy and implementing that strategy. Given the size and
importance of this reform effort, the Government must be able to explain effectively the
goads of the effort, likely benefits, and the impact on employees, consumers, federal and
local government officials, and private shareholders with the objectives of mobilizing
support for the program and ensuring that stakeholder concerns are adequately addressed.
(b) Coimpensation: An issue affecting all entities is the level and structure of compensation.
As noted above, wages have increased faster in this sector than in others suggesting over
cornpensation. However, if salaries are still below those in comparable firms in other
sectors, this can lead to corruption as staff attempt to supplement their salaries. Also the
regulatory agencies must assure themselves that salaries are not excessively high leading to
unreasonable prices paid by consumers. The Compensation Advisor would assist in de-
terirnining the optimal structure and level of compensation across all entities including
regulatory agencies.



- 10 -
(c) Training: While some of the training of staff in sector organizations would be done on the
job as the staff worked closely with advisors, some formal training would also be needed.
A Training Advisor would assist in conducting a needs analysis, formulating a training
strategy for staff in sector organizations, coordinating tailored and well-targeted training
for government and sector managers and staff on both cross-cutting reform issues and
organization-specific topics as needed. The Training Advisor would also be responsible
for developing an evaluation and monitoring program to assess training effectiveness.
(d) Ethics: A widespread problem is unethical behavior, corruption, and conflicts of interest
by sector employees both in government agencies and companies. The Project would
provide assistance in developing guidelines, principles, procedures, enforcement mecha-
nisms, and training to sector organizations on improving ethical standards of staff.
(e) Downsizing and Social Assistance: Since corporatization and commercialization is likely to
lead to labor retrenchment, the Project would assist in designing retraining, severance, and
a variety of tailored downsizing assistance programs for sector employees. In addition, the
proposed restructuring of tariffs to reduce residential subsidies could lead to instances of
hardship to low income households. Advisors would work with local governments and
RECs to design and implement targeted assistance to low-income households to ensure
affordability of electricity supply.
(f) Legal: Commercialization of the sector will require significant legal and regulatory work
including the establishment of new legal entities and competition and anti-trust legislation
and the possible establishment of an Electricity Law. The Project would fund relevant
legal support during the reform process and help to establish a legal framework suitable for
a more commercially-oriented electricity sector.
25.   Other Bilateral financing will also be sought to support the corporatization of the
nuclear power plants, to improve their efficiency and to assist them in adapting to a competi-
tive market for electricity. Proposed assistance would focus on the commercialization and
training of staff, developing a business and investment plan, finding ways to reduce costs
while maintaining adequate safety, and negotiation of licenses and contracts to supply
electricity to the wholesale market.
B.    Cost Estimate and Financing Plan
26.   Cost Estimate: The total estimated cost of the technical support project is estimated at
US$70.3 million, of which approximately US$43.9 million (62 percent) is foreign exchange
requirements. Table 2 shows a breakdown of the cost by major component. Contingencies of
10 percent have been included in the estimate of items to be financed by the Bank loan, and of
the contributions by government and sector agencies with respect to counterpart staff.
27.   Financing Plan: A World Bank loan for US$40.0 million equivalent would be
extended to finance selected consultant contracts, as well as computer and communications
equipment for government and operating agencies. In addition, the Federal Center for Project



- 11 -
Table 2: Project Cost Estimate (US$ million)
Percent
Component                                      Foreign    Local    Total  of Total
Technical Assistance
Support to Operating Entities
RAO EES Rossii                                  9.1      2.1      11.2      16
Transmission Network Business                   1.3      0.4       1.7       2
Generation Companies                            2.2      0.6      2.8        4
Nuclear Power Stations*                         0.9      0.1       1.0       1
Regional A/O Energos                            4.6      2.0      6.6        9
Support Ito Market and Regulatory Entities
Federal Energy Commission                       2.1      0.4      2.5        4
Regional Energy Commissions                     2.8      0.6       3.4       5
Wholesale Market Operator                       2.4      0.4      2.7        4
Cross-cutting Issues
Ethics                                          0.8               0.8        1
Public Participation and Communication          0.8      1.5      2.3        3
Compensation                                    0.5               0.5        1
Training                                        2.8      0.6      3.4        5
Downs:izing and Social Assistance               0.7      0.5       1.2       2
Legal                                           0.5      0.8       1.3       2
Policy D'evelopment Support
Expert Panel                                    1.7                1.7       2
Implementation Policy Support                   2.5      0.3      2.8        4
Implementation Assistance
ERIU                                            0.3      2.0      2.3        3
Implenmentation Management and Coordination     2.3      0.8      3.1        4
Goods
Computer and Communications Equipment           3.3               3.3        5
Government/Agency Support                                 2.7      2.7        4
Base Project Cost                               41.4     15.9     57.3       81
Contingency                                      2.5      1.4      3.9        6
Taxes                                                     9.1      9.1       13
Total Project Cost                              43.9    26.4      70.3      100
Note: figures may not add due to rounding
*To be financed through bilateral grant funding.



- 12 -
Finance has approved a Project Development Loan of US$5.4 million (under the Portfolio
Development Loan, L-38440) to finance further development of Terms of Reference (TORs)
as well as the establishment of the project implement unit (the ERIU). Additional cofinancing
would be provided on a grant basis to undertake specific items of work from USAID (US$8.7
million), the UK KnowHow Fund (US$2.4 million), and EU-TACIS (US$1.6 million), under
ongoing and committed programs. The beneficiaries (Government, regulatory agencies and
operating entities) would finance taxes as well as the salaries and overheads associated with
counterpart staff. Total value of the beneficiaries' contributions is estimated at US$12.1
million equivalent.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A.   Project Implementation
28.   Project Implementation: The ERIU, which has been established to further develop and
implement the reform program in the electricity sector, would be responsible for the day to
day implementation of the technical assistance program, including the Bank-financed compo-
nents (Figure 3). The Unit would employ a full-time Director and 10-15 local staff. The
ERIU would be assisted by an Implementation Management and Coordination Advisor who
would provide support in project coordination, management and procurement. The ERIU
would operate under the oversight of the Inter-Ministerial Working Group for Electricity
Sector Reforns (IMWG), which would provide overall guidance, establish priorities, approve
changes in the reform plan recommended by the rest of the reform team, and recommend to
the Government new policies, laws, or decrees needed to implement the reform plan. An
international panel of experts, with experience in carrying out electricity sector reform and
restructuring in other countries, would provide general policy advice and guidance to the
IMWG. The Board would report to the First Deputy Prime Minister responsible for the
reform of natural monopolies who would carry overall responsibility for the project.
B.   Schedule
29.   The project would be implemented over a three year period, beginning July of 1997
and extending into mid-2000. The initial focus would be to procure the services of the
Implementation Management and Coordination Advisors, to provide early assistance to the
ERIU, particularly with respect to scheduling and initial procurement, and to finalize and issue
bid documents for four priority teams of advisors which are to be financed under the loan.
Draft TORs for these four teams are attached as Appendix 3. At the same time, bilateral
cofinancing programs would be directed towards institutional support for the Federal Energy
Commission, the Wholesale Market Operator, and a pilot support project in one or more of the
regions to address institutional strengthening of the regional regulators and Energos.



-13 -
30.    In parallel, the IMWG and ERIU
will be working with the Panel of Experts                Figure 3: Project Structure
to identify outstanding issues which need                         First Deputy Prime Minister
to be addressed before finalizing the                          Responsible for Natural Monopolies
reform plan, so that the necessary                International Panel of Experts
research can move forward with the
assistarnce of the Policy Advisor team.                         Inter-Ministerial Working Group
Once the proposed market and institu-                               for Electricity Reform
tional structures have been clarified,                        IEectricityReformimplemn
detailed TORs would be drafted for                            ,
institutional support and strengthening of                         A
other sector entities, as well as for the
cross-support advisory services which are                 |  Ad-i.r.     Advisorfs)   Adwisor
proposed. The ERIU, together with the                      MatOerator IL   AO      PubkPa
Management and Coordination Advisor                           FEC        Ac|ountingl  Compcdison
would then update the project schedule to                r,  Advisor _l                Advso
reflect the timing and scope of the                         Transmission               T k*T
remaining advisory teams. A preliminary                      , ir        P_   AE
schedule for initial activities is attached as               Gencos        End*
Appendlix 4.                                                  RECS                  Downsrnsc |al
n                                        q  ~~~~~~~~~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~Energos  l-    dio 
C.    Procurement
9 -  Nuclear |
31.    Under the Bank loan, provision
would be made for consultant services,
training, equipment, and related services, including hardware and software, to be procured in
accordance with the Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers, .published by the World Bank in January 1997 (The Consultant Guidelines)
Table 3: Summary Of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Total
Project Element                   NS'         Other        NBF'          Cost
Computers and Equipment                         4.2                                    4.2
[3.5*]                                  [3.5]
Consultants, Training & Specialized                         50.4         15.7         66.1
Assistance                                                [42.0]                    [42.0]
Total                                           4.2         50.4         15.7         70.3
[3.5]      [42.0]                     [45.5]
* Numbers in brackets [ represent amounts financed by Project Development Loan and by IBRD loan.
NS - National Shopping
2 NBF - Non Bank Financed



- 14 -
and Guidelines for procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published by the World
Bank in January 1995 (The Guidelines). The proposed procurement arrangements are
summarized in Table 3.
32.   Goods: Goods to be procured would consist of office equipment to support effective
communications. The largest package is expected to be less than US$250,000, while the
aggregate is estimated to be US$3.3 million. All goods would be procured through national
shopping.
33.   Consulting Services and Training: Firms and individuals would be selected for
consulting assignments in accordance with the Bank's Consultant Guidelines. A panel of
experts would be engaged to advise the highest levels of the Government. Given that there are
very few countries that have undertaken a similar level of reforms, the number of highly
qualified experts in this field is few and their availability is limited. The Government would
canvas those that have had direct experience in guiding a similar reform agenda to advise them
of possible problems. Hence, the Expert Panel, and any other similarly justified engagements,
would be undertaken on a sole source basis. The aggregate value of individual contracts
would not exceed US$2.5 million. All other consultant assignments would be contracted
according to shortlisting procedures. The TORs for all assignments would be subject to the
Bank's prior review.
34.   Procurement Implementation and Monitoring Arrangements: A project launch seminar
is scheduled for July 1997 at which time an attempt would be made to quantify the agreed
project indicators. A procurement specialist would be engaged to work within the ERIU to
control the procurement process. All contracts for consulting firms at US$100,000 and for
US$50,000 or more for individual consultants, and all single source contracts, would be
subject to prior review and approval by the Bank. Information on procurement would be
collected and recorded by the ERIU to provide: (a) prompt reporting of contract awards by the
Borrower; (b) full quarterly reports to the Bank; and, (c) changes in procurement schedules,
including advertising, bidding, contract awards and completion dates. A procurement
schedule outlining the target dates for the procurement milestones for the first year is attached
as Appendix 5.
D.   Disbursement
35.   Proposed disbursement arrangements are shown in Table 4. A Special Account (SA)
would be established in accordance with World Bank procedures, with an initial allocation of
US$500,000. When the aggregate disbursements under the Loan have reached the level of
US$2.5 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of US$1
million by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. Replenishment applications
would be submitted at least every three months, and would include reconciled bank statements
as well as other appropriate supporting documents. The minimum application size for
payments directly from the loan account or for issuance of Special Commitments would be 20
percent of the SA authorized allocation; that is, US$100,000 until aggregate disbursements
reach US$2.5 million and US$200,000 thereafter. Minimum application size prior to the



- 15 -
Table 4: Withdrawal of Proceeds of the Loan
(US$ million equivalent)
Amount of         Percent of Expenditure
Category                  Loan               to be Financed
Allocated
Consultants Services and Training        33.6          100%
Computers, Equipment and Other Goods      2.8          100% of foreign
100% local (ex-factory)
83% of other local
Unallocated                               3.6
Total                        40.0                  _
establishment of the SA would be US$50,000. Withdrawal applications would be fully
documented, except for expenditures against training and (a) goods and services of consulting
firms under contracts not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent; and (b) services of individual
consultants under contracts not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent, which would be made on the
basis of SOEs detailing the individual transactions. Documentation supporting these expendi-
tures would be held by the ERIU for at least one year after receipt of the audit report by the
Bank for the year in which the last disbursement is made and would be made available for
review lby the auditors and to the Bank on request.
36.   The project would be carried out over a 3-year period. Disbursements are heavily
concentrated in the first two years, with 32 percent of the loan amount disbursed during FY98,
and a further 49 percent disbursed in FY99 (see Table 5). The project is expected to be
completed by June 30, 2000, with a closing date for the loan of December 31, 2000.
E.   Supervision
37.   Project Supervision: Due to the scope and urgency of this project, a significant
supervision effort is anticipated. An estimated 2-3 staff conducting on-site monitoring on a
quarterly basis would be required. The possibility exists, and would need to be examined, of
a need for full-time presence in the field. In addition, semi-annual project reviews would be
carried out to ensure that activities are being carried out in accordance with the overall
objectives of the Technical Assistance program, and are yielding the expected results.



- 16 -
38.   Monitorable Indicators: The Borrower has agreed to establish policies and procedures
adequate to allow ongoing monitoring and evaluation of the execution of the project and the
achievement of the objectives. Monitorable indicators would be agreed with the Bank.
Performance indicators would include: (a) adequate staffing of the ERIU; (b) availability of
funds; (c) engagement of advisors; (d) cost control of consultants; and, (e) implementation of
an effective management information system. Development indicators would include: (a) a
reduction in accounts receivable; (b) an increase in the proportion of cash payments; (c) the
establishment of effective regulation at the federal and regional levels; (d) the establishment of
effective information systems for the regulator; (e) the publishing of commercial licenses for
entities operating in the wholesale market by December 31, 1997; and, (f) the establishment of
an independent nonprofit wholesale market operator by September 30, 1997.
39.   The Borrower has also agreed to prepare twice-yearly reports to the Bank (on March
31 and September 30), outlining the progress achieved during the preceding period with
respect to the monitorable indicators, and setting out measures to be taken during the coming
period to ensure efficient execution and achievement of objectives. The Borrower has further
agreed to review project progress with the Bank by April 30 and October 31 of each year and
take the Bank's views into account in project implementation.
V.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   Benefits
40.   The proposed reform initiatives are expected to result in substantial benefits to the
Russian economy. These include: (a) reductions in the fuel-related cost of electricity supply
as a result of more economic dispatch of plants, (estimated at as much as US$1 billion per year
by the Russian Institute of Energy Research); (b) reductions in system operating and mainte-
nance costs as a result of better regulatory oversight, improved corporate management, and
competitive pressures; (c) increased value of the Government shareholdings in sector
companies as a result of reduced regulatory risk, more efficient operation, and thus improved
profitability; (d) decreased investment needs through better use of existing assets (estimated to
save at least $1 billion per year over the medium term); (e) improved customer service; and,
(f) economic benefits related to the elimination of cross-subsidies and non-payments.
41.   Reforming the sector would also have environmental benefits. By improving the
pricing structure, consumers would have a greater incentive to conserve on the use of
electricity and reduce waste and inefficiency. By increasing the profitability of sector
Table 5: Cumulative Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY1998    FY1999    FY2000
Amount                           13.0       19.6        7.4
Percent of Total                 32%        49%        19%
Cumulative Total                 13.0       32.6       40.0
Cumulative Percent of Total      32%        81%       100%



- 17 -
companiies, they would be able to decrease their cost of capital. Competitive and regulatory
pressures to reduce costs should increase fuel efficiency in generation.
B.    Risks and Risk Mitigation
42.   While the project offers substantial benefits, it carries correspondingly high risks and
an equally high profile. Government commitment to reform is of recent origin and may not be
sustained long enough to allow full realization of the concept and hence the expected efficiency
gains. This project has, therefore, been prepared quickly to respond to what is viewed as a
window of opportunity to broaden and deepen the reform agenda. Project preparation has
focused on speed in the trade-off between speed and attention to detail. However, because of
the unique opportunity, this approach is felt to be appropriate. The proposed project is
attempting to address this risk by providing immediate and extensive support to the program
and by concentrating initially on areas which would yield large, early, and visible gains in
terms of efficiency improvements. Risks related specifically to the technical assistance include
the difficulties in coordinating and absorbing assistance of this magnitude, and the difficulties
in predicting and monitoring the effectiveness of programs with extensive training compo-
nents. Coordination has been addressed through the establishment of a high-level, knowledge-
able Inter-Ministerial Working Group within the Government to oversee the project, supported
by a panel of international experts to advise on policy matters, and by an implementation
advisory team that will assist the ERIU in project coordination. Training risks would be
addressedl by providing a combination of long-term on-the-job assistance coupled with formal
training programs, by a preliminary needs assessment, and by careful selection of training
candidates. Training performance indicators would be agreed at an early date and monitored
closely. In addition, the Bank would provide extra resources to ensure adequate supervision of
the project.



I



- 19 -
Appendix 1
Page 1
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
1.    Objectives. The proposed SAL would assist the Government to undertake the structural
reformis necessary to the lay the foundation for renewed economic growth and to maintain
macroeconomic stabilization over the medium-term. It would also provide the financing
necessary to provide an adequate level of public services during the difficult fiscal transition
that has characterized most centrally planned economies. It would focus on private sector
development, natural monopoly regulation and restructuring, banking, and fiscal management.
The following describes the reforms of the natural monopolies and, in particular, the power
sector, that would be supported by the proposed loan.
2.    Coordination with the IMF. The proposed SAL has been prepared in parallel with the
1997 IMF Extended Fund Facility (EFF) in the context of an intensive tripartite dialogue
between the Bank, IMF, and the Russian authorities to ensure consistency and complementar-
ity between the macroeconomic program and structural reforms with the Bank and the Fund
taking the lead in the structural and macroeconomics areas, respectively. As a result, the
Goverfnment's structural reform program for 1997 is equally reflected in the Letter of
Development Policy for the SAL and the Statement of Economic Policies for the EFF.
3.    Conte-xt. Price reforms and the competitive restructuring of natural monopoly services
in the electricity, gas, and railways sectors will have very substantial efficiency gains with
large, positive, economy-wide spillovers and will be critically important for medium-term
growth. Natural monopoly reforms need to focus on four areas: (a) pricing should better
reflect cost and demand conditions; (b) arrears should be reduced and payment discipline
strengt]ened (especially in the energy sector); (c) arms-length regulatory oversight, where
appropriate, should be enhanced; and (d) sectors should be demonopolized, i.e., policy
barriers to new entry should be reduced so as to allow for the competitive provision of
services where monopoly is not "natural." The Government has initiated reform steps in all
four areas. The 1997 reform program will concentrate mainly on price reform, continue to
address the arrears problem and strengthen needed regulatory oversight, and develop the
agenda for, and in some cases implement, the restructuring process of demonopolization.
4.    Russia's power sector has an installed generating capacity of about 215 GW, nearly
50% more than the peak demand. This condition resulted from the decline in demand of about
20% over the past five years. The asset base is aging and considerable investment in deferred
maintenance, life extension and replacement will be needed over the next decade. Despite the
over-capacity situation, supply problems persist in some regions due to the huge buildup of
paymernt arrears. The arrears problem also manifests itself in non-payments to the Govern-
ment as the power sector owes 9.5 trillion rubles to local and federal budgets and 1.7 trillion
rubles to the state pension fund.
5.    The power sector is largely controlled by the corporate entity RAO EES Rossii (RAO).
RAO owns much of the generation system, and all of the transmission and dispatch systems.



- 20-
Appendix 1
Page 2
RAO also has a controlling equity stake in most of the regional electricity monopolies
(Energos), which are responsible for the distribution of electricity on a regional basis. The 72
Energos own the smaller generation stations and the distribution networks within their regions.
Regulation has recently been established at both the federal and regional levels. However, the
institutional capacity and independence of the regulators is weak.
6.    In 1992 the Government partially privatized the power sector under its mass privatiza-
tion program. RAO was established as a holding company for the Energos, with an ownership
stake of 51% in the majority of them. The remaining 49% is owned by the employees and
management of the Energos. Only a small share of RAO was initially privatized in 1992, with
the Government gradually selling off further stock and reducing its ownership stake to the
present level of 52 percent. The Russian stock market has assigned a low value to all of the
Russian power sector entities, relative to similar entities abroad, with a much higher value
assigned to many of the Energos than it has to RAO. Brokers ascribe this low valuation to a
lack of confidence in existing management, lack of transparency, weak regulation and large
arrears (less than three quarters of electricity and heat bills were collected in 1996).
7.    In the aggregate, electricity prices have been set at a level to fully finance operating
costs and 100% of new investments. However, rates charged to households (where demand is
relatively inelastic) have been kept artificially low at about 25% of the cost of supply, while
prices to industry (where demand is elastic) have been set high in order to cross-subsidize
household consumption. This structure of prices is economically inefficient: the weighted
average tariff for industrial users is too high given the low cost of fuel, low labor costs and a
nearly zero cost of capital (as much of the asset base was originally funded as a budget
transfer). Moreover, while this price structure is intended to achieve equity and reduce
poverty, these objectives would be better met through targeted direct transfers as part of the
authorities' overall social programs or, where adequate targeting of transfers is impossible to
implement under present conditions, through instruments such as life-line pricing.
8.    The Government has assigned a high priority to addressing the problems of the power
sector. The goal of the program is to increase the efficiency of the sector's operation by
establishing a pattern of prices reflecting economic costs and relative scarcities (demand and
supply over time), improving regulatory oversight, improving the quality of service, and
operational restructuring. The Bank is providing technical assistance to the Government to
help define and implement a comprehensive reform agenda along these lines. The reforms
include the establishment of a competitive market for electricity, where feasible, comple-
mented by enhancing the effectiveness of the regulatory regime for the segments of the power
market where the competitive provision of service is suboptimal.   Structural, financial,
institutional capacity building and ownership issues will all be addressed under these reforms.
9.    Price Reform. The Government's priority objective in natural monopoly reform is to
introduce pricing practices for electricity, gas, and rail services that will encourage efficient
production and usage. A fundamental issue the Government must face in this regard is that
pricing in natural monopolies is based on Soviet-style accounting, which fails to appropriately



- 21 -
Appendix 1
Page 3
treat key cost components such as depreciation and prevents providers from recovering the
actual cost of service. In response to this, the Government will attempt to move toward
modem pricing principles used in market economies.
10.   The Government committed to price reform in the natural monopoly industries in its
Medium-Term Program. By June 30, 1997, the Government will establish principles and
procedures for the pricing of electricity, natural gas, and railways services. With a view to
encouraging efficient production and usage of these services, these pricing principles will: (i)
allow suppliers to recover prudently incurred fixed and variable costs; (ii) reflect differences in
cost between customer classes and geographic regions; and (iii) over time adjust to reflect the
evolution of costs and demand conditions. To facilitate effective regulation, detailed price
reform studies have been initiated for each subsector, and the Government will prepare a list
of information and reporting requirements for the regulated entities (including details on
proposed investment and the structure and cost of financing).
11.   Cross-subsidies are currently the most acute pricing issue. They impose artificially
high costs on industrial production while inefficiently subsidizing households.  Under its
natural monopoly reform program supported by the SAL, the Government approved in early
April 1997 an ambitious action plan for the phased elimination of cross-subsidies among
consumer groups for all natural monopoly services (GoR Resolution No. 389). In addition,
the FEC submitted to the Government a detailed proposal to decrease cross-subsidies for
electricity consumption. By the end of July 1997, the Government will introduce a two-block
tariff for household electricity consumption.
12.   Elimination of cross-subsidization will lead to further increases in energy prices and
railway tariffs paid by households. This may have a substantial poverty impact. To mitigate
this the Government has mandated municipal authorities to set housing allowances programs
which aire to provide targeted mean-tested income transfers to families with housing expendi-
tures exceeding 15% of their gross money income. Most municipalities have been running
such programs since 1995.  In addition, to improve local capacity for delivering social
assistance, the Government has decided recently to pilot a few alternative schemes for
administering universal mean-tested poverty benefits. These pilots will be supported through
the Bank's proposed Social Protection Assistance Adjustment Loan.
13.   Reducing Payment Arrears. The Government's second objective is to reduce payment
arrears on electricity and natural gas utility bills and improve the flow of payments in the fuel
and energy sector. Energy providers are faced with the problem of being unable to cut off
supply to so-called "strategic customers;" such customers can still obtain services even if they
are in arrears. This has created a chain of payment arrears which have multiplied through the
economy and has also led to increased tax arrears to the budget. The arrears have also in
many cases seriously affected the financial viability of local utility companies. The original
list of "strategic customers" was long and included defense-related as well as many other
companies. In January 1997 the Government substantially reduced the list of "strategic
customers"; entities taken off the list account for the large bulk of all energy deliveries to



Appendix 1                             - 22 -
Page 4
"strategic customers" as previously defined. Virtually all remaining "strategic customers" are
entities responsible for Russia's external and internal security. Earlier legal provisions that
prohibited suppliers form cutting off service to classes of customers have also been revoked,
including most recently provisions under Government Resolution No. 307 of April 7, 1994.
14.   Additionally, the Government will use the regulatory process and corporate governance
mechanisms to encourage strict enforcement of payment discipline. To improve the flow of
payments and reduce arrears in the energy sector, the Government has made adequate
provisions in the 1997 budget to pay for the fuel and energy consumption of the remaining
"strategic customers" who may not be disconnected for nonpayment, as listed in Government
Decree 74, issued January 28, 1997. The Government will ensure that there are no arrears to
energy suppliers on account of the remaining strategic customers.
15.   Introducing Competition Where Monopoly is Not "Natural. " The Government's third
objective is to promote more competitive market structures for the energy and infrastructure
industries. To be sure, throughout the world many of these industries were once thought to be
naturally monopolistically structured. But due to changes in technology and expansion of
markets, today many of these industries increasingly possess competitive attributes. As a
result, services can be provided more efficiently when there are multiple suppliers rather than
a single supplier. In Russia, the electricity, gas, and rail sectors are dominated by vertically
integrated monopoly providers who are in a position to inflate costs, overprice services, and
restrict network access.  To help rectify this, the Government will begin a step-by-step
restructuring of these industries with a view to demonopolization and eventual privatization of
competitive segments.   An Interministerial Commission under the former Minister of
Economy completed a reporta in early 1997 with specific recommendations for restructuring
the electricity, natural gas, and railways sectors. On April 28, 1997, Presidential Decree No.
426 was issued adopting the structural reform principles for the electricity, natural gas, and
railways sectors for 1997 as outlined in that report. The decree instructs the Government to
elaborate a detailed medium-term restructuring program to be adopted by a government
resolution by June 30, 1997.
16.  In the power sector, the formation of a joint stock company to develop a new generat-
ing plant, with equity participation by several enterprises, including non-power sector entities
(mostly completed) is a first step in the establishment of a competitive power market. The
Moscow regional power company (MosEnergo), and recently an increasing number of other
regional power utilities, issued ADRs and to this end have begun complying with stricter and
more transparent reporting (particularly financial) requirements. In April, 1997, the Govern-
ment took steps to change the management of RAO EES Rossii and to ensure that the
representative group of interministerial officials on the Board of RAO have clear instructions
to implement governmental policies in the electric power sector (Government Resolutions No.
' "On Developing Plans for Structural Reforms of Natural Monopolies" submitted to the Government in
draft on January 28, 1997 and in final on March 26, 1997.



23 -                            Appendix I
Page 5
401 of April 1, 1997 and No. 439 of April 22, 1997). The Government has outlined the
following program for the remainder of the year:
a.    By September 30, 1997, the Government will issue a resolution to create an
independent non-profit Wholesale Market Operator to operate the wholesale electricity
market, including the dispatch of electricity from generators and the settlement and
clearance of payments, and the Government will establish a Supervisory Council for
the Wholesale Market composed of representatives of market participants (with no par-
ticipant having a dominant position). By September 30, 1997, the FEC will also make
public a Wholesale Market Agreement which specifies the duties and responsibilities of
the participants in the wholesale market.
b.    By June 30, 1997, the Government will outline general principles (based on a
report by the FEC) for the commercial licensing of enterprises participating in the
wholesale market. By August 30, 1997, the Government will issue a resolution giving
the FEC exclusive authority to issue such licenses. By September 30, 1997, the Gov-
ernment will solicit public comments on drafts of each type of license and by December
31, 1997, it will make final versions public.
c.    By December 31, 1997, the Government will publish a plan to create a suffi-
cient number of generation companies independent of RAO EES Rossii to establish a
competitive wholesale market.
17.   Strengthening Regulation.  The Government's fourth objective is to develop the
institutional capacity for effective independent regulatory oversight of natural monopoly
sectors.  This process will take time.  Regulatory Commissions have been established
throughout the energy, transport, and telecommunications sectors. But the clout of these
agencies remains weak. The Government has plans to further strengthen and ensure the
independence of these commissions, beginning with those in the energy sector; a proposed
Bank TA loan in the power sector is under preparation to assist with this task. The ground-
work has been laid in the Government's budget to enable the FEC to raise staffing levels
closer to mandated levels.






- 25 -                            Appendix 2
Page 1
SUMMARY SCOPE OF WORK
IMPLEMENTATION POLICY ADVICE
Objective:
To support the Electricity Reform Implementation Unit (ERIU) in analyzing policy
issues necessary to refine the Government's concept for restructuring the sector, develop a
plan for realizing the concept, and modify the concept and plan as new issues arise during
implementation.
Tasks:
Assist the ERIU to further refine and modify if necessary the Government's concept for
restructuring as specified in Decree 426 of April 28, 1997. Issues to be analyzed include:
O an assessment of which regional generation markets are, or can be made competi-
tive, based on an analysis of system technical and market characteristics, including
technical features of the transmission grid and system dispatch system that limit
competition on the wholesale market,
O macroeconomic and microeconomic conditions which need to be in place to allow
for the effective functioning of competitive markets,
O procedures for generation companies to submit bids and determining market clearing
prices in those generation markets likely to be competitive,
O requirements with respect to participation in the market, including an evaluation of
regulations that would encourage or require combined heat and power plants owned
by the Energos to participate in the wholesale market,
O methodology for regulating wholesale market prices in those regional generation
markets that will not be competitive,
O the feasibility of separating the generation, marketing, and distribution activities of
the Energos or other proposals designed to introduce competition in local power
markets,
O pricing for transmission services that are consistent with regional differences in the
wholesale market price and provide the proper incentives to generation companies,
O the appropriate role of nuclear and large hydro plants in the wholesale market, in-
cluding whether the ownership of hydro plants should remain with the transmission
grid to assure system reliability,
O the number and structure of generation companies necessary to create competitive
markets, and
O the appropriate legal form and ownership of the Wholesale Market Operator and the
Supervisory Council.



Appendix 2                               26 -
Page 2
* Assist in preparing an implementation plan for realizing the concept including the estab-
lishment of priorities, a schedule of activities and milestones, and preconditions that must
be achieved before moving on to the next stage of implementation.
* Assist in carrying out a detailed risk analysis of the proposed action plan and prepare a risk
mitigation plan which adequately addresses those risks which can be managed.
* Assist the ERIU to intervene in proceedings before the Federal Energy Commission in
which the FEC will specify regulatory methodologies for setting tariffs and prices at the
wholesale and local levels.



-27 -
Appendix3
Page 3
SUMMARY SCOPE OF WORK
RAO EES ROSSII - COMMERCIALIZATION
Objective:
To support the commercialization and corporatization of RAO EES Rossii, both by
addressing immediate management and operating deficiencies and by assisting the company to
strenglhen and develop systems and procedures which will allow it to operate efficiently, as a
commercial entity, within the proposed new sector structure.
Tasks:
Accounting and Financial Management Systems:
* Establish systems to provide critical financial operating data needed by management and by
the regulatory agencies.
* Propose improvements in the system of financial controls, internal audits, inventory
management, and procurement.
- Improve the management and control over subsidiary companies.
Econoimics and Investment Planning
- Develop procedures for undertaking feasibility studies of investment projects.
 Undertake feasibility studies for major current and planned projects including implementa-
tion and financing plans.
- Analyze the tariff and pricing system for RAO services so as to ensure adequate cost
recovery consistent with FEC regulation.
Corporate Finance
* Develop a financing strategy for the company taking into account the company's investment
plan and the cost of capital for each source of financing.
* Establish relationships with several commercial and investment banks to obtain their
assistance in developing a financing strategy and supply financial and operating information
to the investment public.
Recruitment and Personnel
* Assess the skills, training, and capabilities of existing staff and develop a staffing plan that
provides the required skills and capabilities.
* In cooperation with the training advisor, develop a training and recruiting plan that will
ensure that staff with required skills and capabilities are employed.
Forensic Accounting
* Evaluate the systems in place to control fraud and corruption, and propose new systems to
reduce the potential for such conduct.



Appendix 3                             - 28 -
Page 4
SUMMARY SCOPE OF WORK
TRANSMISSION NETWORK COMMERCIALIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING
Objective:
To support the creation of a separate network business within RAO and its commer-
cialization and corporatization so that it can operate effectively within the proposed sector
structure.
Tasks:
* In cooperation with the training advisor, provide information and organize study tours by
senior management to learn how independent network organizations operate in other coun-
tries.
* Develop and assist in the implementation of a plan for the organization, management, and
structure of a separate network business unit within RAO.
* Advise and provide training on the latest transmission technologies.
* Coordinate closely with the RAO commercialization advisor to assure that the network
business receives necessary advice and assistance in commercialization.
* Cooperate with the policy advisor in analyzing policy issues concerning transmission.
* Develop a High Voltage Transmission Agreement between RAO and the Wholesale Market
Operator and obtain approval of the Federal Energy Commission including levels of service
and tariffs for transmission services.
* Assist RAO in negotiating a transmission license with the Federal Energy Commission.



- 29 -                             Appendix 3
Page 5
SUMMARY SCOPE OF WORK
GENERATION COMMERCIALIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING
Objective:
To ensure that independent generation companies are established within the RAO
company structure and support their commercialization and corporatization so that they can
operatLe effectively within the proposed sector structure.
Tasks,:
* Cooperate with the policy advisor to establish technical and economic criteria for creating
gerneration companies from existing RAO assets that will be both commercially viable and
introduce competition to the extent feasible.
3 Develop and assist in the implementation of a plan for the organization, management, and
structure of these generation companies.
3 Coordinate closely with the RAO commercialization advisor to assure that the generation
companies receive necessary advice and assistance in commercialization.
3 Cooperate with the policy advisor in analyzing policy issues concerning the generation
companies.
3 Develop a plan for spinning off the generation companies so that they are independent of
RAO.
3 Assist the companies in negotiating generation licenses with the Federal Energy Commis-
sion.
3 Assist the companies in negotiating generation agreements with the Wholesale Market
Operator.



Appendix 3                              30 -
Page 6
SUMMARY SCOPE OF WORK
NUCLEAR POWER COMMERCIALIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING
Objective:
To support the commercialization and corporatization of the nuclear power plants
managed by Rosenergoatom so that they can operate effectively within the proposed sector
structure.
Tasks:
* Develop and assist in the implementation of a plan for the organization, management, and
structure of this nuclear generation enterprise.
* Coordinate closely with the RAO commercialization advisor to assure that the nuclear
plants receive necessary advice and assistance in commercialization.
* Cooperate with the policy advisor in analyzing policy issues concerning nuclear generation.
 Assist the company in negotiating a generation license with the Federal Energy Commis-
sion.
 Assist the company in negotiating a generation agreement with the Wholesale Market
Operator.



Appendix 3
Page 7
SUMMARY SCOPE OF WORK
FEDERAL ENERGY COMMISSION INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Objective:
To ensure that the Federal Energy Commission (FEC) is capable of carrying out its
responsibilities to oversee the development of competitive markets where feasible and improve
the regulation of those that remain monopolies.
Tasks:
Institutional Development
* Developing a business plan for the organization that includes organizational structure,
staffing, training, premises and equipment.
* In cooperation with the training advisors, provide information and organize study tours for
FEC' staff to learn about the organization of similar agencies in other countries.
* Develop a policy analysis team in the Commission that can analyze the key issues faced by
the Commission.
. Develop Rules of Procedures that specify how the Commission and its staff will deal with
regulated entities, license holders, and the general public and ensure an open and fair
process.
* Establish an international team of regulatory experts that can provide advice.
* Develop a communications plan including necessary equipment so that the FEC can swiftly
inform the RECs and local Energos about its decisions and receive responses.
* Evaluate how the FEC can better guide the Regional Energy Commission (REC) to improve
their regulation at the oblast level including legislation if necessary.
Regulaitory Methodology
* For those markets that are unlikely to be competitive (for example, transmission and local
distribution), develop a regulatory methodology in cooperation with the policy advisor for
setting tariffs that allow regulated companies to recover prudently incurred costs, provide
proper incentives to users of electricity, and eliminate cross subsidies.
* As a means of establishing regulatory authority over sector companies, assist the FEC to
prepare and issue licenses to all companies in the sector.
* Assiist the FEC to prepare and negotiate a market members agreement and create a
Supervisory Council to oversee the operation of the Wholesale Market Operator.
* Assiist the FEC in cooperation with the policy advisor to develop a methodology to
determine whether a generation market is competitive and how to regulate those markets
that are not.



Appendix 3                            - 32
Page 8
SUMMARY SCOPE OF WORK
WHOLESALE MARKET OPERATOR SUPPORT
Objective:
To support the creation of an independent Wholesale Market Operator which is able to
organize and manage the price setting process on the wholesale market, ensure efficient
dispatch, and implement a fair transparent process for payments and settlements.
Tasks:
* In cooperation with the policy advisor, analyze the appropriate legal structure for the new
organization (e.g. joint stock company, state-owned enterprise, foundation, or trust) and for
the Supervisory Council that will oversee its operations on behalf of the participants in the
market.
* Assist in establishing the Wholesale Market Operator including the separation of functions
now carried out by RAO and their transfer to the Market Operator.
* Create a structure for the new organization including subsidiaries such as a market pricing
administrator and funds administrator.
* In cooperation with the policy advisor, assist the Market Operator to create a methodology
and procedures for establishing prices on the wholesale market (including software) based
on competitive bidding to the extent possible and obtain approval from the FEC.
* Create a system for billing buyers, paying suppliers, and settling transactions including
periodic publication of all payments and prices that is fair and transparent to all partici-
pants.
* Review the technical adequacy of the system dispatch system for implementing a wholesale
market and recommend improvements.
* In cooperation with the transmission advisor, review the technical adequacy of the
transmission network for implementing a competitive wholesale market.
* In cooperation with the policy advisor, assist in the creation of a Supervisory Council
including its membership, functions, and meeting schedule.
* If markets in some regions can not be integrated into the national market due to transmis-
sion constraints, assist the national Market Operator to create regional market operators.



33 -                               Appendix 3
Page 9
SUMMARY SCOPE OF WORK
REGIONAL ENERGY COMMISSION INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Objective:
To ensure that the Regional Energy Commissions (RECs) are capable of carrying out
their responsibilities to regulate local generation and distribution of heat and power.
First P'hase
* Advise the ERIU on selecting up to five RECs that will receive assistance in the first phase
of the effort.
* For these RECs, assist in developing a business plan that includes organizational structure,
staffing, training, premises and equipment.
* In cooperation with the training advisor, provide information and organize study tours for
senior officials to learn about the organization of similar regulatory agencies in other
countries.
* Help these RECs to develop a policy analysis team.
* In cooperation with the legal advisor, develop Rules of Procedures that specify how each
REC and its staff will deal with regulated entities, license holders, and the general public to
ensure an open and fair process.
2 Establish an international team of regulatory experts that can provide advice when requested
by any REC.
* In cooperation with the policy advisor and the FEC, assist these RECs to develop a
methodology for regulating prices for power and heat that allow regulated companies to
recover prudently incurred costs, provide proper incentives to users of electricity and heat,
and eliminate cross subsidies.
* Assist the regional administrations to establish RECs and provide adequate funding and
independence.
Second Phase
* Create a plan for the "roll out" of the lessons learned and information gained from the first
phase so that all of the RECs receive assistance in the second phase.
* Create teams of Russian consultants who can visit each of the RECs in the second phase,
provide written descriptions of the first phase experience, provide training in cooperating
with the training advisor, and organize study tours for officials to visit the first phase
RECs.



Appendix 3                              34 -
Page 10
SUMMARY SCOPE OF WORK
REGIONAL ENERGO COMMERCIALIZATION
Objective:
To support the commercialization and corporatization of the local generation and
distribution companies (Energos) both by addressing immediate management and operating
deficiencies, and by assisting the companies to strengthen and develop systems and procedures
which will allow them to operate efficiently, as commercial entities, within the proposed sector
structure.
Tasks:
First Phase
- Advise the ERIU on selecting up to five Energos that will receive assistance in the first
phase of the effort (these Energos should be in the same oblasts selected in the previous
Scope of Work).
_ For the first phase Energos, improve the systems for financial controls, internal audits, and
procurement.
- Develop a system for evaluating investment projects.
- In cooperation with the policy advisor and the FEC advisor, assist the Energos to develop
systems and methodologies for pricing and tariffs consistent with the regulations of the REC
and FEC.
_ Develop a corporate finance plan for these Energos that will allow them to finance
necessary investment projects.
_ Analyze and propose technical and engineering improvements in the operation of the
Energos that will reduce costs.
* Develop a recruitment and staffing plan for these Energos.
* In cooperation with the ethics advisor, investigate corruption and fraud with the intent of
establishing controls to stop such conduct in the future.
Second Phase
* Create a plan for the "roll out" of the lessons learned and information gained from the first
phase Energos so that all Energos receive assistance in the second phase.
* Create teams of Russian consultants that can visit each of the Energos in the second phase,
provide written descriptions of the first phase experience, provide training, and organize
study tours for officials to visit the first phase RECs.



- 35 -                             Appendix 3
Page 1 1
SUMMARY SCOPE OF WORK
ETHICS
Objective:
To ensure that the staff of both government agencies and sector companies follow high
standards of ethics and thus increase the efficiency and effectiveness of their organizations.
Tasks:
* Assist the FEC, local RECs, and sector companies to prepare codes of conduct that specify
standards of behavior for the staff of regulatory agencies and sector companies.
* Prepaire financial disclosure requirements that would require staff in regulatory agencies to
disclose their financial dealings and investments in regulated companies and that would
require staff of sector companies to disclose their financial dealings with competitors,
suppliers, or customers.
* Provide advice on the appropriate penalties or sanctions if the codes of conduct and
disclosure requirements are violated.
a Develop proposals for legislation, if necessary, that would codify these standards for staff
of regulatory agencies.
* Advise the FEC on how these standards may be enforced through its powers of regulation.
* In cooperation with the training advisor, develop training programs that would ensure that
all staff are aware of the ethics requirements.



Appendix 3                            - 36 -
Page 12
SUMMARY SCOPE OF WORK
COMPENSATION
Objective:
To improve industry productivity by helping to rectify existing compensation inequities
that prevent the industry from optimizing the quality of its employment choices.
Tasks:
* Survey the major companies of the Russian electricity industry to establish the qualifications
required for management positions in the future.
* Survey the labor markets accessible to the Russian electricity companies to determine the
compensation levels and conditions of employment necessary to attract the required manag-
ers and staff to the industry.
* Produce a report and recommendations for use by industry companies and regulators on
optimal compensation packages for all industry players.



Appendix 3
Page 13
SUMMARY SCOPE OF WORK
TRAINING
Objective:
T'o enhance the quality of human capital within the power sector to help create a system
better prepared for commercial operation.
Tasks:
* Advise and assist the different entities within the sector in conducting training needs
analyses and designing training strategy and implementation plans.
* Stay abreast of and advise and assist entities within the sector on relevant local and
internLational training opportunities.
* If ide]ntified needs are not met by existing training programs, manage the development of
tailored training within the limits of available resources.
* Monitor the training activities of each of the teams to assure training is well-designed,
targeted and that there is no duplication of effort.
* Identify, develop and either deliver or coordinate delivery of any useful cross-team training
programs.
* When cross-team training is necessary, assist in the formulation of terms of reference and
manage the implementation of such programs within the limits of available resources.
* Periodically review the training programs planned by each team and disseminate the
principles and results to all interested parties.



Appendix 3                            - 38
Page 14
SUJMMARY SCOPE OF WORK
DOWNSIZING AND SOCIAL ASSISTANCE
Objective:
To ease the economic and social strain placed on some workers and consumers by
industry downsizing and tariff adjustments and to ensure that the reform program is not
derailed by political and public resistance to labor retrenchment and/or electricity price
increases.
Tasks:
Industry Downsizing
* Conduct a survey of industry staff and managers to determine the likely scale of redundan-
cies in each of the next three years and determine the demand for retrenchment services
beyond those already available.
3 Conduct a worldwide literature survey on downsizing and retraining programs, and provide
summaries and advice to the Government and industry managers as to optimal options.
* Develop a catalogue of retraining and downsizing services and financing sources available
to electricity sector companies.
* Explore the need for and potential benefit of an industry-specific retraining program
including proposed financing.
* Coordinate information dissemination efforts with reform program communications team.
D Prepare recommendations for any required industry-wide retraining programs, including
potential sources of finance, precedents, timing, and implementation processes.
Social Protection
First Phase
* Thoroughly review international experience in social protection schemes with respect to
utility costs and use this analysis in making recommendations.
* Work with local administrations of the initially targeted oblasts to identify what social
protection services exist.
* Deternine if the portion of the population that will not be able to afford electricity is
properly targeted. If not, devise targeting systems.
* Calculate the estimated cost of providing adequate social protection including the number of
households affected and the level of income support required to offset higher electricity
prices.
* Examine current methods of funding targeted assistance and, if inadequate, explore possible
alternatives.
* Coordinate efforts with communications advisors to assure affected parties are informed of
social protection efforts.



39 -                               Appendix 3
Page 15
Second Phase
* Create a plan for the "roll out" of the lessons learned from the first phase so that all of the
oblasts receive assistance in the second phase.



Appendix 3                                40 -
Page 16
SUMMARY SCOPE OF WORK
LEGAL
Objective:
To help maximize the effectiveness and efficiency of the reform and ultimate operations
of the sector by providing relevant legal support during the reform process and establishing a
legal framework suitable for a more commercially-oriented electricity sector.
Tasks:
General Reform
* With the FEC advisors, review international legal and regulatory experience in the
electricity sector and prepare relevant briefings for the Electricity Reform Supervisory
Board and the Government.
* Provide advice and support to the Electricity Reform Supervisory Board and the Govern-
ment on necessary legal actions and legislation.
* Stay abreast of the legal and regulatory work done within each of the sector entities and
ensure there is no duplication of efforts.
* If legal and regulatory initiatives are more advanced in the phase one targeted oblasts,
create a plan for the "roll out" of the lessons learned and information gained from these
experiences so that all of the sector entities in the remaining oblasts receive full informa-
tion.
Specific Entities
. Provide or coordinate the provision of legal advice:
* to RAO headquarters in areas including decentralization, corporate governance, and
any other matters requiring legal advice.
* for the establishment and operations of commercial network and generation business
operations.
* to the FEC including the establishment of a Wholesale Market Operator, regulation,
licensing and any other relevant legal matters.
* to the Wholesale Market Operator including appropriate legal structure for this or-
ganization and its Supervisory Council, contracting and any other relevant legal
matters.
* to the nuclear power companies including licensing, regulation, and any other rele-
vant legal matters.
* to the RECs in the targeted oblasts including regulation, licensing, and any other
relevant legal matters.
* Ensure lessons learned from RECs in targeted oblasts are disseminated.



- 41 -                             Appendix3
Page 1
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ELECTRICITY SECTOR REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
IMPLEMENTATION MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION
BACKGROUND
In 1992, the Russian Government carried out a partial restructuring of the power
sector, establishing RAO EES Rossii (RAO) as a nation wide holding company for government
stakeholdings in generation, transmission and distribution assets. At the same time, local
distribution companies (Energos) were established in each region, retaining ownership of the
smaller generating plants, and supplying both electricity and heat, on a monopoly basis, to
final consumers. While the industry structure has successfully maintained reliable power
supply during a difficult economic period, a number of deficiencies have come to light with
respect to the manner in which the sector now operates. These include high operating costs,
inadequate cash generation, and inadequate investment to meet current and expected needs. In
order to address these shortcomings, the Government has adopted a concept for the reform and
restructuring of the power sector and has requested a loan from the World Bank to finance
technical assistance in support of further developing and implementing a restructuring
implementation plan. A Supervisory Board on Electricity Reform has been established under
the First D)eputy Prime Minister in charge of Natural Monopolies, to provide oversight and
policy guidance to the process. In addition, an Electricity Reform Implementation Unit
(ERIU) is being established to manage the review and implementation process, and at the same
time to manage the technical assistance which will be provided.
The overall scale of the technical assistance is substantial. Total cost is estimated at
approximately US$70 million. Direct and indirect loans from the World Bank would finance
approximately US$45 million; bilateral and multilateral agencies would provide grant
financing for approximately US$13 million; and the Russian Government and sector agencies
would coiltribute the remaining US$12 million. Sixteen separate areas of support have been
identified., including support for the corporatization and commercialization of sector operating
companies, for institutional strengthening of the regulatory agencies, for development of
power market institutions, and for advice on a range of cross-cutting issues such as training,
public participation, and social impact analysis and mitigation. Management, coordination,
and execution of this program will require substantial effort. For this reason, provision has
been made to finance assistance to the ERIU in these efforts.
OBJECTIVE
ThLe objective of the assignment is to assist the ERIU in managing the components of
the technical assistance project which are being financed by the World Bank loan, and
coordinating the efforts of both Bank-financed and donor-financed advisory teams to ensure
that all issues are covered in a consistent and cost-effective manner.



Appendix 3                             - 42 -
Page 2
SCOPE OF WORK
The selected advisors would work with the ERIU to provide support in all aspects of
coordinating and managing the technical assistance program. Particular areas where assistance
would be required include, but are not limited to, the following:
Refinement of Reform Concept:
*  assist the ERIU in outlining a program of research which will satisfactorily address
outstanding issues which need to be resolved before a reform plan and implementation plan
can be developed;
*  help to develop or refine detailed terms of reference (TORs) for carrying out this additional
research;
Planning and Scheduling of Technical Assistance Program:
*  assist the ERIU in preparing a detailed plan for the execution of the various components of
the technical assistance program, including a clear identification of all tasks to be carried
out, and of interdependencies among tasks;
*  review draft TORs and/or scopes of work and indicative budgets for other activities related
to institution building and corporatization of the operating and regulatory entities and
cross-cutting issues and suggest improvements or modificationis as appropriate;
*  assist in developing TORs for the remaining advisory teams, based on the draft scopes of
work, together with agreed modifications .
*  carry out a critical path assessment and develop a detailed schedule for the program,
showing starting and completion dates for each step, and critical milestones;
*  assist the ERIU staff in monitoring and revising the schedule as necessary.
Review and Monitoring of Progress and Outputs:
*  assist with the review and monitoring of progress of the TA program with respect to
satisfactory accomplishment of terms of reference, and adherence to schedules;
*  inform other advisors and the ERIU of any deviations from the schedule which might
affect the successful completion of tasks;
*  periodically review the program to ensure that overall objectives are being met and identify
areas where additional research or assistance might be required;
*  advise the ERIU on the appropriate scope and terms of reference for additional work
requirements.



- 43~ -                         Appendix 3
Page 3
Study Coordination:
*  establish links and maintain regular contact with donor agencies and with the advisory
teams which are being financed on a grant basis to ensure that their efforts are fully coor-
dinated with work being carried out by other advisory teams;
*  closely monitor the progress and review the results of this work; if necessary, work with
advisory teams and their sponsors to ensure that commitments with respect to accomplish-
ments are met.
*  maintain a document and reference library of all major consultant reports and relevant
doctunents;
*  organize regular coordination meetings with all advisors and ERIU staff.
Contracting and Procurement:
*  consider appropriate packaging of the technical assistance components of the work program
that will facilitate efficient procurement without compromising the quality of the output;
-  assist the ERIU in carrying out required advance notification and advertising of consulting
service requirements, in developing a consultant short-list, and in preparing bidding docu-
ments for consultant services, including finalization of TORs,
3  assist as required with the evaluation of bids;
*  partiicipate in contract negotiations;
*  assist the ERIU to procure necessary office and communications equipment, using National
Shopping procedures.
Accounting Systems and Procedures:
*  the advisor would assist the ERIU in setting up appropriate procedures for the maintenance
of project accounts and supporting documentation;
*  the advisor would advise ERIU staff on any special requirements associated with account-
ing ifor projects financed by the various lending and donor agencies and assist them in
meeting these requirements;
*  the advisor would assist with the selection of auditors to carry out required annual reviews
of ERIU accounts, including those relating to the project.
Training:
* in consultation with the training coordinator, the advisor would ensure that ERIU staff
received in-depth training in the various aspects of project management in general and
World Bank procedures for procurement, disbursement, and project accounting in particu-
lar.



Appendix 3                             44 -
Page 4
TIMING
The advisor would be expected to begin work within four weeks of the signing of the
contract. The overall duration of the technical assistance program is approximately two years.
The advisor would be expected to maintain a continuous presence in Moscow throughout the
project; with additional staff mobilized as appropriate during periods of peak activity.
STAFFING
The advisor should be prepared to nominate a full-time Project Manager, to work with
the Director of the ERIU on an ongoing basis throughout the duration of the assignment. The
Project Manager would be responsible for mobilizing other staff as required, in an efficient
and cost-effective manner and ensuring that necessary specialized skills are available as
needed. The Project Manager should have an in-depth understanding of the power sector and
of power sector reform and restructuring efforts in other countries. The advisory team should
include individuals or groups with experience in various aspects of power sector restructuring
(markets and competition, regulation, institutional strengthening) as well as skills in project
management and execution (procurement, scheduling, accounting).
REPORTING
The advisor team would be accountable to the Director of the ERIU. The advisor
would be expected to submit monthly reports detailing the status of procurement and dis-
bursements, and progress relative to budgets and schedules. The team would also provide
written comments and reviews on the periodic reports submitted by other consulting teams,
highlighting in particular any findings or results which might affect work in other study areas.



4-                              Appendix 3
Page 5
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ELECTRICITY SECTOR REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS - RAO EES ROSSII
BACKGROUND
RAO EES Rossii (RAO) was established in 1992, as part of the Government's partial
restructutring of the power sector, to serve as a nation wide holding company for government
stakeholdings in generation, transmission and distribution assets. RAO was given ownership
of the high voltage transmission grid, large thermal and hydropower plants, dispatch centers,
and rese,arch and design institutes. Regional Energos retained ownership of the smaller
combined heat and power and hydro plants (which constitute approximately 40 percent of
system capacity), and became local distribution/generation companies, supplying both
electricity and heat, on a monopoly basis, to final consumers. The nuclear plants remained in
the ownership of the Government, and were placed under the management of Rosenergoatom..
In addition, the Energos were instructed to transfer 49 percent of their equity to RAOG. Total
value of RAO's assets (including its interests in the Energos) is estimated to be approximately
US$2 billion. The Government has since sold a part of their shareholdings in RAO, and
currentl) holds approximately 52 percent.
In the period since the initial restructuring, a number of deficiencies have come to light
with respect to the manner in which the sector is operating. These include high operating
costs, inadequate cash generation, and inadequate investment to meet current and expected
needs. In order to address these shortcomings, the Government has adopted a concept for the
reform and restructuring of the power sector and has requested a loan from the World Bank to
finance technical assistance that will, among other things, support the corporatization and
commercialization of power sector entities to enable them to operate more efficiently both in
the current environment and as commercial entities within the proposed new sector structure.
A part of the proceeds of this loan would be used to finance the present assignment. An
outline of the general organization and structure of the reform support program is attached.
OBJECTIVE
Despite its broad ranging responsibilities and interests, RAO's systems of financial
reporting and controls are not up to modern standards. This hinders management's ability to
properly plan and manage cash flows, to understand where and how monies are being
expended, and to control losses and inefficiencies within its various operating divisions. The
objective of this study is to assist RAO in designing and implementing financial information
systems and controls which will meet modern international standards. The initial focus of the
b Five Energos failed to comply fully with the decree - two remained fully independent and three transferred less
than 49 percent of their shareholdings. RAO has since increased its ownership stake in most of the other Energos,
and now holds more than 49 percent of 53 Energos (including 100 percent of 9 Energos).



Appendix 3                              - 46 -
Page 6
work will be at the corporate level. However, it is expected that these systems and procedures
will be established such that they can be transferred, with moderate modifications, to the
company's operating subsidiaries. Specifically, the advisor will be expected to: (a) immedi-
ately begin providing critical financial operations data as requested by RAO senior manage-
ment; (b) evaluate the current system of financial controls and assist in transforming them to
world standard level, including the introduction of a competitive, transparent procurement
systems for major purchases; (c) assist in the development of a full and sound internal audit
operation; and, (d) assist in the development of a system of financial reporting for management
and external audit.
SCOPE OF WORK
Task 1:     Corporate Structure and Authorities: The advisor will identify all companies
which are directly or indirectly controlled by RAO EES and/or its managers (the "Group"),
and obtain the charter and recent protocols of the governing body of each. The findings will
be summarized in a regularly updated report for use by management. The advisor will also
identify all persons in the Group who have the authority to enter into contracts on behalf of
any Group entity or, by virtue of their association with the Group, to instruct others to enter
into major contracts.
Task 2:     Critical financial activity (CFA) reporting: The advisor will immediately
survey available financial data and the needs of senior management and develop a weekly CFA
reporting system. CFA shall include:
*  a summary of the balances and activity in all bank accounts controlled by RAO EES and
the subsidiaries under its control (the Group);
*  a summnary of all major Group noncash receipts and deliveries;
*  a tabulation of all major contracts executed during the period;
*  other critical information as the management of RAO may request.
The advisor will also prepare a report on the status of intercompany billing and
accounting within the Group, together with recommendations for correcting any deficiencies.
Task 3:     Internal Audit: The advisor will develop and assist in the implementation of a
suitable internal audit function within RAO EES. To this end, the advisor will:
*  determine existing practices with respect to internal audit and prepare a report to manage-
ment identifying any shortcomings in the current procedures;
*  prioritize deficiencies in terms of their potential to lead to losses and implement interimn
review procedures to immediately address the most critical areas;
*  develop a detailed plan for implementing an internal audit function within the company,
including staffmg, organization, budget, and a schedule for implementation;



47 -                            Appendix 3
Page 7
* assist RAO in the development of the internal audit department.
Task 4:      Financial Controls: The advisor will assist in the development of a system of
internal financial controls, including appropriate procedures for the control of cash, invento-
ries, and other corporate assets, and a system for the control of contractual commitments and
other obligations made on behalf of the company. To this end, the advisor will:
*  review existing systems of financial control and prepare a report to management identify-
ing any shortcomings in the current procedures;
*  prioritize deficiencies in terms of their potential to lead to losses, and implement interim
review procedures to inmmediately address the most critical areas;
*  develop a detailed plan for implementing a suitable system of financial controls within the
comrpany and -its subsidiaries, including procedures and monitoring systems;
*  draft detailed operational procedures related to the proposed system of financial controls
and assist in introducing the new procedures throughout the company;
*  assist RAO in acquiring or developing computer software necessary to adequately monitor
the financial control systems.
Task 5:      Financial Management Information System: The advisor will assist RAO to
develop a modem system for the timely collection, analysis and reporting of financial
informaLtion. The system should be adequate to meet the company's financial information
needs in terms of: (a) internal and external audits, including the expected need for audits
which comply with IAS; (b) preparation of information for submission to regulatory agencies;
(c) analysis and management of operating costs within the various divisions of the company;
(d) corporate budgeting and cash flow planning; and, (e) management of investments,
including capital work in progress. The advisor will ensure that the systems are compatible
with the introduction of Generally Accepted Accounting Practices, including accrual-based
accounting. The advisor is expected to:
*  iderntify general management needs with respect to financial information and classify these
needs with respect to source, type, frequency and timing;
*  survey existing data and reports which are prepared for internal and external use and
prepare a detailed record, including reports which are currently required under Russian
law and accounting convention;
*  examnine ways in which the existing reporting systems could be expanded and/or modified
to better meet the financial information requirements of management;
*  iderntify gaps in the current reporting system and develop a plan to correct these deficien-
cies, including priorities, schedule, and estimated cost for each level of implementation;
*  assist in report design;
*  assist RAO in acquiring and/or developing necessary computer software;



Appendix 3                            - 48 -
Page 8
*  work with RAO subsidiaries and their advisors to ensure that the reporting system is
implemented throughout the company;
*  assist in the development and execution of necessary training programs both for accounting
staff in terms of the preparation of required reports and for management in terms of the use
of the reports to better manage the financial performance of the company.
TIMING
The advisor would be expected to begin work within four weeks of the signing of the
contract. Both Tasks 1 and 2 should be substantively completed within one month of
commencing work. The initial reports to management on the status of internal audit proce-
dures and financial controls should be completed within three months of project inception.
The full assignment is expected to be completed within a two year period, with the first six
months devoted primarily to emergency actions, and normal system development activities to
begin during months four to eight.
STAFFING
The advisor is expected to fully utilize the resources available within the RAO
organization, both to assist in designing and to execute the implementation plans for the new
systems and procedures.
REPORTING
The advisor would be accountable to the Chairman of the Board of Directors of RAO,
or to any individual(s) within the company whom the Chairman designates as his representa-
tive for purposes of particular Tasks. The advisor should also be aware of the parallel efforts
that will be under way as part of the overall program of support for the reform and restructur-
ing process, and should ensure that he both coordinates with other teams and makes use of the
resources available for such tasks as the development of training programs and the corporati-
zation of other power sector operating entities.



Appendix 3
Page 9
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ELECTRICITY SECTOR REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
ECONOMICS AND INVESTMENT PLANNING - RAO EES ROSSII
BACKGROUND
RAO EES Rossii (RAO) was established in 1992, as part of the Government's partial
restructuring of the power sector, to serve as a nation-wide holding company for government
stakeholdings in generation, transmission and distribution assets. RAO was given ownership
of the high voltage transmission grid, large thermal and hydropower plants, dispatch centers,
and research and design institutes. Regional Energos retained ownership of the smaller
combined heat and power and hydro plants (which constitute approximately 40 percent of
system capacity) and became local distribution/generation companies, supplying both
electricity and heat on a monopoly basis to final consumers. The nuclear plants remained in
the owniership of the Government, and were placed under the management of Rosenergoatom..
In addition, the Energos were instructed to transfer 49 percent of their equity to RAOC.
In the period since the initial restructuring, a number of deficiencies have come to light
with respect to the manner in which the sector is operating. These include high operating
costs, inadequate cash generation, and inadequate investment to meet current and expected
needs. In order to address these shortcomings, the Government has adopted a concept for the
reform and restructuring of the power sector and has requested a loan from the World Bank to
finance technical assistance which will, among other things, support the corporatization and
commercialization of power sector entities to enable them to operate more efficiently both in
the current environment and as commercial entities within the proposed new sector structure.
A part of the proceeds of this loan would be used to finance the present assignment. An
outline of the general organization and structure of the reform support program is attached.
OBJECTIVE
Prior to the initial restructuring of the sector, planning for capital investments was
carried out by the Government, and resources were allocated from the budget to finance
approved projects. Since the formation of RAO, resources have continued to be spent, as
available, on ongoing projects. However, little has been done in the way of a comprehensive
review of these or other planned investments to ensure that available funds are being allocated
in an appropriate fashion and that planned new investments are optimal given the changes in
market conditions. The objectives of the proposed study are: (a) to develop a coherent picture
of current investments, both under way and planned; (b) to assist in updating the investment
c Five Energos failed to comply fully with the decree - two remained fully independent and three transferred less
than 49 percent of their shareholdings. RAO has since increased its ownership stake in most of the other Energos,
and now holds more than 49 percent of 53 Energos (including 100 percent of 9 Energos).



Appendix 3     .                         50 -
Page 10
plan, including the assignment of priorities; (c) to assist in developing a financing plan for the
proposed investment program to ensure that adequate funding is available; and, (d) to assist
RAO in developing the capabilities necessary to ensure that future investments are financially
and economically viable.
SCOPE OF WORK
Task 1:     Review of Current Investments: The advisor will carry out a comprehensive
review of all major capital investment projects now under way which are either being
implemented or supported by RAO. A database and status report on each project will be
prepared covering progress to date, financing, and estimated time and resources required to
completion. For the most active and substantial projects, the advisor will ensure that
consistent data on estimated project costs, revenues and cash flows are available and are
presented in an accessible form for management review. The advisor will also develop and
implement a mechanism for the regular updating of the project database and the verification of
all data.
Task 2:     Development of an Updated Investment Program: The advisor will assist RAO
to develop an updated investment program, including both the completion of ongoing projects
and the initiation.of new projects currently in the investment program. The advisor will:
-  review work which has been done to date on analyzing the costs and benefits of projects in
the investment pipeline;
*  report to management on projects where more detailed analysis is needed or desirable in
order to establish the project's feasibility;
-  within the context of the current Russian economic framework and outlook, review the
overall investment program to assess whether other projects not currently planned or pro-
posed should be considered as priority candidates and carry out a screening-level analysis
to determine whether they warrant immediate consideration;
*  prepare a ranking of projects (or groups of projects) in their order of priority based on
both economic returns and on financial returns to the implementing agencies;
In addition, because the partially completed Bureya hydro power station is of particular
concern to the Government and to RAO, the advisor will develop detailed terms of reference
for further work which is needed in order to provide a bankable feasibility study of the project
and will, through a competitive process, contract with a suitable group of qualified consultants
to carry out the work necessary to complete the feasibility analysis of the project. This
feasibility analysis would also be financed under the World Bank loan.
Task 3:     Development of a Project Financing Plan:
* examine possible sources of financing for key projects now in the development program, as
identified by management, including but not limited to internal cash generation, commer-



-    -                             Appendix 3
Page 1 1
cial or development bank financing, and private equity participation (domestic and/or
foreign);
*  identify possible barriers to accessing sufficient capital to carry out the proposed projects,
and suggest ways in which these barriers might be overcome;
*  consider the implications of the proposed new sector structure on both the ranking of
investment projects and on the potential sources of financing.
As part of this task, the advisor will also be expected to assist RAO in developing
principles for pricing of generation and transmission services, which will form the basis for
discussions with the regulatory agencies.
Task 4:     Investment Planning Procedures: Assist in developing a comprehensive and
systematic set of procedures for the preparation and evaluation of 'bankable' investment
projects, and ensure that the staff of RAO's investment division fully understand these
procedures and can implement them in the future. Preparation and evaluation procedures
should include:
*  preparation of market forecasts, including analysis of price elasticity;
*  least-cost evaluation of alternative resources available to meet demands (including both
demand-side and supply-side options);
-  enviromnental impact assessment and development of mitigation plans;
-  detai]Led planning, scheduling and cost estimating;
-  project risk analysis and risk mitigation planning;
3  evaluation of project financial viability;
  development of financing plans;
*  cash flow and rate-of-return analysis;
*  development of implementation plans.
In addition, as RAO management is decentralized, the advisor shall assist the headquar-
ters staff to develop, train and monitor the Economics and Investment staff within each major
RAO business unit.
TIMINGr
The advisor would be expected to begin work within four weeks of the signing of the
contract. Task 1 should be substantively completed within one month of commencing work.
The preliminary ranking of investment projects and the financing plan should be completed
within a nine-moiith period from project inception. Overall, the expected duration of the
assignment is expected to be one year.



Appendix 3                             - 52 -
Page 12
STAFFING
The advisor is expected to fully utilize the resources available within the RAO
organization to assist both in data collection and analysis of the investment program.
REPORTING
The advisor would be accountable to the Chairman of the Board of Directors of RAO,
or to any individual(s) within the company whom the Chairman designates as his representa-
tive for purposes of particular Tasks. The advisor should also be aware of the parallel efforts
that will be under way as part of the overall program of support for the reform and restructur-
ing process, and should ensure that he both coordinates with other teams and makes use of the
resources available for such tasks as the development of training programs, and the corporati-
zation of other power sector operating entities.



-                             Appendix 3
Page 13
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ELECTRICITY SECTOR REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AND COMMUNICATIONS
BACKGROUND
In 1992, the Russian Government carried out a partial restructuring of the power
sector, establishing RAO EES Rossii (RAO) as a nation wide holding company for government
stakeholdings in generation, transmission and distribution assets. At the same time, local
distribution companies (Energos) were established in each region, retaining ownership of the
smaller generating plants, and supplying both electricity and heat, on a monopoly basis, to
final consumers. While the industry structure has successfully maintained reliable power
supply during a difficult economic period, a number of deficiencies have come to light with
respect to the manner in which the sector now operates. These include high operating costs,
inadequate cash generation, and inadequate investment to meet current and expected needs. In
order to address these shortcomings, the Government has adopted a concept for the reform and
restructuring of the power sector and has requested a loan from the World Bank to finance
technical assistance in support of further developing and implementing a restructuring
implementation plan. A Supervisory Board on Electricity Reform has been established under
the First Deputy Prime Minister in charge of Natural Monopolies, to provide oversight and
policy guidance to the process. In addition, an Electricity Reform Implementation Unit
(ERIU) is being established to manage the review and implementation process, and at the same
time to manage the technical assistance which will be provided.
I'he scope of the reform and restructuring concept is extensive, involving substantive
changes in the way in which the sector operates and sector participants interrelate with each
other, customers, and the general public. Considerable effort will be required to ensure that
information regarding the process is disseminated in a timely and accurate manner, that all
interested parties have an opportunity to put forward their concerns and viewpoints, and are
satisfied that their viewpoints have been taken into account. To provide support to this
process, the services of an advisor on public participation and communications are required.
OBJECTIVE
The objective of this assignment is to assist the ERIU in the design and execution of a
comprehensive communications and public participation process, aimed at ensuring that
interested parties are adequately informed about the reform and restructuring process and have
an opportunity to participate in a timely and effective manner.



Appendix 3                             - 54
Page 14
SCOPE OF WORK
The selected Advisor would work with the ERIU, and with other agencies as required,
to provide support in all aspect relating to communications and public participation. Specific
duties would include, but are not limited to, the following:
Support to the ERIU:
*  Develop a communications strategy for each stage in the development and implementation
of the reform plan;
* In consultation with the ERIU Director, develop an overall budget for the communications
program;
* Develop a mechanism for regular media briefings and consistent response to all media
inquiries and assist in the preparation of briefing materials;
* Target and organize specific campaigns aimed at opinion makers;
* Manage a crisis team that deals with high-visibility events which require fast, definitive
and credible responses;
*  Conduct regular public opinion surveys and adjust the communications strategy appropri-
ately.
Coordination Among Parties:
* Stay abreast of the work of each of the other agencies involved in the reform process and
with their advisors, in order to provide accurate information to the public;
* Create an interactive internet web-site to disseminate news, documents, data, and reports to
all interested parties, including consumers, employees, government agencies, creditors,
investors, and the mass media;
* Assist in the dissemination of lessons learned and information gained from early stages of
the restructuring process (for example, with the initial groups of local regulators, sector
companies, and administrations) to other regions.
Participatory Process:
* Assist the Federal and Regional Energy Commissions in designing and establishing
hearings processes which adequately provide for public input;
* Assist the local administrations in their communications efforts and ensure they are kept
abreast of the reform processes.
TIMING
The advisor would be expected to begin work within four weeks of the signing of the
contract. The overall duration of the technical assistance program is approximately two years.



-~ 55 -Appendix 3
Page 15
The advisor would be expected to maintain a continuous presence in Moscow throughout the
project wiith additional staff mobilized as appropriate during periods of peak activity.
STAFFING
The advisor should be prepared to nominate a full-time Communications Coordinator to
work with the Director of the ERIU on an ongoing basis throughout the duration of the
assignment. The Coordinator would be responsible for mobilizing other staff as required in an
efficient and cost-effective manner and ensuring that necessary specialized skills are available
as needed. The Coordinator should be experienced in managing broadly targeted public
informatiion programs, and also in organizing and executing programs for public participation.
The advisory team should include individuals or groups with experience in media relations,
public relations, survey design and execution, and the design and execution of participatory
programs. Experience in managing public participation with respect to regulatory processes
would be desirable.
REPORTING
The advisor team would be accountable to the Director of the ERIU. The advisor
would be expected to provide monthly reports on activities carried out during the previous
period, and on the proposed work program for the coming period, including a status report on
expenditures to date, on proposed expenditures during the coming period, and on expenditures
and activities relative to the budget for the program.






Project ImplementatIon Schedule
Inception through June 1998
Activity                                        May-97    Jun-97    Jul-97   Aug-97    Sep-97    Oct-97   Nov-97    Dec-97    Jan-98    Feb-98    Mar-98    Apr-98    May-98    Jun-98
Project Development Activities (PDL)
Estiblish ERIU
Priority Forensic Accounting, FEC support
Scoping of detailed work programs in focal areas
(accounting, investments, legal, communications,
wholesale market operator. FEC support)
TOR/Bidding for Implementation Advisor
Policy Review (with Expert Panel)
Loan Approval                                           v
Loan Effectivenes                                                                   *
Project Implmentation - Phase I
RAO Corporatization Support (accounting,
investments, personnel)                                                                 -
Ongoing bilateral support for FEC, Energos, RECs,  -
RAO corporate finance, wholesale market operator
Evaluation/Refinement of Reform Comcept
(assisted by Policy Advisor. Expert Panel)
Finalize Market Structure, Refonm Plan
Project Implementation - Phase 11
Refine scopes of work for sector enterprises based
on final Reform Plan/Market Structure
Contract enterprise advisors, advisors on cross-
cutting issues
Corporatization/restructuring support
Begin dissemination of lessons learned from pilot
regions to other Energos and RECs
Project Implementtiaon - Phane II
Reogranization of generating companies
Introduction of competitive markets where feasible
Development and execution of privatization plans
Continued institutional support for sector entities






Appendix 5
Procurement Schedule (first year of project)
Category                   Estimated     Procurement
Cost (USD)      Method                  _      Major Activities
Issue of      Bids        Contract      Delivery
Documents   Submission    Signature      Complete
Establishing ERIt
Consulting Services - year one             790,000        SL            6/97         7/97          8/97          6/98
Office Equipment                            150,000       NS            8/97         9/97          9/97          1/98
Expert Panel                                      *        SS            7/97          8/97         9/97        ongoing
Priority Advisors
Management & Coordination
General Coordination and Management       1,400,000       SL            6/97          7/97         8/97         12/99
Advisor
Special Services Consultants               800,000        SL            8/97         10/97         11/97        12/99
RAO - Financial and Accounting
System Analysis and Design Advisor        1,920,000       SL            6/97         8/97          9/97         12/99
System Implementation                      760,000        SL            8/97         10/97         11/97         6/00
RIAO - Economics and Investment
General Advisor                           2,800,000       SL            6/97          8/97         9/97         12/99
Public Participation & Communication
General Advisor                            550,000        SL            8/97         10/97         11/97         6/99 >
Policy Advisors
General Advisors                          1,710,000       SL            8/97          9/97         10/97        12/99
Policy Analysis                            300,000        SL            8/97          9/97         10/97        12/98



Category                    Estimated     Procurement                     
Cost (USD)       Method                          Major Activities                         CD
Issue of       Bids        Contract      Delivery      
Documents   Submission      Signature     Complete       S (
Other Lead Advisors
RAO Recruitment and Personnel                 800,000        SL                           Commencing 10/97
Compensation 'Advisor                         540,000        SL                           Commencing 10/97
Training Advisor                              660,000        SL                           Commencing 10/97
Legal Advisors                                740,000        SL                           Commencing 10/97
Wholesale Market Operator Advisors            250,000        SL                           Commencing 12/97
Regional Energy Commission Advisors         1,150,000        SL                           Commencing 12/97
Federal Energy Commission Support             400,000        SL                           Commencing 12/97
Regional Energo Advisors                    1,350,000        SL                           Commencing 2/98
Ethics Advisors                               750,000        SL                           Commencing 2/98
Downsizing and Social Assistance Advisor      675,000        SL                           Commencing 2/98
Transmission Network Advisor                1,300,000        SL                           Commencing 2/98
Generation Company Advisor                  2,150,000        SL                           Commencing 2/98
Equipment
RAO Accounting - Computers, Software,         825,000        NS                           Commencing 12/97
Communications                                                                                                                      o
Wholesale Market Operator - Computers,        250,000        NS                           Commencing 1/98
Software, Communications
RAO Economics - Computers. Software           325,000        NS                           Commencing 3/98
REC - Computers, Software,                    350,000        NS                           Commencing 3/98
Communications
Regional Eenrgos - Computers. Software        500,000        NS                           Commencing 3/98
*     Monthly cost will depend on individual's rates and on frequency of meetings/review sessions. Estimated to average $15,000 per panelist per month, including expenses.
SL - Shortlist
SS - Sole Source
NS - National Shopping



I            ~~~~MAP SECTION






IBERD 245
2a4 +&t'>   t'%r,                              "mi                                                                                                                                                                                                         >  S\  ;'- 5i   t  CHINA
tir-.Ifl  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c<1  Ao,-vn oro                                                                                                                                                 N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ HI     
-<   /<                       >    9                                                            d                              \-F                                                 ~                                                          !*-
io . - , F I  C-NNLNA                 M~N   D   .jA_eban5el'^L oPechorr  ~_        TulunN- 1
iNENIO     N LATVIA                                                                                                                                               Il i K  i   '  n0 ek ,eNovoSvzneh  L   B
S W   E D E N                                     N<,o                                                                                                                 C
K li2n'                   -4                     r                          4u:le'  NY                                                                                             N?r "ewhaks                             'ItK                           ANio M  ej;*./Tue      Oirol
Nt          p                              ,                                                                 Noco  /-                                                                                            7N\NN n/h;   w  obe LPs-        t,
POAN                     FIL N                                 NSmNLINNNNINs Nrs0 ---                                                                                                                                       <J,           CLan                   >4m hlols     Ptrm  os\tit-X uos 
0 0  BEiARU5  a               - C~NOTHn -yzn~   ;,   ;i                                                                                                                              N                 S, slot~;9tg       ; \<'Ut'ce   ~PWRSETRRVE                                 
-                               SIBERIA                               /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ul  d
/p  - Rovno -N  /                     iNN)rnisov a    4   ;mbos   !  7i~D                   @h_
          IN    L    ) D      50 NNtt
CENTER oA                          R USIAN                             "F E   ER AT IO                     T N     ' jK
[A ,'-                                                                                                                                                                                                 h.,vIyDn     \ASG  hlY1  0k
-N 'ESTON                                                                                                                                                     Su~~ttbNRNdA.tt5kN_   oKso    Abkns,        Ky.                o
?   TURKEY                          a           d         " +           gsnov7dsS                           Chad;>cnd   L   Dushanbe ,_L                         <                                                   7             200            400            600HIATS~~~N,~my Td  B-u
ill"' , - ~~, `  _ ~_)`Tyo-',I
NC             N                                             kh c,/ ''    NNeONd  ,J    TooN              U R AL       M Eoolnk NNoO Iy-> S          -     <'Krn            e,
,-i~~~~~~~ Y- <'    \  "u  Ahk.ba 06 v
,AN      D    LI     N B                            'k  No,, snI .                                                               - Ch-k5t r                              <-  - CHANIA,bek 
3v    /                   Nd~t5     ~      CM.'ON                                 ,                 Pkkd., C                     o SYR              -                R      I                   - AM                                      RUSSIAN   FEDERATION
POLAND   ~~~B    LA R            5 cUkosa    N\k~~7                                                                                                                                           U."- aoan >
o  RELAR  ~~~~5Ia  SONONAN  NLNNON#sk                                                                             N                   ~~OWERSECTOR REVIEW
Goode '-N~~~-N   *'  NToo~cc~~O   MI0DLE'V  -C. -  (NN          -'   -                                   SINTERCONNECTEDPOWER SYSTEM
R-                        6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-b-                                                                        _d~~~-Eoe,oonk -  jIe ogo
\{NS ,sCCoo Z1NCoNo  T- no.ONVOG                                                  -                                                                                                                                                                      POWER SYSTEM REGION ROUJNDARIES
.        AI      'N E                       4                           'l   -                   ON J0                                                                                                                                    POWER GRID TOO DETAILED
-'>'N   SnaniNnoNI  NN'CsN   "          CI- odN C                                         NnoIsN           dAkty%  - k                                                     B.kN'                                                                          THERMAL POWER PLANT
Ch-nsscroo  ~                                                                                            ovb.                                                       aeB(ktsC*                                                                          HYDRO POWER PLANT
~~MOLSO~~~~~~~~   COt  W~~~~~~~  '                                                                   r"                'A                                                         NUCLEAR POWER PLANT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OWR LA
Ki N1-yR. O9(0N               Joe          7                                                                                                          CK.750 kV DC (Under Co-s,uCIion)
pqgoNNNoIor&j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                     <N                                                 ~~~AZ K ST N400 kV DC
N.  -           >-'T     ~  ~   ~  ~  ~   ~  ~   ~  ~  ~   ~  ~  ~   ~  ~  ~  ~   ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~ ~  ~  ~  ~ ~  " N'N   Z                                                0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~750   kV
El                                                                                           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   P,.h-lo',k                        500 kV
5NeIso~~ININ  -N'  otnoda,  CAUCAS USBiTNNd,6kcr7ro   e~                                                                                               <1-N      '                                                        TRZANSMISSION NETWORK'
BULGARINA              DJNk       Snh N                                                      c--                  (     21        -ulnknC                                  N.7LI KYRGYZS'EAN NN>-'                                                                4C00kV DC
ppNo ~N  k  C-'~  -                  icanl    tdChonkW-                                                                      1150 kV
Nel NMN    '                                                                     v~~~~. & - N r    W   N  N -.Ak..750   kV
0, LahNrN'                                               NNNkNNS                                                N500 kV
C,       N                             N 4'NNNN->    *i4y~~MeEoIa                            ,-c-<o~~         ~           ~ ~      %-toEoicNnSk<Sn'                    C HINA                                                     '     500 kV fUnder Co-ttnjoion
N   '               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f~   ~iGEORIA                   K       To                             TeAas ,                                         4 ~   ,>                                                                      '- ITERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
N?                                      "r--  -r'no<>'                                                                    Men ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,ie~ AhaK4- TAN                                                      .......ON.NON..IL......N
KvZk_.,~~~~~~~~~                                                                 D.6- b~/ -    '
ON.1iN         NN- pnrI s                           TUERKM  ENI STAN 
-N-N-NFGHANISTANSONn
SYRIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7    ,    ,   -
CTPRLIS ~~~~~  ARAB ERR  (7   I RAG   NS\ ~~~~~~~~ISLAMIC REP. OF IRN9CSONeN  NoVt                                                                                                                                                       CjCsaG   n         SrioOO
NN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AC   9









IMAGING
Report No.: T       7126   RU
Type:     TAN



