Page  1
January 17, 2000 
Mr. M.M. Kasyanov 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Ilyinka Street 9 112008 
Moscow  
Russian Federation
Re:
Loan No. 4181-RU (Electricity Sector Reform Support Project)
Amendments to the Loan Agreement 
Dear Mr. Kasyanov: 
We refer to the Loan Agreement, dated October 9, 1997, for the Electricity 
Sector Reform Support Project (the Project), between the Russian Federation (the 
Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank). 
We also refer to the letter No. 27-00-09/1530, dated August 25, 1999, from First 
Deputy Minister of Finance O.V. Viugin to the Bank, which requested an amendment of 
the Loan Agreement with a view to modifying the implementation arrangements for the 
Project in view of the changed economic environment in Russia in general and in the 
electricity sector in particular. We further refer to the exchange of letters (dated 
December 2, 1999, from Mr. M. Carter to Mr. G. Glazkov, and dated December 8, 1999, 
from First Deputy Minister of Finance A.L. Kudrin to Mr. M. Carter), concerning the 
on-lending terms proposed to be applied in respect of the loan proceeds being made 
available to the Russian Unified Electric Systems Company (RAO EES Rossii) under the 
respective part of the Project to be carried out by RAO EES Rossii.
We are pleased to inform you that the Bank accedes to your request and agrees to 
the amendments to the Loan Agreement set forth in the Annex to this letter. 
Please confirm your agreement to the annexed amendments by signing, dating and 
returning to us the attached copy of this letter. These amendments will become 
effective as of the date hereof upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Amendment 
Letter countersigned by you. 
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
  AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Michael Carter 
Country Director for Russia 
Europe and Central Asia Region
CONFIRMED: 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By /s/ M.M. Kasyanov
Authorized Representative
Date:
February 17, 2000
Annex
Loan No. 4181-RU
Page  2
(Electricity Sector Reform Support Project) Amendments to the Loan Agreement
1.
In Section 1.02 (a), the words “Special Account” are replaced with the words 
“Special Accounts.”
2.
At the end of Section 1.02 (c), the period is replaced with a semicolon, and new 
paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g) are inserted as follows:
“(c)
‘MFE’ means the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of the Borrower; 
(d)
‘FEC’ means the Federal Energy Commission of the Borrower; 
(e)
‘AO Energos’ means the regional entities established as 
joint-stock companies 
under the laws of the Borrower (aktsionernoe obshchestvo 
(AO)), and licensed to operate in 
the business of electricity distribution and 
generation, including operating small 
generating plants producing electricity 
and heat for regional consumption; 
(f)
‘Subsidiary Loan Agreement’ means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.01  (b) of this Agreement; and
(g)
‘Statutes’ means the charter of RAO approved by the decision of 
the general 
meeting of shareholders dated May 17, 1996, and registered with the 
Moscow Chamber of 
Registration under the Government of Moscow City under 
Registration No. 20863-iu4, on July 
22, 1996, as such charter has been amended to 
the date of this Agreement.” 
3.
Section 2.02 (b) is amended to read as follows:  
“The Borrower may, for purposes of each of: (i) Part A, (ii) Part B, and 
(iii) Part C  of the Project, respectively, open and maintain in Dollars, a separate 
special deposit 
account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, including appropriate protection against 
set-off seizure and attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, each Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.”
4.
The date referred to in Section 2.03 (the Closing Date) is changed to December 
31, 2001.
5.
Section 3.01 is amended to read as follows:
“(a)
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part A of the 
Project through RAO, Part B of the Project through 
the FEC, and Part C of the Project 
through the MFE, all with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, 
engineering, environmental protection, and technical practices, 
and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for 
the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, the 
Borrower shall 
relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time 
to Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), 
(3) and (4) (a) of the table set forth as paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under 
a subsidiary loan agreement (the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and RAO, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, 
which shall include 
the following: (i) the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be 
repaid in 
dollars equivalent, amortized evenly over a period of not more than 13 years, 
including 3 years of grace; (ii) RAO shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate 
consisting of a base 
rate equal to the rate applicable to the Loan pursuant to 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement, 
plus a margin of one and one-half percent (1½%); and 
(iii) RAO shall pay a commitment charge 
on the amount of the Subsidiary Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time equal to the percentage 
of the commitment charge paid by 
the Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
Page  3
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in  such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)
Without limitation  upon the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and 
(c) of this 
Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 5 
to this Agreement.” 
6.
A new Section 4.02 is added to Article IV (Financial Covenants) as follows:
“Section 4.02 (a) The Borrower shall cause RAO to maintain a financial 
management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance 
with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, adequate to reflect 
the operations and financial condition 
of RAO and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures 
related to Part A of the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause RAO to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable 
to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such 
year: (A) certified copies 
of said financial statements 
reflecting the records and accounts 
referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts and financial statements and the 
audit thereof as the Bank 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c) 
For all expenditures under Part A of the Project, with respect to 
which 
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the 
Borrower shall cause RAO to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with sound accounting practices, 
records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at 
least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(d)
The Borrower shall cause RAO to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph 
(c)(i) of this 
Section, and those for the Special Account for 
Part A of the Project, 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
Page  4
not later 
than six months after the end of each such 
year the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion by said 
auditors as 
to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.”
7.
The Heading under Article V (“Termination”) is re-stated as “Other Covenants; 
Remedies of the Bank; and Termination” and additional sections following Section 5.01 
are added as follows:
“Section 5.02.
The Borrower shall cause RAO:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make 
other provision 
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be 
consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance 
with sound 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental protection, and 
technical practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers; and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machinery, 
equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make 
all necessary repairs and  renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, engineering, 
environmental protection and 
technical practices.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall cause RAO to carry out the obligations 
set forth in  Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08, and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records 
and reports, maintenance,  and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of 
the Project.
Section 5.04. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following 
additional events are specified: 
(a)
RAO shall have failed to perform any of its obligations arising 
under, or 
entered into pursuant to, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b)
RAO shall, without the consent of the Bank, have (i) assigned or 
transferred,  in whole or in part, any of its obligations arising under, or entered 
into pursuant to, the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; or (ii) sold, leased, 
transferred, assigned, or otherwise 
disposed of any property or assets 
financed wholly or in part out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, except with 
respect to transactions in the ordinary course of business which, in the  opinion of 
the Bank, (A) do not materially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower 
to perform any of its obligations under the Loan Agreement or to achieve the 
objectives of 
the Project, or the ability of RAO to perform any of its 
obligations arising under, or 
entered into pursuant to, the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the 
Project; and (B) do not 
materially and adversely affect the financial condition or 
operations of RAO;
(c)
the Statutes of RAO shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or 
waived, or otherwise the legal character, ownership or control of RAO 
shall have changed 
from that prevailing as of the date of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, so as to materially 
and adversely affect the ability of RAO to perform 
any of its obligations arising under, or 
entered into pursuant to, the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the 
Project; 
(d)
RAO shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature or 
Page  5
any action or 
proceeding shall have been taken by RAO or by others whereby any 
of its property or assets  shall or may be distributed among, or administered by the 
benefit of, its creditors; and
(e)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have 
taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of RAO or for the 
suspension of its 
operations.
Section 5.05.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, 
the following 
additional events are specified, namely, any event specified in 
Section 5.04 of this 
Agreement.”
8.
A reallocation of the amounts provided for under the table set forth as 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement (Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the 
Loan) shall be made as provided for in Attachment 1 to this Annex.
9.
In Schedule 1 (Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan), paragraph 2, the word 
“and” at the end of paragraph 2 (a) is deleted.
The word “and” is added at the end of paragraph 2 (b) and  a new sub-paragraph 
(c) is added to read as follows:
“(c) 
the term ‘Incremental Operating Expenditures’ means expenditures 
incurred on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, 
communication, transportation, travel, salaries of staff 
(including temporary staff), 
training and project-related auditing 
services, all as set forth in the approved budget of  the PIU which shall have been 
adopted pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 (c) of 
Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.”  
10.
Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 is modified as follows:
“Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in 
respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; 
(b) 
any expenditures under Categories (1) (a), (2) (a) and (3) of this 
Schedule 
until the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been executed by the 
parties thereto, and 
satisfactory evidence shall have been furnished to 
the Bank that the same is valid and 
binding upon the parties;  and
(c) 
expenditures for Incremental Operating Expenditures under Category 
(3) of this 
Schedule in any year, prior to the adoption by RAO of the budget for the 
PIU for the year 
concerned, acceptable to the Bank, as provided for pursuant to 
paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement.”
11.
In Schedule 1, paragraph 4 is amended to read:
“The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of 
statements of expenditure for: (a) expenditures under Category (1) of 
paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule, for goods procured under contracts costing less 
than $200,000 equivalent; (b) 
expenditures under Category (2) of paragraph 1 
of this Schedule, for services of consultants  procured under contracts, in the case of 
firms, costing less than $200,000 equivalent and, 
in the case of individuals, 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (c) Incremental 
Operating 
Expenditures under Category (3) of  paragraph 1 of this Schedule, for any 
expenditures of less than $50,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as 
the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.”
12.
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (Description of the Project) is amended by 
substituting therefor a new Schedule 2, which is attached as Attachment 2 to this 
Annex.
13.
Section I of Schedule 4 (Procurement and Consultants’ Services) is modified as 
follows:
Page  6
"Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods 
shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 2.
The following provisions shall apply 
to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages 
estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $300,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
2.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, 
the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.” 
14.
In paragraph 1 of Part C of Section II of Schedule 4 (Procurement and 
Consultants’ Services), the words “Part H” are replaced with the words “Parts A.2., 
A.3., A.4., A.7., Part B.1., and Part C.”
15.
In paragraph 2 of Part C of Section II of Schedule 4 (Procurement and 
Consultants’ Services), the words “Projects coordination under Part H of the Project” 
are replaced with the words “tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 
5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines”.
Page  7
16.
Schedule 5 (Implementation Program), is supplemented by additional provisions as 
follows: 
“Part A of the Project  
2.
Project Implementation Unit under Part A of the Project. The 
Borrower shall 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to cause RAO to: (a) 
maintain a separate 
administrative unit for project implementation (the 
Project Implementation Unit (PIU)), 
which at all times functions in a 
manner, and with staff, consultants, facilities and other 
resources necessary for 
the overall management and implementation of Part A of the Project, 
satisfactory 
to the Bank; (b) ensure that the PIU shall be responsible for day-to-day 
technical implementation of Part A of the Project, including financial management, 
procurement, disbursement engagement of outside auditors and preparation of 
appropriate 
audit reports and their dissemination to the relevant agencies of 
the Borrower and to the 
Bank, and preparation of progress reports and annual reports 
in respect of or related to 
Part A of the Project; and (c) adopt an annual 
budget for the PIU satisfactory to the Bank. 
3.
Criteria for the Selection of AO Energos and Regional Energy 
Commissions, and 
Terms of Assistance.  Selection of AO Energos for in-depth 
assistance under Part A.4 of the  Project and of Regional Energy Commissions under Part 
B.2 of the Project shall be in 
accordance with criteria agreed with the Bank, 
and the assistance shall be provided on terms  acceptable to the Bank.  Lessons learned 
in the course of in-depth assistance to selected AO 
Energos and Regional Energy 
Commissions shall be adequately disseminated to other regions.  
17.
Schedule 6 (Special Account) is amended by substituting therefor a new Schedule 
6, which is attached as Attachment 3 to this Annex.
Attachment 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures to be
Category
   Dollars)
            Financed
(1)  Goods 
   )
100% of foreign
   )
expenditures, 100% 
of
(a) under Part A of the Project
 6,000,000)
local expenditures  
   )
(ex-factory cost) 
and
(b) under Part B of the Project
   650,000)
80% of local  
   )
expenditures for 
other 
(c) under Part C of the Project
    50,000)
items procured 
locally
(2)  Consultants’ services
   )
       and Training
   )
   )
(a) under Part A of the Project
21,100,000)
100%
   )
(b) under Part B of the Project
 7,850,000)
   )
(c) under Part C of the Project
 1,950,000)
(3)  Incremental Operating Expenditures
   500,000
100%
under Part A of the Project
 (4)  Unallocated
Page  8
       (a)  under Part A of the
       1,400,000
            Project
       (b)  under Parts B and C
  500,000
            of the Project
            TOTAL                       40,000,000
Attachment 2 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist in: (i) refining and developing the 
Russian electricity sector reform program; (ii) implementing the said reform program; 
and (iii) strengthening and restructuring the concerned sector entities (including the 
operating companies and regulatory agencies). 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
RAO “EES Rossii”
1.
Commercializing and Restructuring of RAO
The provision of consultants’ services (including for the carrying out of the 
1998 audit of RAO’s financial statements), training and equipment to introduce 
efficient management practices, improve corporate governance and facilitate further 
restructuring of RAO, including possible divestiture of its subsidiaries.
2.
Commercializing and Restructuring of Power Generation Companies
The provision of consultants’ services, training and equipment to establish 
independent power generation companies with existing power stations incorporated in 
them.
3.
Wholesale Market Development and Operator Support
The provision of consultants’ services, training and equipment to develop and 
support wholesale market operations with the purpose of improving the operational 
efficiency of the power network.
4.
Commercializing and Restructuring of the Regional Energy Companies
The provision of consultants’ services, training and equipment to improve the 
internal organization and operation of AO Energos, including more intensive support to 
selected AO Energos to improve their operation in a competitive market environment.
5.
Public Relations
The provision of consultants’ services and training to assist in developing and 
implementing a public relations and communications strategy.
6.
Legal Support
The provision of consultants’ services in the area of legal support in the 
process of achieving the objectives of company and sector reform.
7.
RAO Project Implementation Unit Support
The provision of consultants' services (including for the carrying out of audits 
of the project accounts), training and equipment to support the operation of the 
Project Implementation Unit within RAO.
Part B:  FEC
Page  9
1.
Federal Energy Commission
The provision of consultants’ services (including for the carrying out of audits 
of the project accounts), training and equipment to improve the internal organization 
and operation of FEC and to assist in designing and implementing an improved 
regulatory framework for the electricity sector.
2.
Regional Energy Commissions
The provision of consultants’ services, training and equipment to improve the 
internal organization and operation of the Regional Energy Commissions of the 
Borrower, including more intensive assistance to strengthen the regulatory programs in 
selected regions/Regional Energy Commissions.
Part C:  MFE
The provision of consultants’ services (including for the carrying out of audits 
of the project accounts), training and equipment to support MFE in the establishment 
and implementation of the electricity sector reform program.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
Attachment 3 
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) (a), (2) (a) and (3)  
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of 
Part A of the Project, Categories (1) (b) and (2) (b) set forth in said table in 
respect of Part B  of the Project, Categories (1) (c) and (2) (c) set forth in said 
table in respect of Part C of the Project;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
in respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project, and an amount equivalent 
to $500,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part B thereof, and an amount 
equivalent to $250,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part C thereof, to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project and an amount 
equivalent to $250,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part B thereof, and an 
amount equivalent to $125,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part C thereof, 
until (i) in respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project, the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to Categories (1) (a),  (2) (a) 
and (3), plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part A of the Project 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $6,000,000, (ii) in respect of the 
Special Account for Part B of the Project, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the Loan Account allocated to Categories (1) (b) and (2) (b) plus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions for Part B of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $1,400,000, and (iii) in respect of the Special Account for Part C of 
the Project, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to 
Categories (1) (c) and (2) (c) plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
Page  10
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions for Part C of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$600,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall  
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required  pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 
of this Schedule for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment 
is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the respective 
Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) or Section 4.02 (d) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said Sections in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions therefor shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Page  11
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of  
any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
respective Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
