Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 4181 RU
Loan Agreement
(Electricity Sector Reform Support Project)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 9, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4181 RU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 9, 1997, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read: 
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
suspended 
Page  2
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period 
of thirty days, or 
(b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan,  that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or the execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines 
that 
the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or 
(f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by 
notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the 
giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(b)
“ERIU” means the Electricity Reform Implementation Unit of the Borrower 
established under the Inter-Ministerial Working Group which was established under 
Government Order No. BN-P6-13678 dated May 6, 1997. 
(c)
“RAO” means RAO EES Rossi, the Russian Unified Electric Systems Company, 
a legal entity of the Borrower. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to forty 
million Dollars ($40,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a Commercial Bank acceptable to the Association 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
Page  3
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the 
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after 
the 
initial period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period 
(or, in the 
case of the initial Interest Period, for value 
the Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next preceding 
the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per 
annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, 
below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans 
or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through ERIU with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods and 
consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  4
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure 
the sustainability of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;  
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
Page  5
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower or the Deputy Minister of 
Finance responsible for international economic affairs is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Ylyinka Street 9
103097 Moscow
Russian Federation
Cable address: 
Telex:
112008
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By /s/ Yuli Vorontsov 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Johannes Linn 
Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
TABLE WAS DONE IN COLUMNS
Page  6
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:  (i) goods and services provided by 
consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; and (ii) services 
provided by individual consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist in: (i) refining and developing the 
Russian electricity sector reform program; (ii) implementing the said reform program; 
and (iii) commercializing the Russian electricity sector companies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
RAO Commercializing and Restructuring
The provision of consultants’ services, training and equipment to introduce 
modern management practices and restructure the operations of RAO.
Part B:
Transmission Network
The provision of consultants’ services, training and equipment to develop RAO’s 
operations in high voltage transmission grid into a financially viable commercial 
entity.
Part C:
Generation
The provision of consultants’ services, training and equipment to develop 
independent power generation companies.
Part D:
Wholesale Market Operations
The provision of consultants’ services, training and equipment to assist in 
establishing an organization for the wholesale market of power.
Part E:
Federal Energy Commission
The provision of consultants’ services, training and equipment to improve the 
internal organization and operation of the Federal Energy Commission of the Borrower.
Part F:
Regional Energy Commissions
The provision of consultants’ services, training and equipment to improve the 
internal organization and operation of the Regional Energy Commissions of the 
Borrower.
Part G:
Local Energy Companies
The provision of consultants’ services, training and equipment to improve the 
internal organization and operation of the local energy companies in the territory of 
Page  7
the Borrower.
Part H:
ERIU
The provision of consultants’ services, training and equipment to support the 
operation of the ERIU  for implementation of the electricity sector reform program.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15 , 2003
through February 15 , 2014
     1 ,665,000
On August 15 ,2014 
     1 ,705,000
_____________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid,  except 
as provided in Sections  4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Page  8
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultants’ Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single source selection procedures for an expert panel and other similar 
requirements subject to a maximum amount not to exceed $2.5 million under Part H of 
the Project, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultants’ Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants Services for Project’s coordination under Part H of the 
Project shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultants’ 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall 
be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultants’ Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultants’ Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultants’ Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about March 31 and September 30 of each year, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Page  9
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by April 30 and October 31 of each year,  or such 
later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of 
this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $2,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
Page  10
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
