                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR0000161




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                 (IBRD-41810)




                                  ON A LOAN

                                      TO

                          THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                     FOR

             ELECTRICITY SECTOR REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT




                                 June 27, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Russia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective: May 2007)

                       Currency Unit = Ruble
                      Ruble 1.00 = US$ 0.0388
                        US$ 1 = Ruble 25.73

                          FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1- December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ATS        Administrator of Trading System
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CHP        Cogeneration Heating Plant
CIS        Commonwealth of Independent States
ESC        Energy Sales Company
FEC        Federal Energy Commission
FTS        Federal Tariff Service
GENCO      Generation Company
IAS        International Accounting Standards
IDGC       Interregional Distribution Grid Company
IECAS      Information exchange, Communication, and Analysis System
IMF        International Monetary Fund
IGM        Investment Guarantee Mechanism
MAP        Ministry of Anti-Monopoly Policy
M&E        Monitoring & Evaluation
MFE        Ministry of Fuel and Energy
MIE        Ministry of Industry and Energy
MIS        Management Information Systems
MOE        Ministry of Energy
MOEDT      Ministry of Economic Development and Trade
MOF        Ministry of Finance
PIU        Project Implementation Unit
QAG        Quality Assurance Group
RAO UES    RAO EES Rossii, Russian Unified Electric Systems Company
RGC        Regional Generating Company
SAL        Structural Adjustment Loan
SO-CDA     System Operator ­ Central Dispatch Administration
TGC        Territorial Generation Company
TA         Technical Assistance
TTL        Task Team Leader
UIAS       Unified Information and Analytical System
UNPG       Unified National Power Grid
WGC        Wholesale Generation Company

                   Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
                 Country Director: Klaus Rohland
                  Sector Manager: Charles Feinstein
             Project Team Leader: Gevorg Sargsyan
                ICR Team Leader: Gevorg Sargsyan

                                 RUSSIAN FEDERATION
            ELECTRICITY SECTOR REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT

                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 12
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 26
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 27
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 28
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 35
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 36
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 39
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 40
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 41
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 48
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 49
 MAP

A. Basic Information

Country:                Russian Fed.          Project Name:          ELEC SECTR REF
Project ID:             P050891               L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-41810
ICR Date:               06/27/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     RUSSIAN
Lending Instrument:     TAL                   Borrower:
                                                                     FEDERATION
Original Total
                        USD 40.0M             Disbursed Amount:      USD 34.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
RAO United Energy Systems
Ministry of Industry and Energy
Federa Tariff Service
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/29/1997    Effectiveness:       08/12/1998        08/12/1998
Appraisal:             05/03/1997    Restructuring(s):                      02/17/2000
Approval:              06/05/1997    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:             12/31/2000        12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                                QAG Assessments
       Performance               Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                     Quality at Entry
                                                                       Highly Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                  20                 20
Power                                                              80                 80


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                             Secondary        Secondary
Infrastructure services for private sector development           Secondary        Secondary
Regulation and competition policy                                 Primary           Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                                Secondary        Secondary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization             Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                       At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                        Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Klaus Rohland                       Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager:            Charles M. Feinstein                Jonathan C. Brown
Project Team Leader:       Ranjit J. Lamech                    Gary Stuggins
ICR Team Leader:           Gevorg Sargsyan
ICR Primary Author:        Sati Achath



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the Russia Electricity Reform Support Project have been formulated
first in the Technical Annex serving as the project appraisal document for this project
(Report No. T 7126 RU, May 16, 1997). Then, they were also described in the Loan
Agreement (Loan No. 4181 RU, October 9, 1997, amended in January 17, 2000).



                                                 ii

  The objective of the project, as stated in the Technical Annex, was "to lay the
groundwork for improving the short- and long-term efficiency of the Russian electricity
sector, thereby ensuring the reliable supply of electricity to the customers at competitive
prices. In this regard, the project is directed at assisting the Government in further
evaluating, elaborating and carrying out its proposed reform of the electricity sector by
supporting a program of Technical Assistance (TA) to agencies and commercial
enterprises involved in the reform process. The TA program would also assist the
Government in implementing the specific actions which it has committed to under the
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The changes introduced by the Amendment of January 2000 did not affect the definition
of the project objectives in any substantial way and were formulated as following: the
objectives of the Project are to assist in: (i) refining and developing the Russian
electricity sector reform program; (ii) implementing the said reform program and (iii)
strengthening and restructuring the concerned sector entities (including the operating
companies and regulatory agencies).

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target  Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from     Revised       Achieved at
                                               approval       Target      Completion or
                                              documents)      Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Financial performance of the sector.
                                                                        RAO UES remains
                RAO UES shows                                           profitable (though
Value           financial losses, and     RAO UES                       net profit declined
quantitative or collects only 70% of      profitable, and               during the last
Qualitative)    revenues (of which only   collects 100% of              year), and collects
                16% in cash).             revenues in cash.             all revenues in
                                                                        cash.
Date achieved 06/05/1997                  12/30/2005                    12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        100%
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Existence of effective regulatory system.
                                                                        Federal Tariff
                                                                        Service (FTS) and
Value                                     Effective                     Regional Energy
quantitative or No regulatory institutionsregulatory                    Commissions
Qualitative)    exist                     institutions exist            (REC) exist and
                                                                        function with
                                                                        limited autonomy.
Date achieved 06/05/1997                  12/31/2005                    12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        100%
achievement)



                                                iii

Indicator 3 :   Introduction of competitive wholesale market.
                                                                           Since 09/01/2006,
                                                                           new rules of the
                                                                           wholesale
                                                                           electricity
                                           A competitive                   (capacity) market
                                           wholesale market                were introduced by
Value           No electricity traded on   established, and                the corresponding
quantitative or competitive wholesale      accounting for a                RF
Qualitative)    market                     substantial                     Gov.Resolution.
                                           proportion of                   These rules
                                           electricity trade.              changed the whole
                                                                           system of relations
                                                                           between buyers and
                                                                           sellers of electric
                                                                           power and capacity
Date achieved 06/05/1997                   12/31/2006                      12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                     Achieved at
                                                approval        Revised      Completion or
                                               documents)     Target Values   Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Status of industry restructuring process.
                                                                           Creation of 6
                                                                           wholesale thermal
                                                                           gencos, 1 wholesale
                                           All new generation              hydro genco,
                                           entities (wholesale             Federal Grid
                                           gencos, territorial             Company, System
                                           gencos) registered              Operator, Trading
Value           RAO-UES acts as            as legal entities               System
(quantitative   vertically integrated      and operating;                  Administrator, 65
or Qualitative) national monopoly          network assets of               of 74
                                           AO Energos                      region.energos were
                                           transferred to FGC              unbundled. RAO
                                           and interregional               Directors Board
                                           discos.                         approved
                                                                           restructur.projects
                                                                           for 71 out of 72 AO
                                                                           energos
Date achieved 06/05/1997                   12/31/2006                      12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        100%
achievement)



                                                iv

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                         Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                     IP                 Disbursements
                                                                     (USD millions)
 1    11/26/1997        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                        0.00
 2    07/06/1998       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                       0.00
 3    06/23/1999       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                       0.00
 4    12/30/1999       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                       0.00
 5    06/28/2000       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                       0.00
 6    09/20/2000        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                        0.00
 7    06/29/2001        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                        2.08
 8    12/26/2001        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                        2.30
 9    06/28/2002        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                        2.58
10    12/05/2002        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                        3.11
11    05/07/2003        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                        5.23
12    10/14/2003        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       11.73
13    12/24/2003        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       16.54
14    03/09/2004        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       18.41
15    12/20/2004        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       23.00
16    04/15/2005        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       26.49
17    01/04/2006        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       31.55



H. Restructuring (if any)

                           ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed at   Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                  Restructuring
              PDO Change                                     Key Changes Made
                             DO      IP    in USD
                                           millions
                                                       to modify project
                                                       impl.arrangements in view of
                                                       the changed ec.environment in
                                                       Russia and its electricity sector
                                                       via deeping the project design
                                                       through: (i) improved
  02/17/2000        N         U      U         0.00    ownership of the main elements
                                                       of the project, and (ii) increased
                                                       linkage to the reform of
                                                       infrastructure
                                                       monopolies/electric power
                                                       component of the 3 SAL for
                                                       Russia




                                        v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Country and Sector Background: At the time of project preparation, the electricity sector in
Russia was the second largest in the world after the United States in terms of generating capacity.
Like the rest of the economy, the electricity sector was suffering from economic downturn and
turmoil during the transition to a market economy. The electricity sector accounted for
approximately 15 percent of industrial production, more than the oil and gas industries combined.

Until 1992, the electricity sector was organized into vertically integrated companies in each of the
72 regions (oblasts). In that year, the government both converted the regional companies
(Energos) into joint stock companies and superimposed a nation-wide holding company, RAO
EES Rossii (RAO), over the Energos. RAO was given ownership of the high voltage transmission
grid (2.5 million km of high-voltage lines), the largest thermal and hydropower plants, the
dispatch centers, and research and design institutes. RAO was also given a controlling
shareholding in most of the regional Energos. RAO organized its power stations into generation
company subsidiaries (Gencos). Because of opposition from regional authorities, some-of these
larger power stations were kept under regional control and remained with the Energos.

Generation was predominantly thermal (70 percent), with hydro (20 percent) and nuclear (10
percent) stations comprising the balance. Regionally, however, over 50 percent of the hydro
capacity was located in Siberia and the Far East, while over 80 percent of the nuclear capacity
was located in the Northwest and Center regions.

The Energos were integrated regional monopolies that distributed electricity to the final
consumers and owned the smaller generating plants typically producing both electricity and heat,
on a monopoly basis, for local district heating systems. Though the size of plants owned by the
Energos was usually small, the number was large. Thus Energos managed 62 percent of the
generation capacity.

The RF government was a 100 percent owner of the nuclear power plants and was majority owner
(currently holding approximately 52 percent) of RAO. RAO, in turn, was a 100 percent owner of
the transmission grid and dispatch system, 49 percent or larger owner of the Gencos, and 49
percent or larger owner of most of the 72 regional Energos.

Sector Regulation. At the Federal level, the electricity sector was regulated by the Federal Energy
Commission (FEC), an independent agency established in 1995, whose seven members were
appointed by the President for four years.

Sector Problems. The power sector faced many serious problems including (a) non-payment and
non-cash payment; (b) uneconomic dispatch; (c) operating and investment inefficiency; (d)
distorted pricing; and (e) inferior quality of supply.

Rationale for Bank assistance: The Bank, together with the International Monetary Fund (IMF),
had committed to support the Government's Medium Term Reform Program both through a
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL), and through the structural component of the IMF's Extended
Fund Facility. The project represented important and necessary support to ensure that the
components of the program related to the restructuring of natural monopolies could be


                                                   1

implemented successfully and in a timely fashion. In particular the project supported the
development and implementation of a plan for restructuring the power sector, further
development of the wholesale market (including establishment of an independent market operator
and licensing of market participants), and rationalization of electricity pricing. The project was
noted in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) that was discussed by the Board in conjunction
with this project as representative of the type of implementation support which the Bank proposed
to provide in support of the government's reform efforts.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The objective of the project was to lay the groundwork for improving the short- and long-term
efficiency of the Russian electricity sector, thereby ensuring the reliable supply of electricity to
the population and to economic entities at competitive prices. In this regard, the project is
directed at assisting the Government in further evaluating, elaborating and carrying out its
proposed reform of the electricity sector by supporting a program of Technical Assistance (TA) to
agencies and commercial enterprises involved in the reform process. The TA program would also
assist the Government in implementing the specific actions which it has committed to under the
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL). The key performance indicators were as following: (1)
financial performance of the sector, (2) existence of effective regulatory system, (3) introduction
of competitive wholesale market.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The objectives were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as
captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from
the project)

The PAD (Technical Annex) identified that the proposed reform initiatives were expected to
result in substantial benefits to the Russian economy. These included: (a) reduction in the fuel-
related cost of electricity supply as a result of more economic dispatch of plants; (b) reduction in
system operating and maintenance costs as a result of better regulatory oversight, improved
corporate management, and competitive pressures; (c) decreased investment needs through better
use of existing assets; (d) increased value of the government shareholdings in sector agencies as a
result of reduced regulatory risk and improved long-term earnings outlooks; (e) improved
customer service; and, (f) economic benefits related to the elimination of cross-subsidies and non-
payments.

In this regard, beneficiaries of the project included:

Consumers of electricity were expected to receive electricity in a reliable manner at an affordable
cost in the long run. By improving the pricing structure, consumers would have a greater
incentive to conserve on the use of electricity and reduce waste and inefficiency.

Ministry of Fuel and Energy The project supported development of legislative and regulatory
framework for reform implementation in the sector, interaction Reform Implementation




                                                   2

Component, interaction of the fuel and energy sectors in the area of the electricity Sector
restructuring, as well as institutional strengthening of the MFE

RAO UES. The project supported reforms which envisioned the eventual dissolution of this
organization.

Federal Energy Commission (FEC) was scheduled to receive funds for the training of its staff
and also to invest in physical infrastructure, including IT systems.

Private Sector was expected to improve its opportunities to invest in the power sector.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The Technical Assistance (TA) consisted of the following activities:

(i) Implementation Management and Coordination.              Advisors would support the ERIU in
coordinating the work of other consultants, government agencies, sector companies, and donors,
and in carrying out general project management activities including scheduling, budgeting,
procurement and disbursements.

(ii) Policy Analysis and Development. Advisors would assist the ERIU in analyzing policy
issues necessary to refine the Government's concept for restructuring the sector, develop an
action plan for realizing the concept, and modify the concept and action plan as new issues
arise during implementation.

(iii) RAO Commercialization. Focal areas of the assistance would include:
     (a) Accounting and Financial Controls included establishing systems to provide critical
         financial data to senior management, evaluating and modernizing the system of
         financial controls, developing a system of internal audits, and developing a system of
         financial reporting.
     (b) Economics and Investment included determining the nature and extent of investment
         projects and proposed, implementing a system to evaluate and conduct feasibility
         studies, and developing an investment plan for the company.
     (c) Corporate Finance would develop a sound financial strategy that would allow the
         company to access capital markets.
     (d) Personnel and Staffing included assessing the skills and capabilities of the existing
         staff, developing a compensation and benefits plan, and developing a promotion and
         recruiting strategy.

(iv) Transmission Network Commercialization and Restructuring. This would include
developing the organizational structure for this entity, developing a business and investment
plan, negotiating a regulatory license with the FEC, and negotiating transmission service
agreements with the Market Operator.

(v) Generation Commercialization and Restructuring. Assistance would be provided to create
independent and viable generation companies composed of the existing generation assets,
including developing technical and economic criteria for the creation of the Gencos, proposals
for grouping the plants into companies, and the licenses under which the new Gencos would be
regulated by the FEC.




                                                   3

(vi) Federal Energy Commission Institutional Development. Assistance would be provided to
improve the internal operation of the FEC and its regulatory methodology.

(vii) Wholesale Market Operator Support. The Project would assist in determining: the physical
infrastructure (communications, computers, software, etc.) required for this task; the legal and
organizational structure and funding of the new organization.

(viii) Regional Energy Commission Institutional Development. This would include helping
them develop efficient tariff structures, regulatory methods and procedures for local electricity
markets, a model organizational structure, model business plans, and regulatory procedures.

(ix) Regional Energo Commercialization. Assistance would cover such issues as organization,
business, financial, accounting, and invent planning so that the Energos become more
commercial and thus can compete as buyers or sellers in the markets for electricity.


1.6 Revised Components

At the time of project restructuring in February 2000, the components were revised as follows:

Part A: RAO "EES Rossii". Activities envisioned included:
(i) Commercializing and Restructuring of RAO. The provision of consultants' services (including
for the carrying out of the 1998 audit of RAO's financial statements), training and equipment to
introduce efficient management practices, improve corporate governance and facilitate further
restructuring of RAO, including possible divestiture of its subsidiaries.

(ii) Commercializing and Restructuring of Power Generation Companies. The provision of
consultants' services, training and equipment to establish independent power generation
companies with existing power stations incorporated in them.

(iii) Wholesale Market Development and Operator Support. The provision of consultants'
services, training and equipment to develop and support wholesale market operations with the
purpose of improving the operational efficiency of the power network.

(iv) Commercializing and Restructuring of the Regional Energy Companies. The provision of
consultants' services, training and equipment to improve the internal organization and operation
of AO Energos, including more intensive support to selected AO Energos to improve their
operation in a competitive market environment.

(v) Public Relations. The provision of consultants' services and training to assist in developing
and implementing a public relations and communications strategy.

(vi) Legal Support. The provision of consultants' services in the area of legal support in the
process of achieving the objectives of company and sector reform.

(vii) RAO Program Implementation Unit Support. The provision of consultants' services
(including for the carrying out of audits of the project accounts), training and equipment to
support the operation of the Program Implementation Unit within RAO.

Part B ­ Federal Energy Commission (FEC): Activities included:
Consultants' Services and Training: (i) Project implementation assistance (General Consultant of
the Project); (ii) Development of a concept for the information and analytical system; (iii)




                                                 4

Development of a concept for training and training of the staff members from the FEC and RECs;
and (iv) Creation and further support for the FEC website.

Goods: (i) Procurement of computers and office equipment for the FEC Project Implementation
Unit (the Working Commission); (ii) Procurement of computers and office equipment for the
FEC; and (iii) Building of the Information and Analytical System.


Part C ­ Ministry of Fuel and Energy (MFE): Activities under this component consisted of the
following:
(i) Development of individual projects for reforming temporarily isolated power systems
(ii) Reforming the mechanism for managing the state equity in the electricity sector
(iii) Development and implementation of the state program of incentives for private investments
in the electricity sector at the transition stage of structural reforms
(iv) Analysis of the impact made by the restructuring processes in the electricity sector on the fuel
supplying sectors of the fuel and energy complex
(v) Institutional strengthening of the MOE, including:
- Training of the MOE staff
- Equipment procurement
- Consultants' services of the Project Implementation Unit

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

There were changes in project design, scope and scale, implementing arrangements, project
schedule, and funding allocations during implementation.

(a) Project design, scope and scale, and implementing arrangements. The Loan was formally
restructured on February 17, 2000. The substance of the restructuring was agreed with the
government and project beneficiaries. The Loan was restructured at government's request to
reflect the changed environment in Russia in general and in the electricity sector in particular.
The restructuring was fully consistent with the project's original objectives and sought to deepen
project design through: (i) improved ownership of the main elements of the project, and (ii)
increased linkage to the reform of infrastructure monopolies/electric power component of the
Third Structural Adjustment Loan for Russia.

Key aspects of the restructuring were:
     · The project was effectively split into two components: (i) Part A (utility component) of
         US$ 29 million with RAO UES as the beneficiary and implementing agency; and (ii)
         Parts B and C (federal component) of US$ 11 million with the Federal Energy
         Commission (FEC/US$ 8.9 million) and the Ministry of Fuel and Energy (MFE/US$ 2.1
         million) as the beneficiaries and implementing agencies of their respective parts
     · The restructured project would fund well-focused technical assistance to MFE, FEC and
         RAO UES at the federal and regional level
     · An option to have multiple Special Accounts was introduced
     · A relocation of loan proceeds, with an increase in the "Goods" category to support the
         rapid development and implementation of a Wholesale Market Operator, was agreed
     · International competitive bidding and other relevant procurement procedures were
         introduced, with a corresponding decrease in the previously approved amount for national
         shopping




                                                     5

(b) Project Schedule. The closing date of the project was extended five times. At the time of
restructuring in February 2000, closing date was extended for one year, to December 31, 2001.
On the basis of the importance of the sector and the implementation of the sector reforms, and
based on emerging procurement activity, in August 2001 the Bank approved an extension of the
closing date for another two years, to December 31, 2003. At the request of the Ministry of
Finance, the closing date was extended for a third time to December 31, 2004. The closing date
for Part A of the project was extended again to December 31, 2005 and then further extended to
December 31, 2006 to finance several priorities in the Power Generation Sector Reform Plan for
2005-2006 approved by the government, including the establishment of a mechanism to attract
and guarantee investment to the power sector, reorganization of Joint Stock energy companies,
development of guidelines for wholesale/retail power market operation. It was expected that the
utilization of the loan would reduce the burden of financing the reform on the final consumers,
and contribute to a smoother transition to a more efficient and competitive electricity sector
structure.

(b) Funding allocations. During implementation, the funds under the Loan were reallocated
twice between categories as shown below:

First reallocation of funds: In August 2002, the government requested reallocation of proceeds
under Part A of Loan. Accordingly, the Bank reallocated the proceeds of the Loan as follows:
US$600,000 from Category (2) (a) (Consultants' Services and Training under Part A of the
Project) and US$1,400,000 from Category (4) (a) (Unallocated under Part A of the Project) to
Category (1) (a) (Goods under Part A of the Project).

Second reallocation of funds: In February 2004, the government requested reallocation of
proceeds of proceeds under Part B of Loan. The Bank acceded to the government request and
reallocated the proceeds of the Loan as follows: US$4,086,248.89 from Category (2) (b)
(Consultants' Services and Training under Part B of the Project) to Category (1) (b) (Goods under
Part B of the Project).

(d) Loan Cancellation. In February 2004, an amount of US$1,521,216.66 (US$430,018.58 for
Part B and US$1,091,198.08 for Part C of the project) was cancelled at the request of the Ministry
of Finance, based on its assessment that future financing of operating expenditures required less
funds use than what was available for such expenditures under the loan.

After the implementation of Parts B and C of the project had been completed, undisbursed loan
funds in the amount of $373,482.28 under Parts B and C of the project were cancelled in
September 2005, and $214,711.85 after the project closure. In total, US$2.1 million was
cancelled during the project period. .

(d) Donor financing. At the time of appraisal, the financing plan included a donor contribution of
$12.7 million consisting of $8.7 million from USAID, $2.4 million from UK KHF, and $1.6
million from EU-TACIS. However, no co-financing from donors was received during the project
implementation. Reportedly, some donor's did provide limited technical assistance and other
support outside of the project scope. In addition, the gaps were filled by RAO funds and modified
project funds.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry


                                                  6

(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The project was approved by the Bank's Board of Directors on June 5, 1997, but it became
effective only on August 12, 1998. The delay of 15 months was caused by various factors such as
internal political uncertainties and power struggles, resistance from anti-reformists, delay on the
part of the government in finalizing the institutional arrangements, and the financial crisis that
was sweeping the country during that period.

During preparation, the project design took into account lessons learned from previous Bank-
assisted projects in the power sector in Russia and other countries. Likewise, the design
considered the risk factors and appropriate measures were adopted to mitigate all major risks
identified at appraisal. The project also provided a participatory framework involving
stakeholders and direct beneficiaries in the decision-making processes.

Lessons of earlier operations taken into account.
   · TA loans have been among the weakest performers in the Bank's portfolio. OED findings
     have indicated that governance problems and weak management have been the two main
     reasons for these problems.
   · Borrower commitment to the project's strategy, intent and design are determinants of good
     performance. Factors which are important to a successful outcome, include: (a) a focus on
     establishing a sound financial basis for sector operations; (b) early and extensive support and
     training for sector enterprises as they adapt to a more commercial environment; (c)
     development of broad based support for the program within the government, the industry,
     and among consumer groups to ensure sustained commitment throughout the reform process;
     (d) careful attention to social impacts of the reform program and to putting appropriate
     mitigation measures in place; (e) early resolution of issues relating to the market structure;
     and, (f) parallel focus on establishing strong regulatory mechanisms to ensure that the public
     interest was protected during and after the reform.

Risks and their mitigation identified. The project faced the following risks and the measures
mentioned below were taken to mitigate them:

Risk 1: Government commitment to reform may not be sustained long enough to allow full
realization of the concept and hence of the expected efficiency gains.
Mitigating measure: The project was prepared quickly to respond to what was viewed as a
window of opportunity to broaden and deepen the reform agenda. Project preparation focused on
speed in the trade-off between speed and attention to detail. However, because of the unique
opportunity, this approach was felt to be appropriate. The project attempted to address this risk by
providing immediate and extensive support to the program, and by concentrating on areas which
would yield large, early, and visible gains in terms of efficiency improvements.

Risk 2: Risks related specifically to the technical assistance included the difficulties in
coordinating and absorbing assistance of this magnitude, and the difficulties in predicting and
monitoring the effectiveness of programs with substantial training components.
Mitigating measure: Coordination was addressed through the establishment of a high-level,
knowledgeable Working Group within the government to oversee the project, supported by a
panel of international experts to advise on policy matters, and by an implementation advisory
team to assist the ERIU in project coordination.

Risk 3: Training risks


                                                  7

Mitigating measure: Training risks were addressed by providing a combination of long-term, on-
the job assistance coupled with formal training programs, by a preliminary needs assessment, and
by careful selection of training candidates. Training performance indicators would be agreed at an
early date and monitored closely. In addition, the Bank would provide extra resources to ensure
adequate supervision of the project.

Adequacy of participatory processes. The government and power sector entities were intimately
involved in the strategic aspects of the design of the electricity sector reform program. Their
involvement accelerated during the preparation of the Japanese Government funded study related
to the Krasnodar Combined Cycle Project. This resulted in the formation of an Inter-Ministerial
Commission which established the principles for electricity sector reform. This later became a
component of the Government's Commission on Natural Monopolies, supported by the Bank's
Structural Adjustment Loan. The government had assigned a high priority to deal with reforms in
natural monopolies through a Decree which stipulated the government's strategy and by
establishing an Inter-Ministerial Working Group to guide its implementation.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

As mentioned in Section 1.7, the project was restructured in February 2000. For reasons
mentioned below, the project was "at risk" status during implementation. There was no formal
mid-term review of the project. However, informal reviews of the project's progress were
conducted whenever a new Task Team Leader (TTL) took charge of the project. The following
factors had affected the project's implementation:

Factors outside government control or implementation agency

Positive Factor. The Bank's flexibility: The flexible approach of the Bank was a favorable factor
during implementation. The Bank maintained flexibility which allowed the project to adapt itself
to the emerging situations in the country and changing needs of the power sector. This flexible
approach enabled the Bank to act on a just-in-time basis, and adjust implementation to make it
more effective and ultimately achieve the project objective.

Negative Factor. Frequent change of TTLs. The high turnover of TTLs (seven TTLs during eight
years of the project) led to lack of continuity and different approaches to the supervision of
project implementation.

Factors subject to government control or implementation agency

(i) August 1998 financial crisis. Starting in late 1997, the rapidly spreading financial crisis in
emerging markets and declining world market prices for oil gas and metals, superimposed on
Russia's underlying unsustainable fiscal/debt fundamentals, and tipped the Russian economy into
a series of crisis episodes. During the ensuing six months, investors started to exit the government
securities market, driving interest rates sharply higher and depleting Russia's foreign exchange
reserves in the process. These events, which culminated in August 1998 financial crisis,
devastated the ruble, and produced a radical impact on the economic environment in Russia. This
situation also resulted in suspension of the program of cooperation with the Bank for a year in
1998-1999, and caused implementation to be delayed by nearly two years.




                                                  8

(ii) Frequent change of government. During the project period, the government changed at least
five times, and consequently, support of the reform agenda had been intermittent.

(iii) The project was implemented much slower than planned because of the delays in the Russian
State Duma's approval of the electricity sector reform legislation. For example, after the project
was restructured in February 2000, the loan was not used much until 2002, as the implementing
agencies (RAO UES, MFE, and FEC) were reluctant to use significant funds before they became
sure that the reform would get political approval from Duma.

(iv) Lack of coordination and proper interconnection among three different components of the
project (`A', `B' and `C'). The three different components of the project had lived separate lives,
with each one not being coordinated with the others, and all three not being coordinated as parts
of a single project effort.

RAO UES
(v) The political struggle around the restructuring plan had been massive, demanding the full
attention of political and regulatory authorities as well as RAO UES management.

(vi) The top management of RAO UES was not keen in using the Bank loan for financing studies,
having less expensive and cumbersome alternative funding available from operations and
bilateral donors.

FEC/FTS
(vii) Attempted abolition of FEC. The FEC which had been the most stable element of the power
sector and, hence, the source of most of the reforms, went off-track when the prevailing
government undertook to abolish the FEC toward the end of 1998 and pass its responsibilities to
the new Ministry of Anti-Monopoly Policy (MAP). The next government issued a Presidential
Decree (No. 651) in May 1999 abolishing the FEC and transferring its responsibilities and budget
to the Ministry of Anti-Monopoly Policy. These changes made reform policy dialogue (and,
hence, the technical assistance to support this program) difficult.

(viii) FECs implementation progress was hampered by change of Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) staff in December 2000, and again in September 2001. These PIU changes were partly
influenced by the change of Chairman of FEC (February 2001) and related substantial personnel
changes.

(ix) Due to transformation of the regulatory authority, a lot of persons who had undergone
training had left the regulatory authority. The massive resignation of the former FEC staff, which
had undergone training under the project, from the power sector regulatory authority had a
negative impact on the effectiveness of component `B' of the project.


Ministry of Fuel and Energy (MFE)/Ministry of Energy (MOE)
(x) The Ministry of Energy went through internal structural and personnel changes, adversely
affecting implementation of their part of the project.

(xi) During 1997-2004, the implementing agency for component `C' of the project (initially
Ministry of Fuel and Energy) was completely reorganized 2 times (in 1999 and 2004). The
Minister was changed seven times and there was no officially appointed Minister at all for more
than six months in 2001. The project had also experienced negative impact of this turmoil in
terms of frequent changes of top executives in charge of the project, large periods of uncertainty


                                                   9

with regard to project implementation framework in between such changes, and frequent
rearrangement of the project's procurement plan.

(xii) MOE - PIU activities were considerably slowed down in 2002, partially due to the
uncertainty over taxation and remuneration for PIU consultants, and mostly due to the insufficient
ownership of the project on the part of MOE senior management, as demonstrated by the
continuous redistribution of managerial responsibilities and partial changeover in senior
management.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design. The government had agreed to establish policies and procedures adequate to
allow ongoing monitoring and evaluation of the execution of the project and the achievement
of the objectives. Monitorable indicators were expected to be agreed with the Bank.

The government had also agreed to prepare twice-yearly reports to the Bank (on March 31
and September 30), outlining the progress achieved during the preceding period with respect
to the monitorable indicators, and setting out measures to ensure efficient execution and
achievement of objectives. The government had further agreed to review project progress
with the Bank by April 30 and October 31 of each year and take the Bank's views into
account in project implementation.

M&E Implementation. Until 2005, there was no explicit system for evaluation and there were
no specific criteria for judging the progress. However, the implementing agencies were
monitoring the outcome of the consulting assignments, and seeing what recommendations were to
be implemented. They also followed the procurement plans agreed with the Bank on a continuous
basis, and prepared financial records on a monthly basis, and the progress report of the project
were submitted to the Bank and also to the Federal Center for Project Finance. After introducing
monitoring indicators in 2005, sufficient data were collected to monitor the project's progress.

M&E Utilization. Since 2005, monitoring indicators were used for decision-making and resource
allocation. For instance, modifications of procurement plans were done based on these indicators.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

    · Being a TA, there were no safeguard issues related to the implementation of the project.

    · Fiduciary Issue. At the time of preparing this report, Audit for Part C of the project was
        pending for 2003, and 2004. Preparations for the audit were made as early as December
        2003 when an auditing company was selected to conduct the audit. However, due to the
        liquidation of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy and creation of the Ministry of Industry
        and Energy (MIE) in March 2004, the contract signed by the former Ministry with the
        company was suspended pending a formal transfer of responsibilities to the new Ministry.
        By the time the transfer was completed, it was not possible to finance the audit out of the
        loan proceeds (as Part C was closed by then), and the new Ministry did not have funds
        available to finance the audit.

        The ICR team was informed that Ministry of Finance (MOF) has agreed with the MIE's
        proposal to finance the audit from the federal budget. The MIE and MOF are currently




                                                 10

        doing the paperwork which should allow the MIE to contract an audit company to
        conduct the audit of the Part C.

        In addition, the Bank has so far not received supporting documents and the Special
        Account recovery application for $37,183.08 that was disbursed under the Part C. These
        funds are now subject to refund.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

(a) Transition arrangements.

RAO UES
The power sector unbundling is largely completed. The sector performance, including collections
and service quality, has significantly improved. RAO UES has introduced modern practices of
corporate governance and financial management in the holding company as well as all
subsidiaries. RAO UES as well as some of its regional generation companies' shares are traded
on Russian and European stock exchanges. According to the plans approved by the government,
RAO UES plans to cease its existence by mid 2008, effectively privatizing most of its generation
and distribution subsidiaries. If these and other factors listed below are fully implemented it will
ensure sustainability of the reforms.

RAO UES has taken appropriate technical, financial, commercial and institutional provisions to
ensure effective project operation. For example:

    · Policy guidelines have been made available to assist in developing new pricing
        mechanisms for heat on a competitive electricity market, as well as in the context of
        competition with alternative heat suppliers.

    · Adoption of the new rules of wholesale electricity (capacity) market of the transition
        period has become one of most important measures designed to achieve the target
        wholesale electricity (capacity) market model. The new rules were specified in the
        Russian Federation Government Resolution  529 of August 31, 2006 "On Improving
        Operations of the Wholesale Electricity (Capacity) Market". Guidelines for reforming the
        system of cross subsidizing have been developed and implemented.

    · A model of electricity metering on the retail market has been developed and tested; a set
        of regulatory requirements has been prepared and approved for setting up a system of
        commercial metering of electric power. Concurrently, a system of model agreements for
        players on the wholesale and retail markets of electricity and heat has been developed.

    · Documentation has been prepared for the first six projects built as part of the process of
        implementation of the Investment Guarantee Mechanism (IGM). Description and
        profiling of the investment climate in the locations of the investment project sites have
        been provided; assessments of the investment strategy in the regions and forms of support
        of the investment processes in the investment site locations have been made.

    · Many staff members who were previously working earlier with RAO are currently
        working with independent power companies which were separated from RAO.

    · MIE and Ross Energo will be in charge of compliance with reliability standards.
        Regarding the development of wholesale market, market rules will be the function of


                                                 11

        Trading System Administrator. After RAO ceases, Market Council, a new non-profit
        entity will be in charge of market rules. Market accounts will build on the
        recommendations, documents, rules and procedures, agreements developed by the project.

FTS:
    · Management Information Systems (MIS) has been put in place, and it continues to be
        developed and expanded by the FTS. Expansion program is being financed by several
        sources, including: (i) federal budget; (ii) funds of FTS meant for research and
        development; (iii) funds of Regional Energy Commissions; and (iv) funds allocated by
        companies of electricity sector.

    · For the timely provision of all necessary inputs, some activities will be conducted by
        outsourcing them to companies selected on a competitive basis. In addition, departments
        of FTS will also be involved in further development of systems.

    · Appropriate financial, economic and other policies required for effective operation and
        maintenance are being implemented by the FTS. For instance, under the pilot mode all
        tariff decisions were made during 2006 with the help of systems. These pilots were
        moved to production and regular operation in December 2006. Project staff has become
        part of the regulator.

(c) List of performance indicators.

RAO: After the dissolution of RAO, the Indicators for M&E will be market oriented.

FTS: The following set of monitoring and evaluation indicators have been developed and
they will be used as part of the FTS's regular systems operations:
       (i) Number of users; (ii) number of decisions made using the system; (iii) number of
       calculations done in regions; (iv) number of new functions implemented, for example,
       methods to calculate tariffs; (v) number of staff trained to work in the system for Moscow
       and other cities; and (vi) number of errors made in the calculation of tariffs.

(c) Follow-up by the Bank. Any follow-up project by the Bank is unlikely in the near future. The
Bank may provide a Partial Risk Guarantee for developing new generation capacity.

(d) Suggested priority and optimum timing of any future impact evaluation. It will be important to
make an evaluation after two or three years on whether the reforms, including unbundling and
privatization, have been completed and achieved desired objectives. It will also be equally
important to see whether the move to liberalized market has produced the expected outcomes,
like improved efficiency of power sector, mobilization of investments in new generation, and
eventual cost reduction and quality improvement.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project's objective is still relevant, and important to Russia's economic development. It is
timely and appropriate to the current needs of the country's power sector. The project is also
consistent with the Bank's partnership strategy for Russia. The main objectives of the strategy
include Sustaining Rapid Growth and Improving Delivery of Social and Communal Services. A


                                                 12

reliable and good quality power sector is critical for achieving these objectives. The growth of the
economy and population income has increased demand for electricity. This in conjunction with
lack of investments in modernization and creation of generation capacity has led to deficit of
power supply. Commercialization and privatization of the power sector and creation of the
electricity market should attract investments in generation capacity and improvement of service
quality.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

Satisfactory. The project facilitated the power sector reform process in Russia. As the reform
effort gathered pace in 2001-2004 after the adoption of the power sector reform program by the
Russian Government (Resolution #526 of July 11, 2001) and the power sector reform legislation
(March 2003), measures taken under the project did play a significant role in achieving the goals
and objectives of the project and in improving the general power sector performance.

Major achievements of the reforms, which the project supported, are the following:

    · Wholesale electricity (capacity) market of the transition period started operation since
         November 1, 2003. In early 2005, the Operation Center for improving the model of the
         transition wholesale electricity (capacity) market was created. The Operation Center is
         responsible for making decisions related to successful functioning and development of
         wholesale and retail electricity (capacity) markets (further Operation Center).

    · Adoption of the new rules of wholesale electricity (capacity) market of the transition
         period has become one of most important measures designed to achieve the target
         wholesale electricity (capacity) market model. The new rules were specified in the
         Russian Federation Government Resolution  529 of August 31, 2006 "On Improving
         Operations of the Wholesale Electricity (Capacity) Market". They came into effect in
         September 2006. Liberalization of the wholesale market is continuing. In spite of the fact
         that during the 1st stage, i.e. by the end of 2006, 100% of electricity included in the FTS
         consumption forecast was covered by regulated bilateral contracts concluded between all
         wholesale market participants (buyers and sellers) and thus sold at regulated prices, the
         volume of trade in the day-ahead market has substantially increased as compared with the
         free trade sector. This was caused by the fact that since September 1, 2006 all electricity
         included in production/consumption schedules have been participating in competitive
         selection of price bids in the day ahead market. The volumes of electricity sold in the
         wholesale market at unregulated prices (excluding electricity supplied to the population)
         will gradually increase. As a result, those volumes of electricity that are no longer
         covered by regulated contracts (alongside with those electricity volumes that exceed the
         FTS forecast for 2007) and all electricity produced by new generators will be traded at
         free competitive prices.

    · 13 out of 14 Territorial Generation Companies (TGCs) have undergone the state
         registration procedure. The RAO UESR Board of Directors approved establishment
         projects for all 14 TGCs.

    · Spin-off of grid companies from AO Energos has been almost completed. 55 out of 56
         trunk grid companies have been established on the basis of reorganized AO Energos.




                                                  13

    · By now all four interregional distribution grid companies have undergone the state
        registration procedure. The development strategy for the electricity distribution system
        has been worked out. According to it, the number of Interregional Distribution Grid
        Companies (IDGCs) will increase: the strategy implies creation of 12 IDGCs, which will
        be comparable in terms of asset value.

    · Main infrastructure organizations have already been formed. They are responsible for the
        formation of the electricity market. The following companies have already been created:

        - FGC UES ­ the management organization, which controls the Unified National (All-
        Russian) Power Grid (UNPG), thus providing unity of technological management, and
        renders paid services to market entities on a contractual basis.

        - SO-CDA UES (System Operator ­ Central Dispatch Administration of the Unified
        Energy System) ­ the organization, which renders dispatching services to wholesale
        market participants.

        - Administrator of Trading System of the wholesale power market (Non-commercial
        partnership "Administrator of Trading System of the Wholesale Power Market within the
        Unified Energy System") (further ­ NP ATS). Since November 1, 2003 this company has
        been organizing the trade in the wholesale market free trade sector. Since 2005, a closed
        joint-stock company Financial Settlement Center (ZAO CFR) has been making financial
        arrangements for participants of the wholesale electricity market. ZAO CFR is a wholly-
        owned subsidiary of NP ATS.

    · As of January 1, 2007, as a result of functional unbundling of regional AO-Energos, 57
        energy sales companies (ESCs) have undergone the state registration procedure. All
        energy sales companies of the Holding, as well as those AO-Energos that have not yet
        finished unbundling by activity type (a total of 68 companies) have become suppliers of
        last resort. This status was given to them by regional regulatory bodies. According to the
        energy legislation on obligations freely undertaken by the companies, this obliges them to
        conclude energy supply or energy sales/purchase contracts with any consumer who
        applies to them.

    · All seven Wholesale Generation Companies (WGCs) have undergone the state
        registration procedure. All thermal WGCs have been formed according to their target
        models. Shares of all thermal WGCs have been admitted to trading on the stock market.
        Besides, HydroWGC Holding was formed ­ placement of HydroWGC additional shares
        was completed with payment for them in RAO UES-owned property.

The main outcomes of the project's activities are the following:

Part A. RAO UES

Commercializing and restructuring of RAO UES. Restructuring of the RAO UES has been
largely completed. The company has introduced new management and business processes based
on modern information technologies, which is envisioned to improve the technical reliability of
the MIS.




                                                 14

An advanced integrated and high-capacity management information system has been developed,
which has doubled the computation capabilities of RAO UES. This has enabled establishment of
data base and data flow backup facilities, development of the corporate data storage,
implementation of accounting and reporting software tools, a multi-tier system of budgeting of
the Holding, a system of decision making and electronic data interchange and transmission
support, reduction of the time required for data processing and analysis. The implementation of
the data support engineering solutions as part of the Project has helped in improving the
efficiency of RAO UES. RAO UES helped to launch and coordinate the development of the
technical regulatory framework to ensure implementation of the Federal Law "On technical
regulatory control", which defines completely new relationships arising in the process of
development, adoption, enforcement and compliance with the requirements to products,
production processes, maintenance, storage, transportation, sale and recycling, as well as to
provision of services.

Risk assessments have been made for emerging low-efficiency power usage costs in RAO UES.
Various policies have been examined, which target resource saving and improved energy
efficiency in budget-funded and housing utilities organizations, including government-sponsored,
public and business strategies.

Commercializing and Restructuring Power Generating Companies. Guidelines were provided
for evaluating the cost-effectiveness of establishing alternative regional generating companies
(RGC) on the basis of Cogeneration Heating Plants (CHPs), i.e. enhanced capacity heat supply
companies incorporating (e.g. on credit or on leasing terms) municipal heating plants and heat
supply pipelines, energy consuming companies including industrial-scale heat consumers (e.g.
large manufacturing companies), joint "LC-energos" and municipal heat supply companies, fully
or partially owned by the municipal authorities, etc. Policy guidelines were made available to
assist in developing new pricing mechanisms for heat on a competitive electricity market, as well
as in the context of competition with alternative heat suppliers. The existing legislation and the
proposed draft heat supply law were reviewed, and alternative solutions were put forward to
enable implementation of the objectives of the proposed law and address the key heat supply
issues. A computer model of business planning was developed based on technological and
economic indicators of district heating companies owned by RAO UES, which should be
instrumental in evaluating alternative investment solutions for making the most cost-effective
choice.

Development of Wholesale Electricity Market and Support of Market Operator. A model of
electricity metering on the retail market was developed and tested; a set of regulatory
requirements was prepared and approved for setting up a system of commercial metering of
electric power. Concurrently, a system of model agreements for players on the wholesale and
retail markets of electricity and heat was developed. Initial steps have been made to develop a
common electricity market within the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), whose
performance is expected to contribute to the improvement of the efficiency of market
mechanisms in the power sector of the CIS countries, including Russia.             Based on the
international best practices a model of common electricity market has been developed within the
CIS. The United Digital System of communications of the electricity sector has been put in place,
which should assists in providing efficient solutions for technological and administrative tasks on
a competitive electricity market.

Commercializing and Restructuring of Regional Power Companies. A proprietary methodology
and techniques for appraisal of the market value of business performance and assets of RAO UES
and "LC-energos" has been developed and successfully implemented in the course of the


                                                15

companies' restructuring, which were subsequently adapted to the nature of the Russian
electricity sector.

Public Relations. The corporate image of the OAO RAO "UES of Russia" and its subsidiaries as
viewed by key stakeholders have been assessed. Public dialogue on socio-environmental aspects
of the sector development has been held in order to increase corporate responsibility of the OAO
RAO "UES of Russia" and support a successful implementation of reforms in the electric power
industry. Independent non-financial audit of social reporting procedures employed by the OAO
RAO "UES of Russia" has been made in compliance with the AA1000 AS standard, with
certification of social reporting of the OAO RAO "UES of Russia" by external stakeholders as
well as its verification in compliance with ISAE 3000.


Legal Support. Draft amendments and supplements to the Federal Law "On joint-stock
companies" have been prepared meeting the following requirements: (a) more complete and clear
corporate procedures of reorganizing joint stock companies in the form of split-off, division and
takeover; and (b) special regulation in respect of requirements of compliance with special
procedures for natural monopolies to engage in large-scale transactions and related-party
transactions which they are required to do by law.

Part B: FEC/FTS

After the creation of FTS, the project has managed to assist to bring the information technology of
the regulatory process to an entirely new quality level by introducing the information exchange,
communication, and analysis system (IECAS)1 assisting the communication between federal and
regional regulators and regulated companies. This task was quite important with regard to
improving efficiency of the power sector regulatory system in Russia.

In accordance with the conditions of this component, by the time component closed on December
31, 2004, the new information system was installed in nine RECs, and during the following year
of 2005 FTS was prepared to introduce the system country-wide (i.e. in about 80 RECs), this task
was fulfilled. This undoubtedly contributed to a more timely and efficient regulatory process
throughout the country.'

Details of the achievements of Part B are as follows:

 · The layout of the FEC website was developed and placed in the Internet, this website is
     operational and successful. In 2005 the FTS of Russia together with regional executive
     agencies involved in state tariff regulation launched a project intended to put in place online
     exchange of information between regional websites and the FTS website.
 · New systems for collecting and processing information have been put in place:
    - A local network of the FTS has been created;
    - Legal, accounting, human resource, communication and other information systems have
    been installed;
    -    The Unified Information and Analytical System (the UIAS), which is a key delivery of
    Part B of the Project has been developed and made operational in the FTS with the view of
    improving processes and methods of tariff setting. The FTS Unified Information and



1 Referred to in some documents as Information and Analytical System (IAS).




                                                  16

    Analytical System provides automation of information interaction between the FTS and
    regional executive agencies involved in state tariff regulation, regulated entities and expert
    organizations in the course of tariff setting and provides automation of functions described
    below. By the time Part B was completed in December 2004, the FTS UIAS was installed in
    the FTS and in nine regions of the Russian Federation; the FTS UIAS included a subsystem
    for data collection and integration; a data warehouse; an information security subsystem; a
    subsystem for backup of operational activity; a subsystem for calculating tariffs and
    preparing forecasts in the electricity sector.

The FTS UIAS is intended to provide transparency and improve efficiency of state tariff
regulation as well as to reduce the timeframe for making tariff decisions. Today all regional
executive agencies involved in state tariff regulation in 84 regions that form part of the Russian
Federation are connected to the FTS UIAS.

On the other hand, there was a lack of success in assisting the regulator in designing and
introducing an improved regulatory framework. The component did little to help establish the
fundamental principles of independence and transparency in the legislation, or provide an
institutional impact. Further, after the transformation of FEC into FTS in 2004, it appears that
the regulator has only limited mandate and less independence than before.

Part C: MEC/MOE/MIE
Although the component fully disbursed its funds, most funds were spent on policy studies which
had little direct relevance to reform process and were not used during development of the real
policy decisions in the power sector. The Ministry, support of which was one of the objectives of
the project, was abolished during the reorganization of the Russian Government in March 2004,
did not create any direct impact on the reform process.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

N/A being a TA

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the discussion given in Sections 8.1 and 8.2, the overall outcome is rated satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Impact. In the short-term, power sector reform may result in price hikes and affect
vulnerable sections of the population. In the long run, however, it is expected that a healthy
power sector will make an important contribution to sustainable development and thereby help
reduce poverty. Also, the reforms have significantly reduced reliance of the sector on state or
municipal subsidies and hence have made more funds available for targeted social assistance.



                                                  17

Socia Development. A program of social reintegration of personnel of electricity sector
companies involving communication with persons or groups of employees, laid off as a result of
the electricity sector reform, has been developed. The main purpose of the program consists in
establishment of an efficient system of creation of jobs and its development in the area of small
and medium-sized business, based on the entrepreneurial potential, to maintain the labor
resources along with anticipatory skill training and retraining courses provided for the manpower
laid off, as well as training them in new professional skills.

Gender Aspects. N/A

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The project resulted in a substantial institutional development impact. For instance, the project
helped to ensure full restructuring of electricity sector. New entities such as FGC were put in
place, and companies such as WGCs and TGCs were created with the technical assistance of the
project. Consequently, a new institutionalizing of electricity market has been achieved, and the
old institutions which cannot strictly coexist with the new institutional infrastructure are being
phased out.

PIU members of RAO UES and FTS were exposed to the Bank's procurement process under
competitive basis. They have gained necessary skills and experience, and developed the capacity
to manage complex projects.

RAO UES benefited in terms of strengthening its ability in project management. Even after RAO
is dissolved as a holding company, the capacity built by the project will remain in the power
sector, which has a huge demand for such skills. Even though many of RAO's existing staff may
eventually move to private companies formed as a result of unbundling, their skills will still be
useful to the sector.

RAO staff took interest on how reform is to be implemented in the electricity sector in other
countries by visiting those countries. By their direct involvement in the project and the reform
process, they have developed a good level of expertise in electricity reforms.

Other institutional strengthening aspects derived from the project are the following:

    · Corporate standards have been developed to promote compliance with requirements to
         the system of skill upgrade of personnel of power companies and educational
         organizations responsible for training.

    · Consolidated financial statements of the holding RAO UES have been brought into
         compliance with the International Accounting Standards (IAS) and these requirements
         have been implemented in the regional electricity sector companies.

FEC/FTS improved its capacity in the following ways:
      · The introduction of information systems has helped in improving the efficiency of
           operations of FTS. For example, FTS collects information and reports from
           regulated entities very quickly electronically which helps process information
           efficiently and in a timely manner with reduced number of errors that could be
           made in making electronic versions of paper documents.



                                                 18

      · The project has also facilitated in improving transparency of decisions of FTS
          because regulated entities have received from FTS special software that FTS
          uses in calculating tariffs of electricity sector. As a result, regulated entities are
          able to verify the correctness of FTS tariff calculations.

    · FTS has also increased the speed of information exchange and communicating
        decisions faster to electricity companies because all decisions are posted in
        websites and regular reports are accepted electronically.'

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Positive impact.
    · One direct unintended positive impact of the project was the introduction of a corporate
        procurement system in RAO in 2002. The indirect outcome was the implementing of the
        system in the whole of the electricity sector in Russia. The corporate procurement system
        is recognized as the best system among state controlled entities. It continues to be
        improved since 2003. New modules have been built, including e-bidding module
        developed in 2004.

    · In the original project design, it was estimated that 6000 utility entities would be
        regulated. But by the end of the project, 20,000 such entities were being regulated
        through FTS. With the installation of a large module, FTS is now capable of calculating
        tariffs/providing guidance to regional commissions for 20,000 utility entities.

There was no unexpected negative impact of the project.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The achievements of Part A are highly sustainable. On the other hand, Part B, while having
produced a convincingly sustainable outcome with regard to the deployment of the FST UIAS,
has not produced an outcome that would assure that FST will not lose even the limited degree of
independence that it has now. With respect to Part C, as mentioned earlier, it did not create any
direct impact on the reform process.        Based on the varied achievements of these three
components, the overall risk of sustaining the project's outcome is rated as Moderate.




                                                 19

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The project's overall quality at entry received a "Highly Satisfactory" rating from the Quality
Assurance Group (QAG). This was comprised of Highly Satisfactory ratings for the project's
concept, objectives and approach, institutional capacity analysis, and the Bank inputs and
processes, and Satisfactory rating for technical and economic aspects, poverty and social aspects,
readiness for implementation, and risk assessment and sustainability.

The project was prepared in a record time of three months from the government request to Board
presentation, with strong support at the highest levels in the Bank. This was done in order to
respond to what was viewed as a window of opportunity to broaden and deepen the reform
agenda. Project preparation focused on speed in the trade-off between speed and attention to
detail. However, because of the unique opportunity, this approach was felt to be appropriate.

The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. The project correctly identified the core problems in Russia's power sector, and the
fact that the project was relevant even after 10 years, confirms the correctness of the Bank's
approach in dealing with the sector. The project was consistent with the government's priorities
and was clearly linked to achieving specific CAS benchmarks.

During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project design and
all major relevant aspects, such as technical, financial, economic, and institutional, including
procurement and financial management. In addition, major risk factors and lessons learned from
other earlier projects in the power sector were considered and incorporated into the project design.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

A Quality of Supervision Assessment was carried out by a QAG panel of reviewers for the
project in January 2002. The panel rated the overall supervision of the project as satisfactory.
QAG noted that:

"The political consensus finally reached on the structural framework for sector reform was a
major accomplishment, and the task team contributed to that success through continuous attention
to the policy dialogue over the two year period under review. Under the circumstances, the panel
felt that the time spent on moving issues related to the structural framework of the power sector
was well spent, and that definition of the restructuring program was a necessary input for defining
the specific TA to be financed by the project. However, there was also a need to give attention to
implementation start up issues - especially developing a credible procurement and
implementation plan for the TA, consistent with the implementation capacity of the three
implementing agencies - in parallel with engaging in discussions on sector reform.




                                                 20

Under the cover of this TA loan, the task team has contributed very substantially to the strategic
dialogue leading to decisions that were taken in July 2001 by the Russian Government on how to
reform the power sector. Because of the size of the sector and the massive investment
requirement, there was no alternative to giving the private sector a major role in the Russian
power industry. As a result, both of those objectives are likely, although it is difficult to assess the
extent to which the TA project will have contributed to that success. At the same time, an
important purpose of this loan was to enable the major sector agencies to obtain institutional
development support in preparation for sector reform. The panel's assessment that this objective
is likely to be realized is based on feedback from the region that RAO-UES already has the
capacity to manage and lead the sector reform program and that staff at the regulatory agency
already have the skills to perform their functions. Therefore, the TA covered by the project will
serve mainly to increase the "reach" of the two organizations during the high pressure period of
reform implementation.

The extent of the delays in approving a sector reform proposal i.e. over 4 years was not easily
anticipated at entry, though the high risk nature of the project was clearly recognized in the MOP.
The difficulties in designing and implementing sector reform, including the difficulty in
generating the necessary political consensus around the reforms, could have been better
anticipated based on global experience. It does not appear to have been prudent to proceed with a
large TA loan prior to the reform program having been well established. There should also have
been a much more realistic assessment of the implementation difficulties that a TA project
typically faces."

The ICR team concurs with the above findings of QAG. The ICR team considers the Bank's
overall performance during the whole project period as satisfactory.

The task team focused on the project's development impact. The Bank allocated sufficient budget
and staff resources, and the project was adequately supervised and closely monitored. The task
team regularly prepared Aide-Memoires, alerted the government and implementing agencies
about issues found during project execution.          The Implementation Status Reports (ISRs)
realistically rated the performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development
objectives and project implementation.

Bank's procurement and financial management staff worked with the staff of the implementing
agencies to explain the rules and procedures to be applied during project implementation, with
regard to procurement of goods and works, and selection of consultants, accounts and audits,
based on the Loan Agreement.

The Bank was very opportunistic in supporting the proposed reform program in Russia. It did not
promote supporting power sector reforms in the early days of the Bank's involvement in Russia
as the Bank felt that they the government was not ready for it. But once a government which was
reform-oriented was in place, the Bank jumped at the chance to support them.

The Bank's flexible approach to adapt itself to the changing circumstances played a crucial role
in the success of the project. This flexibility required continuous follow-up and monitoring with
the government. For example, the Bank had regular consultations with the government on
restructuring monopolistic RAO, and finally the Bank succeeded to make the government realize
that the restructuring was needed to be done without much delay. The Bank also helped to
formalize the overall concept of reforms, including details of reforms and the timing schedule of
reforms.



                                                  21

The persistence of the Bank in supporting the government in its efforts contributed to a successful
culmination of reforms in the power sector. The Bank's interventions and policy dialogue bore
fruits in terms of successful reforms.

The Bank's role in the restoration of the FEC as an institution was substantial. In May 1999, the
government issued a Presidential Decree (No. 651) abolishing the FEC and transferring its
responsibilities and budget to the Ministry of Anti-Monopoly Policy. These changes made reform
policy dialogue (and, hence, the technical assistance to support this program) difficult. The Bank
responded to the Russian Government's action with several letters and other official notifications
saying that the abolition of FEC was in a serious conflict with the project objectives and that
without an independent regulator in place, the regulatory reforms as well as the financial viability
of the sector would be compromised. In July 1999, the initial Presidential Decree on the abolition
of FEC was reversed and FEC was restored as an independent regulatory authority (to a large
extent, due to the assistance of the Bank).

Coordination between the Bank headquarters (HQ) in Washington D.C. and the Country Office in
Moscow worked well. In addition, the team included staff who engaged Russian authorities very
effectively on the framework of sector reform.

On the other hand, as mentioned in Section 2.2, the high turnover of TTLs during the project
period led to lack of continuity and different approaches, which were not helpful for smooth
implementation of the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the Bank performance during lending phase and supervision as discussed above,
Overall Bank Performance is rated as Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The government commitment to achieving development objectives was strong at the project
concept and preparation stages. The government adopted an ambitious concept for reform of the
electricity sector with the objective of improving its efficiency. The key elements of the concept
were the following: (i) Wholesale Market for trading of power in those regions in which such a
market was, or could be made feasible; (ii) Restructuring RAO to encourage competition,
focusing first on commercialization of the different operating units within RAO, and
ultimately on divesting the State's (RAO's) shares in generation and distribution; and (iii)
Improving the quality of government regulation and control by substantial institutional
capacity building for the Federal Energy Commission (FEC) and the Regional Energy
Commissions (RECs). The government also intended to enact legislation requiring the
regulators to set tariffs so that: (a) electricity sector companies would recover all reasonable
costs of generation, transmission, and distribution; and (b) tariffs were differentiated
according to differences in cost of providing service thus eliminating cross-subsidies.

But the government commitment fluctuated during implementation stage due to frequent change
of administrations, as well as due to resistance for reforms from some bureaucrats and politicians.
Enabling environment for implementing reforms was also not consistent during the project period
as Russia went through turbulent periods. Soon after the project became effective in 1998, Russia


                                                  22

was engulfed in a severe financial crisis which adversely affected the implementation for some
time. Likewise, regarding pricing, even though the government was committed to liberalize
power market, there was pressure on the part of the government to keep the tariff low.

For the resolution of implementation issues, very often there were delays and they were not
timely. The speed at which government was taking decisions varied, depending on the political
context. Generally, the sector reform being a politically sensitive area, government was
extending the schedule for taking decisions. Towards the later stage of the project, however, there
was strong ownership and commitment from the government.

The government's performance on fiduciary matters especially in terms of financial management,
governance, provision of counterpart funding, procurement, reimbursements, and compliance
with covenants, was generally satisfactory. Appropriate levels of review and approval were
usually in place; financial accountability and follow-up was mostly observed; and documentation
was maintained properly for periodic review. The project did not suffer from any counterpart
funding problems, as the government took timely corrective measures and made appropriate
budget provisions. During the last two years of the project, M&E data were utilized in decision-
making and resource allocation. Some minor fiduciary problems are mentioned in the Section 2.4.

The government's relationship and coordination with the Bank were satisfactory. The government
officials worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continual basis, and cooperated fully
with the task team. On the other hand, there was a significant lack of consultation and
coordination among the three implementing agencies during implementation. Due to lack of a
single supervisory authority within the government and the existence of three autonomous
implementing agencies, it was very difficult for the government to manage and coordinate the
project's diverse activities. Transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities
after Loan closing are deemed adequate.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

RAO UES
  The performance of RAO UES was satisfactory. RAO UES was the champion of reforms. It
 was broadly involved in development of the key policy decisions with regard to reform process,
 starting from the initial development of the power sector reform program, adopted by the
 Russian Government in 2001. RAO UES was highly committed and had a strong ownership of
 the project. It was well organized and efficient and had a very supportive management structure.
 It was very effective in carrying out all aspects of project management, such as financial
 management, procurement arrangements, and reporting activities.

 Financial Management Review. The financial management system including accounting,
 controls, auditing and reporting was adequate and satisfied the Bank's financial management
 requirements.

 Procurement Arrangements. Procurement of all works, goods and technical services under the
 project followed the Procurement Guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
 Credits". RAO UES' procurement activities were set up on a program basis in compliance with
 the general Power sector reform implementation plan first approved in 2001 and periodically
 amended by the Russian Government. Most of the procurement activities under component `A'
 of the project had direct relevance to the objectives of the power sector reform and
 commercialization of RAO UES and its subsidiaries.


                                                 23

 Reporting Arrangements. RAO UES submitted all required quarterly and annual reports in a
 timely manner. These reports were informative, and provided valuable feedback on how the
 RAO UES was progressing on project activities.

FEC/FTS
 The performance of FEC was satisfactory. FEC staff was interested in the project's activities
 under Part B and demonstrated strong ownership. It was reasonably well organized and effective
 in dealing with procurement, disbursement, progress reports, and in maintaining proper records
 of the project. Financial management procedures were conducted in line with the Bank's
 guidelines. FEC staff was receptive to the Bank's advice, and collaborated well with the Bank's
 task team. Activities under Part B were largely completed under FEC.

 FEC was transformed into FTS in March 2004 in connection with the general reorganization of
 the Russian Government. FTS had different institutional framework and quite reduced
 responsibilities as compared to the FEC. A lot of activities under component `B' were based on
 the assumption that a substantial part of FEC's institutional framework, established in
 accordance with the international best practices for power regulatory environment, will be
 preserved and developed further. However, the transformation of FEC led to significant change
 of previous institutional regulatory features of the FEC, making FTS a less independent
 regulatory authority than FEC was.

 In terms of implementing information systems, performance of FTS was highly satisfactory.

MFE/MOE/MIE
  The performance of MFE/MOE/MIE was unsatisfactory. The Ministry was generally opposed
 to the reforms. It was sometimes at odds with other entities involved in the reform process.
 There was insufficient ownership of the project on the part of MFE/MOE/MIE's senior
 management, as demonstrated by the continuous redistribution of managerial responsibilities
 and partial changeover in senior management. The project activities were generally managed by
 low level officials in the Ministry.

 The Ministry's change from MFE to MOE and then to MIE and the personnel changes adversely
 affected implementation. Because of the small size of the component, it ended up as
 insignificant. The policy studies conducted by the Ministry had little direct relevance to reform
 process as they were not used during development of the real policy decisions in the power
 sector.

 Due to reorganization of the Russian Government in March 2004, the MFE was abolished, and
 the newly established Ministry of Industry and Energy was never formally involved as full-
 grade formal successor of the MFE with regard to implementation of the project (the new
 Ministry had only partially inherited the functions of the abolished MFE).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

In light of the government and implementing agencies' performance as discussed above, the
overall performance of the Borrower is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned



                                                 24

(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Positive Lessons

    · The Bank played a catalytic role and the project provided the appropriate tool to initiate
        and implement power sector reforms. The project was a high-risk, high-reward endeavor.
        When the project was initiated, reforms were triggered by individuals within the
        government, who were champions of reforms. At that time, it appeared that it was right
        for the Bank to bet on these individuals, even though the overall capacity of the
        government was not so impressive in terms of reforms. So, the Bank decided to be
        opportunistic and take a calculated high-risk, high-reward approach, which finally paid
        off in terms of a successful reform in the power sector.

    · Those reforms, which are politically charged and very difficult to implement, do take
        time to achieve the desired goals. The project demonstrated that it is important to be
        patient and persistent when the Bank gets involved in a reform-oriented project,
        especially in a country such as Russia which did not have any previous experience in
        implementing sector reforms.

    · The success of the project showed that it is important for the Bank to adopt a flexible
        approach during implementation. Instead of being impatient with the project cycle, the
        Bank was quite realistic and responded appropriately by being flexible in extending the
        project deadlines and the closing date. This flexible approach enabled the Bank to adjust
        implementation to make it more effective and ultimately achieve the project objectives.
        (general applicability)

    · The ideal situation for a reform-minded project is to initiate it when the situation is stable,
        the government is stable and government is reform-minded (general applicability)

Negative Lessons

    · It is very difficult to manage and coordinate a project which has several implementing
        agencies. For a project of this magnitude and importance, it would be better that there is
        only one champion/owner as a counterpart, even though there may be several
        beneficiaries of the project. For instance, dealing with RAO UES, FTS, and MIE as three
        different implementing agencies was akin to implementing three different projects. On
        the other hand, in case multiple agencies cannot be avoided due to political reasons, then,
        as a precondition, the government should establish an effective coordinating and
        management mechanism or a working group that will manage the entire project. (general
        applicability)

    · The Bank should clearly simplify the project design and not attempt to deal with each
         and every aspect of the sector, especially when multiple agencies are involved, which
         makes implementation difficult both for the Bank and the government. (general
         applicability)

    · It is important for a regulatory agency to have minimum standards of independence,
        transparency, and appropriate powers in the discharge of its duties and function.




                                                 25

    · Continuity of implementing agency staff members, irrespective of change of
        governments is essential for smooth implementation. (general applicability)

Political factors played an important role for implementing reforms in Russia. It was difficult to
move towards technical solutions without thinking about political implications, especially when
there was a massive power struggle in the country.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Comments received from the Borrower on the Bank's draft ICR were considered and
appropriate changes have been incorporated into the text of the draft ICR.


(b) Cofinanciers

NA

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

                                                NA




                                                26

                                Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


        Components             Appraisal Estimate* Actual /Latest Estimate      Percentage of
                                   (US$ million)          (US$ million)           Appraisal

Part A                                  N/A                  34.88
Part B                                  N/A                  8.43
Part C                                  N/A                  1.42


         Total Baseline Cost                                44.73

Physical Contingencies

Price Contingencies

         Total Project Costs                                44.73

Project Preparation Facility
(PPF)

Front-end fee (IBRD only)

  Total Financing Required                                  44.73


Note: * Appraisal figures are not available as the components and project activities changed after
the project was restructured in February 2000.

(b) Financing

                                               Appraisal        Actual/Latest
 Source of Funds            Type of                                                Percentage of
                           Financing            Estimate            Estimate
                                              (US$ million)     (US$ million)        Appraisal

[Government]                                   12.1                  6.80

[IBRD/IDA]                                     40.0                  37.93        95.36%
[Donors]                                       18.2                   0.0
[Donor B]             [Parallel financing]




                                                  27

                                 Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Part A. RAO UES

Commercializing and restructuring of RAO UES

Restructuring was completed in the Holding management and business processes based on state-
of-the-art information technologies, which constitutes an important factor for improvement of the
financial management efficiency, and has ensured technical reliability of the corporate
management information system against the background of the on-going diversification and
increasing sophistication of the existing economic and technological relations in the sector.

Consolidated financial statements of the holding RAO UES have been brought into compliance
with the International Accounting Standards (IAS) and these requirements have been
implemented in the regional electricity sector companies. All the necessary prerequisites have
thereby been provided for the proposed commercialization of the Russian electric power sector,
for transition from administrative control to corporate governance policies in the power industry,
as well as for the improvement of its investment attractiveness

An advanced integrated and high-capacity management information system has been developed,
which has doubled the computation capabilities of RAO "UES of Russia", has enabled
establishment of data base and data flow backup facilities, development of the corporate data
storage, implementation of accounting and reporting software tools, a multi-tier system of
budgeting of the Holding, a system of decision making and electronic data interchange and
transmission support, reduction of the time required for data processing and analysis. The
implementation of the data support engineering solutions as part of the Project has provided a
major impetus in improving the efficiency of RAO "UES of Russia"

Based on the assessment of approaches and hardware tools, used abroad for forecasting the
development trends on the liberalized electricity market, specific proposals have been drafted and
customization and implementation activities have been undertaken to provide hardware facilities
for putting on-stream a system of regular forecasting of the evolution of a liberalized electricity
sector in Russia, which should enable the Agency for Forecasting Electricity Sector Balances, as
successor of RAO "UES of Russia", to address the following tasks in performing its
responsibilities:

         - Forecasting the requirements in commissioning (phasing out) of power generating
facilities, operating within the Power Grid of Russia;

         - Assessment of power balance availability for the forecasted consumption with due
account of the commissioned (phased out) power generating facilities and potential participation
of electricity consumers in regulating the consumption schedules in the Power Grid of Russia and
in its individual power supply zones for a medium and long term;

     - Forecasting of electricity and capacity prices in a competitive electricity and capacity
     market environment;

     - Assessment of operating income and profits of power generating companies for evaluating
     their investment potential.

RAO "UES of Russia" has undertaken immense efforts to launch and coordinate the development
of the technical regulatory framework to ensure implementation of the Federal Law "On technical
regulatory control", which defines completely new relationships arising in the process of



                                                28

development, adoption, enforcement and compliance with the requirements to products,
production processes, maintenance, storage, transportation, sale and recycling, as well as to
provision of services. "Development of a set of standards providing regulatory framework for
compliance with security and production management requirements to operating and technical
maintenance of boilers, pipelines, vessels, steam and gas turbines in cogeneration plants" has
been implemented. The following five corporate standards were developed (corporate regulatory
documents of RAO "UES of Russia") as Model Manual of operation of:

             · steam-turbine and gas-turbine equipment in cogeneration heating plants (CHP)

             · steam turbines in cogeneration heating plants (CHP)

             · steam and hot water pipelines

             · recovery system vessels in cogeneration plants (CHP)

             · high- and supercritical-pressure steam boilers in cogeneration plants (CHP)

The regulatory documents thus developed, are designed to ensure continuity in the regulatory
framework and prevent reduction in the level of operation and performance reliability of the
United Power Grid on the basis of the corporate standards (RAO "UES of Russia")

The project provided an assessment of the proposed establishment of a corporate GHG emissions
trading system. Based on the assessment of the latest innovations in the Russian legislation
regulating the implementation of Joint Implementation Projects (JIPs) and Green Investments
(GIs), as well as with due regard to the international best practices, a draft corporate emissions
trading system has been developed for RAO "UES of Russia", which is contemplated for
implementation in several steps.

Risk assessments have been made for emerging low-efficiency power usage costs in RAO "UES
of Russia", as well as their negative impact on the national economy as a whole has been
demonstrated. Various policies have been examined, which target resource saving and improved
energy efficiency in budget-funded and housing utilities organizations, including government-
sponsored, public and business strategies. Recommendations have been provided as guidance to
RAO "UES of Russia" in choosing the right policy of action in the current economic environment.

Efforts were undertaken to develop a system of feedback interfacing with electricity consumers,
which provides efficient tools for resolution of conflicts, as well as for upgrading the level of
social responsibility of power generating companies. Recommendations have been elaborated to
assist in establishing interactive dialog with power consumers in cases of electricity supply
breakdowns both in large cities and in medium- to small-size towns and rural settlements.

A distance learning course, dealing with current issues of the electricity sector reform, has been
developed and posted on the Website of the Company. Methodological, technological and
financial management plans of running distance learning modules have been developed for the
electricity sector. Provision has been made for leasing arrangements to provide hardware and
communication channels for video conferencing sessions as part of the distance learning system
of skill upgrade for power sector personnel located in different regions of the Russian Federation.

Under this component 15 training courses were provided to study the experience of liberalization
and improvement of the efficiency of electricity sector companies, establishment of electricity
tariffs on a liberalized market, managing financial settlements and payments within a wholesale
electricity market, planning, budgeting, internal auditing and control over electricity sector
companies, their restructuring, improvement of management systems, etc.




                                                29

Commercializing and Restructuring Power Generating Companies

Assessments were made to come up with the most feasible and productive solutions for the
proposed restructuring of district heating systems operated from CHPs owned by subsidiaries of
RAO "UES of Russia" and establishing regional power generating companies with the ability to
run sustainable business on the emerging competitive market of electric power. Strategies and
guidelines for the development of heat supply (heating business) in Russia were defined, as well
as methods of consolidation of cogeneration plants within regional power generating companies,
including the proposed consolidation of generating assets of the adjacent regional power supply
companies ("LC-energos"). Guidelines were provided (based on appropriate economic
assessments) for evaluating the cost-effectiveness of establishing alternative regional generating
companies (RGC) on the basis of CHPs, i.e. enhanced capacity heat supply companies
incorporating (e.g. on credit or on leasing terms) municipal heating plants and heat supply
pipelines, energy consuming companies including industrial-scale heat consumers (e.g. large
manufacturing companies), joint "LC-energos" and municipal heat supply companies, fully or
partially owned by the municipal authorities, etc.

Policy guidelines were made available to assist in developing new pricing mechanisms for heat
on a competitive electricity market, as well as in the context of competition with alternative heat
suppliers. The existing legislation and the proposed draft heat supply law were reviewed, and
alternative solutions were put forward to enable implementation of the objectives of the proposed
law and address the key heat supply issues.

A computer model of business planning was developed based on technological and economic
indicators of district heating companies owned by RAO "UES of Russia", which should be
instrumental in evaluating alternative investment solutions for making the most cost-effective
choice. The model was tested in the pilot projects in Belgorod ("Data collection and analysis")
and in Nizhny Novgorod ("Assessment of consolidation of Sormovo CHP with municipal main
and distribution heat supply systems and heating plants of Nizhny Novgorod"). A heat supply
business planning manual has been developed.

Different alternative solutions, involving maintenance and restoration of the available steam
turbines, were reviewed, assessed and rated by cost-benefit analysis, based on the estimated
service life of the turbines. Equipment failure incremental risk assessment for extension of service
life scenarios was made, and guidelines provided on the use of available information sources for
investment decision on turbines.

In order to improve the efficiency of the operating power generating units by reducing the costs
of production and identification of competitive advantages of power generating companies, target
indicators have been identified (established) for performance and environmental compatibility of
the most representative power-generating units of gas-and-oil power plants and coal-fired stations,
as well as hydroelectric power stations in Russia, and comparison has been made between these
indicators and similar ones on foreign power stations. Target values have been established for the
economic and production indicators of power stations incorporated in Wholesale Generating
Companies (WGC), including HydroWGCs and RGCs, as well as recommendations have been
provided on their use.

Development of Wholesale Electricity Market and Support of Market Operator

A model of electricity metering on the retail market was developed and tested; a set of regulatory
requirements was prepared and approved for setting up a system of commercial metering of
electric power. Concurrently, a system of model agreements for players on the wholesale and
retail markets of electricity and heat was developed.




                                                  30

Initial steps have been made to develop a common electricity market within the Commonwealth
of Independent States, whose performance is expected to contribute to the improvement of the
efficiency of market mechanisms in the power sector of the CIS countries, including Russia.
Based on the international best practices a model of common electricity market has been
developed within the CIS. The example of Kazakhstan and Russia defined practical measures of
technological, commercial, regulatory and institutional nature to be contemplated in building a
common electricity market in the CIS. Fundamentals of contractual system implementing the
model of such a market have been elaborated.

Methodological and technical assistance were provided in developing and activating key elements
of the infrastructure of the wholesale electricity market for the system operator and business
operator (NP "Administrator of Trading System") on the market. In particular, principles of
financial management of the System Operator have been developed. Policies, methods and
regulations have been defined to govern relations between the System Operator and other market
players. Technical requirements, specifications and feasibility reports were provided to facilitate
subsequent development of a state-of-the-art automated monitoring and control system for the
electricity sector SCADA/EMS.

Modern digital communications hardware tools were procured and put into operation, which
enable the System Operator and the Administrator of Trading System to have on-line data
exchange with a large number of new independent market players on contractual terms. Thus the
United Digital System of communications of the electricity sector has been put in place, which
should assists in providing efficient solutions for technological and administrative tasks on a
competitive electricity market.

Study trips were organized to the USA, France and Switzerland (2004-2006), which contributed
to broadening the horizons and improvement of skills of the key personnel of RAO "UES of
Russia", by introduction to specific best practices of formation of electricity markets,
management of financial flows of power companies and attraction of investments in a market
environment. On the basis of the currently available international experience (US, Germany,
Denmark, UK, etc.), recommendations were provided to assist in creating favorable conditions
for the development of wind power facilities in Russia. The following regulatory documents have
been prepared: draft law on renewable energy sources, layout of the national register of wind
power resources, corporate standard of safety and reliability of wind power plant, policy
guidelines on selection of wind power equipment based on European standard EN 45510-5-3, etc.

Commercializing and Restructuring of Regional Power Companies

Assessments were made of business performance and assets of the Federal and regional power
plants to provide feasibility for establishing wholesale power generating companies (WGCs) as
the key players on a competitive electricity market. A proprietary methodology and techniques
for appraisal of the market value of business performance and assets of RAO "UES of Russia"
and "LC-energos" has been developed and approved by the Board of Directors of the Company,
which were subsequently adapted to the nature of the Russian electricity sector.

On the basis of the available policy data base, specific evaluation was undertaken for the
establishment of four out of the seven wholesale power generating companies (WGC-1, WGC-2,
WGC-4 and WGC-6). In addition, the market value of the appraised facilities was identified
based on the value of share holdings and property owned by RAO "UES of Russia", as well as the
market value of each facility based on one share in a 100% share holding of the WGC for the
determination of the stock buyout price as per Article 75 of the Federal Law "On joint-stock
companies". The market value of each facility was identified for the purposes of payment for
additional shares of the WGC and acquisition of shares in accordance with the Article 80 of the
Federal Law "On joint-stock companies"



                                                31

Public Relations

For enhancing the corporate responsibility of RAO "UES of Russia" and ensuring successful
completion of the reform in the electricity sector, a dialog was initiated with the public on social
and environmental aspects of the on-going development campaign in the sector. Expert
assessment of the risks associated with the reform implementation efforts in the electricity sector,
was completed; a conference "Transparent Power Sector" and a seminar on "Energy Efficiency
and Social Accountability" were organized and took place; recommendations have been
elaborated on managing monitoring of risks identified in the course of the project, and
optimization options presented, as well as recommendations on environmental and social impact
assessment of investment projects in the electricity sector based on public opinion inputs; policy
guidelines were provided on matters of the proposed assessment of environmental impact of
power projects.

A detailed analysis of the business reputation, RAO "UES of Russia" and its subsidiaries have
among their key stakeholders, has been provided. For this purpose views and comments of the
key stakeholders on the business reputation of RAO "UES of Russia" and its subsidiaries were
collected and analyzed, experts were surveyed, as well as comparative analysis of the status of the
corporate reputation was undertaken involving different target respondent audiences. Based on
the collected comments and expert evaluations, lists of risks for the near future were compiled,
and policy recommendations on managing the corporate reputation and formation of a favorable
information and social and psychological context of the reform in the electricity sector were
offered. For the benefit of proper preparation of power companies for operation on a competitive
market, when non-financial risks acquire special importance, external non-financial audit was
performed on the status of social accountability of RAO "UES of Russia" per standard AA1000
AS, special measures were taken to ensure certification of its social accountability by external
stakeholders, as well as a limited verification procedure was administered in conformity with the
International standard ISAE 3000 "Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of
historical financial information"

Legal Support

Draft amendments and supplements to the Federal Law "On joint-stock companies" have been
prepared meeting the following requirements: (a) more complete and clear corporate procedures
of reorganizing joint stock companies in the form of split-off, division and takeover; and (b)
special regulation in respect of requirements of compliance with special procedures for natural
monopolies to engage in large-scale transactions and related-party transactions which they are
required to do by law.

Pursuant to the Federal Law "On joint-stock companies" a new draft of the corporate Articles was
prepared as a single document meeting the most stringent requirements to its structure, contents
and legal format pursuing the objective of enabling Russian and foreign shareholders, investors
and creditors to exercise their rights in the process of restructuring and reforming the electricity
sector of the Russian Federation, and, in particular, rights of each and every shareholder to have
access to information on restructuring activities which affect, or may affect, his legal rights,
which, in turn, enhances the transparency of decision-making in the course of the reforms, to
avoid conflicts with minority shareholders that may arise due to the lack of information, and,
thereby, facilitate implementation of the above decisions.




                                                 32

Part B: FEC/FTS

Implementation of Part B of the Project achieved the following results:
   -     Seventy staff members of the FEC and 340 staff members of executive agencies from
         Russian regions involved in state tariff regulation received training on state regulation
         and tariff setting in conditions of natural monopoly reforms, including international
         experience exchange;
   -     The layout of the FEC website was developed and placed in the Internet, this website is
         operational and successful. In 2005 the FTS of Russia together with regional executive
         agencies involved in state tariff regulation launched a project intended to put in place
         online exchange of information between regional websites and the FTS website. In 2006
         the FTS website became a laureate of the annual National Prize for Contribution to
         Development of the Russian Segment of the Internet, which is the Runet Prize, the FTS
         website won in the `State and Society' nomination.

    New systems for collecting and processing information have been put in place:

   -     A local network of the FTS has been created;
   -     Legal, accounting, human resource, communication and other information systems have
         been installed;
   -     The Unified Information and Analytical System (the UIAS), which is a key delivery of
         Part B of the Project has been developed and made operational in the FTS with the view
         of improving processes and methods of tariff setting. The FTS Unified Information and
         Analytical System provides automation of information interaction between the FTS and
         regional executive agencies involved in state tariff regulation, regulated entities and
         expert organizations in the course of tariff setting and provides automation of functions
         described below.

By the time Part B of the Project was completed in December 2004 the FTS UIAS was installed
in the FTS and in nine regions of the Russian Federation; the FTS UIAS included a subsystem for
data collection and integration; a data warehouse; an information security subsystem; a subsystem
for backup of operational activity; a subsystem for calculating tariffs and preparing forecasts in
the electricity sector.

The FTS UIAS is intended to provide transparency and improve efficiency of state tariff
regulation as well as to reduce the timeframe for making tariff decisions. Today all regional
executive agencies involved in state tariff regulation in 84 regions that form part of the Russian
Federation are connected to the FTS UIAS (by the time Part B of the Project was completed, nine
agencies got connected to the system using proceeds of the loan) and the system makes it possible
to fulfill the following functions:
   - document flow in the system of agencies of state tariff regulation;
   - document flow between regulatory agencies and regulated entities regarding issues of tariff
       (price) setting for products (services) of natural monopolies and monitoring of their
       activity;
   - collection of regular reports prepared by regulated entities as well as justification of tariff
       (price) setting; their registration and verification;
   - calculation of tariffs (prices) for products (services) of natural monopolies, analysis of
       justification of tariff setting, calculation of statistical indicators and forecasts;
   - preparation, optimization and analysis of the balance of electric power and capacity in the
       Unified Energy System;
   - maintenance of the register of natural monopoly entities;


                                                    33

    - maintenance of the register of tariffs set for natural monopoly entities.

After completion of Part B of the Project during trial operation and development of the FTS
UIAS functions throughout 2005 a mechanism of electronic digital signature that makes it
possible to make documents, which are disseminated within the system, legally valid was tested.
Starting from 2006 onward all modules of the FTS UIAS have been used in the course of
preparing tariff decisions regarding tariff caps for electricity and heat, preparing and optimizing
the forecast balance of electric power and capacity, preparing           tariff decisions regarding
electricity generation and transmission.

The application of the system in 2006 made it possible to process 10,258 forms with calculations
in the automated mode and set up a database on 792 grid companies, 321 power plants, 210 sales
companies and system entities (JSC RAO UES of Russia, the System Operator-the Central
Dispatch Administration, the Federal Grid Company and the Trading System Administrator).

In 2006 the system was run in a trial mode to computerize processes of monitoring tariff
decisions made by regional tariff regulators and to collect information on regulated entities. As a
result, an analytical database with information about more than 19,000 enterprises of the utility
sector was put in place.

As a result of successful implementation of the system in a trial mode starting from December 18,
2006 key components of the system have been running in a regular mode.

Part C: MEC/MOE/MIE

Studies conducted under this component consisted of the following:

(i) `Development of individual projects for reforming temporarily isolated power systems'
(ii) `Development and implementation of the state program of incentives for private investments
in the electricity sector at the transition stage of structural reforms'
(iii) `Analysis of the impact made by the restructuring processes in the electricity sector on the
fuel supplying sectors of the fuel and energy complex'

Activities under institutional strengthening of the MOE included:

(i) Training of the MOE staff
(ii) Equipment procurement
(iii) Consultants' services of the Project Implementation Unit




                                                    34

                         Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

N/A




                                           35

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision
               ProcessesTask Team members




                            36

             Names                   Title           Unit            Responsibility/ Specialty

Lending (from Task Team in PAD Data Sheet)

Mr. Gary Stuggins                                ETWEN     TTL

Supervision (from Task Team Members in all archived ISRs)


Mr. Gary Stuggins                                ETWEN     TTL

Mr. Igor Lojevsky                                ECSIE     Coordinator

Ms. Janet A. Koch                                ECSIE     TTL

Mr. Bjorn Hamso                                  ECSSD     Program Team Leader, Energy Economist

Mr. Vadim Voronin                                ECSIE     Res. Mission Rep.

Mr. Nikolay Nikolov                              ECSSD     Operations Analyst

Ms. Gunn Oland                                   ECSIE     Senior Energy Specialist

Mr. Alexander Pozin                              ECSIE     Energy Specialist/Operations Officer

Mr. Vladislav Krasikov                           ECSPS     Procurement Specialist

Mr. Alexander Mizgunov                           ECSPS     Financial Management Specialist

Mr. Vladislav Vucetic                            ECSIE     TTL

Mr. Karl Skansing                                ECSPS     Senior Procurement Specialist

Mr. John Besant-Jones                            ECSSD     Lead Economist

Mr. Michael Haney                                ECSIE     Energy Specialist

Mr. Gleb Zinoviev                                ECSIE     Operations Officer

Mr. Victor Loksha                                ECSSD     TTL/Energy Economist

Mr. Alexander Roukavichnikov                     ECSPS     Procurement Specialist

Ms. Vivien Foster                                ECSSD     TTL

Mr. Matthew Buresch                              ECSIE     Senior Energy Economist

Ms. Galina Kuznetsova                            ECSPS     Financial Management Specialist

Mr. Eric Groom                                   FEU       Senior Regulatory Specialist

Mr. Henk Busz                                    ECSSD     Energy Sector Manager

Mr. Vladimir Milov                               ECSIE     Independent Consultant

Mr. Larry Ruff                                   ECSIE     Independent Consultant

Mr. Ashley Brown                                 ECSIE     Independent Consultant

Mr. Ranjit Lamesh                                ECSSD     Program Team Leader

Mr. Gevorg Sargsyan                              ECSSD     TTL

Ms. Tatyana Shadrunova                           ECSSD     Operations Analyst

Mr. Sati Achath                                  ECSSD     Consultant


                                                   37

    (a) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs (all fields are pre-populated by the system)

 No.      Date ISR Archived        DO                IP       Actual Disbursements (US$mln.)
  1           11/26/1997       Satisfactory     Satisfactory                  0
  2           07/06/1998      Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory                 0
  3           06/23/1999      Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory                 0
  4           12/30/1999      Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory                 0
  5           06/28/2000      Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory                 0
  6           09/20/2000       Satisfactory     Satisfactory                  0
  7           06/29/2001       Satisfactory     Satisfactory                2.08
  8           12/26/2001       Satisfactory     Satisfactory                2.30
  9           06/28/2002       Satisfactory     Satisfactory                2.58
  10          12/05/2002       Satisfactory     Satisfactory                3.11
  11          05/07/2003       Satisfactory     Satisfactory                5.23
  12          10/14/2003       Satisfactory     Satisfactory                11.73
  13          12/24/2003       Satisfactory     Satisfactory                16.54
  14          03/09/2004       Satisfactory     Satisfactory                18.41
  15          12/20/2004       Satisfactory     Satisfactory                23.00
  16          04/15/2005       Satisfactory     Satisfactory                26.49
  17          01/04/2006       Satisfactory     Satisfactory                31.55


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                          No. of staff weeks       USD Thousands (including
                                                                   travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY97                                                                        155.66
  FY98                                                                          0.00
  FY99                                                                          0.00
  FY00                                                                          0.00
  FY01                                                                          0.00
  FY02                                                                          0.00
  FY03                                                                          0.00
  FY04                                                                          0.00
  FY05                                                                          0.00
  FY06                                                                          0.00
  FY07                                                                          0.00
                             Total:                                           155.66
Supervision/ICR
  FY97                                                                         27.03
  FY98                                                                        151.30
  FY99                                                                        111.07
  FY00                                            50                          190.86
  FY01                                            32                          114.60
  FY02                                            43                          111.36
  FY03                                            33                          116.77
  FY04                                            25                           79.38
  FY05                                            27                          133.69
  FY06                                             5                           69.19
  FY07                                             9                           28.46
                             Total:             224                         1133.71



                                              38

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

N/A




                                    39

       Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

N/A




                                 40

           Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Part A. RAO UES
Market oriented reform of the Russian energy sector plays a key role in infrastructure sector
development of Russian economy to ensure dynamic economic growth. But for all that in spite of
high priority and complexity of the reform process being implemented none of Russian
government federal task programs provide for financing of measures related to preparation and
execution of energy sector reform. Thus the World Bank's loan funds, which have a long-term
repayment period and low interest rate, have been an essential source to finance the process
during transition towards competitive market. This allowed RAO UESR to avoid current costs,
which could result in either undesirable additional increase of tariffs on electricity and heat or
revenue losses of the state, which is the main shareholder of RAO UESR.
The Loan Agreement 4181-RU between the Russian Federation and IBRD (providing for USD 40
million) to finance Electricity Sector Reform Project (hereinafter called Project) was signed on
10/09/1997 and approved by Russian Government Decree No 661 dated 06/27/1998. RAO
UESR's portion of funds (Part A) amounts USD 29 million and is provided on chargeable, fixed-
term, and repayable basis.
At the very beginning implementation of the Project encountered a sequence of problems, as a
matter of fact most of which have been force majeure circumstances for end borrowers and
beneficiaries of the Project, particularly for RAO UESR (during 1997-1998 ­ reiterated change of
RAO UESR's management and the August Default, which significantly modified economic
situation in the Russian Federation and temporarily suspended Russia-IBRD cooperation
program; during 2000-2001 ­ search for public consensus with regard to electricity sector
restructuring as well as development of corresponding Governmental program). Not to forget the
initial management structure of the Project which was found practically ineffective.
All the above determined the need to issue an Amendment to the Loan Agreement, which was
signed on 12/17/2000 and permitted to optimize the Project management, as well as defined the
program and sub-loan terms and conditions for all beneficiaries. Taking into account subsequent
issue of Electricity Sector Reform Program approved by the Russian Government (2001) and
adoption of corresponding laws (2003) the whole set of preconditions necessary to start practical
realization of the Project has been developed only by mid-2003. Since then the use of loan funds
has been accelerated significantly.
The Project implementation provided an appreciable support to Russian Electricity Sector
restructuring process over all directions including the following: a) commercialization and
restructuring of state energy monopolist - RAO UESR Holding as well as of regional energy
companies; b) formation and development of electricity competitive market in the Russian
Federation; c) establishing and supporting the new infrastructure entities.
        The following main practical results were directly achieved with the Project support:
         -   Switch of consolidated statement of RAO UESR to the IAS and spreading of this
             practice over regional companies. This established necessary preconditions to




 These contributions were received from the Beneficiaries and Implementing Agencies of the Project
(RAO UES ­ for Part A, FTS ­ for Part B, and MIE ­ for Part C) and submitted to the RF Ministry of
Finance for No-Objection




                                                  41

  commercialize Russian energy sector, to shift from administrative to corporate
  management methods within the sector, to enhance its investment attractiveness;
- Restructuring of managerial and business-processes within RAO UESR Holding on
  the basis of contemporary information technologies. This has been important factor
  to enhance financial management efficiency and provides for technical reliability of
  corporate management information system under progressing diversification and
  complication of economic and technological relations within the sector;
- Development of methodology and algorithms for business and assets valuation for
  Holding enterprises ensuring minimization of human factor as well as providing for
  transparency, fairness, and consistency when implementing the valuation while
  forming new entities and participants of electricity market;
- Conceptual and technical support during creation and operation of System Operator
  and Federal Grid Company as key elements of wholesale electricity market
  infrastructure;
- development and introduction of          the system of standard contracts for the
  participants of wholesale and retail electricity and heat markets. By guaranteeing
  uniform and consistent application of norms of civil, fiscal and other applicable
  legislation on the market this contributes to formation of a solid legal base for market
  transformations in the Russian energy sector;
- working out of the key principles of RAO UESR heating business development,
  organization of heating business and centralized heat supply at municipal and
  regional levels with transfer to business planning;
- valuation of business and assets of federal and regional power stations for the
  purpose of formation on this basis of the wholesale generating companies as key
  participants of the competitive electricity market;
- creation and launching of the Unified Digital Communication Network of Electricity
  Sector, which guarantees efficient communicatory interaction       between the System
  and Commercial Operators and a large number of new independent market members
  on a commercial basis;
- development, coordination with the government of the Russian Federation and
  launching of the Investment Guarantee Mechanism, which stimulates private
  investments into generation objects during transition period to the competitive energy
  market;
- development and implementation of measures as regards to reforming of the cross-
  subsidizing in the energy sector;
- development of the basic principles of unified energy market development within the
  framework of the Commonwealth of the Independent States, activity of which in the
  long term shall contribute to enhancement of efficiency of market mechanisms in the
  energy sector of the CIS states, including the Russian Federation;
- analysis of corporate reputation of the RAO UESR Holding and its subsidiaries
  among key stakeholders and holding of a public dialogue on social and
  environmental aspects of the sector development in order to enhance RAO USER
  corporate responsibility and carry out energy sector reform successfully;
- implementation of external assurance of the process of social accountability of RAO
  UESR pursuant to the AA1000 Assurance Standard with assurance of the social
  reporting of RAO UESR by external stakeholders of the company, as well as limited



                                       42

            assurance in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements
            (ISAE) 3000;
        -   development of corporate GHG emissions trading system within the framework of
            Kyoto Protocol, which allows to use           comprehensively project and program
            mechanisms within the framework of joint implementation projects and target
            ecological investments in order to attract additional investments and also to switch to
            emissions trading system similar to the one used in the EU in the future;
        -   development of the methodological and software framework to generate regular
            forecasts for the development of the liberalized electricity sector of Russia, which is
            essential   specifically   for   determination    of   necessity   for   putting   into
            operation/retirement of generating capacities of RAO UESR, forecasting of prices on
            electricity and capacity, as well as of investment potential of generating companies in
            the competitive market conditions.
At the same time taking into account the nature of energy sector reforming system tasks that were
solved within the framework of the Project, the following indirect results of its implementation
should be mentioned among others:
        -   launching in 2003 of the wholesale market free-trade sector «5-15», which already
            during the first year of functioning became one of top ten world's energy trading
            sites, as well as launching in 2006 of the new model of the wholesale energy and
            capacity market NOREM;
        -   implementation of regional energy companies' reforming projects through functional
            unbundling with creation of self-sustained generating, sales and distribution grid
            companies;
        -   creation and start of functioning (2001) of non-commercial partnership "Trade
            System Administrator", which acts as a commercial operator on the wholesale energy
            market.
On the whole in the course of Project realization RAO UESR has concluded 141 contracts,
application of Loan funds amounted to 28,790,000 US dollars.
Procurement of goods and services under the Project was carried out in strict correspondence with
the IBRD requirements, which envisage accurate regulation of procurement activities with an
emphasis on open competitive procedures. Allowing to significantly increase procurement
efficiency this also positively influenced general system of procurement activity organization in
RAO UESR. Corporate regulatory and methodical documents that regulate procurement activities
were developed and introduced in the Holding. At the same time taking into account experience
that was accumulated in the course of Project realization RAO UESR successively widens field of
application of competitive procurement procedures, which is one of the key mechanisms of cost
management. Ministry for Economic Development and Trade of the Russian Federation has
acknowledged the RAO UESR corporate system of procurement regulation and realization to be
the best among Russian companies with state participation.


Part B: FEC/FTS

Information support, day-to-day consultations and a constructive position taken by staff members
of the World Bank Moscow Office allowed the FTS to complete Part B of the Project
successfully and in a timely fashion during the second half of 2004 by the end of 2004 despite
major institutional and personnel changes, such as




                                                 43

   -     Transformation of the FEC into the FTS in line with the administrative reform of federal
         executive agencies launched in 2004;
   -     Approval of the Federal Law on November 10, 2004 introducing changes in the 2004
         federal budget that actually took into account the completion of Part B of the Project in
         2004 and allocated funds from the federal budget for these purposes;
   -     Changes in the composition of the FTS PIU six months before completion of Part B of
         the Project; and
   -     Changes in the personnel of the MOF responsible for implementation and coordination of
         projects using proceeds of external borrowings, which made the process of getting
         clearance of technical issues in accordance with loan procedures longer (approval of the
         signing authority, reallocation of funds among loan categories).
The project-based principle in administration of Part B of the Project provided an opportunity to
disseminate project culture among FTS staff members and achieve the objectives set within the
shortest period. During implementation of Part B of the Project FTS staff members acquired and
developed skills of conducting competitive tenders to procure goods and services, skills of using
standard World Bank contracts and financial reports.

The FTS of Russia manages and coordinates the UIAS development. Starting from 2006, a
program intended to provide support to the regions has been under implementation. This program
includes:
   - provision of software, documentation and instructions to get connected to the system on a
       non-for-profit basis;

   - technical and methodological support for subscribers of the FTS UIAS;
   - assistance to regional tariff regulators in dissemination of the system.
Under the program for providing assistance to the regions 32 training workshops on FTS UIAS
application have been conducted in 12 cities since 2005. The total number of trainees is more
than 950 specialists from regional tariff regulatory agencies, regulated entities and experts.
Application of the FTS UIAS in the regulatory process provides an opportunity to set up and
update the single database with information on regulated entities and tariff decisions. The use of
the single database and computerized procedures of data exchange helps reduce costs to conduct
the expertise of tariff decisions and conduct efficient analysis under specified scenarios.
A number of projects aimed to apply the FTS UIAS in other regulation areas are being
implemented, building on experience of practical application of the FTS UIAS in regulation of
tariffs in the electricity sector and the housing and communal services sector.

Part C: MFE/MIE

Part C of the Loan Agreement, dated October 9, 1997, provided to finance the Electricity Sector
Support Project included activities aimed to refine the state program of reforms in the Russian
electricity sector (the Program) at the Russian Ministry of Energy.

The Action Plan of the Russian Government regarding social policy and streamlining of economy
developed for 2000-2001 and approved by Russian Government Resolution No. 1072-r, dated
July 26, 2000, set specific short-term tasks for the MOE related to restructuring of the natural
monopoly in the electricity sector that specified further the content of the future Program. The
implementation of the Government Action Plan is to be treated as an integral part of the
Electricity Sector Reform Support Project (the Project) financed using the proceeds of the Loan.




                                                   44

The Project Concept Note for Part C to be implemented by the Russian Ministry of Energy was
reviewed and agreed upon at the Interagency meeting held on August 25, 2000, and attended by
representatives from the Russian Ministry of Energy (the MOE), the Russian Ministry of Finance
(the MOF), the Russian Ministry of Economic Development and Trade (the MOEDT) and the
Federal Center for Project Finance (the FCPF).

The Concept Note regarding activities to be implemented by the MOE was intended to specify
activities under Part C of the Project in accordance with the Government Action Plan on reforms
of the natural monopoly in the electricity sector and development of the fuel and energy sector.

Implementation

To implement Part C of the Project, Agency Agreement No. 01-01-06/27-481, dated July 20,
2000, On Disbursement of Proceeds under Part C of Loan No. 4181 RU Provided by the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to Finance Technical Assistance under
the Electricity Sector Reform Support Project was signed by the MOF and the MOE (the Agency
Agreement) for the amount of $2.0 MM.

The Project Implementation Unit (the PIU) consisting of the Ministry staff was set up at the MOE.

To implement Part C of the Project, contracts for consultants' services were signed by the MOE
and the following three legal entities:

1. Contract No. ME-1 was signed with the close joint stock company the Bureau of Financial
Analysis and Investment Analysis on July 30, 2003. The Terms of Reference included
development of a program for restructuring temporarily isolated regions that was supposed to be
one of the activities implemented at the first stage of the reforms during the period from July
2001 to July 2004.

It was planned to reform the electricity sector and the heat generation sector in such areas that
were located within one region or several regions of the Russian Federation on principles and
conditions differing from principles and conditions approved by the Russian Government for a
majority of other regions of the Russian Federation.

Objectives of the assignment were as follows:(a) to develop a draft Program for the Unified
Power System of Siberia, which was treated as a region temporarily isolated economically;(b) to
develop a draft Program for the Unified Power System of the East that was treated as a region
temporarily isolated economically.

The price of Contract No. ME-1, dated July 30, 2003, and signed by the MOE and the Bureau of
Financial Expertise and Investment Analysis amounted to 516,456.00 in the dollar equivalent,
including the value added tax of $86,076.00.

All activities regarding consultants' services provided by the Bureau of Financial Expertise and
Investment Analysis were fulfilled, with results presented in the final report entitled `The Russian
Electricity Sector Reform Support Project. Development of Specific Projects for Reforming
Temporarily Isolated Systems' (on 417 pages) with annexes (on 84 pages) in December 2003 and
submitted to the MOE for subsequent use.

2. The close joint stock company Consulting Group Progressor signed Contract No. ME-3 on
September 10, 2003. The Terms of Reference included development of a program of incentives


                                                 45

for investments in the electricity sector at the reform stage, which was to become an integral part
of state policy on Russian electricity sector reforms.

Such a program was needed in the existing situation to avoid inadmissible reduction in
operational reliability of the Unified Energy System of Russia due to worn-out assets and a
shortage of generating capacity in some areas. The Russian Government was to undertake
measures of targeted support of investments in the electricity sector at the reform stage.

The price of Contract No. ME-3, dated September 10, 2003, and executed by the MOF and the
Consulting Group Progressor amounted to 602,406.00 in the dollar equivalent including the value
added tax of $100,401.00.

All activities regarding consultants' services provided by the Consulting Group Progressor were
fulfilled, with results presented in the final report on Development of the State Program of
Incentives for Investments in the Russian Electricity Sector at the Reform Stage (on 217 pages)
with annexes (on 103 pages) in December 2003 and submitted to the MOE for subsequent use.

3. Contract No. ME-4 was signed with NERA UK Limited, registered in London, on October 16,
2003. The task under the Terms of Reference was to define assignments for a consultant hired by
the MOE to do analysis of impact of restructuring processes in the electricity sector on fuel
supplying subsectors of the Fuel and Energy Sector, such as the coal sector, the nuclear energy
sector, the gas sector, the oil sector, including pipeline, railway and water transportation of fuel,
and to develop measures for alleviating potential negative impact of reforms in the electricity
sector on the aforesaid subsectors of the Fuel and Energy Sector.

A need to conduct such a study was stipulated by the fact that when the decision was made
regarding the concept for reforms in the electricity sector, the Russian Government did not
conduct the analysis of impact such reforms would have on fuel supplying subsectors of the Fuel
and Energy Sector.

The price of Contract No. ME-4, dated October 16, 2003, and signed by the MOE and NERA UK
Limited amounted to 480,000.00 in the dollar equivalent, including the cost of consultant's
services of $400,000.00 and the value added tax of $80,000.00.

All activities regarding consultant's services provided by NERA UK Limited were fulfilled, with
results presented in the final report on Analysis of Impact of Restructuring Processes in the
Russian Electricity Sector on Fuel Supplying Subsectors (100 pages in the English language and
117 pages in the Russian language) with annexes (17 pages in the English language and 20 pages
in the Russian language) in December 2003 and submitted to the MOE for subsequent use.

5. Payment for Consultants' Services Provided by Legal Entities

Under the aforesaid contracts, all activities regarding consultants' services were fulfilled in 2003,
and the MOE accepted relevant reports in 2003, issuing eight acceptance certificates, with nine
invoices attached for the total amount of $1,598,862.00, including the value added tax of
$266,477.00.

Payment for consultants' services provided was made by the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development in the amount of $1,332,385.00, including the first stage
payments in the amount $425,476.00 made in 2003; the second stage payments in the amount of



                                                  46

$648,192.00 made in 2004; and the third stage payments in the amount of $258,717.00 by the
deadlines set out in the aforesaid contracts.

Refund of the value added tax regarding the first stage in the amount of 2,552,856.00 rubles
(85,095.20 in the dollar equivalent) was made in December 2003 using the proceeds of the
federal budget under the Agency Agreement.

To ensure the refund of the value added tax regarding consultants' services in the total amount of
$181,381.80, including $129,638.40 for the second stage payments and $51,743.40 for the third
stage payments, the MOE sent letters to the MOE with a request to allocate funds from the federal
budget for co-financing of Project implementation.

In connection with abolishment of the Russian Ministry of Energy in conformity with Presidential
Decree No. 314, dated March 9, 2004, On the System and Structure of Federal Executive
Agencies, and in accordance with Russian Government Resolution No. 903-r, dated July 1, 2004,
the Russian Ministry of Industry and Energy (the MOIE) assumed the rights and obligations
under Agency Agreement No. 01-01-06/27-481, dated July 20, 2000, On Disbursement of
Proceeds under Part C of Loan No. 4181 RU Provided by the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development to Finance Technical Assistance under the Electricity Sector
Reform Support Project signed by the MOF and the MOE (the Project). These issues were
formalized in the Agreement, dated February 4, 2005, which was signed by the Liquidation
Commission of the MOE, the MOIE, and the MOF.




                                               47

     Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders



N/A




                                   48

                        Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents**



   · Project Implementation Plan

   · Memorandum and Recommendation of the President: Russian Federation Electricity
      Sector Reform Support Project (ESRSP) dated May 16, 1997 (Report No: P7126 RU)

   · Technical Annex: Russian Federation Electricity Sector Reform Support Project (ESRSP)
      dated May 16, 1997 (Report No: T 7126 RU)

   · Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.

   · Project Progress Reports.

   · Borrower's Evaluation Report dated March 2007


**including electronic files




                                           49

MAP

