Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1146 
Operation Name 
First Programmatic Public Sector Development Policy Loan 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (40%); Compulsory Pension 
/Unemployment Insurance (30%); Compulsory Health Financing 
(30%) 
Project ID 
P071052 
Borrower(s) 
GOVT. OF TURKEY 
Implementing Agency 
Undersecretariat of Treasury 
Environment Assessment 
OD 4.01 applies?  [ ] Yes  [X] No 
Date PID Prepared 
October 5, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 15, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 12, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Growing deficits in the social security system threaten to undermine Turkey’s ongoing recovery from 
financial crisis and debt burden.  In addition to not being fiscally sustainable, the formal social 
protection system leaves a significant portion of the population uncovered.  Turkey’s system of public 
expenditure management requires continued support to improve service delivery.  The World Bank is 
providing technical support for both the social protection and public sector reform.    
 
2.  Proposed objective(s)   
A
key objective is to move the social security system towards medium term sustainability while 
continuing to improve the institutional structure of public expenditure management.  The reformed 
social protection system will aim to provide a comprehensive social protection system that insures 
against old age poverty, ill health, job loss and provides social protection for the poor.  Addressing the 
cross-cutting issues that affect public sector performance will further improve public sector delivery of 
services.  The reforms will help move Turkey’s macroeconomic framework and social protection system 
towards compatibility with the European Union.   
 
3. Preliminary description 
Parametric reforms to the pension system to contain the fiscal deficit will be accompanied by continuing 
public sector reforms.  These might include measures to improve public expenditure management and 
financial accountability including at the sub-national level, tax reform and measures to improve service 
delivery.  The system of formal social protection will be extended for pensions and health insurance, an 
improved social assistance system for the poor and labor market reforms for unemployment insurance 
and job creation.   
 
4. Environment Aspects 
The project is not expected to have significant environmental impact.  The Government of Turkey is 
working to make Turkey’s environmental standards consistent with those of the EU.   
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
Page  2
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
400 
 Total 
400 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Mathew A. Verghis 
Title: Sr Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-4654 
Fax: (202) 614-0395 
Email: Mverghis@worldbank.org
 
