Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2361 
Operation Name 
Programmatic Public Sector Development Policy Loan (PPDPL) 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (40%);Compulsory pension 
and unemployment insurance (30%);Compulsory health finance 
(30%) 
Project ID 
P071052 
Borrower(s) 
GOVT. OF TURKEY 
Implementing Agency 
Undersecretariat of Treasury 
Date PID Prepared 
May 5, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 12, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
June 29, 2006 
1. 
Country and Sector Background:
 Turkey is well into a new stage of public sector reform 
aimed at addressing the second generation challenges imposed by the economic crises of 
2000 and 2001.  In reaction to these crises, there has been a strong fiscal adjustment with 
significant primary surpluses in each year thereafter.  The fiscal adjustment has been 
accompanied by ongoing implementation of a comprehensive long term government program 
to modernize the institutions and procedures of public sector management.  Nonetheless, the 
quality of fiscal adjustment needs to be improved and there is a need to address additional 
public sector reform challenge, most notably in social security, governance and 
decentralization.  Consequently, the authorities have designed and adopted a program of 
sustained medium-term legal, institutional, and structural developments aimed at promoting 
growth and improving social conditions.  The PPDPL will support policy actions within the 
overall program in four connected areas, namely: (a) sustaining the current enabling 
macroeconomic framework; (b) reforming the country’s social protection system which 
consists of social security, health insurance and social assistance; (c) continuing the on-going 
process of upgrading the public financial management and budget reforms; and (d) 
improving the administration and governance of the public sector. 
 
2. 
Operation Objectives: 
The PPDPL I Loan supports a sustained medium-term process of 
legal, institutional, and structural development that promotes growth and improves social 
conditions by: (a) maintaining the currently enabling  macroeconomic framework; (b) 
reforming substantially the country’s social protection system, which covers social security, 
Universal Health Insurance (UHI), and social assistance; (c) continuing the ongoing process 
of upgrading the financial controls and expenditure management of public resources; and (d) 
improving the administration and governance of the public sector.  The program supported 
by the Loan contains actions, milestones, and expected results in each of the above four 
broad areas of policy.  Accordingly, the PPDPL I has been designed around four components 
which, in turn, contain conditions, triggers, and indicators critical to achieving the objectives 
of the government’s program as well as to measuring implementation progress and results 
achieved.   The first component supports the maintenance of the macroeconomic framework 
Page  2
which has underpinned Turkey’s sustained episode of rapid economic growth that began in 
2002.  The second component focuses on improving the quality of fiscal adjustment by 
addressing the growing deficits in the social security system through (a) parametric reforms 
of pensions and (b) structural improvements in the institutional and administrative 
framework for the provision of social security benefits and social assistance.  This 
component also supports universal access to health services while deploying actions to 
increase the efficiency and contain the cost of health services funded by the state.  The third 
component supports continued implementation and broadening of the structural and 
institutional reforms of the public financial management and budget systems that the World 
Bank began supporting under the PFPSAL series of loans.  The fourth component supports 
improving the administration and governance of the public sector through actions required to 
reduce regional disparities, promote decentralization, and combat corruption at all levels of 
the public sector.   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement: 
There is ample justification for the World Bank to 
support the first phase of the PPDPL program with a development policy loan.  The loan will 
support major policy actions to reform the social security system which, if left unreformed, 
would be the most important source of future fiscal and macroeconomic imbalances in 
Turkey.  Containing the growth of the social security deficit is essential for the long-run 
sustainability of public finances.  If implemented as enacted, the reform will bring the social 
security system to fiscal sustainability which is essential to the stable macroeconomic 
framework Turkey needs to implement its long-run development program, including 
completing accession negotiations with the EU successfully. 
 
4. 
Financing: 
The Bank will provide financing through a loan of US$ 500 million. 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements: 
The proposed loan will follow the 
Bank’s disbursement procedures for development policy loans.  The untied balance of 
payments support will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the program and 
not tied to any specific purchases and no procurement requirements will be needed.  Upon 
approval of the loan and notification by the Bank of Loan effectiveness, the Government will 
submit a withdrawal application.  The IBRD will deposit the proceeds of the loan with the 
Central Bank of Turkey (CBT), which will form part of the official foreign exchange 
reserves at the request of the Under-secretariat of Treasury.  The government will utilize the 
proceeds of the loan in foreign currency for either foreign debt servicing or for crediting the 
local currency equivalent into the treasury single account for financing budgeted expenses.  
Prior to that, the Bank will withdraw from the Loan Account a front-end fee amounting to 
0.25 percent of the loan amount.  If, after deposit in this CBT account, the proceeds of the 
loan are used for ineligible purposes (for example, to finance items imported from 
nonmember countries or goods or services on the IBRD standard negative list), the IBRD 
will require the borrower to either: (a) return that amount to the account for use for eligible 
purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to the IBRD, in which case the IBRD will cancel 
an equivalent un-disbursed amount of the loan. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks : 
An enabling macroeconomic framework will continue to be an 
important underlying driver for the sustained growth experienced by Turkey since 2002.  
Page  3
Bringing the social security system to actuarial medium term sustainability while continuing 
to improve the legal, institutional and systemic structures of public expenditure management 
will enable improved fiscal adjustment and will create the fiscal space required for the state 
to undertake important expenditures in areas such as infrastructure. In addition, this action is 
widely expected to increase the credit ratings of Turkey’s long term debt, which would 
reduce the cost of servicing such debt – creating, therefore, further fiscal space.  The 
reformed social protection system will provide comprehensive insurance against old age, 
poverty, ill health, and more effective social assistance to the poor.  Better focused regional 
development efforts and more effective provision of public services at the local level will 
assist in reducing large regional disparities, improving local service delivery and allowing for 
a
more effective utilization of pre-accession funds from the European Union.  The design and 
early implementation of systemic approach to support ongoing anti-corruption efforts will 
assist in reducing this obstacle to economic and social development.  On the external front, 
the current account deficit continues to be a major cause for concern, as it stood at about 6.3 
percent of GNP (US$ 23 billion) in 2005.  In the absence of policy adjustment, it is expected 
to widen further in 2006.  The increase in the imported energy bill alone is anticipated to 
account for an estimated 1.5 percentage point of GNP increase of the current account deficit 
relative to 2005.  Other risk factors include financial market perceptions and hence public 
debt sustainability, spillovers from global liquidity tightening, or an eventual emerging 
market crisis.  These factors would affect Turkey’s macroeconomic situation because of the 
still large debt to GNP ratio, although this ratio has decreased and is expected to continue to 
decrease rapidly.  Additionally, the reform program contains actions, most notably 
parametric reform of the pension system, which have proven difficult, if not impossible, to 
implement in a large number of other countries –whether developed or developing. The 
approaching elections scheduled for late 2007 might cause a pause in the overall reform 
effort.    
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects: 
The PPDPL program will 
contribute substantially to a long-term positive impact on poverty in Turkey, as it is designed 
to increase the effectiveness and coverage of the social security system and social safety-net.  
As for the gender issues, the reforms supported by the PPDPL program should have a 
positive impact on women.  Women will benefit disproportionately from the introduction of 
UHI, where those currently uncovered (estimated at between 6 and 22 percent of the 
population) will be provided with full basic health coverage for the first time. The PPDPL 
reforms contribute to a pro-poor development agenda.  UHI will extend the benefits of 
modern health care services to the poorest 20 percent of the population.  Many of the reforms 
that are to be supported under PPDPL were envisaged in the Government’s Urgent Action 
Plan (UAP).  At that time, social security reform, tax reform, public expenditure and 
financial management reforms, service delivery and job creation were all listed as being part 
of the Government addenda.  Because of the nature of the policy actions supported under the 
program and the substantial long-term positive impact on poverty which is envisaged as a 
result of PPDPL, this operation in unlikely to have any significant negative effects on the 
environment.   
Page  4
8. 
Contact point
 
Contact: Rodrigo A. Chaves 
 
Title: Lead Financial Economist 
 
Tel: (90+312) 459-8359 
 
Fax: (90+312) 446-2442 
 Email: 
RChaves@worldbank.org
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
