                                                                                                                93804
                                                                                                               February 8, 2012
Sustaining Growth with Jobs and Better Services in Turkey
Tunya Celasin, Sr. Communications Officer in the World Bank
office in Ankara, offers this story.
                                                                   Photo Gallery
From 2002 to 2006, Turkey undertook wide-ranging financial,
economic, and public sector reforms. As a result, growth
accelerated and public finances improved, with public debt in
2006 at 48% of GDP, down from 78%. Poverty rates declined
sharply. Yet, sustained progress was threatened by
challenges in reforming public finances, and outdated
regulations hindered investments. Unemployment remained
high, and the labor market was largely unskilled. The sharp
deterioration in the global economy in 2008 added to these
                                                                   Related Links
challenges.

The first Restoring Equitable Growth and Employment                The World Bank in Turkey
Development Policy Loan (REGE DPL 1) in 2010 streamlined           Restoring Equitable Growth and
World Bank support to Turkey at a critical time when               Employment Programmatic
unemployment was 16% and GDP had contracted by 4.7%.               Development Policy Loan (REGE)
The loan financed crisis mitigation measures and World Bank        REGE DPL Press Release
advice. It also continued longtime support for Turkey's
                                                                   Turkey Programmatic Public Sector
employment and growth agenda, which was investing in job           Development Policy Lending (PPDPL)
creation while reforming social security and health care.
                                                                   Turkey Second Turkey Programmatic
The second Restoring Equitable Growth and Employment               Public Sector Development Policy
                                                                   Lending (PPDPL2)
Development Policy Loan (REGE DPL 2) loan supports
ongoing reforms of public finances, commercial law, and civil      Turkey Competitiveness and
procedures. In the past few years, Turkey has improved the         Employment Development Policy Loan
                                                                   (CEDPL)
transparency of its budget and how much information it
shares with the public. It is pushing forward to overhaul          Turkey Second Competitiveness and
                                                                   Employment Development Policy Loan
institutions as well as laws and regulations governing             (CEDPL)
commercial enterprises.
                                                                   Undersecretariat of Treasury
Through its health care and education reforms, Turkey has          Ministry of Finance
reached almost universal health insurance coverage, enrolled
                                                                   Ministry of Health
more children in pre-school, and dramatically increased
vocational training.                                               Ministry of Industry and Trade

Meliş Bozkurt has been earning her living cleaning houses for
the past 25 years. She is insured under the Universal Health Insurance program, which now covers 97%
of the Turkish population, thanks to the reforms supported by the World Bank.

With chronic asthma and shortness of breath, the 47 year old frequently goes to hospital and admits that
she never received good quality healthcare—until this year. "I used to take a couple of days off from
work when I had to go to the hospital in the past," she says. "I had to stand in line and wait literally for
hours to receive health services from doctors. Now it only takes me an hour maximum to get the
services and prescription from my doctor."

                         The Ministry of National Education has made substantial progress towards
                         achieving their goal of universal preschool education by 2014. When students
                         start school ready to learn, they have a better chance of getting a good
                         education and finding a job that pays well. And they have a better chance of
                         encountering a level academic playing field. In the first phase, enrollment of 5-
                         year olds in kindergarten increased in 32 provinces from 71% in 2008 to 92% by
                         the 2010/2011 school year. The program was expanded to 25 new provinces at
                         the beginning of 2010-11.
Melis Bozkurt
                      Özyurt Basic Education School in Ankara is one of the pilot schools where
kindergarten has become compulsory.
"Preschool enrollment is low in Turkey given the country's income level, and highly inequitable, with
fewer opportunities for children from disadvantaged backgrounds. However, development of the child
during the early years—cognitive and non-cognitive skills as well as physical growth and well-being—
lays the foundation for future learning, work, and life. Therefore, investing in early childhood education is
crucial for improving skills and reducing inequalities," says headmaster Ahmet Ülkü Özden.

While it educates children to be prepared to enter the workforce, Turkey is also working hard to create
jobs in the immediate term and for the future. Thanks in part to reforms of laws regulating business,
effects of the global crisis on unemployment were mitigated in Turkey. At the height of the crisis,
unemployment stood at 16%. It had dropped to 10% by early 2011.

                         Prof. Dr. Serdar Sayan, from TOBB-ETU University in Ankara says: "Turkey
                         bounced back from the recent global downturn much faster than many other
                         countries in the world. With a reform program in place right on time, long-term
                         fiscal sustainability of the health and social security systems were ensured, and
                         the Public Financial Management system was enhanced."

                         The second Development Policy Lending series supports the development of
                         small and medium size enterprises (SME). Professor Sayan says: "A good
Prof. Dr. Serdar Sayan   climate for business growth, productivity, and job creation was created, and to
                         date the other results of the reform program have been very positive. The share
of credit to SMEs in total credit has increased from 21.2% in 2009 to 23.8% in 2010. Vocational training
programs that SMEs benefit the most from have reached more than four times the population they
reached in 2008."

These ongoing reforms are expected to reduce poverty and inequality in Turkey over the long run.
