Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
Report No. 12467
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1850-SO)
NOVEMBER 9, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:          12467
Type: PCR
Public and Private Enterprise Division
Country Department II
Africa Regional Office
This document has a rest.icted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



WE-IGHTS AND MEASURES
I kilometer (km)           = 0.621 miles
1 square kilometer Ocm)    = 0.386 square miles
I kilovoi! (kV)            = 1,000 volts
1 megawatt (MW)            = 1,000 kilovolts
1 megavolt ampere (MVA)    = 1,000 kilovot amperes
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)      = 1 million kilowatt hours
1 ton of oil equivalent (toe)   = 10,500,000 kilocalories
bbl    = barrell                  MJ    =  megajoule
cm     =  centimeter              Mm3   =  million cubic meters
GW    =  gigawatt                 e3    -  cubic meter
ha     = hectare                  MIWh  =  megawatt hour
ktoe   =  kilotonnes of oil equiv.   od  =  oven dry
kW     =  kilowatt                kWh   =  kilowatt hour
LPG   =  liquified petroleum gas    sv   =  solid volume
M      = million                  t      = tonne
mcwb  = moisture content wet basis TCF   =  trillion cubic feet
tpa/tpy = tonnes per annum/per year twe    =  tonnes of wood equivalent
ABBBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB           African Development Bank
DANIDA        Danish International Development Agency
ECU           European Currency Unit
EIB           European Investment Bank
ENEE          Somalia National Electricity Corporation
ENEL          Italian Electric Utility
EPD           Energy Planning Department
EPU           Energy Planning Unit
FINNIDA       Finnish International Development Agency
FUA           Fund Unit of Account
GOS           Goverment of Somalia
IRAQSOMA   National Refinery
ISKIASH       National Cooperative
MNP           Ministry of National Planning
MJVD          Ministry of Juba Valley Development
NPA           National Petroleum Agency
NRA           National Range Agency
NWP           National Woodstove Project
ODA           Overseas Development Administration
RIP           Reference Investment Program
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
GOVERNMENT OF SOMALIA FISCAL YEAR = CALENDAR YEAR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
November 9, 1993
NEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion on Somalia
Plwer Rehabilitation and Energy Prolect (Credit 1850-SO)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Somalia - Power
Rehabilitation and Energy Project (Credit 1850-SO)" prepared by the Africa
Regional Office.  No Part II was provided by the Borrower.
The project aimed at rehabilitating and expanding the country's power
system, and at improving the Government's policy-making and implementation
capability in the energy sector. Although project implementation was generally
satisfactory through early-1991, it Was interrupted by the onset of civil war.
Any benefits that could have been derived from the project have most probably
been lost as a result. Due to exceptional country conditions and to the lack of
actual data on project results, the project is not rated.
The Project Completion Report is thorough and informative given the
circumstances but comments were not requested from co-financiers.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
Thfs document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recfpfents onty in the performance of
thefr officiat duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disctosed without Wortd Bank authorization.



FOR OFCML USE ONLY
SOMAUA
POWER REHABIITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
CREDIT 1850SO
PROJEAC COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE                                                                i
EVALUATION SUMM.ARY                                                    ii
PART k PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity                                                1
Background                                                      1
Project Objectives and Description                              2
Project Design and Organization                                 4
Project Implementation                                          5
Project Results                                                 8
Project Sustainability                                          9
IDA Performance                                                10
Borrower Performance                                           10
Project Relationships                                          11
Consulting Services                                            11
Project Documentation and Data                                 12
Conclusion, Follow-Up Action & Lessons Learned                 13
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE    15
PART mI: PROJECT PROFILE
Related IDA Loans and Credits                                  16
Project Timetable                                              17
Credit Disbursements                                           17
Project Implementation                                         18
Project Costs & Financing                                      19
Project Results                                                21
Studies                                                        22
Status of Covenants                                            23
Use of IDA Resources                                           24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
SOMALIA
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
CREDIT 1850-S
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Power Rehabilitation and Energy
Project in Somalia for which Credit 1850-SO in the amount of SDR 9.7 million (US$ 12.5
million equivalent) was approved on November 3, 1987. The last disbursement was on January
16, 1991. SDR 586,074.31 remains undisbursed. The credit was scheduled to close on June
30, 1992. Because of the civil war in the country, IDA suspended, effective March 19, 1991,
Somalia's witharawal rights.
2.    Parts I and m  of the report were prepared by the World Bank. Due to the security
situation in Somalia, field visits did not take place. The report was based on information
available in the project files of the World Bank and the files and recollections of the European
engineering consultants to the beneficiary.
3.    Parts I and III cannot be sent to the Borrower for comment because of the civil war.



- liI-
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives and Description
4.    The specific objectves of the project were: (a) to improve the efficiency and reliability
of power supply and distribution and to meet some of the unserved demand in Mogadishu,
Somalia's main economic area; (b) to sustain physical rehabilitation improvements; (c) to assist
Somalia National Electric Corporation (ENEE) in strengthening its performance in key
technical, financial and managerial areas; (d) to help (lOS to develop its capabilities for sound
energy planning and nolicy formulation particularly in the identification of least cost supply and
distribution options for petroleum products, and (e) to promote conservation of woodfuels
through disseminatioli of improved cooking stoves for higher cooking efficiency.
5.    The project was designed to: (i) rehabilitate, replace, and extend ENLE's generating,
transmission, and distribution facilities in Mogadishu; (ii) provide comprehensive advisory
services, operational support including line managers, and training to ENEE for three years in
all key corporate areas; (iii) provide technical assistance and logistical back-up resources to the
Mini3try of National Planning (MNP) to strengthen energy planning, carry out subsector
investment analyses and a least cost petroleum procurement and distribution study, and to
develop household energy supply and demand management policies; and (iv) provide technical
assistance and logistical back-up resources to the National Woodstove Project (NWP) to
promote cooking efficiency improvements.
Exverience and Results
6.    The project was originally scheduled to be completed by June 30, 1992 but Somalia's
withdrawal rights were suspended on March 19, 1991 due to the civil war.
7.    The estimated project cost was US$94.0 million of which SDR 9.7 nmllion equivalent to
US$ 12.5 million (13 percent of total costs) would be provided by IDA and about US$81.5
million equivalent would be provided by Government, ENEE, African Development Bank
(ADB), European Investment Bank (EIB) and Italian Goverment. Details of these financing
arrangements are shown in Table S.B. The last IDA disbursement was made on January 16,
1991. The toti amount disbursed from the Credit as of March 16, 1991 was equivalent to
about SDR 9.1 million.
8.    Major rehabilitation works of power station generators, plant and auxiliaries were
completed and as a result, considerable improvement in generating capacity was achieved.
Other works, including the planned commissioning of new diesel generators, however, were
suspended due to the civil unrest. Other components, including the training and technical
assistance programs were close to being completed prior to the suspension of disbursement in
March 1991.
Conclusions and Findings
9.    While the project execution abruptly ceased due to the civil unrest, it is worthwhile to
note that prior to this unforseen event, implementation of the works was carried out



- iii -
satisfactorily by ENEE with the assistance of the supervising consultants, Kennedy & Donkin
(K & D)). The training program was in its final phase of implementation and consultants (ESB
of Ireland) were in the midst of carrying out improvements in ENEE's management, financial
and engineering function. Within the energy components of the project, consultants (Louis
Berger International of USA) were also providing technical assistance to the Energy Planning
Department (EPD).
10.   It should be noted that, in addition, many improvements had been achieved in areas
such as billing and reduction of consumer payment arrears. A recovery plan intended to
improve ENEE's engineering and technical functions was also being undertaken. It was
unfortunate that none of these programs could be adequately completed due to the political
crlsis in Somalia.



SOMALIA
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PRO.ECT
(CREDIT 18SO-SM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROlECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECIE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name:    Power Rehabilitation and Energy Project
Credit No.:      1850-SO
RVP Unit:       Africa Country Department U, Public and Private Enterprise Division
Country:         Somalia
Sector:         Energy
Subsector:      Power
2.    Backerund
2.01   Somalia has limited energy resources.  The country's indigenous energy resources
consist of a fragile forest cover, other biomass, wind and solar energy. Geothermal and lignite
resources in the north are too small and remote from energy consumption centers to be of
economic value. The hydropower sources are concentrated in the upper Juba Valley near
Baardhere with potential average energy availability of 500 GWhlyear. At appraisal in 1987,
however, the Baardhere Project was only being designed and the earliest feasible completion
date was in 1994. In 1987 per capita energy consumption in Somalia was about 200 kilograms
of oil equivalent and 82% of this consumption was from woodfuels for household use. Almost
all petroleum products were imported at premium prices.
2.02 The country's power sector was very weak, with obsolescent and poorly maintained
generating plant and distribution systems. Several ministries had responsibilities for energy
sector development.  Due to lack of interaction and inadequate institutional and policy
framework, the operation was inefficient. ENEE, a parastatal corporation under the Ministry
of Public Works, was responsible for power operation in Mogadishu and six regional centers.
Power facilities were in poor condition owing to shortage of funds for spare parts, lack of
skilled manpower and inadequate operating and management systems. At project appraisal,
ENEE was able to operate only 20% of its installed generating capacity, meet less than 35% of
connected demand (30 MW) on the Mogadishu system and had not been able to connect a
further 10 MW of unserved demand. Power system losses were as high as 24% due to an
overloaded distribution network and umletered consumption. Unreliable power supply in
Mogadishu was frequently disrupting productive economic activities and fostering the build-up
of costly substitutes.
2.03  IDA's Energy Assessment Report 1985 recommended the strengthening of the energy
sector in Somalia as a priority. In response, GOS increased electricity rates by 97%, created a
national energy planning department, and liberated petroleum procurement regulations to allow



-2-
more private sector participation. A power master plan study was also completed. The project
was part of the country's priority investment program. IDA's support was intended to bring
about satisfaction of en:rgy demand at least economic cost. Furthermore, the project was
aimed to enable IDA to mobilize and focus donor mssistance on an urgently required and
comprehensive program of rehabilitation, institutional strengthening policy reform, and
commercial orientation in the power sector, thus supporting efforts to stimulate agricultural and
industrial production.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.01 The Power Rehabilitatior Project (Credit 1850-SO) for which this is the completion
report, X us the third IDA operation in the energy sector in Somalia. The first energy sector
prolect was the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project in 1980 and the second project was
the Afgoy Gas Delineation Project in 1984. nhe Power Rehabilitation Project was designed to
improve the efficiency and reliability of power supply and distribut.on and to meet some of the
unserved demand in Mogadishu, Somalia's main economic area. ElecWlzity was being supplied
from the 15 MW oil-fired steam unit at Gezira and from diesel engine gene.tors at Gezira and
Centrale. The Gezira 15 MW oil-fired steam unit had been financed by the Kuwait Fund and
Arab Fund and commissioned in January 1985. Tbe adjacent Gezira diesel station had a
nameplate capacity of 27.5 MW consisting of five similar 5.5 MW diesel generators, of which
two were commissioned in 1978, two in 1979 and the fifth in 1984. The Centrale station
contained four 1.2 MW diesel units which were all more than 25 years old, and four 2.7 MW
units which were commissioned between 1968 and 1977. Among other things, the project was
designed to rehabilitate these diesel units which were not being properly maintained due to lack
of maintenance expertise and lack of funds for spares and replacement parts.
3.02 The project was identified during the visit of an IDA mission to Somalia in March
1986. Subsequently, an appraisal mission visited Somalia in March 1987 at which time an IDA
finacing plan including co-financing by ADB, EIB and the Italian Government was proposed.
An IDA credit for SDR 9.7 million was negotiated in September 1987, approved in November
1987, signed on December 17, 1987 and became effective on June 30, 1988. The delay
between approval and effectiveness was due to delays in full compliance with conditions of
effectiveness including: (a) finalization of ENEE's insurance coverage; (b) obtaining cleaance
from the Ministry of Defense for right of way for the transmission line into North Power
Station; (c) completion of lending a r- ments between ENEE and EIB and ADB; and (d)
finalization of a management contract bt.ween ENEE and consultants (K&D).
3.03   Project lbjectives: Ihe project's primary focus was to:
(a) improve the reliability of electricity availability in the Mogadishu area
through carefully planned and competently executed programs of
generation, transmission and distribution rehabilitation and expansion;
(b) rebuild ENEE's financial performance to restore and maintain viability
through a well defined set of reform measures and performance
parameters; and



(c) strengthen ENEE's managerial, operational and planning capacities to
sustain physical improvements through assistance, training, and system
improvements.
Additional objectives were to prepare ENEE for taking on the additional tasks and
responsibilities that the Baardhere Project would generate; strengthen national energy planning
and policy formulation capability; identify least cost supply and distribution options for
petroleum products; and promote conservation of woodfuels through dissemination of improved
cooking stoves and development of efficient charcoal production and marketing.
3.04   Moect Description: The project consisted of three major components:
3.05  Pwer Coampments
(a) Generation Rehabilitation.   (i) at Gezira diesel power station,
maintenance and rehabilitation by contrietors of units and station
auxiliaries, rewinding of spare stator, provision of new engine for unit
No. 2; provision of fire detation and prevention scheme and new high
intensity lighting scheme, provision of three years diesel generator and
auxiliaries spares; (ii) under the Italian components at Centrale diesel
power station, rehabilitation of unit auxiliaries and fuel treatment plan,
repair/rewind of three alternator stators, provision of fire detection and
preventi,n equipment, provision of diesel generator and auxiliary
spares;
(b) Generation Expansion. (i) at the proposed 33 kV North sub-station, the
installation of about 10 MW of heavy residual fuel oil-burning diesel
generation; (ii) under the Italian component, at Gezira site the
installation of a 15 MW heavy fuel-oil fired steam unit;
(c) Transmission and Distribution Rehabilitation and Expansion.  (i)
procurement of materials, for installation by ENEE, for the
construction of 33 kV overhead and underground feeders in Mogadishu
and 33 kV transmission lines to the towns of Afgoy and Balad; (ii)
turn-key contract for provision and installation of new 33 kV switching
and 33/15 kV substations and extensions to existing 33 kV switchyards;
(iii) under the Italian component, rehabilitation of existing 15 kV
network, and replacement with new 15 kV reticulation of 3 kV
network, together with 20,000 new and 5,000 replacement consumer
services; and
(d) Genarl P-lant. (i) provision of about 20 vehicles of various types,
spares for existing vehicles, automotive repair tools and plant for
vehicle maintenance workshop; (ii) provision of radio communications
system; (iii) computers, accounting and billing machinery, and
equipment; and under the Italian component, (iv) vehicles for use of
distribution staff; and (v) expansion of existing pole factory.



-4-
3.06  Ihtutional Ccmpoents
(a) Cnultan  seim  (i) for project management to assist ENEE in the
procurement, engineering design, construction supervision and
commissioning of the various project components; and (ii) provide for
three years, seven staff to occupy the five line positions of Assistant
Directors of Projects, Finan.e, Generation Operations, Generation
Rehabilitation and Mainte'sance, and Transmission and Distribution, and
the two posts of Training Manager and Planning Adviser; these staff
each to have Somali counterparts to be trained as replacements; and
(b) Technical Assistance to recruit 11 engineers and technicians to be
financed under the credit and employed by ENEiE for three years in
various positions to belp improve ENEE's operations and procedures in
generation, transmission and distribution, construction, operation and
maintenance.
3.07  EnergM Coong
(a) Energy Planning Sunort. One full-time resident energy advisor for a
period of three years with administrative and logistical back-up
resources to be provided to strengthen energy planning and
administration of EPD.   Twenty-one staff-month  of short-term
technical assistance and consulting services provided to support
petroleum procurement, refining, marketing and pricing studies, the
development of household supply and demand management strategies,
and subsector investment analyses. Twenty to thirty staff-months of
overseas short-term training to be provided as well as in-country
training in various fields of energy planning.
Q) Cooking Efficiency Improvements. Three staff-months of technical
assistance and logistical back-up resources provided to improve
soapstone marketing and distribution, to advance improved metal stove
technology, and to further promotion, dissemination, and extension of
improved ceramic stoves.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.01   The project was adequately prepared and in line with the investment priorities stipulated
in the Priority Investment Program. Under a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance,
consultants prepared the power rehabilitation program which eventually was to be financed by
ADB, EIB and IDA, and technical specifications and bidding documents. ENEL, the Italian
Electric Utility, prepared the Italian components of the project which would be financed by
Italy. The energy planning and cooking efficiency components were prepared joindy by Bank
mission staff and Energy Planning Department (EPD)/National Woodstove Project (NWP).
4.02 The project was designed to alleviate some of Somalia's problems in and around
Mogadishu in the energy sector such as limited energy resources, inefficiencies in the utilization



- 5 -
of physical supply facilities, and inadequate institutional and policy framework.  These
objectives were clearly understood by all parties involved in the project. The scope and scale
of the project focused on immediate priorities in the power and energy subsectors. The project
was proposed at a time when the government was trying to sustain implemeatation of existing
policy reforms and undertaking new policy measures necessary for exploiting production
growth possibilities. In this regard, therefore, the timing of the project was very appropriate.
4.03   Several Government institutions were responsible for the energy sector. The Ministry
of National Planning (MNP) organized information on public investment projects and created
the Energy Planning Department (EPD) for undertaking planning and policy coordination
activities in the energy sector. Execution of the energy components of the project was assumed
by EPD with assistance of IDA through provision of technical assistance aimed at improving
the standards of energy investment planning and strengthening EPD's capability for policy-
making and coordination.  Power components were executed by Ente Nazionale Energia
Elattrica (ENEE). ENEE, which was Somalia's national power utility under the supervision of
the Ministry of Public Works, was responsible for electricity supply in Mogadishu and the main
regional centers in Hargeisa, Berbera, Burao, Baidoa and Kismayo. Prior to project execution,
IDA ensured that the roles and responsibilities of the institutions and agencies were clearly
defined.
5.    Project Implementation
5.01  Implementation.  Project implementation was generally satisfactory.  There were,
however, several major variances between what was planned and actual project implementation.
5.02   Only four of the five 5MW  diesels at Gezira Power station were programmed for
rehabilitation. This was due to the cost of rehabilitation being considerably higher than
estimated in the budget prepared by the consultants employed under the PPF (para. 4.01). The
increase in cost was primarily due to unforseen increases in the scope of work. Although ODA
provided additional funds for the increased scope of work, there were not enough funds from
the IDA credit to cover the overrun and only three of the remaining four machines were fully
rehabilitated.
5.03   The Italian Government pledged about US$ 50 million for the reinforcement and
rehabilitation of the distribution system and the provision of a second 15 MW heavy fuel-oil
fired steam unit at Gezira. The Italian Government also pledged to supply two black start
generators of 2.5 MW each which were badly needed due to the adverse power supply situation
in Somalia. By the outbreak of hostilities some of these comnmitments had not been fulfilled.
The component which was fmanced by the Italian Govermnent was the emergency
reinforcement of the transmission system in the Medina area (near the airport), and a successful
linesmen's training course. It would have been better if these commitments had not been made
by the Italian Goverment because a reduced but balanced scope of work in these areas could
have been initially programmed and funds sought elsewhere. In view of the foregoing events
and given the state of the distribution system in Mogadishu and the high level of losses, the
project was unable to reinforce and rehabilitate one of the areas which could have offerred a
high rate of return.



- 6 -
5.04 The project was designed to rehabilitate the diesel power stations at Gezira to revive the
generating capacity of these units for increased reliability of electric supply in Mogadishu.
However, during project execution, the consultants noted that the in3fficient operation of the
existing 15 MW steam station at Gezira was resulting in a severe loss in capacity. According
to the consultants, the problem was mainly caused by the encrustation of the Economiser and
heat exchanger because of the use of unsuitable fuels, poor operation and lack of adequate
maintenance. The rehabilitation of this station was not part of the project and as a result, it
was not possible to rehabilitate the unit irmnediately.
5.05  There was also a delay in completion of the communication compor.ent, the last of the
contracts financed by African Development Bank (ADB). The communication component
included provision for 2-channel radio communication system with sets installed in each
vehicle, substation and power station. The delay occurred because ADB withheld full payment
of the contract and was unable to fund the full cost of the contract immediately. ADB advised
ENEE that it would have to wait another year before it could release all the needed funds.
This was due to ADB's policy to hold a portion of its funds to cover possible currency
fluctuations. In order to avoid extended delays in completion of this component, ENEE and its
consultancy management team proposed to ADB a revision in the scope of work which would
reduce the cost of the contract but would enable completion of some parts of the
communication system. However, ADB considered it prudent not to allow the use of funds for
the reason mentioned above, and as a result execution of this component was delayed about a
year.
5.06 Consultants hired by ENEE made good progress in assisting ENEE in its recovery plan
to improve the utilty's financial functions (para. 6.03). There was significant increase In bill
production capacity from 52% of target in June 1990 to almost 80% in August and September
1990. This was achieved as a result of the introduction of additional equipment and staff and
daiy monitoring of billing progress. Meter reading arrears were also completely eliminated
although the quality of meter reading remained poor due to difficulty encountered by readers in
gaining access to houses of domestic consumers. Monthly average collections increased from
SoSH 229 million in June 1990 to about SoSh 406 million in September 1990. During the later
part of the project period, ENEE continued to introduce remedial measures for further
enbancing its billing and collection operations through: (a) restructuring of the billing service;
(b) intensive program of cash collections and disconnections; (c) computerization, including
recruitment of staff and training; and (d) introduction of a meter security program.
5.07 fnerie Components. Implementation of the energy components consisting of technical
assistance to the Energy Planning Departnent (EPD) and cooking efficiency program was
relatively problem free. Consultants were mobilized in early 1989. The consultants provided
assistance to EPD in the following areas: (a) continous formulation and replanning of a
comprehensive energy policy; (b) provision of reliable data on energy demand throughout the
national economy; (c) provision of an Energy Advisor for a period of three years to assist in
the preparation of policy guidelines and statements, assist in the preparation of an energy
master plan and execute a staff training and development program; (d) provision of short term
consultants to undertake studies in household energy utilization, commercial wood fuel
utilization and petroleum products and refinery operation; (e) in-service and external training
progr.ims in energy policy planning and management, biomass production and supply, renewal
energy technologies, economics and finance, and computer literacy training programs; and (t)



-.7-
dissemination of information regarding energy resources, energy saving methods and the use of
energy-efficient equipment.
5.08   Project Risks. There were no major risks Identified during appraisal. The project was
intended to improve physical and institutional operation of ENEE and the proposed program
improvements were almost fully completed prior to the civil war. Despite the unforseen
closure of the project, it can be considered a success in view of the tlmely execution and
completion of most of the physical components of the ptoject.
5.09   Several unforseen factors, however, affected project implementation. The major one
was of course the outbreak of the civil war which in a very short period of time totally
invalidated the physical progress that had been made. Towards the end, project implementation
was also affected by the frequent theft of conductors which caused service maintenance
difficulties in many areas. The theft incidents, however, were reduced drastically when the
Government introduced the death penalty for this offense. Power supply reliability was also
affected by the lack of heavy fuel oil. This was caused by the National Petroleum Agency's
(NPA) insistence to be paid cash in advance prior to delivery of fuel. IDA, and other donors,
assisted to resolve this problem when it recommended the formation of a committee responsible
for making decisions on fuel supply related issues. The committee membership included staff
from ENEE, the Ministry of Planning and NPA. A problem also occurred in the provision of
make up water for the steam turbine at Gezira while the rehabilitation of the diesel units was
underway. The steam station's distillers went out of action for several months which led to
periods of curtailment of steam generation while supplies of make up water were being
produced instead. The problem was resolved when additioral desalination facilities were
purchased financed by ENEE's self-generated funds.
5.10   Project Cos. The total cost of the project was estimated at about US$ 94 million. The
foreign components of the project were financed as follows: US$ 12.5 million from IDA, of
which US$ 10.3 million was onlent to ENEE to finance technical assistance and purchase of
equipment, capital spares, and vehicles; US$ 1.3 million for operating spares made available to
ENEE by the government against payment of a matching amount in local currency; US$ 9.5
million and US$ 14.7 million equivalent from ADB and EIB respectively; and US$ 50 million
equivalent of grant finds from the Italian Government as parallel financing for the project. As
implementation of the Italian component needed to be in-step and parallel to those components
funded by other donors to ensure balanced and economically viable rehabilitation results, ADB,
EIB and IDA at appraisal confirmed with the Italian Government the content, schedule, and
disbursement pattern of its funding.
5.11 Allocation of Credit Proceeds. The original allocation of funds and final disbursements
for the credit are shown in Table 5, Part III. The total credit amount was SDR 9.7 million of
which about SDR 9.1 million or about 94% was disbursed. The credit was expected to close
on June 30, 1992 but due to the civil war in Somalia, the credit was suspended on March 19,
1991. The last disbursement against the credit was made on January 16, 1991 and as of that
date approximately SDR 586,074.31 remains undisbursed.



-8-
6.     Uroject Results
6.01   Despite the unstable security situation in Somalia during project implementation, the
rehabilitation program of three of the five Gezira units was completed in June 1990. This
helped improve the generation capacity at ENEE from 9MW at appraisal to 27MW about 3
years later. The transmission and distribution components of the project, however, were not
fully accomplished mainly due to the worsening security situation in Somalia during the latter
part of the project period. As a result, most of the project activities were confined to the
central Mogadishu area. The security problem in Somalia also forced DANIDA (although not a
co-financier of this project) which was also operating in the sector to cancel the overhead
transmission lines from the new 3 X 600 Diesel Power Station at Shalambod to Merca and the
project to install wind turbines at Merca and Brava. Furthermore, the Italian Government's
contribution to supply and install a second steam set at Gezira and for the upgrading of the
transmission and distribution in Mogadishu did not materialize.
6.02   The technical assistance program under the energy components of the project (para.
5.07) was also in its final stage of implementation just prior to the war. The technical
assistance program was expected to lay the groundwork for: (a) establishment of adequate
energy policies and strategies consistent with the economic activities and priorities of the
country; (b) identification and subsequent promotion of alternative sources of energy; (c)
development, production, pricing, marketing and distribution of woodfuels; and (d)
development of efficient industrial energy use and options for potential conservation and
substitution.
6.03  Institutional and Financial Performance.  ENEE carried out the following activities
which helped improved its financial and operational performance:
(a) increased tariffs to, a satisfactory level and kept the rates at and at times
above LRMC in real terms;
(b) kept more up-to-date financial accounts which enabled the external
auditors to examine and audit ENEE's books within six months of the
close of the financial year;
(c) implemented an improved main ledger system and revised the fixed
assets register in August 1990 and thereafter kept up-to-date data on a
monthly basis;
(d) substantially increased staff salaries to a nationally competitive level as
a condition of credit effectiveness and introduced a bonus scheme for
its staff aimed at increasing morale and improving productivity;
(e) carried out programs to improve billing and collections including a
meter security program which involved visits to consumers to identify
faulty metering, illegal connections and irregular meter reading and
acquisition of additional equipment, recruitment of staff and increased
computerization;



-9-
(t) established a severe disconnection policy for domestic consumers in
Mogadishu area and reduced receivables from 240 days prior to
negotiations to 90 days prior to credit effectivness.  This was an
important linkage because ENEE's staff realized during the project
preparation cycle that improvements in the level of ENEE's receivables
would lead (if the credit were to become effective) in automatic large
salary and wage increases just prior to effectiveness. Government's full
support helped achieve positive results in the scheme;
6.04 Following the employment of its consultancy team, ENEE:
(a) carried out a comprehensive audit of all branches to determine
consumer arrears, identify accounts to be disconnected, dispose of bad
debts, investigage discrepancies and improve control;
(b) undertook a reorganization program and restructured ENEE as an
independent public utility;
(c) carried out a comprehensive training and fellowship programs for both
financial and operational staff within and outside the country; began,
under Italian funding, an apprenticeship scheme which included training
for 50 linesmen and other technicians; and
(d) strengthened ENEE's corporate planning functions through adoption of
properly defined functional objectives within the imposed constraints
and priorities.
6.05   Rate f Return. The economic rate of return at appraisal was determined as the net
incremental benefits of the Mogadishu power development program to 1994 which was
equivalent to about 25% at the time of appraisal. It is difficult to estimate the economic rate of
return due to reasons stated earlier. One of the incremental benefits derived from the project,
however, was thb increased generation output, from 9 MW as of September 1987 to 29 MW as
of December 21, 1989 or about a 45% increase, after the rehabilitation of the diesel units. The
increased power generation to meet otherwise unserved demand was greatly beneficial.
7.    Project Sustainability.
7.01   The implementation of the project was carried out by ENEE and the IDA-financed
consultants in a relatively smooth manner.  The various project management, technical
assistance, management and financial management support and training undertaken by ENEE
with the assistance of consultants were successful. The positive attitude of ENEE in adopting
most of the institutional and operational reforms and its active dialogue with IDA implied that
ENEE could sustain the level of efficiency it had achieved. It should also be noted that GOS
and ENEE were preparing the next power project to be proposed to IDA for financing just
before the unexpected closure of the project. In an unusual initiative, even after civil war
broke out, representatives of GOS and ENEE travelled to IDA headquarters to propose the
details of this next operation.  Such enthusiasm  indicated that implementation of the



- 10 -
improvement action programs and activities to promote the reinforcement and strengthening of
ENEE's absorptive capacity would have continued.
8.    IDA Performance.
8.01  IDA's involvement in this project formally commenced when an identification mission
visited Somalia in March 1986. From that period and throughout the project, IDA was able to
make positive contributions to the development of the sector at a time when the country's
energy sector was very weak due to lack of adequate institutional and policy framework. IDA
also correctly identified and prioritized rehabilitation of key power generating stations which
were unable to operate at rated capacity due to lack of needed replacement and spare parts.
IDA provided sufficient funds to support a comprehensive technical assistance program for
ENEE and the government. IDA's insistence for improvements of ENEE's compensation
package and allocation of resources for project management and operational support with
training as an integral part minimized the difficulties in implementing the various institutional
and operational reforms under the technical assistance program.  Close monitoring and
assistance by IDA during initial stages of project execution also helped minimize delays in
appointments of consultants.
8.02  Table 8-B gives details of the supervision missions which were at the pace of two visits
each year between 1987-1989. The last supervision mission was carried out by IDA in
November 1989 at which time all project contracts had been finalized and discussions were held
to identify the components of the next energy project in Somalia.
8.03  Although there were difficulties in telephone and in communications in general and the
economic and political situation was more uncertain than experienced under other similar
projects, the frequency and timing of the missions was reasonable. Vigilant supervision by
telex to and from Washington enabled IDA to adequately assess the progress of implementation
and provide the needed recommendations to facilitate project execution.
8.04 SDR 11.9 million out of the total IDA credit of SDR 12.5 million was disbursed which
suggests that execution of major contracts financed under the credit was undertaken almost
within the proposed schedule and with minimum delays.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.01 The amount of SDR 12.5 million was borrowed by the Somali Democratic Republic
from IDA and an amount not exceeding the equivalent of US$10.3 million was on-lent to
ENEE, the executing agency for the power components of the project. The remaining funds
were used to carry out the technical assistance program for the Energy Planning Department
(para. 5.06). Table 7 in Part 111 contains a review of the performance of the borrower and
ENEE in complying with the covenants of the development credit and project agreements.
During project preparation, appraisal and supervisions, government and ENEE demonstrated
their commitment to the project, and cooperated well with the members of the IDA mission.
Govemment and ENEE's overall performance during project execution was generally
satisfactory.



- 11 -
10.   Project Relationship
10.1 The relationship between IDA and Government and ENEE was good. The difficulty in
communications between the borrower and IDA, caused mainly by a poor telephone system in
Mogadishu and lack of international telecommunications facilities was overcome through bi-
annual supervision missions which were always well received by the government and ENEE.
IDA also maintained adequate contact with the donors and contributing agencies. ENEE and
IDA, however, met some difficulties when they were unable to secure the remaining
undisbursed contribution to the project pledged by the Italian Government (para. 5.03). Up to
the time that IDA disbursement was suspended, the expected remaining funds from the Italian
Government did not materialize and GOS was not formally advised why these commitments
were not forthcoming.
11.   Consulting Services
11.01 Power Components.  The project provided for IDA-financed technical consultancy
services to assist ENEE in overall project management, detailed planning and supervision of
execution of most of the works. Consultants provided expert assistance in the following areas:
(a) procurement, engineering design, construction supervision and commissioning of the various
project components; (b) recruitment of competent personnel to help improve ENEE's operations
and procedures in generation, transmission and distribution, construction, operation and
maintenance; and (c) formulation and implementation of a set of insdtutional, operational and
investment measures to strengthen the reliability and efficiency of ENEE's financial
management, particularly in the areas of customer billing, collections and record keeping; plant
accounting; inventory management and control; financial accounting and financial statement
preparation; and financial planning and forecasting. The consultancy team members, resident
in Mogadishu, held fully responsible, in-line executive posidons in ENEE's structure at the
management and technical levels. The services provided by the consultants were satisfactory.
11.02 Energy Components. One full-time resident energy advisor with administrative and
logistical back-up resources was hired for a period of three years to help strengthen energy
planning and administration of EPD. Twenty-one staffmonths of short-term technical assistance
and consuldng services were also programmed to support petroleum procurement, refining,
marketing and pricing studies, the development of household supply and demand management
strategies, and subsector investment analyses.
11.03 Three staffmonths of technical assistance and logistical back-up resources were
undertaken to improve soapstone stove marketing and distribution, to advance improved metal
stove technology. An evaluation was made that the future of soapstone stoves was limited
because of natural resource constraints.  A recommendation was, therefore, made by the
consultants to further promote, disseminate, and extend utilization of ceramic and scrap metal
stoves.
11.04 There were several studies and programs completed or started during the course of
project implementation and the status of these activities as of December 1990 was as follows:
(a) Petroleum Supply and Pricing Study. This study was carried out to
identify problems in oil importation, refining, and distribution in



- 12 -
Somalia. The study concluded that the continued operation of the
refinery in any scenario would be at an economic loss to the country,
and direct import of finished products from the surplus areas of the
Middle-East would be the least cost option for Somalia. The report
also recommended that the facilities for product import, storage and
distribution should be rehabilitated and modernized to improve
efficiency of operation and reduce the cost of products delivered.
(b) National Energy Balance. This was carried out in-house, under the
technical direction of the Energy Adviser. A detailed methodology
was prepared and the energy balances for the period 1980-1990 was
completed. The results of the study were prepared for publication;
(c) Commercial Woodfiels and Household Energy Studies. Monthly
energy price surveys were conducted in Mogadishu's 29 main markets
to determine actual prices of commercial woodfuels. Terms of
Reference of the commercial energy consumption phase of the study
was prepared including a proposal to engage one expatriate and some
local consultants to assist in the study. One of the main conclusions
of the study was that kerosene was the only viable alterative to
charcoal in the urban areas and that the massive introduction of this
fuel was the only way to mitigate environmental degradation in the
immediate future.;
(d) Agricultural Energy Reguirements. This study was recommended
because it was determined that agriculture was one of the main
energy-deficit sectors in Somalia. Data collection from large farms
including Juba Sugar and Somalifruit was completed. A further
proposal was made to hire one expatriate and one local consultant, as
well as a small team to collect additional data for analysis and
preparation of un assessment of future agricultural energy
requirements in the country;
(e) Household Energy Requirements. This study was completed with the
assistance of the EEC, in collaboration with Fursade, a private
organization.   The study, however, was carried out without
coordination with either EPD or NWP although data from both
institutions were utilized; and
(f) Energy  Information  System  and  Data Bank.   A  provisional
information classification system was established with the assistance of
the Energy Adviser, and with the help of a locally-recruited
expatriate.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.01 The staff appraisal report identified key areas for strengthening the physical and
institutional aspects of the Borrower's operations. This enabled both IDA and the borrower to



- 13 -
carryout project implementation in a relatively smooth manner. The development credit and
project agreements were also adequate for achieving desired project objectives. Consultants
issued quarterly reports on the progress and status of various activities and operations which
were used in the preparation of this project completion report.
12.02 Part III of the PCR could not be adequately completed because of the lack of sufficient
detailed recent data from the project files and consultants quarterly reports. It was difficult to
establish a comprehensive project profile because up-to-date data were not regularly attached to
the supervision or back-to-office reports. In future, it would facilitate the preparation of PCR's
if project costs and financing, project implementation indicators, status of covenants, etc. were-
updated after the completion of each supervision mission.
13.   Conclusion. Follow-up Action and Lessons Learned
13.01 Despite the events in Somalia which completely eradicated the resu!ts which had been
achieved by the project, its overall execution was relatively problem-free. Furthermore, the
project Included a large amount of urgently required technical assistance which was needed to
sustain in the longer term the objectives set out in this project. Although the results of these
institutional objectives could not be adequately assessed due to the unforseen closure of the
project, the prospects were good that ENEE would attain an improved level of efficiency
because it actively implemented many of the improvement programs recommended by IDA and
the consultants during the course of the project.
13.02 As to the future, once the situation in Somalia improves and a more stable political
structure is established, and IDA resumes its lending activities, the energy sector should be
included as one of the top priorities for development assistance.
13.02 The following are some of the lessons learned from the project:
(a) The cost of the rehabilitation of the four 5 MW diesels at Gezira Power
Station was more thar. the amount originally programmed in the budget
due to unforseen increases in its scope of work. It is difficult to
estimate the scope of work for rehabilitation until the work is in
progress. Large, 35-40%, physical contingencies should perhaps be
included when costing rehabilitation woi& on complex items of
equipment such as large diesel generators;
(b) The IDA/ADB/EEC financed portion of the project concentrated mainly
on rehabilitating the diesel units and transmission network. During
project execution, however, it was noted that the existing 15 MW steam
station was contributing to the loss in generating capacity due to poor
operating procedures at this station.  A larger contingency should
perhaps have been included in the IDA credit to be used in the event
that the bilateral funding expected 'or this steam plant rehabilitation
failed to materialize;



- 14 -
(c) Probably the most useful lesson learned from this project is the positive
institutional and financial impact that can be achieved of firmly linking
upfront progress with the various steps in the preparation/effectiveness
of requiring tariffs, billing, and reduction of receivables to project
approval and effectiveness - with the latter triggering salary increases
for the staff of the assisted entity; and
(d) An ailing utility can be quickly brought back to reasonable health with
the infusion of outside assistance in line executive positions widt the
Government's full backing.



- 15 -
PART IT: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(We are unable to provide this part of the PCR because of the civil war in Somalia)



- 16 -
SOMALIA
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1850-SO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART 111 STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans and I or Credit
Credit Title    !     Prw             Y     f Approval           Stat
Afgoy Gas           Delineate sufficient       1984          The project was
Delineation Project   gas reserves for the                   technically closed on
(Cr.1464-SO;        production of the                        June 30, 1991.
SDR 17.5 Million).  Afgoy gas resource,
thereby developing a
domestic energy
source close to
Mogadishu.
Petroleum           Attract oil                1980          Completed and closed
Exploration         companies to                             in 1984.
Promotion Project    explore for
(Cr. 1043-SO; US$   petroleum in
6 Million).         Somalia.



- 17 -
Table 2. Project Timetable
IJm.   _._ _._  _,1~   _AI
Tim    _        Date Ptlnfl         D:ate Revised        Pa Actual
Identification                                             Mar. 1986
Preparation                                                 May, 1986
Preappraisal                                    ,          Dec. 1986
Appraisal Mission    Mar. 1987                             Mar. 1987
Post-Appraisal                                             Nov. 1987
Mission                                _
Credit Negotiation          -                              Sep. 1987
Board Approval     Nov.3, 1987                             Nov. 3, 1987
Credit Signature   __Dec. 17, 1987
Credit Effectiveness  Mar. 17, 1988    Jun. 17, 1988       Jun. 30, 1988
Credit Closing     Jun. 30, 1992                                    *
Credit Completion   Jun. 30, 1992    A                              *
* Because of the civil war in Somalia, the credit account could not be formally closed. The
project came to a complete standstill on March 19, 1991.
Table 3. Credit Disbursement (US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year    Appraisal Estimated                      Actual as %
l______________   Annual Cumulative  Annual Cumulative  Etimatd
1988          2.7    2.7          4.1     4.1             -152%
1989          3.7    6.4          4.7     8.8              138%
1990           3.4    9.8         3.1    11.9              121%
1991          2.0   11.8          0.03   11.9              101%
1992          0.7   12.5          0      11.9              95%



- 18 -
Table 4. Project Implementatign
Indicators                                 Appraisal Estimate          A
(for the year of 1990)     (1990)
Technical
Installed Capacity (MW)                        80.3                      *
Installed Dependable Capacity (MW)             46.0                      *
Pe.;k Demand (MW)                              39.0                      *
Capacity Surplus (MW)                           7.0                      *
Available Generation (MWhSO)                   383                       *
Total Requirement for sent-out energy (MWhSO)  244                       *
Deficit/Surplus in energy sent out               S                       *
Energy Generated (MWh)                         241                       *
Non-technical Losses (MWh)                       10                      *
Technical Losses (MWh)                          30                       *
Total Losses (% of generation)                   17                      *
Sales (MWh)                                    201                       *
Diesels (Gezira)(KWh/Liter)                     3.7                      *
Steam (Gezira) (KWh/Liter)                      3.0                      *
Institutional
New Salary Structure                           1988                      1988
Organizational Review/Adjustment               1989                      1989
No.of Consumers                              63,000                      *
Sales/Consumer per year (KWh)                 3,190                      *
No. of Employees                              1,086                      *
No. of Consumers per Employee                   58                       *
Financial
Independent Audit in place                     1987                      1987
Adequate Insurance Coverage                    1988                      1988
Consolidated Financial Statements             1987                       1987
New Billing and Collection System              1988                      1988
New Accounting System                          1988                      1988
Inventory Control System                       1988                      1989
Asset Registry and Revaluation                 1989                      1989
Financial MIS                                 1989                       not met 1/
* No information available.
1/ According to the Eighth Quarterly Report (September 1990) from the Project Management,
decision had been taken on a supplier for the hardware and software, but the implementation was
apparently far behind schedule.



- 19 -
Table 5. Project Cost and Financing
A. Project Cost (US$ Million)
UroJect Componeng         Appraisal Estimate               ctual*
Local Egtcign Tota)       LocI Foreign - .tAW
Generation
Rehabilitation             0.47  11.73  12.00
Expansion                  3.35  25.11  28.46
Transmission & Distribution
Rehabilitation             0.95   9.55  10.50
Expansion                  1.40  15.07  16.47
General Plant                 0.26   4.12   4.38
Project Management,
Technical Asst. & Training    1.22   5.82   7.04                    ..
Energy Sector Planning and
Studies                       0.10   0.70   0.80
Househe1d Energy
Demand Management             0.24   0.08   0.33
ENEE System Deve. Study       0.09   0.28   0.37
Project Preparation Facility         1.50   1.50
Base Costs                    8.08  73.76  81.85
Physical Contingencies        0.81   7.23   8.03     _       .       ...
Price Contingencies           0.46   3.69   4.15
IQI                 9.35  84.67  24 02
* No information available.



- 20 -
B. Project Financing -SS Million)
Sou-   .                                        APane9               Commerts      l
LoaQi  EQregn 1T      l    Po Eign    l     _ _ _
IDA
Categ-oryl
1. Spare Parts                     1.2                   1.7           On March 19, 1991,
2. Power Station Auxiliaries       1.6                   2.3           IDA suspended
3. Vehicle, Computers and                                               Somalia's withdrawal
Other Office Equipment           0.5                   0.1           rights for the project
4. Consultant Service &                                                 due to the civil war
Studies                          5.9                   5.9           in the country.
5. Training                        0.9                    0
6. Refunding of Project
Preparation Advance              1.5                   1.5
7. Unallocated                     0.9                   0.4
Total                          12.5  12.5            11.9   11.9    No_information
No information
available for actual
GOS                         0.4     -    0.4                           financing.
No information
available for actual
ENEE                        6.9      -    6.9                          financing.
2.0    2.0    Actual as of June
ADB                          -      9.5   9.5                           1990.
9.6    9.6    Actual as of June
EIB                          -     14.7  14.7                           1990.
No information
available for actual
Italian Government          1.9   48.1  50.0                           financing.
No information
available for total
Total                    9.2   84.8   2_               _ _ _   actual financing.



- 21 -
Table 6. Proect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicator       Appraisal Estimate       Actu            Estimated at Full
(for the year of        (1990)        Development
i ________________   1990)
Installed dependable
capacity (MW)               46                   *               61 (1992)
Energy generated
(WVh)                      241                                   305 (1992)
Ratio of demand to
sent out energy            0.99                  *               1.00 (1994)
Benefit of
incremental served
demand from
thermal (US$ 000)         29839                                 46488(2002)
Net economic
benefit (US$ 000)          3405                                 30684 (2002)
* No information available.
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal Estimate           actual (1990)
Economic rate of return(%)        25.3 (1994)                     *
Average tariff increase(%)         35 (1990)                     61
* No information available.



- 22 -
C. Financial Impact on ENEE
Indicator                   AppraisalEEstimate      A di
(for the year of       (1990)
1990)
(US$ million)
Electricity sales                                   33.28
Internal contribution to investment                  8.83                *
Investment program                                  54.78                *
Contribution to investment(%)                        16.00               *
Debt service coverage (times)                        2.40
Projected average tariff increase (%)               35.00                61
Rate of return (%)                                   6.10                *
No information available.
D. Studies
Studies                PuposeSaus                            Impac
Petroleum        During appraisal, IDA        Completed    Recommendations
Supply ard       requested Government to      in July,     provided in the study
Pricing Study    undertake this study in order to   1990.  might bring about
strengthen the procurement,               institutional reform.
marketing, and distribution
systems for petroleum products
and to evaluate the economic
viability of continuing refining
operations.
Commercial       The study was recommended    The studies
Woodfuels and    because of the importance of  were not
Household        household energy in Somalia    completed
Energy Studies    which was likely to grow faster
than the growth of industry and
intensive agriculture.



- 23 -
Table 7. Status of Covenants
Credit Agreement                          Status of Compliance
3.01(a) The Borrower shall cary out the project  Compliance. Three organizations were
through MNP, NWP and ENEE respectively.        competent in project implementation.
3.01(b) The Botrower shall relent, out of the  Compliance.
proceeds of the Credit, an amount not exceeding the
$10.3 million to ENEE under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
3.01(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights  Compliance.
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interest of the Borrower
and IDA and to accomplish the purpose of the
Credit.
3.01(d) The Borrower shall enter into a Foreign  Compliance.
Exchange Purchasing Agreement with ENEE.
3.02(b) The Borrower shall employ consultants  Compliance.
under the Bank's Guidelines.
3.04 The Borrower shall, not later than April 1,  Compliance with delay.
1988, submit to IDA proposals for the energy sector  Inception Report on Somali Energy
institutional reforn.                          Planning project was submitted in October
1989.
3.06 The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,  Not compliance.
1989, submit to IDA the Household Energy Survey,  Final report on Petroleum Supply and
the Petroleum Procurement and Distribution Study    Pricing was submitted in July 1990. The
and the Commercial Woodfuel Study.             other two were not done.
4.01(a) The Borrower shall maintain project    A major error occurred in recording
records and accounts adequate to reflect the   project component budget. US$ 300,000
operations, resources and expenditures of the  under W/Appl 18 should have been
Project.                                       recorded as belonging to category 4-a, but
was recorded as belonging to category 4-b.
As a result, the withdrawal applications
under category 4-b could not be processed
until after the Budget Reconciliation
Meeting held in Oct. 1990.
4.01(b) The Borrower shall fumish to IDA the   Audit reports for 87 and 88 were received.
annual audit report.                           No record available for 89 and 90 reports.
_________________________I____ I-



- 24 -
Table 8. Use of IDA Resources
A. Staff Inputs
A186     1987    1988    M92   1990    1991   1992   Total
Preappraisal    1.5    25.6
Appraisal              34.1    2.7
Negotiation                     10.9
Supervision                     11.6   10.1   12.9    2.3
Total          1.5     59.7    25.2   10.1   12.9    2.3        0       _L7J
B. Missions
Stage of Proj.    MonthYear    No.of Persons   Specializations   PerfQrmaa'fl
QCycle_                                        a/              Rating Statusb/
Preparation    May 1986               1              TS
Preappraisal   Aug. 1986              1              FA
Appraisal      Mar. 1987              3           FA,ECO,
ENG
Supervision    Nov. 1987              2           FA,ENG              1
Supervision    Apr. 1988              2           ECO,ENG             1
Supervision    Nov. 1988              2           ENG, FA             1
Supervision    May, 1989              1             ENG               I
Supervision    Nov. 1989              1             ENG               I
a/ ECO=Economist, ENG=Engineer, FA=Financial Analyst, TS=Training Specialist
b/ 1 =Problem free or no significant problems.



