Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6834-SO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOMALIA
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
September 29, 1987
Energy and Industry Operations Division
Africa Country Department II
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Somali Shilling (SoSh)
US$1.0 - SoSh 120
(as of January 1987)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)                      t   0.621 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)              =   0.386 square miles
1 kilovolt (kV)                           1,000 volts
1 megawatt (MW)                       =   1,000 kilowatts
1 megavolt ampere (IVA)                   1,000 kilovolt amperes
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)                     1 million kilowatt hours
I ton of oil equivalent (toe)             10,500,000 kilocalories
bbl      =  barrel                    MJ       = megajoule
cm       =  centimeter                Mm3      = million cubic meters
GW          gigawatt                  m3       = cubic meter
ha       = hectare                    MWh      = megawatt hour
ktoe     =  kilotonnes of oil equiv. od         = oven dry
kW, kWh  =  kilowatt, kilowatt hour  sv        = solid volume
LPG      =  liquified petroleum gas  t         = tonne
M        = million                    TCF      = trillion cubic feet
mcwb     =  moisture content          tpa, tpy = tonnes per annum, per year
wet basis                 twe      = tonnes of wood equivalent
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB           African Development Bank
DANIDA        Danish International Development Agency
ECU           European Currency Unit
EIB           European Investment Bank
ENEE          Somalia National Electricity Corporation
ENEL          Italian Electric Utility
EPD           Energy Planning Department
EPU           Energy Planning Unit
FINNIDA       Finnish International Development Agency
FUA           Fund Unit of Account
GOS           Government of Somalia
IRAQSOMA      National Refinery
ISKIASH       National Cooperative
MNP           Ministry of National Planning
MJVD          Ministry of Juba Valley Development
NPA           National Petroleum Agency
NRA           National Range Agency
NWP           National Woodatove Project
ODA           Overseas Development Administration
RIP           Reference Investment Program
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
GOVERNMENT OF SOMALIA FISCAL YEAR = CALENDAR YEAR



SOMALIA                 FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       Government of Somalia (GOS)
Amount:         SDR 9.7 million (US$ 12.5 million equivalent)
Beneficiaries:  Ihe  Somalia  National  Electric  Corporation  (ENEE),  the
Ministrv of National Planning (MNP), the National Woodstove
Project (NWP).
Terms:          40 years 1/
Project         The  project's  principal  objective  is  to  improve  the
Objectives:     efficiency and reliability of power supply and distribution
and to meet some of the unserved demand in Mogadishu,
Somalia's  main  economi.  area.    To  sustain  physical
rehabilitation lmprovementb, it woulid also assist ENEE in
strengthening its performance in key technical, financial,
and managerial areas.  The project would further help the
GOS to develop its capabilities for sound energy planning
and policy formulation, with particular attention being
given to identifying least cost supply and distribution
options for petroleum products. Finally the project would
promote conser.ation of woodfuels thro-igh dissemination of
improved cooking stoves for higher cooking efficiency.
Project         The proposed project would (i) rehabilitate, replace, and
Description:    extend ENEE's generating,  transmission, and distribution
facilities  in  Mogadishu;   (ii)  provide  comprehensive
advisory services, operational support including line
managers, and training to ENEE for three years in a1. key
corporate areas; (iii) provide technical assistance and
logistical back-up resources to the MNP to strengthen
energy planning, carry out subsector investment analyses
and least cost petroleum procurement and distribution
study, and develop 'oujsehold energy supply and demand
management policies, anid (iv) provide technical assistance
and logistical back-up resources to the NWP to promote
cooking efficiency improvements.
Project Risks:  The  main  risk  would  be  delays  in  implementation  and
non-sustainability  of  improvements.   This risk will be
minimized by the project's operational and management
support and systems improvement component and regular
monitoring of ENEE's financial performance.
Map:            IBRD 20526
1/ Onlending terms are 7.76% repayment period of 15 years after grace
period of 5 years.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Project Cost:
Foreign        Local         Total
- (US$ million)-
Generation
Rehabilitation                       11.73          0.47         12.00
Expansion                           25.11           3.35        28.46
Transmist.on and Distribution
Rehabilitation                        9.55          0.95         10.50
E;tpansion                           15.07          1.40         16.47
General Plant                            4.12          0.26          4.38
Project Management, Technical
Assistance and Training              5.82          1.22          7.04
Energy Sector Planning and Studies    0.70             0.10          0.80
Household Energy Demand Management    0.08             0.24          0.33
ENEE System Developtment Study           0.28          0.09          0.37
Project Preparatiott Facility            1.50           -            1.50
Base Costs                              73.76          8.08         81.85
Physical Contingencies                   7.23          0.81          8.03
Price Contingencies                      3.69          0.46          4.15
Total Project Costs                     84.67          9.35         94.02
Note: The project would be exempt from duties and taxes.
Financing Plan:
Foreign       Local      Total
…---- (US$ million)----
Government                                   -           0.4         0.4
ENEE                                         -           6.9         6.9
African Development Bank                    9.5           -          9.5
European Investment Bank                   14.7           -         14.7
Italian Govt.                              48.1          1.9        50.0
IDA                                        12.5           -         12.5
Total                            84.8          9.2        94.0
Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit
FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92
-------- US$ million 
Annual              2.7*    3.7       3.4    2.0       0.7
Cumulative          2.7      6.4      9.8   11.8      12.5
*Includes refinancing of PPF advance



SOMALIA
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pae
No.
I.  THE ENERGY SECTOR *ee................                           e      1
Introduction .............                                            1
Energy Consumption  I............................ ........... a...   1
Sector Organizations                                                  2
Energy Resources           ................................   .   2
Hydropower 2........ .....".............                            2
Hydrocarbon and Mineral Energy                                      3
Forests           3.ac.                       *   O.o   3
Other Biomass Resources                                             3
Wind and Solar .c....,.ccc.. ce,...a,e.ce..ac.c ececeeececeea   4
Epergy Supply                                                         4
Electric Power                      .........                       4
Crude Oil and Petroleum Products ..........................  4
Household Fuels ..........  .................................    5
Petroleum Procurement, Distribution, and Pricing                      5
Household Energy Supply and Utilization                               7
Woodfuels Production and Marketing                                  7
Woodfuel Prices ..............................             .        7
Stove Production and Marketing                                     8
Bank Participation in the Sector ..                                   8
Rationale for IDA's Involvement in the Energy Sector .............  8
II* THE POWER SUBSECTOR 9 .........c...9
Organization                                                          9
Sector Facilities .........,a.................,,...,.........a,..  9
Access to Service .........10
Characteristics of Present Supply and Consumptions.*.mpsie one,..  10
Power Demand Forecast        ....................... .f              12
Power System Development Strategy ..............@.......e......  12
Electricity Tariffs                                                  14
Aid Inflow                                                         15
III. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES ............................ 15
ENEE                               cec...    .e,                     15
Organization and Management .............,...............e...  15
Planning                                                           16
Engineering and Design ..........,.c.. .. 16
Operations, Maintenance and Status of Plant                        16
This report is the result of an appraisal mission which visited Somalia
from March 9-25, 1987. The mission was led by Juergen Franz (Senior
Financial Analyst) and included John Besant-Jones (Senior Economist),
Anthony Sparkes (Power Engineer) and Mike Bess (Energy Specialist, USAID).



Data Processing ...... ...ao.oa.oooooo.ooooo..ooo.o...oooooooooo 17
Billing and Collection * .....**o*o a...... ........................... 17
Accounting and Audit .....................  18
Insurance and Taxes a..                 a..................... ... 18
Personnel and Personnel Management   ...........,      ............ 18
Training ******************* *........ ..................... . 18
Management Information System (MIS) and Performance Indicators . 19
Energy Planning Department ................................ ..... 19
National Woodstove Project ....... .      ........ .... ............. 20
II.  INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND PROJECT *............... .................. . 20
Least Cost Power Reference Investment Program (RIP) for
Generati.on, Transmission and Distribution *....., ...............  20
System Studies ..   .............................*.  21
The Project    ..** * * * * * ... 21
Project Objectives           ..... .................. 21
Project Preparation              ...................  ,            21
Project Description                ...................  22
Power Components .......      ............             .           22
Institutional Components  **...... ...  OOooOooo oooooo*o *  23
Energy Components                            ..................... 23
Project Cost ............... ........  23
Project Implementation... .......... .0...... ..... 000000o0 .o..o    25
Implementation of the Power Components ........................     25
Implementation of the Institutional Components .................    25
Implementation of Energy Components .....       ..................... 25
Consulting Services ....................... ..........  .......... 26
Procurement 00000..........................00..0............ 26
Financing Plan  8............................. ,                  2
Disbursement 2!1
Monitoring and Reporting                                              29
Special Accounts              ,.                                      29
Environmental Aspects                                                 29
Project Risks a..........          ...... .......*........ o30
V.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                                     30
Introduction                                                          30
Financial Position and Past Operating Results                         30
Financial Restructuring of ENEE ........                              34
Financial Coulenants                                                  37
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ......000.00000000000.......... .   . O  37
The Need for the Project ... ....................... 37
Economic Costs and Benefits                                           38
Economic Rate of Return                                               39
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ....................          39
Agreements Reached *.........      .     o . ......... oo .... 00000....*.039
Conditions of Effectiveness 0000000 .............................. 40
Recommendation .                                                      41



LIST OF ANNEXES
1.1   National Energy Balance for 1986
1.2   National Petroleum Supply and Consumption 1980-1986
2.1   ENEE's Installed Generating Capacity
2.2   Mogadishu System Power Generation and Consumption 1978-1986
2.3   Mogadishu System Power Demand Forecast 1987-1994
2.4   Mogadishu System Generation Development Program 1987-1994
3.1   Corporate Performance Indicators
4.1  ENEE's Reference Investment Program (RIP) for Mogadishu, 1987-1994
4.2   Project Description
4.3   Project Management/Operational Support/Training
4.4   Implementation Schedule
4.5   Project Cost Table
4.6   Financing Plan
4.7   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5.1   ENEE Income Statements 1984-1994
5.2   ENEE Balzice Sheets 1984-1994
5.3  ENEE Sources and Uses of Funds 1984-1994
5.4   Assumptions used for Financial Analysis
6.1   Economic Return to the Mogadishu Power Development Program
7.1   Documents entered in Project File
MAP: IBRD 20526



SOMALIA
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
STAFE APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
Introduction
1.01       Somalia is a large but sparsely populated country of about 5.8
million people (excluding refugees).  I/   With an estimated annual per
capita income of US$260, it is among the poorest countries in the world,
and is classified by the United Nations as a least developed country.
Endowed poorly with known natural resources and a fragile environment for
agriculture, Somalia faces formidable constraints to economic development
in the face of a 3 percent  annual  growth of  population.    Livestock
production accounts for about 40 percent of GDP and 80 percent of exports,
but cannot increase substantially since the capacity of the rangeland is
almoet fully utilized. Growth of crop production, which accounts for about
12 percent of GDP, will require investments in irrigation rehabilitation
and development, as well as in other infrastructure, research and
extension, and thus can only be realized over the long term.  Development
of the tiny industrial sector is constrained, among other thangs, by a
scarcity of skilled labor and of personnel with technical and managerial
expertise, Somalia's economic development is a challenging task even with
the best policies.   Since 1983 the Government, with the support of the
donor community, has embarked on a program of policy reform to achieve the
twin objectives of financial stabilization, with economic adjustment and
growth through fostering greater market orientation. 2/
Energy Consumption
1.02            Total  energy  consumption  iucreased  at  7% annually  from
1.1 million toe in 1984 to 1.25 million toe in 1986 due to rising woodfuels
consumption and an increasing population.   Thus, the average annual per
capita consumption is about 200 kgoe, which is low by world standards but
is typical of sub-Saharan countries.   However, consumption of petroleum
products, which in Somalia are based on imported energy, declined by 12.5%
annually from 142.1 toe in 1984 to 109.6 toe in 1986. This drop reflected
a long-term declining trend, since in 1975 the consumption of petroleum
products was 172.5 toe. Consumption of electricity has increased steadily,
from 5.0 toe in 1975 to 13.9 toe in 1984 and 22.3 toe in 1986.  Woodfuels
accounted for 83% of total energy consumption in 1986 and were used mostly
for household cooking. Residential uses accounted for 90% of total energy
1/ The official figure used by the UNHCR for refugees in camps is
700,000.
2/ Somalia: Recent Economic Development and Medium-Term Prospects. World
Bank, Report No. 6542-SO (February 10, 1987).



- 2 -
consumption in 1986, transport Sor 5%, industry for 3%, agriculture for 1%
and  Government  and  commerce  for  1%.    The  Bank's  Energy  Assessment
Report 3/  of December 1985 provides further background information and
Annex 101 shows the national energy balance for 1986.
Sector Organizations
1.03        Several Government institutions have responsibilities in the
energy  sector.     The  Ministry  of  National  Planning  (MNP)  collates
information on public investment projects and has created an Energy
FTanning Department (EPD) for planning and policy coordination in the
energy sector. The Ministry of Mineral and Water Resources is in charge of
developing petroleum and other mineral resources as well as hydrological
resources, and it has responsibility for petroleum and natural gas
exploration.   The Ministry of Commerce supervises the National Petroleum
A4gency (NPA) which is responsible for importing and storing petroleum
products. The Ministry of Industry oversees IRAQSOMA, the operator cf the
petroleum refinery near Mogadishu. The Ministry of Public Works supervises
the national power utility, Ente Nationale Energia Elettrica (ENEE).  The
Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range, through its National Range
Agency (NRA) is responsible for forestry development. The Ministry of Juba
Valley Development (MJVD) is responsible for the preparation and execution
of the Baardheere dam project, a multipurpose scheme for power generation,
irrigation development and flood  control.   Proposals  regarding energy
pricing and investment which affect the overall economy have to be approved
by the Economic Commission of the Presidency.
1.04        Coordination between the Government agencies involved in the
energy sector on energy policy formulation, planning and investment
programming was only started with the recent creation of an energy planning
unit in MNP.   This unit has since been upgraded into a department (EPD).
During preparation of the proposed credit, the GOS indicated that EPD will
assume a central role with responsibility for overall energy sector policy
and planning.   Under the proposed project, IDA would provide technical
assistance to EPD to improve the standards of energy investment planning
and to strengthen the capability for policy-making and coordination.  The
proposed component also includes a national household energy survey to
rectify critical deficiencies in the state of knowledge on household energy
supply and demand. Terms of reference for the T.A. and studies under this
component were discussed with Government during project appraisal, and
Government's agreement to them would be sought at credit negotiations.
Agreement would also be sought on a joint review of the studies conclusions
and required follow-up action by GOS and IDA.
Energy Resources
1.05      Hydropower.  The hydropower resources of Somalia are concentrated
in the upper Juba Valley near Baardhere town with potential average energy
availability of about 500 GWh/year. The proposed Baardhere project, about
350 km from Mogadishu, is planned as a multipurpose irrigation, power and
flood control scheme.  Detailed design work  .s currently being undertaken
3/  Somalia: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector.   World Bank/UNDP,
Report No. 5796-SO (December 1985).



- 3 -
for a dam and powerhouse with a capacity of about 105 MW. The arrangements
for financing the project have yet to be finalized, several important
i,ssues remain to be resolved, and the earliest physically feasible
completion date for the project would be 1994, 4/
1.06      A few small sites for hydro development exist on the Juba river.
At the existing Fanoole diversion dam, there is an installation of 4.8 MW
which produces about 10 GWh per year.  A small storage dam could be built
at Saakow with an initial capacity of about 10 MW and an output of 80 to
90 GWh per year.   Both the Fanoole and Saakow sites have minimal firm
energy capacity which would be increased substantially with river regula-
tion made possible by construction of the Baardheere dam.   A number of
potential mini-hydro sites have been identified on the middle and lower
reaches  of  the  Shebelli,  Somalia's  other  river.    In  the  UN  report,
"Evaluation of Small Hydropower Sites" (1983), existing regulation barrage
sites at Balad, Jamame and Falkeeron were studied.  Of these only a 1.5 MW
hydro scheme at Balade barrage is likely to be economic,
1.07          Hydrocarbon  and Mineral  Energy.   There are indications of
petroleum and natural gas resources in the country, but exploration has not
yet  resulted  in  commercial  discoveries.    The  geothermal  and  lignite
resources thus far identified in northern Somalia appear to be too small
and remote from energy consumption centers to be of economic significance.
1.08         Forests.   Somalia's forests cover about 39 million hectares,
60% of land cover. The total standing volume of wood is estimated at about
800 million cubic meters and, with a natural growth rate of 1.5-2.0% per
annum, the annual wood supply would be approximately 12-16 million cubic
meters. However, much of the forest is inaccessible due to isolation from
poorly  developed  transportation  infrastructure.   The  total  accessible
wooded area is estimated at not more than ten million hectares with a yield
of not more than 3.5 million cubic meters as compared to an estimated
annual fuelwood consumption of approximately 6 million cubic meters.
Consequently, local patterns of supply and demand are seriously unbalanced,
and scavenging for fuelwood and charcoal production has denuded large areas
surrounding towns, villages and refugee camps,
1.09        Other Biomass Resources.   While there is considerable biomass
utilization in Somali households (for cooking), only bagasse accounts for
any commercial utilization of non-woody biomass resources,  The Juba Sugar
Company produces annually 80,000-100,000 tonnes of bagasse, which with
500-1,000 tonnes of fuel oil is used to generate about 10 GWh from the
sugar plant turbines for use in the sugar plant.  However, the efficiency
of power production from bagasse is low and could be increased with the
introduction of pre-drying, pelletizing and other measures, which would
4/ The World Bank intends to appraise the Baardheere Project during the second
quarter of 1988. A Baardhere T.A. Credit to assist with project preparation
has been appraised and is scheduled to be presented to IDA's Board of Directors
in December 1987.  Detailed design work is in progress, and Government of
Somalia plans to issue a request for bids for the major works in mid 88. The
optimization of the project power facilities is being studied by consultants
wich a report due by September 1987e  Major project issues include riparian
rights with Ethiopia and financing plan.



create surpluses to produce power for other uses such as pumping for
irrigation.  The use of other plant and animdti residues is limited due to
the limited crop pioduction and the difficulty of collecting residues for
energy use.
1.10       Wind and Solar.  In Somalia wind and solar energy have economic
potential for meeting energy requirements in rural areas due to the high
cost  of  supplying  conventional  energy  to  these  areas.   Water-pumping
windmills have been used in Somalia since the 1930s, and solar applications
have been used for about the past 20 years.   The Government attaches
importance to wind and solar energy, but the development of these renewable
energy forms is impeded by inadequate information about the resource base,
the absence of a coherent Government strategy and policies, and the lack of
effective institutions and of clea. institutional responsibility.   There
has been considerable external assistance for the installation and
operation of wind and solar equipment, but many installations have broken
down and are awaiting repair due to the lack of arrangements for
maintenance and supply of spare parts.
Energy Supply
1.11         Electric Power.   Electricity is supplied  in Mogadishu and
elsewhere in Somalia mainly from diesel generators, and in 1986 over 95% of
electricity generated by ENEE, municipalities, rural centers and self
producers was from imported fu.l.  About 4% was produced at the Fanoole
hydroscheme from where energy is distributed to rice irrigation pumping
schemes at Jilib which are supplied in the dry season by diesel-generated
electricity.   The remaining 1% was produced from privately owned bagasse-
fired steam units on sugar estates.  Final results for 1987 are unlikely to
differ from the 1986 actuals by more than a percentage point.
1.12       Crude Oil and Petroleum Products.  Somalia relies entirely on
imports of crude oil and refined products to meet petroleum products
demand.   Crude oil supplies have been erratic  since  the refinery was
commissioned in 1980, and have declined in volume since 1983. The decline
was compensated by an increase in imports of refined products to 1985, but
in 1986 total imports of crude oil and products were 28% lower by volume
than in 1985, due primarily to the country's foreign exchange constraints.
Crude oil was provided under commodity aid arrangements to a value of about
US$38 million in 1985. Imported petroleum products cost the equivalent of
abcut US$20 million in 1985. The combined foreign exchange costs of crude
oil and products of US$58 million accounted for 16% of the value of
national merchandise imports and 61% of the value of merchandise exports in
1985.   The value of imported crude oil and petroleum products in 1986
amounted  to  about  US$38  million.    Details  of  petroleum  supply  and
consumption since 1980 are given in Annex 1.2.   Petroleum consumption in
1986 was the lowest since 1981.
1.13        Somalia pays premium prices when it purchases refined products
and crude oil on the international market.   In 1986, Somalia paid about
US$320 per tonne of refined products, which was about 40% above prevailing
average world market prices, primarily because it purchases small
quantities that rarely exceed 5,000 tonnes per shipment on short notice due
to its poor foreign exchange situation.  Likewise, Somalia did not obtain
the full benefit of the decline in world crude oil prices during 1986,



paying a premium of about 30% in its average cost of  3$135/tonne.   The
proposed  project  includes  technical  assistance  for  reducing  petroleum
procurement costs as part of the study on petroleum supply arrangements.
1.14       Household Fuels.  Household energy comprises about 90% of final
energy consumption in Somalia, and its share is expected to remain around
this level at least until the end of this century. Fuelwood for household
cooking dominates the household portion of national energy demand.
Including charzoal, woodfuels serve 98% of national household demand in
terms of calorific values, i.e. before allowing for differences in
conversion efficiencies for the various energy-using appliances in use. As
deforestation continues and the distance from forests to population centers
increases, charcoal's lower transportation costs per unit of energy will
make it an increasingly attractive alternative to fuelwood.   Similarly,
while remaining a small proportion of total household energy demand,
domestic use of electricity is expected to expand as suppressed demand will
be satisfied to a larger extent with the removal of capacity constraints,
particularly in the next few years under the proposed project.   Provided
that the pricing policy for petroleum products contiaues to fully reflect
economic costs, demand for kerosene is expected to increase at around the
rate of growth of urban popilation in Somalia, which *s projected at about
6% annually.
Petroleum Procurement, Distribution and Pricing
1.15           The  iustitutional  arrangements  for  petroleum  supply  and
distribution are complex, with a proliferation of parties with overlapping
responsibilities and authority in the sector.   The main parties are the
National PetroJeum Agency (NPA), the IRAQSOMA refinery company, the
National Cooperative  (ISKIASH) and the Ministry of Finance.   NPA, with
Ministry of Finance approval, imports both crude oil and refined products
into  the  country.    By  law,  Berbera  and  Kismayo  Ports  are  the  only
designated points of entry into the country for refined products; the
IRAQSOMA refinery is the designated source for the Mogadishu market.
However, in practice, Government allows NPA to import refined products
directly into Mogadishu  (which accounts for over three quarters of the
country's demand) when refinery output is inadequate to meet demand in the
area. All refined products (whether imported or produced by IRAQSOMA) are
then transferred by NPA to ISKIASH for distribution and marketing.
ISKIASH, with over 90 retail outlets, is the only legal supplier of
petroleum products at wholesale and retail levels,
1.16      The state-owned refinery, run by IRAQSOMA, is a simple 10,000 bbl
per day distillation plant,   The refinery has been affected bv s; *ious
managerial, operational and financial problems.   Operating costs are high
by the staudards of the world refining industry.   In addition, frequent
interruptions in crude oil supplies adversely affect refinery operations.
In the current international oil market conditions, there are strong doubts
about the economic justification for keeping the refinery in operation to
meet  Somali demand  for petroleum products.   Although the refinery was
designed to process Basrah light crude, since late 1984 the Somali
Government has been forced to seek other types of crude oil on the
international comwercial market, often paying above-market premiums (on
90-day terms).  Refinery yield patterns, approximately 50% heavy/residual



fuel and 50% lighter products, do not match the local demand for products.
In the past, the NPA has had to re-export considerable quantities of
residual fuel oil at prices below world levels because of lack of local
demand.  However, recent developments, namely the commissioning of ENEE's
oil-fired steam turbine in 1985 and the start-up of industrial projects
(the urea plant and the Berbera cement plant), have created a substantial
local market for heavy fuel oil.
1.17       The margins for distribution and marketing applicable to NPA and
ISKIASH remain very low and do not cover basic operating costs.
Consequently,   the  financial  positions  of  these  two  entities  have
deteriorated over the past five years.  NPA reported an official net loss
of US$200,000 in 1985. The lack of internally-generated funds has resulted
in a cut-back in essential maintenance and investment in plant, equipment
and other infrastructure. The country's entire petroleum physical plant is
old. The average age of ISKIASH's petroleum product vehicle fleet is five
years.   The bulk of their physical plant is comprised of stock acquired
from international companies during the 1970s. Very little rehabilitation
and virtually no new investment in handling equipment and facilities has
taken place  in the past decade.   This accounts  for undetermined,  but
probably high, losses of refined products at virtually every stage of the
distribution system.   Rehabilitation of existing storage,  transport and
service equipment is urgently required. Loss-reducing investments such as
floating roofs for gasoline storage tanks, improved off-loading facilities,
and rehabilitation of the vehicle fleet are of immediate priority.
1.18            Retail  prices  of  petroleum  products  are  controlled  by
Government.  Official prices are based on c.i.f. import costs plus fuel
taxes, handling fees, transportation charges and distribution margins.  A
special levy on gasoline and diesel sales is earmarked for a stabilization
fund designed to compensate for short-term import price fluctuations.
Increases in the official retail price of gasoline since 1983 have kept
pace with domestic inflation, and the offiqal retail prices for kerosene
and diesel have been increased by 56% and 35% respectively relative to
domestic inflation.   In early 1987, the retail price of gasoline (SoSh
27.8/liter) was about 33% greater than the import parity price at the
average of the auction and free market exchange rates (SoSh 135/US$). The
retail  prices  of  diesel  and  kerosene   (SoSh  20.2  and  21.5/liter
respectively) were at import parity levels at the same exchange rate. The
ex-refinery price of heavy fuel oil (SoSh 8/liter) was about equal to the
export price at the official exchange rate of SoSh 90/US$.  There is an
active parallel market for petroleum products, particularly for kerosene
and gasoline, when official supplies are well below demand, whose existence
complicates the compilation of market data and the assessment of consumer
response to pricing signals.
1.19        In summary, petroleum procurement and refining, marketing and
pricing suffer from a variety of shortcomings in Somalia,  These problems
increase foreign exchange costs to the country, and result in high internal
physical losses through deterioration of the country's petroleum storage
and  distribution  infrastructure.        Distortions  in  the  patterns  of
consumption, including uneconomic interfuel substitution, are introduced
through inappropriate retail prices, including the existence of parallel
market prices.  The proposed project would address these issues through a
study of petroleum products procurement, distribution and marketing,



- 7 -
including a review of the future role of the refinery, preparation of a
plan for petroleum distribution, and for expansion and rehabilitation of
facilities, and development of a system for allocating products throughout
the country in accordance with economic priorities, especially under supply
shortages.    Terms  of  reference  for  this  study  were  discussed  with
Government during project appraisal, and Government's agreement to them
is a condition of Credit negotiations.   Agreement was reached on joint
review of the study's conclusions by GOS and IDA to define appropriate
follow-up actions.
Household Energy Supply and Utilization
1.20          Woodfuels  Production,  and Marketing.   The  production and
marketing of woodfuels is controlled by legislation by a few large
cooperatives. The largest of these organizations are the National Charcoal
Cooperative (Cadceed), the National Fuelwood Cooperative (Golol), and the
National Woodfuels Marketing Cooperative (Hilaac).  Private production and
sale of woodfuels is illegal, yet it occurs on an undetermined scale.
Monopolistic control of distribution and sales has led to inefficient use
of woodfuel  resources.   Most production of charcoal  for the Mogadishu
market, which absorbed about 85% of national production of 97,000 tonnes in
1986, is produced in the Bay Region in Southern Somalia and is transported
up to 450 km by truck.
1.21       Woodfuel Prices.  The Government sets price levels for woodfuels
at virtually all points of production, distribution and sale, but it is
unclear how effectively these prices are applied, particularly at the
retail level.   There is considerable evidence  that the prices paid to
charcoal producers are too low to encourage producers to invest in
reforestation, carry out proper resource management and improve production
efficiency.  Actual charcoal prices paid by most consumers are about four
times higher than officially set prices, 5/  and almost all the operating
margin appears to accrue to the Marketing Cooperative (Hilaac) and its
members, who reap the windfall gains as unofficial retail prices increase
with rising demand.  Some institutional consumers of charcoal have access
to supplies at the official retail price, which is below the economic cost
of supply and gives them little incentive to improve utilization
efficiency.    Fuelwood  pricing  policies  are  also  inefficient,  as  the
Marketing Cooperative realizes windfall gains from legal sales of
fuelwood.  Stumpage fees have remained unchanged since the late 1960s and
are significantly below the long-run marginal cost of maintaining the
country's  forestry  resource  base.    The  proposed  project  would  assist
Government to improve its understanding of the situation and design
appropriate policies by means of a detailed survey of the Mogadishu
commercial  woodfuels  marketing  and  distribution  systems.    Terms  of
reference for this component were prepared during project appraisal, and
Government's agreement to them will be sought during Credit negotiations.
Agreement would also be sought on joint review of the survey's conclusions
and suitable follow-up actions.
5/  In early 1987, the official retail price for charcoal in Mogadishu was
equivalent to SoSh 3.7/kg (SoSh 370 per quintal of 100 kg), whereas the
open market price was about SoSh 15/kg (SoSh 600/40 kg bag).   The
official price paid to charcoal producers at the point of entry to
Mogadishu was SoSh 2.7/kg (SoSh 270/quintal).



1.22         Stove Production and Marketing.   Most of Somalia's rural and
nomadic popu]ation, representing over 80% of the national population, use
the traditional three-stone hearth for cooking and heating.  Traditional
soapstone, ceramic and metal stoves are used by most of Somalia's urban
population  and  by many  rural  dwellers  and  refugees.    The  traditional
soapstone stove is the most widely used commercial stove, accounting for
some 75% of all stoves sold in urban areas, but it converts energy
extremely inefficiently.   Virtually all soapstone stoves are produced by
the Ceel Bur Soapstone Cooperative in the Central Region of Somalia. Over
the past four years, a more fuel-efficient soapstone stove has been
designed under the National Woodstove Program (NWP) based on traditional
stove designs.  Average costs for the improved stove have been reduced to
30% more  than  the  cost  of  the  traditional  stoves.   More than  15,000
improved soapstone stoves have been sold in the Mogadishu area since 1984,
accounting for some 15% of the Mogadishu stove market.  The efforts under
the NWP need to be increased greatly to bring about a real impact on
deforestation and to reduce substantially the costs of household energy.
The National Raage Agency (NRA) needs to expand the NWP to develop yet
better stove designs, carry out consumer testing of new designs, strengthen
its capability to disseminate stoves to new designs and mount public
awareness campaigns on the use of improved stoves and kitchen management
practices. The proposed project would support these objectives through the
provision of  technical  assistance  to NRA for such purposes.   Terms of
reference for ths component were prepared during project appraisal, and
Government's agreement has since been obtained.
Bank Participation in the Sector
1.23        To date the Bank Group has had two lending operations in the
energy sector of Somalia, the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project
(Credit 1043-SO), and the Afgoy Gas Delineation Project (Credit 1464-SO).
Under  the  former,  petroleum  legislation  was  prepared  providing  the
framework for Government negotiations with the oil companies under the
latter. GOS has been successful in attracting international oil companies
to Somalia, who shot nearly 8,500 km of seismic lines and drilled nine
exploration  wells.    However,  no  commercial  quantities  of  oil  were
discovered.   Several  of the companies continue with active exploration
programs and several of those have well commitments.   The Bank has also
provided  technical assistance  to the energy sector.   An energy sector
assessment was carried out in 1984/85 under the Joint UNDP/World Bank
Energy Assessment Program, and a Power Planning Study was carried out in
1986 with funds from the Afgoy Credit.  Furthermore, the Bank is assisting
the Govarnment in the preparation of the Baardhere Dam Project.
Rationale for IDA's Involvement in the Energy Sector
1.24       IDA's country assistance strategy is based on assisting the GOS
to sustain the implementation of existing policy reforms and of new policy
measures to achieve financial stabilization and economic adjustment.  The
proposed credit would enable IDA to mobilize and focus donor assistance on
an  urgently   required  and  comprehensive  program  of  rehabilitation,
institutional strengthening policy reform, and commercial orientation in
the power sector, thus supporting efforts to stimulate agricultural and
industrial production.   IDA's lending program emphasizes support for key
infrastructure   to  help  increase  sources  of  self-sustained  growth,
especially in agricultural and industrial production and public enterprise
reform.    IDA's  suppor,  to energy planning  is intended to bring about
satisfaction of energy demand at least economic cost.



- 9 -
II. THE POWER SUBSECTOR
Organization
2.01       ENEE has responsibility for electricity supply in Mogadishu and
the main regional centers of Hargeisa, Berbera, Builao, Baidoa and Kismayo.
In  the  other  regional  centers,  public  electricity  supply  is  the
responsibility of  the  municipality.    MJVD  has  responsibility  for  the
preparation of the Baardheere multi-purpose (power, irrigation, flood
control) dam scheme, but there has been little coordination with ENEE
although it is the only organization with significant electrical operating
experience in Somalia and its system would be the main recipient of
Baardheere-produced power.   The proposed project would therefore include
assistance to formulate ENEE's input into the Baardhere planning process.
Also, agreement with Government will be sought during negotiations, that
IDA will review any institutional arrangements proposed for Baardhere to
ensure in efficient power subsector organization and compatibility of such
arrangements with ENEE's operational and managerial capabilities.
Sector Facilities
2.02       Presently power is supplied to about 40 towns in Somalia from
local thermal generating capacity.   There is no interconnection of load
centers.    Data  on  available  capacity  and  power  output  is  generally
lacking.  Somalia's capital, Mogadishu, with a population of about 700,000
is supplied with electricity from local thermal generation capacity, namely
the Gezira 15 MW oil-fired steam unit and from diesel engine generators at
Gezira and Centrale.  The oil-fired steam unit and diesel units in these
stations burn heavy residual fuel oil which is delivered by road transport
to the site from the Mogadishu refinery, but when distillates are not being
produced, ENEE's supply of fuel oil is imported.   The Gezira oil-fired
steam unit financed by the Kuwait Fund and Arab Fund was commissioned in
January  1985.    It was  the  subject  of  a  supplier's  initial  two-year
operational and maintenance contract and in early 1987 the unit was fully
overhauled, and recommissioned in April 1987. The chimney stack, sea water
intake and treatment plant and some of the auxiliaries have a design
capacity to accommodate a second similarly sized unit.
2.03       The adjacent Gezira diesel station has a nameplate  zapacity of
27.5 MW consisting of five similar 5.5 MW diesel generators, of which two
were commissioned in 1978, two in 1979 and the fifth in 1984e The Centrale
station contains four 1.2 MW diesel units which are all more than 25 years
old, and four 2.7 MW units which were commissioned between 1968 and 1977,
Lack of maintenance expertise and of funds for spares and replacement parts
has reduced considerably the capacity of both diesel 3tations.  In early
1987, with the steam station also out of commission for its overhaul,
Mogadishu's available public generation capacity was reduced to about 9 MW
from its nameplate capacity of 55.7 MW (para. 3.07), with devastating
effects on electricity supply to Mogadishu.
2.04         In Mogadishu,  transmission and distribution takes places at
33 kV, 15 kV, 3 kV and 380/220 V, but the only 33 kV facility which has
been energized is one overhead line feeding the north of Mogadishu from
Gezira. Although other 33 kV equipment, including feeders and switchgear,



- 10 -
has been installed, it is either operated at 15 kV with inevitably high
losses, or is out of service because other components are needed to
complete circuits at 33 kV.   ENEE has been unable to continue with its
transmission system upgrading program because of its own and Somalia's
resource constraints.
2.05      Outside of Mogadishu some consumers in about 40 towns have puiblic
electricity  supplied  from small diesel  generators.   Most of these are
poorly maintained and several have been shut down or are restricted to
day-time supply because of lack of funds for spares, lubricating oil and
fuel.    Annex  2.1  includes  details  of ENEE's  generating  facilities  in
Mogadishu and in the regions.
Access to Service
2.06        Statistics on consumer connections to the public supply system
are available only for Mogadishu, where about 30% of the population have
access to the public power system, constituting about 40,000 households at
the end of 1986. These consumers can be divided into two broad categories,
those who are relatively wealthy and are characterized by the installation
of air conditioners in their houses, and those in the relatively low and
middle income catogories who use electricity for lighting and household
electrical appliances except air conditioners.  ENEE estimates that there
are about 5,000 households in Mogadishu with air conditioners, including
mainly senior public officials, wealthy private sector businessmen and
expatriates. The air-conditioning load is a significant proportion of the
system peak load, which occurs in the early evening, contributing an
estimated 6 MW out of a total unconstrained peak demand of about 30 MW
excluding system power losses in early 1987.
Characteristics of Present Supply and Consumption
2*07            Consumption  of  electricity  throughout  Somalia  is  highly
constrained due to lack of fuel for installed generators, lack of
generating capacity and dilapidated distribution systems. The situation in
Mogadishu has been less severe than in the other towns since it is the only
place that has received a regular 24 hour power supply. Nevertheless, even
in Mogadishu consumers have been accustomed to frequent and prolonged power
cuts for some years. The situation improved when the 15 MW oil-fired steam
unit was commissioned in Gezira in January 1985, but became critical in the
first quarter of 1987 while that unit was out of service under
maintenance. Suppression of demand from connected consumers also occurs on
overloaded distribution feeder lines due to poor voltage profiles, and from
ENEE's policy of restricting new connections to the system.
2.08       Over the period 1978 to 1986, the amount of energy generated by
ENEE for the Mogadishu power system increased about three-fold, from 41.7
GWh _o 131.1 GWh, at an average annual rate of 15.4%, while the system
maximum demand met by ENEE increased at 11.6%/year from 11.5 MW to 27.6 MW
over the same period (Annex 2.2).   The consequential increase in system
load factor, from around 40% in 1978/1979 to around 55% in 1985/1986, is
indicative of lack of investment to expand generating capacity as quickly
as  growth  in  system  maximum  demand.          The  mission  estimates  the
unconstrained system load factor to have been 43% in 1986 (Annex 2.3).



- 11 -
2.09        Total system losses, comprising technical losses and unbilled
consumption, has increased from 17% in 1979/1980 to 32.6% in 1985 and 27.6%
in 1986 of generated energy. ENEE estimates technical losses in the later
years to have been about 17%, which is a high level and reflects the poor
condition of the Mogadishu distribution networks.   The balance of around
11% represents unbilled consumption waich, although not a loss in economic
terms, represents a substantial loss of revenue to ENEE.  The assistance
under the proposed project to ENEE for billing and collections would reduce
this level, and the rehabilitation work on the transmission and distribu-
tion networks under the project would reduce system technical losses to
about  12%  of  generated  energy.    Targets  on  reduction  of  unbilled
consumption and technical losses were agreed upon with ENEE.
2.10        As a result of the unreliability of ENEE's power supply, many
consumers, across all categories from industrial and commercial to
households, have installed their own generating facilities. ENEE estimated
that at the end of 1986 generators were installed in about 450 consumers'
premises with a combined capacity of about 6 MW. The mission has analyzed
the costs to these consumers of power from these facilities (Annex 2.3) as
an indication of consumer willingness-to-pay for electricity and consumer
preference for taking power from ENEE at the 1987 tariff of SoSh 14/kWh for
all categories. At current diesel prices, the variable financial costs of
electricity from the largest private generators installed on industrial
premises was about 65% of ENEE's tariff, and the variable costs of
electricity from small private generators was a little lower than ENEE's
tariff.    ENEE's  pre-1987  tariffs  were  lower  than  prevailing  variable
costs.   The  total cost of power from new generators including capital
costs, is much higher than ENEE's tariff, and thus there will be no
financial incentive for consumers to purchase new generators once they
perceive ENEE's supply as being reliable, which should result from the
system improvements under the proposed project.  Due to high import taxes
on the generators, and a retail price of diesel fuel equal to the import
parity price at a foreign exchange premilim of 50% over the official
exchange rate (para. 1.18), the financial costs of power are 50% to 100%
greater than the economic costs.   The mission has estimated the weighted
average value of consumer willingness-to-pay for power, based on these cost
estimates, to be SoSh 26/kWh (Annex 6.1), about 85% higher than E.;EE's
tariff.   This average  falls within  a range  of about  SoSh  17/kWh  for
industrial users to around SoSh 35/kWh for small power consumers.
2.11         To assess the extent of demand suppression that occurred in
Mogadishu during 1986, the mission estimated the unconstrained demand for
power accordtng to the methodology used for the demand forecast (Annex
2,3). Comparison with actual generated output by ENEE indicates that the
unserved proportion of system energy demand at the generating stations
reached about 15% of unconstrained energy demand (154.5 GWh) and about 32%
of unconstrained maximum power demand (41 MW). Part of this shortfall was
due to the very low system power factor, estimated to be about 0.75, which
lowers the power sent out to the system from the generating units in
operation.    It  is  expected  that  the  work  to  the  transmission  and
distribution networks under the proposed project would increase the system
power factor to about 0.9.



- 12 -
Power Demand Forecast 1987-1994
2.12          Kennedy and Donkin (UK), consulting engineers,  developed a
detailed demand forecast for the Mogadishu system up to the year 2000 as
part of their planning work for power systems throughout Somalia, which was
presented in their report "Somalia - Power Planning Study" of February
1987, financed under Credit 1464-SO for the Afgoy Gas Delineation Project.
The methodology employed was to simulate demand for four major consumer
categories--domestic,   commercial,   Government   and   industrial--and   to
aggregate  these demands to derive total system demand.   This approach
explicitly relates power demand to economic parameters (such as population
and sector gross domestic product), and relates power demand to power
sector parameters (such as numbers of connected consumers and price and
income  elasticities  of  power  demand).    The  approach  also  minimizes
dependency on the incomplete and imprecise historic demand data which
represents actual suppressed consumption rather than unconstrained demand.
2.13       The mission reconstructed its own forecast for connected demand
on ENEE's Mogadishu system up to 1994, using the above methodology in the
manner described in Annex 2.3.  The number of new connections added to the
system would average about 6,000 annually to take up the back-log and
forecast increase in demand for them.   The assistance under the project
would enable ENEE to meet this demand.  By 1994, the number of connections
to the existing Mogadishu system would double to about 90,000 from the
present level of about 43,000.
2.14       The power demands of low and middle income domestic consumers is
taken to be sensitive to tariff level, and the mission's forecast
incorporates price/demand elasticity of minus 0.3 applied to the mission's
forecast tariffs (Chapter 5) expressed in constant price terms. The power
demand of high income domestic consumers is taken to be insensitive to the
tariff level under consideration.    Following  its analysis  of  consumer
willingness-to-pay for power based on the costs from private generators
(para. 2.10), the mission has explicitly allowed for the existence of these
generators in Mogadishu in its demand forecast.   The existing privately-
owned diesel generators will be required as a back-up to ENEE's supply
(para. 2.18) but their owners generally will prefer to take power from
ENEE, especially if they have had to pay substantially higher prices for
diesel fuel than official retail prices when fuel supplies are constrained
(para. 1.12).
2.15      The mission forecasts total system demand for energy in Mogadishu
to increase at an average annual rate of 8.0% between 1986 and 1994, from
154.5 GWh to 286.1 GWh (Annex 2.3). Likewise, the system maximum demand is
forecast by the mission to increase at 6.5%/year from 40.9 MW to 67.8 MW.
Growth  in  all  four  main  consumer  categories  is  substantial.    These
forecasts incorporate the forecast improvement in system technical losses
resulting from the project (para. 2.09).  These growth rates are only just
over half the historic rates for 1978 to 1986 in actual system output
(para. 2.08).  The total forecast demand on the Mogadishu system includes
the demands from four areas near to Mogadishu, namely Afgoi, Balad, Jowhar
and Merca, which are significant agricultural and agroindustrial centers
along the Shebelli river.  Kennedy and Donkin showed that interconnection
with Mogadishu would be the least-cost method of meeting power demand in



- 13 -
these areas where distribution schemes already exist, but generation by
engines fueled by imported diesel oil is intermittent and inefficient.
Under the power investment program for the Mogadishu area agreed between
ENEE and the mission during project appraisal (para, 4.01),these areas
would be connected to the Mogadishu system between early 1990 and early
1992. These additions increase the forecast demands in 1994 to 344.3 GWh
and 74.5 MW.
Power System Developnient Strategy
2.16       Planning the development of generating capacity in :he Mogadishu
power system over the relatively short period of eight years (1987 to 1994)
has to be carried out in the context of a long-term least-cost development
program. The key issue for power development in southern Somalia for the
long term is when power from the Baardhere Multipurpose Hydroproject
(para. 1.05) will be available to the Mogadishu and Juba Valley systems.
Government of Somalia plans to commission the project at the earliest
feasible date which is during 1994.  Kennedy and Donkin, in their "Power
Planning  Study", concluded  that  tie  least-cost  program  would  be  to
commission Baardhere in 1994 with complementary new thermal generating
capacity beforehand. This conclusion holds even if the entire joint costs
of the Baardhere dam and reservoir development were to be charged against
the Baardhere power component irn the evaluation of the least-cost power
development program.   The robustness of this conclusion was confirmed in
the evaluation of the Baardhere Project carried out by the Bank during
appraisal of the T.A. Credit for the Project (para. 1.05).
2.17         The generation development program for Mogadishu up to 1994
agreed between ENEE and the mission is based on Baardhere power being
available from 1995 and is similar to Kennedy and Donkin's program.   The
program for new complementary thermal capacity is to commission a second
15 MW oil-fired steam unit in 1989 and a 10 MW diesel generator in mid-
1989, both under the proposed project, a 12 MW gas turbine in early 1991
and a second unit in late 1992.   These gas turbines would be the most
appropriate form of quick-start spinning reserve to cover interruptions in
the 350 km link between Baardhere and Mogadishu. The rehabilitation of the
existing diesel units under the proposed project is scheduled to be
completed by the second quarter of 1990.   This program is the quickest
feasible development program for new capacity up to 1992.  No new thermal
capacity is included in 1993 or 1994 due to the prospective availability of
Baardhere power in 1995.   If the Baardhere project were to be delayed
substantially, Kennedy and Donkin determined that the least-cost strategy
would be based on coal-fired steam units with gas turbines.   The first
coal-fired unit would be required in service by 1991, and a decision to
proceed would have to be taken in 1988 which is when the prospects for
commissioning Baardhere during 1994 are expected to be reasonably clear.
2.18        The mission's projections for the balance between demand and
supply for power in the Mogadishu area to 1994 are shown in Annex 2.4.
These projections show that a continuation of major energy shortages to mid
1989 is unavoidable, declining from 34% of the requirement for generated
energy in 1987 to 22% in 1988 and 12% in the first quarter of 1989.
Thereafter, system generating capacity exceeds the energy requirement. The
projections also show that major power shortages at the evening peak



- 14 -
demands will occur regularly until late 1992, which will inconvenience
mostly domestic consumers. However, regular power shortages at the time of
the secondary midday peak demand, which is economically more important than
the evening peak since it originates mainly from industrial and commercial
consumers,  should not  last  beyond early  1991.   These  projections are
subject to the qualification that they do not incorporate any allowances
for reserve generation capacity to cover major unplanned outages of
generating units. The existing installed private generating capacity will
provide substantial back-up capacity.
2.19       Recommendations on the expansion of the transmission and distri-
bution systems were contained in the Power Planning Study (para. 2.12) and
in the consultant's (Westinghouse, UK) report "Rehabilitation of Mogadishu
Power System Report," financed from the PPF advanced by IDA (para. 4.07).
The Power Planning Study investigated the eeonomics of expanding the
transmission system in Mogadishu at several standard voltages, and in
accordance with the study recommendations, expansion will continue at 33
kV.   The proposed  system has been designed  by computer  simulation of
network loadings in accordance with Westinghouse's recommendations on the
most economical location of substations and routing of feeders based on
future system loads.
Electricity Tariffs
2.20        Electricity tariffs vary considerably throughout Somalia.  In
1986, when ENEE's tariff rates in Mogadishu were SoSh 8/kWh for single
phase supply and SoSh 6.50/kWh for three phase supply, tariffs in non-ENEE
supply areas varied between SoSh 3.5/kWh in Jilib (supplied from Fanoole
hydrostation) to SoSh 9/kWh in Kismayo (supplied from small diesel
generators).   In early 1987, ENEE revised its tariff for the Mogadishu
system to a single rate of SoSh 14/kWh for all consumers, ostensibly to
ease the burden of billing.   However, this simplification eliminated any
discrimination between charges to consumers to reflect variations in costs
in meeting their demand. Such variations arise from differences in supply
voltage and in consumer load factors based on their contributions to system
peak demand.   Consequently, ENEE's tariff for Mogadishu does not reflect
correctly the structure of economic costs, and gives misleading price
signals to consumers which exacerbates an already critical situation.
2.21       Estimates of the marginal economic costs of meeting the demands
of different consumer groups in Mogadishu were developed by Kennedy and
Donkin in the report "Somalia, Power Planning Study." Based on the least-
cost power development program for the Mogadishu system, including
commissioning the Baardheere project during 1994, the marginal costs 6/ up
to  1990  are  as  follows:    domestic  consumers,  about  US  cents  18/kWh
(SoSh 24.3/kWh); small commercial consumers, about US cents 13/kWh
(SoSh 17.5/kWh); three phase supply to large commercial and municipal
consumers, about US cents 8.5/kWh (SoSh 11.5/kWh); and large industrial
consumers, about US cents 8/kWh (SoSh 10.8/kWh). The weighted average cost
in 1987 price terms based on these estimates of marginal costs and the
mission's demand forecast is about SoSh 16/kWh, which is 14% higher than
ENEE's 1987 tariff but is only about 60% of the cost of power that
6/ Costs are converted into local currency terms at SoSh 135/US$.



- 15 -
consumers are paying from privately installed generators (average SoSh
26/kWh; para. 2.10). These estimates also show the wide range in marginal
costs between consumer categories, and the general pattern of distortion
from economic costs in ENEE's tariff is overcharging of large consumers and
undercharging of small consumers. Development of a new tariff structure is
ne of the priorities of the assistance for strengthening billing and
collections under the proposed project (para. 3.08).
2.22       Aid Inflow.  To date there has been no Bank group participatio.
in the power subsector, although a power planning study was financed under
the Afgoy Gas Delineation Credit and there is an ongoing dialogue on the
preparation of the Baardheere Project.   The only major recent aid-inflow
into the sector was a loan from the Arab and Kuwait Funds for construction
of two 15 MW steam units at Gezira near Mogadishu. Disbursements, however,
were suspended after construction of the first unit because of debt service
arrears by Somalia.   A bilateral Italian program of about US$50 million
equivalent, compatible with the proposed rehabilitation project, was signed
in April 1986, but disbursements will only start during the second half of
1987.   The proposed project is thus the first concerted donor effort for
the power  sector.    Bilateral donors  have assisted with equipment and
technical assistance for small diesel stations in Baidoa and Kismayo
(FINNIDA), Berbera (ODA), and Merca (DANIDA). UNDP is financing an ongoing
windmill electricity generation project at Gezira.
III. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
3.01      The implementing agencies would be ENEE for the power components,
the Energy Planning Department of the Ministry of National Planning for the
energy sector planning components, and the National Woodstoves Project of
the National Range Agency for the improved stoves component.
ENEE
3.02        ENEE is an entirely state-owned corporation created under Law
No. 34 on April 7, 1973 to own and operate all public electricity
facilities in Mogadishu and to plan power subsector development throughout
the country.   Its mandate was broadened in 1981 to include the eventual
ownership and operation of all regional electricity operations.   ENEE is
empowered to undertake all relevant activities for the development,
production, and distribution of power, including the taking of participa-
tions.   Many systems, procedures and functions common to utilities and
enterprises elsewhere either do not exist at ENEE, exist only in
rudimentary  form,  or  are  not  properly  applied.    The  project  would
introduce/strengthen key corporate functions with a view to (i) establish a
measure of commercialization and business orientation at ENEE; and (ii)
build up its corporate capacity to take .n further system expansion, such
as Baardheere and others.   For this,  technical assistance,  operational
supports with line responsibi]ities, counterpart and other training would
be provided as detailed in the paragraphs below and para. 4.08.   Also,
corporate performance targets and corresponding indicators have been set
out (para. 3.14 and Annex 3.1) to provide a tangible, measurable framework
for action by ENEE's management.



- 16 -
3.03        Organization and Management.  ENEE has a twelve-member Board of
Directors, which is appointed by the Government and consists of seven ENEE
department heads and five ENEE employees. The Board functions at the level
of an internal senior management committee and meets frequently to review
management  issues  and  operating  problems.    A  Director  General,  also
appointed by the Government, serves as Chairman of the Board and is
responsible for day-to-day management.   Electricity tariff increases are
proposed by the Director General and the supervising Minister of Public
Works but require the approval of the Supreme Revolutionary Council.  The
company at present does not have a supervisory board and thus there is a
lack of proper oversight as well as healthy non-company outside influence.
Under the project, ENEE's organizational structure, the creation of a
standard Board function, and the interface between Government, management
and Board, would be reviewed and established/modified as appropriate.
3.04         Planning.   Although ENEE has qualified project and planning
staff, they have been unable to devote the required attention to prepare
appropriately detailed load forecasts, system expansion plans, and
investment   programs  and  to  maintain  linkages  with  the  Baardheere
preparation, because they have had to divert their full-time attention to
the day-to-day demands of ENEE's consumers, attempting to ensure that the
poorly maintained equipment is available to meet the needs of the system.
ENEE's planning capabilities would be strengthened by the proposed project
through the provision of assistance for maintenance supervision, thus
freeing up planning resources, and specifically with the provision of
in-house and overseas training, technical assistance and computer hardware
and planning software.
3.05         Engineering Design and Construction.   ENEE has about a dozen
engineers and technicians on its staff but to date its design and
construction activities  have  been  limited  to expansions  of  the  33 kV
transmission lines, and 15 kV and 380 V distribution and consumer
services.   ENEE, using its  stocks of materials,  has recently begun to
replace the inefficient and dangerous 40 year old 3 kV/380 V system in the
commercial  center  of  Mogadishu  with  modern  15 kV  overhead  lines  and
15 kV/380 V substations.   At the 33 kV voltage level, ENEE is using the
services of consultants to design and procure new switchgear and substation
extensions.
3.06       Operations, Maintenance and Status of Plant.  ENEE's facilities
are poorly maintained because of the lack of funds for replacement spares
and consumables, the resulting unfamiliarity of ENEE's staff with modern
preventive maintenance techniques, and a general shortage of skilled
personnel.  ENEE for several years has attempted to meet consumer demands
by operating all available generating plant, and maintaining items only at
break-down or when maintenance has been inevitable.   As a result,  unit
availability has been low, producing the current emergency situation
whereby in March 1987, at the time of the appraisal mission, each area of
the capital was receiving power for only a few hours each day causing
disruption to industrial output and a reluctance in the commercial sector
to expand without dependable supplies.
3.07       Most of ENEE's generating equipment is run-down, with units and
auxiliary plant standing abandoned because they have been cannibalized to



- 17 -
provide otherwise unobtainable spare parts for the operable plant.
Although the steam power station has recently been the subject of a
supplier's two-year warrantee overhaul and is therefore in good condition,
both the Centrale and Gezira diesel stations' equipment are dilapidated.
Under the IDA PPF, emergency repair work on three Gezira alternators was
carried out in early 1987 to improve supplies in Mogadishu, but a lack of
spares and consumables continues to cause frequent and lengthy outages of
auxiliaries and prive movers.   Working conditions  in the Gezira diesel
station are hot and dirty, and have been worsened by a conflagration in
'184  which  destroyed  the  station's  lighting  scheme.    The  capital's
distribution system is mostly 40 years old, outdated and dangerous to
consumers and to ENEE's staff.  It is the source of large inefficiencies
because of undersized conductors and improperly located transformers. The
system has a very low power factor and no correction equipment exists. To
operate and maintain the power stationa and distribution system ENEE uses
poorly maintained vehicles which are run-down, insufficient in numbers, and
between seven and more than 15 years old. Two-way radios are not installed
and ENEE's communications are by an unreliable telephone system or through
a power-line carrier which needs spares and maintenance.
3.08      Data Processing.  ENEE relies on old, inefficient data processing
equipment to perform customer billing and financial accounting.   Frequent
breakdowns with the equipment and its limited capacity to handle large
amounts of data have  resulted  in significant  delays  in preparation  of
electricity bills (thus contributing to arrears, para. 3.n9) and closing of
financial accounts.   In addition,  much of the data processing requires
manual operation, which has led to major errors in the accuracy of ENEE's
financial data. The proposed project would replace the existing data
processing facilities with a new integrated computer hardware and software
system which will allow for more accurate, timely, and detailed billing and
accounting functions.
3.09          Billing and Collection.   As a result of inadequate billing
equipment, inefficient billing practices, and lack of staff, the billing
cycle from meter reading to bill delivery takes between 75 and 90 days and
ENEE's 44,000 customers receive bills on a quarterly basis.  Despite the
fact that 20% of ENEE's customers account for more than 80% of total sales
revenue, ENEE does not prioritize billing and attempt to provide regular
monthly  bills  for  their  largest  consumers.    While  almost  all  of  the
customers have meters, ENEE's meter readers are overworked and inadequately
motivated due to low wages and, consequently, often base their customer
consumption figures not on actual readings but on rough estimates; these
estimates tend to fall significantly below actual consumption, which has
contributed to ENEE's high level of losses, estimated at 24% in 1986.
Customers either pay directly to the meter readers who distribute the bills
or at one of ENEE's five local offices.   The company's customer record
system is poor and ENEE is often unable to reconcile the billing records of
the meter readers with those of the local offices.   ENEE has no fixed
policy on customer arrears, although it will occasionally disconnect
private consumers owing large balances.  Consequently, accounts receivable
were 440, 440, and 393 days of sales in 1984, 1985, and 1986 respectively.
In the past, electricity deliveries to the public sector were not governed
by contract and thus there were no formal reaedies to fall back upon if
contract performance by either side was unsatisfactory. A contract for the



- 18 -
public  sector,  acceptable  to  IDA,  has  recently  become  effective.
Government agencies and municipalities, which account for 75% of total
sales, owe the equivalent of 14 months of sales; private consumers, which
account for 25% of total sales, owe the equivalent of 9 months of sales.
The proposed project would develop new billing and collection systems;
settlement of 50% of government arrears is a condition of negotiatiotid and
settlement of the other 50% a condition of credit effectiveness.
Similarly, private arrears will be reduced to 180 days by negotiations.
3.10        Accounting and Audit.   ENEE maintains its books in accordance
with Somali accounting codes and regulations and i.s audited by the
Magistrate of Accounts,  the independent government auditing unit.   As a
result of inadequate accounting equipment, inadequately trained staff, and
improper acenunting procedures, ENEE's accounting system is weak and its
books do not provide a completely reliable or accurate picture of the
company's financial position. The Magistrate of Accounts does not perform
regular or thorough audits of the company's books and the latest audit
report, covering 1984, did not identify any of the irregularities present
in ENEE's  accounts.    The  project  would  address  these  deficiencies  by
developing a new accounting system, including both hardware, software and
new  procedures,  and  strengthening  internal  auditing  capabilities.    In
addition, ENEE has appointed an independent auditor and presented audited
1986 accounts prior to negotiations (exemption from the statutory
requirement to use the Magistrate of Accounts is being pursued through the
country dialogue with Somalia).   The project will  further require (i)
establishment of an asset registry and revaluation of fixed assets by
December  31,  1988,  and  (ii)  preparation  of  consolidated  financial
statements within six months of fiscal year end, beginning with 1987
accounts,
3,11        Insurance and Taxes.  ENEE does not have satisfactory insurance
coverage of its plant and equipment.   Presentation of an insurance audit
was a condition of negotiations and contracting of insurence acceptable to
IDA is a condition of effectiveness.   ENEE is subject to %tamp taxes,
custom tariffs and import duties, except on capital goods imported urder
donor-funded projects, but is exempt from corporate income tax.  Frow its
customers, ENEE collects a small service tax of SoSh 0.10 per kilowatt hour
consumed for the municipal government and a small stamp tax of 2% for the
Treasury.  Total taxes represent about 3% of revenues which is rather low
for a utility.
3.12         Personnel and Personnel Mtanagement.   Following a Government
imposed staff reduction of 15% in 1985, ENEE as of end-1986 had
approximately 880 employees, of which about 25 or 3% were top and middle
management, 82 or 9% were lower level managers and middle level staff, and
the remaining 773 or 88% were lower level staff.   While ENEE's overall
staffing level of one employee per 50 customers is a satisfactory ratio by
regional standards, there is a shortage of managers, engineers and skilled
technicians  and  an excess  of unskilled  labor.   Most of the company's
engineers are graduates from the local university system and have little
specialization in electrical or mechanical engineering; only the top
managers have been trained abroad.   The project therefore provides for



- 19 -
specialist short-term training, and an increase in the number of n.anagers,
engineers and skilled technicians.   Despite  recent  increases,  salaries
continue  to fall significantly  short  K  those offered  by the private
sector, which has contributed to the company's difficulties in attracting,
retaining,  and  motivating  qualified  staff.    Therefore  a  new  salary
structure, which was prepared by ENEE and establishes competitiveness
vis-'a-vis other Somalia employers, will be implemented as of January 1,
1988,
3.13      Training.  ENEE does not provide regular on-the-job or classroom
training, maintain training facilitiet, or produce training manuals. With
the exception of a short-term program conducted during the commissioning of
the Gezira steam plant in 1985, ENEE staff have received no formal
operational training in generation, transmission and distribution, or
finance and administration in years. Two recent consultant studies of the
company's manpower situation have highlighted the critical shortage of
trained staff, particularly among generation plant operators, substation
operators, electrical technicians and line workers, and have concluded that
the development of a comprehensive training program has one of the highest
priorities. The project will strengthen ENEE's training functions through
the development of a training facility administered by the Training Manager
who as a member of the management team is to be financed under the Credit.
The TOR (Annex 4.3, Attachment 1, para. 7ec) for the management team
require that a detailed training program is produced within six months of
the team's arrival in Somalia. Funds equivalent to US$1 million have been
included in the proposed Credit for such a trainin- program for technician
and accountants, and for managerial and technical training in Somalia and
overseas.
3.14       Management Information System (MIS) and Performance  tidicators.
ENEE has no MIS to help managers identify problem areas early and take
corrective action.  Such a system would be developed and implemented under
the proposed planning assistance to ENEE.   An initial set of corporate
performance indicators, both technical and financial, to be .sed while the
MIS is defined and implemented, is shown in Annex 3.1.
Energy Planning Department (EPD)
3.15       An Energy Planning Unit was created in the Ministry of National
Planning in 1984 and upgraded into a department in 1986. It is responsible
for coordinating planning and policy formulation at the sectoral level,
including: (i) proposing intra-sectoral priorities and preparing sectoral
investment plans; (ii) ensuring the consistency of energy policies with
macro-economic objectives; (iii) coordinating and monitoring sectoral
activities; and (iv) collecting energy data and preparing energy balances
and projections.   The EPD staff in 1984-86 consisted of a USAID funded
resident advisor responsible for day-to-day management, a local counterpart
from the Ministry of National Planning Staff, and four recent graduates in
engineering and economics from the Somali National University.  With the
resident advisor's departure in 1986, the local counterpart was promoted to
Department Director. EPD has operated with only moderate success during its
first two years. The Energy Assessment Report and USAID evaluation reports
have indicated that while -he EPD successfully introduced the concept of



- 20 -
national energy planning to Government, it has not played any significant
role in coordinating policy, developing a sectoral investment budget, or
monitoring energy sector issues and performance. Its weak performance
arises from several factors, including lack of clarity in its objectives,
insufficient   funds  for  training  and  technical  assistance,   limited
Government familiarity with and interest in macro-energy planning, and
limited institutional support for the resident advisor.   Recognizing the
need to strengthen the energy planning capabilities of EPD, Government has
requested additional technical assistance from the Bank and USAID.  USAID
has agreed to provide about US$50,000 of technical assistance to support
1987 operations and the proposed IDA component would cover technical
assistance,  training,  and equipment  requirements  for  1988-90.    During
appraisal, agreement was reached with Government on EPD's revised
objectives and revised organizational structure, Government's financing and
staffing contributions, a detailed implementation schedule, and performance
criteria.
Natioral Woodstoves Project (NWP,
3.16         The National Woodstoves Project was created in 1983 in the
National Range Agency of the Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range,
with the objective of promoting natural resource conservation through the
development and dissemination of improved cooking stoves throughout
Somalia.   NWP was  funded  by USAID  and managed  by  a U.S.  non-profit
organization in 1983-85, but is now funded entirely by Government and
managed by local staff.   A project director  is responsible  for daily
management and the staff of twelve includes stove design, stove production,
marketing and extension specialists. NWP has successfully developed a new
fuel-efficient soapstone stove incorporating traditional cooking practices
and stove designs, which has received strong consumer acceptance in the
Mogadishu area.   An estimated 15,000 stoves have been sold in 1984-1986,
accounting for about 15% of the Mogadishu market and resulting in estimated
savannah land savings of about 200 ha p.a.   The proposed project would
provide technical assistance and training to support an expansion of NWP
operations, including the dissemination of the improved soapstone stove
technology from Mogadishu to other urban centers and the development of
improved metal and ceramic stoves. During appraisal, agreement was reached
with Government on its financing and staffing contributions, a detailed
implementation schedule, and performance criteria.
IV. INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND PROJECT
Least Cost Power Reference Investment Program (RIP) for Generation,
Transmission and Distribution
4.01       The least cost Reference Investment Program (RIP) was developed
for the years 1987-1994 during the project appraisal process, following
IDA, EIB and ENEE discussions on the demand and load forecasts produced in
the Power Planning Study (para. 2.16). Details of the RIP are described in
Annex 4.1.
4.02        During the project cycle (1987-1990), the RIP consists of the
project, and major investments will include managerial support and



- 21 -
technical  assistance,  and  the  rehabilitation  and  expansion  of  the
generating facilities and distribution systems.   The RIP provides for an
early increase in generation capacity through the commissioning in 1989 of
a 10 MW diesel generator followed (under the Italian component) by a heavy
fuel oil-fired 15 MW steam turbine unit, "-hich will be install-d at Gezira
adjacent to the present 15 MW steam facility which was commissioned in
1985. The new unit will use the existing stack, water intake and treatment
plant and several other common facilities, which were designed and built in
anticipation of the construction of a second thermal unit.  These sources
of generation will be linked to the load centers by project components
consisting of improved transmission facilities.   The building of 15 kV
distribution lines and substation, new 380/220 V networks, and the
provision of services and meters for 20,000 existing and new consumers will
be included under the Italian component. Later the RIP includes additional
power generation facilities in the form of two gas turbines, expansion of
the 33 kV system in Mogadishu and expansion of the transmission system to
the towns of Merca and Jowhar and corresponding distribution reticulation
and consumer services. ENEE and IDA will review the RIP annually to ensure
that it remains least cost, and modify it as appropriate.   ENEE and the
Government agreed during negotiations to seek IDA's approval for changes to
the program in excess of US$1 million equivalent or 1% of gross revalued
fixed assets, whichever is smaller.
,SyGtem Studies
4.03         It is expected that in late 1988 ENEE will need to make a
decision regarding further expansion of its generating capacity (para.
2.17), and funds are proposed under the credit to finance a study by
consultants which will address the generation and transmission needs of
ENEE in the 1990s, taking into account the progress of the Baardhere
scheme, and advising on the need for gas turbines or coal fired steam
units.
The Project
4.04       Project Objectives.  The project's primary focus is to improve
the efficiency and Teliability of power supply and distribution and to meet
some of the utiserve. demani in Mogadishu, Somalia's main economic area.
The project will:
(a) improve the reliability of electric availability in the Mogadishu
area through carefully planned and competently executed programs
of generation, transmission and distribution rehabilitation and
expansion;
(b) rebuild ENEE's financial performance to restore and maintain
viability through a well defined set of reform measures and
performance parameters; and
(c) strengthen ENEE's managerial, operational and planning capa-
bilities to sustain physical improvements through assistance,
training, and systems improvements.
Additional objectives are to (i) prepare ENEE for taking on the additional
tasks and responsibilities that the Baardhere Project would generate;



- 22 -
(ii) strengthen national energy planning and policy formulation capability;
(iii) identify least cost supply and distribution options for petroleum
products; and (iv) promote conservation of woodfuels through dissemination
of improved cooking stoves and development of efficient charcoal production
and marketing.
4.05       Project Preparation.  Under a PPF advance, consultants prepared
the power rehabilitation program underlying the proposed financing by
African Development Bank (ADB), European Investment Bank (EIB) and IDA.
Under a Supplemental Advance to the PPF, consultants are preparing
technical -.pecifications and bidding documents, and will assist ENEE in bid
evaluation, contract negotiations, and contract conclusions.   The Italian
component was prepared by ENEL, the Italian utility, on behalf of the
Italian Government.   Bank staff have discussed the program's content in
detail with Italian technical staff and have confirmed that the program is
adequately prepared and in line with the investment priorities stipulated
in the RIP.   The energy planning and cooking efficiency components were
prepared jointly by mission staff and EPD/NWPo TOR for (i) the operational
assistance contract; (ii) the petroleum and products procurement, distribu-
tion, and marketing study; and (iii) energy planning advisor have been
agreed with Government/ENEE in outline during appraisal.  Finalization of
the TOR for (ii) is a condition of negotiations. TOR for the other energy
planning studies, i.e. household energy survey, and commercial fuelwood and
charcoal survey, have been agreed upon with EPD during appraisal.
Preceding the rehabilitation project, emergency works including several of
the Gezira and Centrale  diesels and engineering  supervision are being
carried out under IDA (PPF), ODA, and Italian financing to help alleviate
the most severe impact of Mogadishu's electricity supply crisis until the
rehabilitation project  commences  in full,  which is expected  to be in
February 1988.
Project Description
4.06      The project components are outlined in paras. 4.07-4.09 below and
described in detail in Annex 4.2.
4.07 Power Components
(a)  Generation Rehabilitation.   (i) at Gezira diesel power station,
maintenance and rehabilitation by contractors of units and
station auxiliaries, rewinding of spare stator, provision of new
engine for unit No. 2; provision of fire detection and prevention
scheme and new high intensity lighting scheme, provision of three
years diesel generator and auxiliaries spares; (ii) under the
Italian components at Centrale diesel power station, rehabilita-
tion of unit auxiliaries and fuel treatment plant, repair/rewind
of three alternator stators, provision of fire detection and
prevention equipment, provision of diesel generator and auxiliary
spares;
(b)  Generation Expansion.   (i) at the proposed 33 kV North sub-
station, the installation of about 10 MW of heavy residual fuel
oil-burning diesel generation; (ii) under the Italian component,
at Gezira site the installation of a 15 MW heavy fuel-oil fired
steam unit;



- 23 -
(c) Transmission and Distribution Rehabilitation and Expansion.
(i) procurement of materials, for installation by ENEE, for the
construction of 33 kV overhead and underground feeders in
Mogadishu and 33 kV transmission lines to the towns of Afgoi and
Balad; (ii) turn-key contract for provision and installation of
new 33 ktV switching and 33/15 kV substations and extensions to
existing 33 kV switchyards; (iii) under the Italian component,
rehabilitation of existing 15 kV network, and replacement with
new 15 kV reticulation of 3 kV network, together with 20,000 new
and 5,000 replacement consumer services; and
(d)  General Plant.   (i) provision of about 20 vehicles of various
types, spares for existing vehicles, automotive repair tools and
plant for vehicle maintenance workshop; (ii) provision of radio
communications system; (iii) computers, accounting and billing
machinery, and equipment; and under the Italian component, (iv)
vehicles for use of distribution staff; and (v) expansion of
existing pole factory.
4.08 Institutionel Components (described in detail in the Terms of
Reference contained in Annex 4.3):
(a) Consultancy services (i) for project management to assist ENEE in
the procurement, engineering design, construction supervision and
commissioning of the various project components; and (ii) provide
for three years, seven staff to occupy the five line positions of
Assistant Directors of Projects, Finance, Generation Operations,
Generation Rehabilitation and Maintenance, and Transmission and
Distribution, and the two posts of Training Manager and Planning
Adviser; these staff will each have Somali counterparts to be
trained as replacements; and
(b) Technical assistance to recruit 11 engineers and technicians who
would be financed under the credit and employed by ENEE for three
years in various positions to help improve ENEE's operations and
procedures   in   generation,   transmission   and   distribution,
construction, operation and maintenance.
4.09 Energy Components
(a)  Energy Planning  Support,   One  full-time  resident  energy
advisor for a period of three years with administrative and logistical
back-up resources would be provided to strengthen energy planning and
administratinn of EPD.   Twenty-one staff-months of short-term technical
assistance and consulting services would be provided to support petroleum
procurement, refining, marketing and pricing studies, the development of
household aupply and demand management strategies, and subsector investment
analyses.  Twenty to thirty staff-months of overseas short-term training
would be provided as well as in-country training in various fields of
energy planning.
(b)  Cooking Efficiency  Improvements.    Three  staff-months  of
technical assistance and logistical back-up resources would be provided to
improve soapstone marketing and distribution, to advance improved metal



- 24 -
stove technology, and to further promotion, dissemination, and extension of
improved ceramic stoves.
Project Cost
4.10        The total cost of the proposed project, including physical and
price contingencies, is estimated to be about US$94.0 million equivalent,
of which US$84.8 million (90%) would be the foreign exchange cost (a
project cost summary is presented in Table 4.1 and detailed in Annex 4.5).
The project will be exempt from taxes and duties.  Physical contingencies
have been included at the level of 10% for all items. Price contingencies
assume local inflation of 34% p.a. for 1987, 20% for 1988, 15% for 1989 and
12.5% thereafter. International inflation at the rate of 3% p.a. for 1987,
1% for 1988, 1989 and 1990 and 3.5% per annum thereafter has been adopted.
Project Implementation
4.11        Implementation of the Power Components.   Consultants, financed
under the IDA PPF, have been retained to carry out the work of project
procurement, and ENEE submitted most of the bidding documents for approval
to IDA and the respective financing agencies in August 1987. The bidding
documents are scheduled to be issued in October 1987 and ENEE plans to
place contracts with the successful bidders as soon as the credit and EIB
and ADB financing become effective.
4.12      The three major power components to be procured under the project
are the new 33 kV substations and substation extensions, the diesel
generating plant, and the second steam unit.   These components will be
supplied, erected and commissioned through turn-key contracts respectively
financed by ADB, EIB and Italian funds. The diesel plant is scheduled to
be commissioned m.d-1989 and the 33 kV substations are planned for commis-
sioning in 1989 and 1990.  The steam plant is scheduled for commissioning
in late 1989. The construction work to extend the 33 kV transmission lines
and the rehabilitation of transmission and distribution networks using
materials purchased under the project will be carried out by ENEE staff
under the supervision and guidance of the engineers and technicians
included in the institutional component (para. 4.13).   At Cezira power
station, diesel engine major overhauls, long-outstanding because of lack of
spare parts, and the erection in 1989 of the replacement diesel engine will
be carried out by ENEE staff, supervised by the engine manufacturer. With
the additional staff to be recruited under the institutional component,
ENEE will have sufficient skilled staff to carry out this work.
ContractorG financed under the Italian components are scheduled to begin in
mid 1987 the construction of a 15 kV distribution network which will
replace the dangerous and high loss 3 kV network in the commercial center
of Mogadishu. The line design, routing, material procurement and construc-
tion supervision will be carried out by ENEL, with ENEE's staff actively
involved and working alongside the contractor's erection staff and the
consultant's planners and supervisors.  ENEE have yet to acquire the land
for the North substation, and acquisition will be a condition of effective-
ness. An implementation schedule for the project is shown in Annex 4.4.



- 25 -
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(US$ thousands equivalent)
Foreign   Local    Total
Cost     Cost a/  Cost
Generation:
Gezira rehabilitation b/                         3,574      261       3,835
Gezira spares                                   4,076         -       4,076
Gezira fire protection and
H.I. lighting                                 1,227       175       1,402
Centrale rehabilitation                          1,157       38       1,195
Centrale spares                                  1,500        -       1,500
Generation Expansion:
10 MW diesel plant                              7,807    1,649        9,456
15 MW steam plant                              17,302    1,700 c/  19,002
33 kV substations                                    3,937       350      4,287
33 kV transmission                                   1,613       100       1,713
15 kV and 380 V mains and services
Reinstatement                                  10,419    1,041       11,460
Expansion                                       8,652       861       9,513
Distribution dept. vehicles and
pole plant expansion & workshops                   4,118       262      4,380
Communications/Computers                               270        50         320
Project management, technical assistance,
management and financial management
support and training                               5,553    1,165       6,718
Energy sector planning and studies                     700       100        800
Household energy demand management                      88       240         328
ENEE system development study (1989)                   260        87         347
Refinancing of Project Preparation Facility          1,500         -      1,500
Total Base Cost                                   73,753    8,079      81,832
Physical Contingencies (10%)                       7,225      808       8,033
Price Contingencies                                3,692      462       4,153
Total Project Cost d/                               84,670    9,349      94,019
a/ Corresponding to an early 1987 auction exchange rate of SoSh 120 =
US$1.00.
b/ Excludes expenditures incurred for emergency rehabilitation under IDA
PPF I and II.
c/ Local cost of steam plant erection financed from Italian Aid funds.
d/ The project will be exempt from duties and taxes.



- 26 -
4.13          Implementation of the Institutional Components.   In early
September 1987 ENEE issued the letter of invitation (Annex 4.3) to a
shortlist of consultancy firms, inviting proposals of project management,
operational assistance,  training and recruitment services.   The closing
date  for  receipt  of proposals  is November  16,  1987.   Signature of a
contract acceptable to IDA is a condition of effectiveness.
4.14      Implementation of Energy Components.  The energy components would
be executed by EPD and NWP.  EPD would have overall responsibility for all
energy planning activities and energy sector studies, and final responsi-
bility for implementation, coordination and supervision of this work would
rest with the Director of EPD and the resident advisor. NWP would continue
to be responsible for the development and dissemination of improved stoves,
and final responsibility for implementation, coordination and supervision
of this work would rest with the NWP Director.   EPD would be the local
counterpart for IDA and cofinancing agencies, consultants, and contractors
involved in the implementation of the energy components and would handle
all correspondence, progress reports, requests for disbursements and
procurement activities.   To execute the energy components, NWP and EPD
would be assisted by experienced consultants who would work under TOR
satisfactory to IDA. Finally, accounting for the energy components will be
carried out by EPD with annual audits to be performed by external auditors
satisfactory to IDA.  During negotiations, agreement was reached that IDA
should receive accounts audited by independent auditors within six months
after the end of each fiscal year.
Consulting Services
4.15        The execution of the project would require consulting services
for the implementation of the institutional component (para. 4.13) and to
assist ENEE in the analysis of the consumer billing needs and accountancy
hardware and software design, procurement and implementation; and the
inspection, construction supervison, startup, testing, commissioning and
acceptance and certification of the various project packages and subcompo-
nents.   ENEE has agreed to procure and retain consultancy services for
project supervision in accordance with IDA guidelines, and has requested
proposals for such services in the letter inviting proposals for the
institutional components (para. 4.13 and Annex 4.3). The total man-months
required for the services is estimated at about 640.  The gross man-month
rate including travel, direct expenses, local transport, housing and per
diems has been estimated at about US$11,500.
Procurement
4.16      The institutional component, which embraces managerial assistance
and the engineering and consultancy services, would account for about 55%
of the IDA funding of the project.   ENEE is currently processing this
component (para. 4.13) and has agreed to procure and to retain the services
in accordance with IDA guidelines.
4.17       The diesel generator spares to be purchased with some of the IDA
funds are of a proprietary nature and can be supplied only by the original
manufacturer. ENEE would procure these parts from the supplier, by direct
contracting at a total cost of about US$0.8 million (about 6% of the



- 27 -
Table 4,2: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS a/
(US$ million)
-------------Procurement Method…----------
Other   Cofi-
ICB   DC b/   CS c/    d/    nanciers  Total
Diesel plant                                          1.9      9.0      10.9
Steam plant                                                   22.0      22.0
Proprie4.ary spares
for riiesel units                  0.8              0.1      7.4       8.3
and auxiliaries                   (0.8)                               (0.8)
Non-proprietary spares       0.5                                         0.5
for diesel units          (0.5)                                       (0.5)
Rehabilitation of power    1.8                        0.2       1.3      3.3
station auxiliaries       (1.8)                                       (1.8)
Gezira fire prevention
and lighting schemes                                0.2       1.4      1.6
33 kV transmission
and substations                                     0.5      6.4       6.9
15 kV distribution
and 380 V mains                                     2.2     22.0      24.2
General plant                                         0.3      4.7       5.0
Project management,
technical assist-                          6.7      1.4                8.1
ance and training                         (6.7)                       (6.7)
System study                                 0.3      0.1                0.4
(0.3)                       (0.3)
Technical assistance                         0.9      0.4                1.3
(energy/household)                        (0.9)                       (0.9)
Project preparation                          1.5                         1.5
facility                                  (1.5)                       (1.5)
Total                      2.3     0.8    9.4       7.3     74.2      94.0
(2.3)   (0.8)  (9.4)                       (12.5)
a/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA
Credit.
b/ DC - direct contracting of proprietary spares that can be purchased only
from manufacturers of original equipment.
c/ CS - consultancy services procured and retained in accordance with IDA
guidelines.
d/ Local costs, mostly labor, borne by implementing agency.



- 28 -
proposed credit). The contract for power station unit and auxiliary plant
replacement and overhaul (US$1.8 million) would be procured through the
process of international competitive bidding (ICB). ENEE would also apply
ICB to the procurement of non-proprietary spares and consumables for Gezira
power station, estimated to cost about US$0.5 million.  A summary of the
procurement methods is presented in Table 4.2.   Procurement of items for
the project financed by EIB, ADB, and Italy will be purchased in accordance
with their normal practices.
Financing Plan
4.18         The total foreign exchange cost of the project  is US$84.7
million, of which IDA would finance US$12.5 million equivalent, and
cofinanciers would finance US$72.2 million.   Cofinanciers (all parallel)
are the European Investment Bank (EIB), US$14.7 million (ECU 13 million),
African Development Bank (ADB), US$9.5 million (FUA 8 million), and the
Italian Government about US$47.8 million (Lira 62 billion). Local project
costs total US$9.3 million equivalent of which ENEE would finance US$6.9
million equivalent, GOS US$0.4 million equivalent and Italy US$2.2 million
equivalent. Local currency requirements for the power subsector components
would be provided by ENEE from operational surplus cash generated as a
result of the 80% tariff increase in early 1987 and subsequent tariff
increases, and for the EPD and NWF in part by USAID and by the Government
for the remainder.   Table 4.3 summarizes the financing plan for which
further detail is provided in Annex 4.6.
Table 4.3: SUMMARY OF PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Item                          ENEE   GOS    IDA    ADB  EIB   Italy  Total
Power Sector Components       6.9    -      10.1   9.5   14.7  50.0   92.2
Energy Sector Components      -       0.4    0.9   -       -     -       1.3
PPF                           -       -      1.5   -       -     -       1.5
Total                         6.9    0.4   12.5   9.5   14.7  50.0   94.0
4.19        During negotiations agreement was reached that (i) Government
would onlend to ENEE US$10.3 million of the proceeds of the proposed credit
at 7.76% and 15 years repayment after a five-year grace period with ENEE
carrying the foreign exchange risk; and (ii) Government would make
available to ENEE US$1.3 million of the proceeds of the proposed credit
against payment of matching amounts in local currency; conversion of the
foreign currencies in SoSh would be carried out at the highest legal rate,
which presently would be the median auction rate; if the auction were to be
discontinued another rate acceptable to IDA would be agreed upon.   The
arrangement for the US$1.3 million which would be duplicated for US$3.4
million from EIB, reflects the fact that the US$4.7 million are for spare
parts, which should be funded from operational cash flow rather than
through loans.   Signature  of a subsidiary loan agreement and foreign
currency purchase agreement between Government and ENEE acceptable to IDA
would be a condition of effectiveness.   ADB  funds are being  lent  to



- 29 -
Government at 0.75% service fee, and with terms of 50 years including 10
years of grace. Onlending to ENEE would be at the current ADB rate (7.64%)
interest and 15 years repayment after five years of grace. EIB funds would
be lent to Government for (i) 10 years including 9 years of grace and 1%
interest for the US$2 million earmarked for spare parts and (ii) 25 years,
including five years of grace and at an interest rate of 2% for the rest.
The latter would be onlent to ENEE on similar terms but with an interest
rate of 8-10%.  Effectiveness of the ADB/EIB loans would be conditions of
effectiveness for the IDA credit.   Italian financing will be provided as
grant to Somalia and passed on to ENEE as equity.
4.20       ADB, EIB and IDA have confirmed with the Italian Government the
content, schedule, and disbursement pattern of its funding, because
implementation of the Italian component needs to be in-step and parallel to
those components funded by ADB, EIB, and IDA to ensure balanced and
economically viable rehabilitation results. A colenders meeting took place
in June 1987 during which cofinancing arrangements and coordination were
finalized and recorded in minutes.
Disbursement
4.21      The proposed credit would be disbursed against:  (a) 100% of the
foreign expenditure of directly imported equipment and materials quoted on
a CIF basis; (b) 100% of ex-factory cost of any locallv manufactured items;
(c)  100% of the foreign expenditures for consulti;   services including
the employment of the technical staff eventually employed by ENEE referred
to in Annex 4.3, Attachment 3; and (d) 100% of the cost of training under
the project of ENEE, EPD and NWP staff.   Annex 4.7 gives the proposed
credit disbursement schedule which conforms with the standard profile for
IDA credits for power projects in the Eastern and Southern Region of
Africa, All bidding documents and contracts for the supply of services and
goods which are to be financed by the Association would be subject to the
Association's prior review.
Monitoring and Reporting
4.22          Satisfactory procedures would be agreed for monitoring the
progress of project execution, including the energy and cooking efficiency
components.   Progress reports on project execution and project financial
reports would be made on a quarterly basis.  A project completion report
would be furnished to IDA by ENEE, MNP, and NWP within six months after the
closing date of the credit.
Special Accounts
4.23      In order to expedite project execution and give the implementing
agencies rapid access to funds under the credit, the Government would open
two Special Accounts at a commercial bank.  Account A for the ENEE would
have an initial deposit of US$800,000; Account B for EPD would have an
initial amount of US$100,000.  The combined total of the special accounts
corresponds to about 7% of credit proceeds.   Payments from the Special
Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures. The Special
Accounts would be replenished by IDA as needed, in accordance with



- 30 -
established procedures.  The channelling of funds for spare parts will be
via a foreign currency purchase agreement between GOS and ENEE (para.
4.19). Agreement was reached with Government during negotiations that the
special accounts will be audited by independent auditors and sent to IDA
not later than six months after the end of each year.
Environmental Aspects
4.24       Transmission and distribution components of the project would be
designed and erected in accordance with current technological practices and
will cause minimal disturbance to the environment. The replacement distri-
bution and consumer services components would be an aesthetic improvement
on the present arrangements and would provide a safer environment for the
public and ENEE's staff. The rehabilitation and corrective maintenance at
Gezira and Centrale diesel power stations would improve the visual appear-
ance of the buildings and reduce air pollution currently caused by ineffi-
ciently burnt fuel oil.  Safety improvements and fire protection would be
achieved as well.  The addition of a second oil burning steam unit using
the existing adequately designed stack would have little additional
environmental impact.  The diesel generator would be situated in an area
designated for industrial development, and it would be designed with
acceptably low noise emissions.
Project Risks
4.25      The major risk associated with this project is the sustainability
of physical and institutional improvements once the rehabilitation works
have been completed.   While ENEE will be strengthened at the end of the
project, a complete institutional turn-around after only three years cannot
be expected.   The proposed project is therefore a first step only and
subsequent efforts will be required to ensure that the institutional
improvements become permanent.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Introduction
5.01         ENEE is responsible for all public electricity operations in
Somalia. In addition, it operates a small cement pole factory and imports
and sells low volumes of light bulbs, light fixtures, and sockets. ENEE's
historic financial statements only reflect Mogadishu activities and do not
yet consolidate the six regional operations, which will be included from
1987 only. While the financial statements do consolidate the pole factory
and electrical materials activities, no separate accounts are kept. The
proposed project would address these deficiencies through restructuring of
ENEE's financial accounting systems and development of consolidated
financial statements.
Financial Position and Past Operating Results
5.02      ENEE's financial performance for the past several years has been
poor, characterized by low operational efficiency, low profitability, and
severe illiquidity. ENEE's operating results for 1984, 1985, and 1986 are
summarized in Table 5.1.



- 31 -
Table 5e1:  ENEE - SUMMARY OF INCOME STATEMENTS, MOGADISHU SYSTEM 1986-86
1984      1985       1986
Units Sold (MWh)                             87,653    94,866   104,852
Average Revenue (SoSh/KWh)                     2.76       3.64      6.03
------ SoSh million 
Operating Revenue                               281        471       879
Operating Expenses
Fuel                                         161       336        467
Labor                                         15        29         38
Other                                         34        30         59
Depreciation                                  44       226        240
Subtotal                                  254       621        804
Operat:ng Income                                 26       (150)       75
Less:
Interest & Other fin. charges              28        46        107
Net Income (Loss)                                (2)      (196)      (32)
Return on Non-Revalued Assets (%)                13         (7)        2
Debt Service Coverage (times)                     2,4        0.6       2.2
Contribution to Investment (%)                    5         0        (56)
ENEE's cash generation from operations during the past three years has been
insufficient to cover financial charges, annual net income has been
negative and debt service has not been met from internally generated
sources.   Also, ENEE has not  been able to contribute  to new capital
investments over the past two years, as indicated by investment
contribution levels of 0% in 1985 and -56% in 1986. ENEE has therefore had
to rely Increasingly on short-term borrowing, delayed payment of bills, and
deferred maintenance. ENEE has severely cut back on almost all maintenance
work on plant and equipment, which has led to the current state of
widespread equipment failure and system breakdown; ENEE staff estimate that
less than one third of all required maintenance is being annually
performed.  Had ENEE carried out its regular maintenance during the past
three years, its financial performance would have been significantly
worse.    Return  on  assets  is  presently  not  a meaningful  performance
indicator as the asset base has not been properly revalued in line with
increasing replacement costs (ENEE attempted to revalue assets in 1985 but
the exercise was incomplete and did not conform to standard accounting
practice).  However, even with significantly undervalued assets, ENEE has
generated poor rates of return, which were negative in 1985 and only 2% in
1986. The asset revaluation proposed under the project (para. 3.09) would
address  these  issues  and  agreement  was  reached  with  ENEE  during
negotiations that development of a proper asset registry and asset
revaluation would be completed for IDA review by December 31, 1988.



- 32 -
5.03           Several factors have contributed  to ENEE's weak operating
.esults.   First,  fuel costs, which account  for about 80% of all cash
operating expenses, have doubled between 1984 and 1986, due to both the
continuing depreciation of the SoSh and Government's petroleum pricing
policies which allow the National Petroleum Agency to accrue the profit of
lower petroleum product border prices without passing on any of the benefit
to consumers.   Second, steep rises in do.4estic inflation have resulted in
increases in all other operating areas.   Third, ENEE has run extremely
large system losses, estimated at 24% in 1986, arising from both a high
level of unmetered/unbilled consumption and an inefficient and poorly
maintained transmission and distribution network.  Finally, these adverse
cost factors have not been offset by adequate revenues, because of the
depressed and unmet demand outlined earlier (para. 2.11) and inadequate
tariff levels.
5.04      As shown in Table 5.2, tariffs have not kept pace with inflation
between 1984 and 1986, eroding electricity rates in real terms and
subsequently  ENEE's  financial  and  operacing  performance.    However,  in
February 1987, Government authorized an average increase of about 80%,
raising tariffs to about 11 USU/kWh which is close to the estimated long
run marginal cost of electricity (para.  2.21).   As part of the tariff
action, ENEE's simple two-tier tariff structure was temporarily replaced by
a single rate for all customers.  A new rate structure would be designed
and implemented under the proposed project (para. 3.08).
Table 5.2: COMPARATIVE PRICE AND TARIFF INDICES, 1981-86
1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Local Inflation (M)           0      23     36      92     38      37      34 a/
Consumer Price Index        100    123    168    323    446    611        819
Tariff Increase (%)           0      44     42       0     32      66      80
Index                       100    i44    204    204    269    447        805
a/ Estimated
5.05     ENEE's financial position for 1984-86 is summarized in Table 5.3.
During 1984-86 ENEE faced increasingly severe liquidity and solvency
problems, as evidenced by accumulating debt arrears and the short term
borrowing. The two principal changes in its financial structure have been
the partial revaluation of fixed assets and the booking of the new 15 MW
Gezira steam plant in 1985, which significantly increased the fixed asset
account, and the corresponding increase in long-term debt, reflecting the
Kuwaiti Fund and Arab Fund financing of the steam unit.   (Although ENEE
signed the loans in 1982 and drew down the bulk of funds in 1982-84, it did
not follow standard accounting principles and only showed the corresponding
asset and liability on its balance sheet when the steam unit was



- 33 -
Table 5.3: ENEE - SUMMARY OF BALANCE SHEET, MOGADISHU SYSTEM, 1984-86
(SoSh million)
1984         1985         1986
Assets
Current Assets
Cash                                        2             3          23
Accounts Receivable                       292           417         681
Inventory                                  32            22         166
Other                                      14            54           25
Subtotal                               339          496          895
Net Fixed Assets                             300         3,728        3,604
Work In Progress                               6             8            2
Total Assets                           645        4,232        4,501
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                          224           296          331
Overdraft                                   0            58          135
Current Portion Long-Term Debt             43            75         244
Debt Service Arrears                       18            87         249
Other                                       4             5           10
Subtotal                               289           521         949
Long-Term Debt                               282         3,833        3,664
Other LT - Liabilities                         9            10           11
Equity and Retained Earnings                  65          (132)        (123)
Total Liabilities and Equity           645        4,232        4,501
3==        ===_=_i
Current Ratio                                  1.18          0.95         0.97
Debt: Debt and Equity (%)                        81           104          104
Accounts Receivable (days)                      379           324          324
Accounts Payable (days)                         418           295          231
commissioned in 1985.)   The company's main financial weaknesses are the
following:
(a) Accounts  receivable  continue  to run very  high,  as end  1986
arrears represent more than 9 months of sales.   However, some
improvements were made since 1984 when receivables represented
more than 12 months of sales;
(b) Accounts payable, which consist largely of unpaid old fuel bills
to the National Petroleum Agency (NPA), are also high, equivalent
to about 7 months of non-payroll cash operating expenses. ENEE's
position has improved since 1984, when overdue bills represented
almost 14 months of non-payroll cash operating expenses, because
of recent legislation requiring all state enterprise transactions
with NPA to be on a cash-only basis;



- 34 -
(c) ENEE has accumulated large debt service arrears, defaulting on
all int6rest and principal payments since 1984 on its 18.7
million dinar borrowings from the Kuwait Fund and Arab Fund,
which were on-lent by Government with no additional interest.
ENEE carries the foreign exc!iange risk on these loans and the
continuing SoSh devaluation has exacerbated ENEE's debt-service
problems;
(d) ENEE has been under-capitalized and highly leveraged, with a
debt-to-equity ratio of 81/19 in 1984,   The large 1965 loss
turned corporate equity into a deficit and without the equity
contribution from Government in 1986 to finance some outstanding
investment costs for the Jesira steam unit, the equity deficit
would have increased further; and
(e) To compensate for operating cash shortfalls, the company has had
to rely on local overdraft facilities that carry an interest rate
of 20%. These short-term borrowings have been used primarily to
finance petroleum purchases, maintenance materials, and capital
investment costs (ENEE used some of these funds in 1985 and 1986
to buy foreign exchange under the Italian commodity aid import
program to finance transmission and distribution materials, which
account for the increase in inventory levels in 1986).
Financial Restructuring of ENEE
5.06       Given the company's outdated and inefficient financial operating
systems, the restructuring program essentially replaces, step by step, the
existing billing, collection, accounting, plant and inventory control, and
planning  systems  with  new  procedures,  hardware,  and  software.    The
successful integration of the new system requires a comprehensive technical
assistance  and  management  strengthening  program  (para.  4.08).    The
restructuring program also sets out financial performance parameters which
are designed to sustain ENEE's medium and long term financial viability.
Conditionality has been attached to key actions initiating the reform
process.    The  program  components  and  associated  conditionalities  are
presented in Table 5.4.
Table 5.4:  FINANC    RESTRUCTURING OF ENEE
Measures                             Status of Implementation
A. System Improvements
1. Appointment of external auditor    Implemented
and audited 1986 accounts
2. Annual   consolidated   audited    6 months after end of fiscal year,
financial statements                 beginning FY87
3. Adequate insurance coverage          Insurance  audit  received  prior  to
negotiations, contracting of adequate
insurance effectiveness (para. 3.11)



- 35 -
4. Contract  with  public  sector    Draft contract was presented prior to
customers                           negotiations,  and  contract  became
effective prior to Board presentation
(para. 3.09)
5. New  billing  and   collection    By June 30, 1988
procedures, and equipment
6. New financial accounting system    By September 30, 1988
and accounting equipment
7. Inventory control system            By December 31, 1988
8. New  plant  accounting  system,    By March 31, 1989
asset registry and revaluation
9. Financial     budgeting      and    By June 30,1989
planning system, financial MIS
B. Financial Performance
Parameters
10. Rate of return on revalued net    8% from 1990
fixed assets
11. Contribution to investment          1%, 10%, 15%, 20%, and 30% in 1988,
1989,  1990,  1991  and  1992  and
thereafter, respectively
12. Performance Review                 ENEE  and  Government  will  annually
review with IDA whether ENEE will
meet the performance requirements for
that   year   and   take  appropriate
measures, including adjustment of
tariffs.
13. Receivables and payables           Implemented  prior  to  negotiations:
Settlement of 50% of public sector
arrears   including   debt   arrears;
reduction of private sector arrears
to 180 days of sales
By credit effectiveness: Settlement
of remaining public sector arrears
Thereafter: not more than 120 days in
1988 and 90 days from 1989 of sales
revenue    and    non-payroll    cash
operating expenditures respectively
14. Investment program                 Annual  review with  IDA  from  1988;
changes in RIP of more than 1% of
gross fixed assets or US$1 million
equivalent, whichever is smaller, to
be approved by IDA



- 36 -
15. Debt Service Coverage               No new debt without IDA's agreeent if
debt    service    coverage    ratio,
including the new debt and based on
reasonable financial projections, is
less than 1.5 during any year of the
projection period
16. Restoration   of   short-term    80% tariff increase was implemented
operating viability                 in February 1987
5.07      ENEE's projected financial statements for 1987-1994 together with
notes and assumptions used in these statements are presented in Annexes 5.1
through 5.4.  Selected indicators through 1992 are shown in Table 5.5.  As
already indicated in Table 5.4, the 80% tariff increase of February 1987
has restored ENEE's short term financial viability. Even when taking into
account ENEE's limited current ability to deliver electricity, bill for it
and collect revenues, the incremental cash flow should cover operating
expenditures and debt service in 1987, including the settlement of debt
arrears  and  repayment  of  short  term  loans.   The  increase  which was
considerably larger than the 30-50% indicated by immediate cash flow needs,
should provide satisfactory revenue flows through 1989 particularly with by
then improved billing and collection systems.   The expected period of
relative financial comfort should help ENEE's overall rehabilitation
effort.   After  1989,  annual tariff  increases  between 5% and  35% are
projected to be necessary for meeting financial requirements and for
uaintaining  financial  performance.    Contribution  to  investment,  debt
service coverage, and current ratio would all meet the stipulated perfor-
mance criteria. Returns on assets remain erratic, but specific returns can
be meaningfully targetted and tariffs set accordingly only once the asset
base has been properly registered and revalued in early 1989 (Table
5.4-A8).  ENEE's capital structure will be strengthened and its debt/debt
and equity ratio will normalize as a result of equity contributions from
Government in amounts equal to the grant funds received in connection with
the Italian component (para. 4.19).
Table 5.5: ENEE FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS - SELECTED INDICATORS
(SoSh millions, current terms)
Indicator                           1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
Electricity Sales                    632  1273  1681  2285  3993  4804  5619
Internal Contribution to
Investment                          (62)  412   396   331  1059  1419   950
Investment Program                   111   650  2782  6230  6573  4190  2397
Contribution to Investment (%)       (55)   63    14      5    16    34    40
Debt Service Coverage (times)        1.6   1.6   1.8   1.6   2.4   2.3   1.6
Current Ratio                        0.9   1.7   2.8   2.3   1.7   1.1   1.1
Debt/Debt and Equity Ratio (X)       103   109    94    81    68    62    58
Projected Avg. Tariff Increases (%) 66    80       0      0    35     5      5
Tariffs (US¢tkWh)                    5.5  10.1   8.2   7.1   8.5   8.1   7.8
Domestic Inflation                    40    34    20    15  12.5  12.5  12e5
Rate of Return (2)                   2.1  13.0   5.7   2.5   6.1   4.0   2.5



- 37 -
Financial Covenants
5.08         ENEE's actual financial performance will be monitored during
project implementation and an annual review will be undertaken jointly by
ENEE, GOS, and IDA to ensure the company maintains a sound financial
position.   Agreement on the review process and associated criteria was
reached with ENEE and GOS during negotiations and is reflected in several
financial covenants. First, ENEE should (i) from 1990 on earn a return on
net fixed revalued assets of not less than 8%; and (ii) generate funds from
internal sources of not less than 1%, 10%, 15%, 20% and 30% of its
investment program in 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 and 1992 and thereafter
respectively.   Second, ENEE should not incur debt without IDA's agreement
unless reasonable financial projections indicate that the debt service
coverage including the new debt to be incurred will not be less than 1.5 in
any given year of the projection period. Third, ENEE will reduce accounts
receivable and payable to 120 days by 1988 and to 90 days from 1989 on, of
electricity sales and non-payroll cash expenditures respectively. Fourth,
ENEE will seek IDA's approval for any changes in the RIP greater than US$1
million equivalent or 1% of gross fixed assets, whichever is the smaller.
Fifth, ENEE and Government will annually review with IDA whether ENEE will
meet the performance re-uirements for that year and the next year and take
appropriate measures including adjustment of tariffs.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
The Need for the Project
6.01          The project constitutes the majority of ENEE's development
program for the Mogadishu system to 1994, accounting for about 85% of the
total investment. 8/   The program, and thus the project is required to
eliminate the present lack of generation, transmission and distribution
capacity to meet existing and forecast growth in demand to 1994 in the
Mogadishu system.   The project is also required to reduce the costs of
meeting demand by displacing costly private generation facilities and by
improving  system  operating  efficiency  and  supply  reliability.    The
availability of generation capacity has to be increased to make up for a
32% deficit relative to system peak demand in 1986, and to meet an increase
of about 80% in system peak demand, including interconnected load centers,
by 1994.   The Mogadishu system transmission capacity also needs to be
increased by a similar overall rate.   These increases in capacity would
bring about substantial economic benefit through removing a bottleneck to
industrial and commercial activity in Mogadishu and agriculture in
surrounding areas. The system distribution capacity needs to be increased
to meet increases in the demands from existing consumers and to take on the
demands from new consumers, especially in the residential category, which
will approximately double the total number of connected consumers by 1994.
8/ The costs of the PPF and the long-term planning work included in the
project, accounting for about 4% of total project costs, are excluded
from the economic evaluation of the Mogadishu power development program
to 1994.



- 38 -
Approach to Evaluation
6.02            The  Mogadishu  power  development  program  to  1994  with
commissioning of the Baardhere project in 1995 has been shown to be the
least-cost development program for the power system in Southern Somalia
(para.  2.16).   The economic return to the Mogadishu power development
program to 1994 is derived from the i7cremental costs and benefits from the
program.  The increments are relative to the mission's assessment of the
situation that would prevail if no rehabilitation or development of the
Mogadishu system were to take place, i.e. (i) none of the existing diesel
units would be operable after the first quarter of 1990; and (ii) the
existing oil-fired steam unit would be the only source of power in
Mogadishu. Thus, the incremental costs are the differences in total system
costs, comprising capital, O&M and fuel costs, between the development
program case and the no rehabilitation and development case. The costs of
technical assistance for project management and training are also included
in the "with program" case since this assistance is considered to be
essential for achieving the projected improvement in system performance.
Similarly, the incremental benefits are the differences in the value of
total served power demand between the two cases. The served demand in the
"with program" case is based on the mission's power demand forecast (Annex
2.3).
Economic Costs and Benefits
6.03       Power system economic costs are valued in 1987 price terms, and
are based on international prices CIF Mogadishu and associated internal
costs.   Somali taxes and duties are excluded from the costs.   Operating
costs which are independent of system development are not included since
they are common to all development options.   Similarly, the capital and
O&M costs, and the benefits as well, associated with hydropower from
Baardheere are not included in the comparison.   This approach avoids the
need for arbitrary allocation of the joint costs of this multipurpose
project between irrigation, flood control and power development programs
with further allocation between the power programs for Mogadishu and the
Juba Valley.   The comparison captures the savings in costs arising from
improvements in system operating efficiency brought about under the
development program.   The main sources of savings are (a) reduction in
system technical losses from improved balance in the loading of transformer
capacity,  improved   voltage   profiles   on  distribution   feeders   and
installation of reactive power compensation equipment in the transmission
system; and (b) reduction in the specific fuel consumption rates of the
existing diesel units.   System economic costs associated with the two
evaluation cases are summarized in Annex 6.1.
6.04       System benefits are derived from the increase in served energy
demand  that would  be  achieved  under  the  development  program.    Since
Baardhere costs are omitted from the comparison, for consistency the demand
for Baardhere power from 1995 is also omitted. The comparison focusses on
the utilization of thermal generation capacity as well as transmission and
distribution capacity in Mogadishu that is rehabilitated or added by 1994.
The served demands in the two evaluation cases are summarized in Annex
6.1.   The incremental served demand is valued at the average consumer
willingness-to-pay for power from ENEE's system which is estimated by the



- 39 -
mission to be SoSh 26/kWh (19.2 US¢JkWh at an exchange rate of SoSh
135/US$) in 1987 price terms.  This estimate is derived from the weighted
average cost to consumers of meeting their demands for power from the types
of private power sources currently in use in Mogadishu (Annex 6.1).
Economic Rate of Return
6.05       The economic rate of return to the net incremental benefits of
the Mogadishu power development program to 1994 is 25%, as detailed in
Annex 6.1.   This estimate is conservative since it does not include the
benefits after 1994 from the Baardhere power handled by the transmission
and distribution components in the program. Any delay in commissioning the
Baardhere Project would increase the economic rate of return to the program
through greater utilization of the thermal generating capacity that is
rehabilitated and added up to 1994 for the period from 1995 until
commissioning of Baardhere.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements Reached
7.01      The following agreements were reached with ENEE and Government:
(a) GOS will onlend to ENEE US$10.3 million equivalent at 7.76% with
a maturity of 20 years, including five years of grace, with the
foreign exchange risk to be borne by ENEE.  ENEE is to receive
US$1.3 million of the credit proceeds against payment of matching
amounts in local currency and conversion of the foreign
currencies into SoSh taking place at the highest legal exchange
rate, i.e., for the time being the median auction exchange rate
based on a three month average; or otherwise by a rate acceptable
to IDA (para. 4.19).
(b) ENEE will continue to employ qualified auditors and will send
consolidated audited accounts to IDA within six months after the
end of the fiscal year (para 3.09).
(c) GOS shall send to IDA not later than six months after the end of
each year audited accounts for the energy components (para.
4.14) and the special accounts (para. 4.23).
(d) ENEE will not incur any debt without IDA's agreement unless
reasonable financial projections indicate that the debt service
coverage including the new debt to be incurred will not be less
than 1.5 in any given year of the projection period (Table 5.4
and para. 5.08).
(e) ENEE will reduce accounts receivable and payable to 120 days by
1988 and to 90 days from 1989 on, of electricity sales and
non-payroll cash expenditures respectively (Table 5.4 and para.
5.08).



- 40 -
(f) Power subsector expansion for the Mogadishu system and ENEE as a
whole will be in accordance with the Reference Investment Program
(RIP); the RIP will be reviewed annually and revised if required;
ENEE will seek IDA's approval for any changes in the RIP greater
then US$ 1 million equivalent, or 1% of gross fixed assets,
whichever is the smaller (Table 5.4 and para. 5.08).
(g) ENEE should (i) from 1990 on earn a return on net fixed revalued
assets of not less than 8%; (ii) generate funds from internal
sources of not less than 1%, 10%, 15%, 20%, and 30% of its
investment program in 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 and 1992 and
thereafter,  respectively.   ENEE and Government will  annually
review  with  IDA  whether  ENEE  will  meet  the  performance
requirements for that year and the next year and take appropriate
measures, including adjustment of tariffs (Table 5.4 and para.
5.08).
(h) ENEE, MNP, and NWP will furnish to IDA a project completion
report within six months after the closing date of the project
(para. 4.22).
(i) Institutional arrangements proposed for Baardhere will be
presented to IDA for review (para. 2.01).
(j) The results of the household energy survey (para.  1.04), the
petroleum procurement and distribution study (para. 1.19) and the
commercial woodfuels marketing study will be jointly reviewed by
GOS and IDA to define appropriate follow-up actions.
Conditions of Effectiveness
7.02      The following are conditions of effectiveness:
(k) Settlement of remaining 50% of public sector arrears owed by and
to ENEE (Table 5.4 and para. 3.08).
(l) ENEE has contracted insurance coverage acceptable to IDA (para.
3.11).
(m) Signature of project management/operational assistance contract
for ENEE (para. 4.13).
(n) Confirmation by the Somali Government of physical content,
timing, disbursement schedule, and implementation arrangements of
its bilateral project component with Italy (para. 4.20).
(o) Effectiveness of EIB and ADB credits (para. 4.19).
(p) Signature of subsidiary loan agreement and foreign currency
purchase agreements between Government and ENEE and acceptable to
IDA regarding the onlending of the IDA credit proceeds (para.
4.19).



- 41 -
(q) ENEE will have (i) acquired the land and rights related thereto
for the accomodation of the north substation and power plant and
(ii) secured a right-of-way for the route of extra high voltage
lines into the substation from a north-westerly direction (para.
4.12).
Recommendation
7.03      With the above conditions and agreements, the project is suitable
for an IDA credit of SDR 9.7 million equivalent to US$12.5 million to be
lent to Somalia for a term of 40 years including a period of 10 years
grace.



POR  RAMBILMAIQ AND EN! PW
NATIGlL ENEt B        PM 1986
(tusard t       of oil eqAivalant)
Prlam7 FaMw                                                      Petrolemi Products 
belwood Agricultal Crude OR  *ldro-Elec. Qircoal Electricity Gasoline Jet-Fuel U    Ciese  Fuel Oll Total  Ltne            E5MI-1g
Residues                                                     Rerosem                               Totals  Total  iodfuels
(%)     (a)
Gross supply
prxluctima                1,270       37.4        -        2.5                             -        -       -     -       -        -   1,309.9  87.7    17.8
Imorts                      -          -         126.1     -          -          -        14.1      9.6     -    38.8     -       62.5   188.6  12.6    84.4
Primry Ex*ts                _                                                    -         -        -       -     -     (4.9)    (4.9)   (4.9) (0.3)   (2.2)
Stoxc a   s                      -          -          -                   -               _        _       _     _       _        _    
Gross Supply Available   1i270        37.4       126.1     2.5         -         _        14.1      9.6     -    38.8  (4.9)      57.6 1,493.6 100.0   100.0
Petroli Refinery            -          -        (117.1)    -          -          -         9.1     13.5    0.4  37.1   57.0    117.1       0     -        -
Charcoal Production       (65.9)       -          -        -          65.9       -         -        -       -     -      -         -       0     -       -
EMectricity Generation      -        (37.4)       -       (2.5)        -        105.0          -            -   (20.8) (44.3)    (65.1)    0     -
Coo'rsoin tosses          (154.1)      -         (9.0)    -            -        (79.5)         -            -     -      -         0    (242.6) (16.2)   (39.6)           4s
tanmss    6 Distribhtimn    -          -          -        -           -        (3.2)      -        -       -     -      -         0      (3.2) (0.2)    (1.4)
Pas TssesI
Net Supply Available      1.050        0          0        0          65.9      22.3      23.2    23.1      0.4  55.1    7.8    109.6 1,247.8  83.6    59.0
(Net I esstie Quption)                                                                                                                         100.0   100.0
Cosmuvtiun b Sector
TwAIpert                    -          -          -        -          -          -        23.2      -       -    44.1    -        67.3   67.3   5.4    51.0
Industry                    7.4        -          -        -          3.4        8.6       -        -       -     2.8    7.8      10.6    30.0   2.4    14.6
Aexiculoure   -  -    -       -           -          -        -        -       -     8.2    -         8.2     8.2   0.7      6.2
CbussrCIal & GDvernment     2.1        -          -        -           1.9       7.9       -        4.6     -     -      -         4.6    16.5   1.3      9.5
R esdidnt1al              1,040.5    n.a.         -        -          60.6       5.8       -       18.5    0.4   -       -        18.9 1,125.8  90.2    18.7
S5 : tlssim beam n data from am, DllwAU, NPA and EPD.
a-
0!



- 43 -
ANNEX 1.1
Page 2 of 3
SOMALIA
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
BASIC DATA AND ASSUMPTIONS FOR THE 1986 NATIONAL ENERGY BALANCE
Fuelwood Supply   Average annual consumption = 0.6 m3/capita; population of
Somalia in 1986 = 6.2 million including 0.7 million refugees. Total annual
consumption 0.75 x 0.6 x 6.2 = 2.8 million tonnes of air-dried wood of 15%
average moisture content, calorific content 16.0 GJ/t and solid density of
0.75 t/m3. Equivalent energy supplied in 1986 - 2.8 x 16.0 - 44.8 million
GJ, equivalent to 1,050 thousand toe at 42.7 GJ/toe.   Fuelwood used for
charcoal production is an additional supply of energy.
Agricultural Residues Supply   There are data only for bagasse production
at Juba Sugar Factory - about 110,000 tonnes in 1986 which was used to
generate about 10 GWh of electricity.   Other sugar plants were not in
operation during 1986.   Calorific content of air-dried bagasse with 30%
moisture content = 14.7 GJ/t, 0.34 t/toe. Energy supply was equivalent to
110,000x0.34 = 37.4 thousand toe.
Crude Oil Supply    IRAQSOMA processed 126,100 t in 1986, with estimated
refinery losses by weight of about 5%.
Petroleum Products Supply    Product yield pattern on weight basis from
refinery crude oil in 1986 was LPG - 0.3%; Gasoline - 7.4%; Kerosene/Jet
Fuel - 11%; Diesel - 31.2%; Heavy Fuel Oil - 50.1%. Balance of consumption
made up from direct imports of products.   Ratio tonnes product/toe by
calorific value: LPG - 0.94; Gasoline - 0.97; Kerosene/Jet Fuel - 0.98;
Diesel - 1.02; Heavy Fuel Oil - 1.06.
Charcoal Production   in 1986 was about 97,000 tonnes with a calorific
content of about 29 GJ/t, equivalent to 97 x 29/42.7 - 65.9 thousand toe.
The average conversion efficiency was about 30% on an energy content basis,
and thus about 220 thousand toe of fuelwood was used during 1986 to produce
charcoal.
Electricity Production in Mogadishu for 1986 was 131.1 GWh generated from
an HFO-burning steam unit and HFO-burning diesel sets at an average
specific fuel consumption of about 0.37 liters/kWh.  Total cons'l.ption of
heavy fuel oil (HFO) at  1,045 liters/t was about 47,000 tonnes.   The
remaining HFO was supplied to the Berbera cement plant (about 8,300 tonnes)
with a small amount (about 700 tonnes) to the Gezira urea plant. About 10
GWh of hydroelectricity was produced at Fanode in the Juba Valley, for
which the energy equivalence is based on 4,000 kWh/toe.   About 10 GWh was
generated from bagasse at the Juba Sugar factory.  Production from diesel
sets burning diesel fuel is estimated to have been about 30 GWh in isolated
load centers and 30 GWh in industrial plants at an average specific uel
consumption of about 0.45 liters/kWh, and total consumption at 1,200
liters/t was about 18,750 tonnes. About 5 GWh is estimated to have been
generated from small diesel sets, together with a relatively small amount
from gasoline sets, at 0.60 liters/kWh consuming 2,500 tonnes of diesel



- 44 -
ANNEX 1.1
Page 3 of 3
oil.    A  thermal  efficiency  rate  of  34% is generally used to derive
generated electrical energy (sent out from station) and generation
conversion losses, except for a rate of 6.7% for bagasse-generated power.
Transmission and distribution losses were estimated from a weighted average
of 17% of sent out energy excluding private producers (161 GWh).
Sectoral Consumption   Estimated proportions for each fuel:
- fuelwood: industry 0.7%; commerce 0.2%; residential-remainder.
- charcoal: industry 5.2%; commerce 2.8%; residential-remainder.
(Source: "Somalia - Issues and Options in the Energy Sector").
- electricity: - Mogadishu consumption (131 GWh) - mission's simulated
energy demand for 1986 for demand forecast:
- industry 18%; Comm./Gov. 49%; residential 33%
- Private generators in industry: (50 GWh) - industry 100%
- Isolated Load Centers (30 GWh) - mission's estimate of one
third total for each of the three sectors.
-  Small  generators   (5  GWh):   50%  each  in  commerce  and
residential.
- weighted averages for national electricity consumption by
sector:
industry 38.7%; comm./gov. 35.5%; domestic 25.8%.
- kerosene: commerce 20%; residential 80%.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1.2
SOMALIA
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGI PROJECT
National Petroleum Supply and Consumption 1980-1986 a/
(thousand tonnes)
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Imports
Crude Oil                    265.7    -    179.5  212e6  123.6  158.5  126.8
Petroleum Products             -    185.7   96.6   88.1  101.8  103.2   62.0
Refining
Crude Oil Processed          264.8    -    179.5  212.9  136.4  158.5  126.8
Product Output
LPG                          0.3    -       0.4    0.2    0.1    0.1    0.4
Gasoline                    46.6    -      23.9   29.0   23.4    9.5    9.2
Kerosene/Jet Fuel           19.2    -      18.9   14.7   13.5   18.3   13.7
Diesel Oil                  80.7    -      56.9   84.0   53.6   46.5   39.1
Heavy Fuel Oil             110.0    -      74.7   82.4   44.2   82.2   62.9
Own Consumption & Losses       8.0    -       4.7    2,6    1.6    1.9    1.5
Re-Exports                   108.0    -      75.7   82.4   31.4   45.9    5.2
Gasoline                       6.7    -       3.0    2,0    3.0    -        -
Heavy Fuel Oil               101.3    -      72.7   80.4   28.4   45.9    5.2
Bunker Sales                  17.2   15.0   10.0   10.0   10.0    -         -
Jet Fuel                       8.5    8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0
Heavy Fuel Oil                 8.7    7e0    2.0    2.0    2.0
Inland Consumption           212.5  176.3  182,8  2063t 208.2  213.9  182.1
LPG                            0.3    -       0.4    0.2    0.1    -        0.4
Gasoline                      58.6   40.8   43.4   A7.8   45.4   36.5   22.9
Kerosene/Jet Fuel             24.8   15.2   22.8   25.2   29.5   35.2   23.2
Diesel Oil                   126.8  120.3  114.2  131.1  117.4  105.8   77.9
Heavy Fuel Oil                 2.0    -       2.0    2,0   15.8   36.4   57.7
a/ Differences between total supply and sales reflect stock changes.
Source: NPA; Iraqsoma; Iskiash.



SOMALIA
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
ENEE's Installed Generating Capacity
No of Units                    Available
Make and                   and Nameplate   Cosmissioning   Capacity        Speed   Generator
Location                      Type              Fuel     Rating (kW)         Dates         (kW) a/      (rpm)    Voltage              Remarks
Mogadishu
Gezira diesel station     Mirlees            HF0      5 x 5,732         78, 78, 78,    2 x 4,000        500    15,000
V 16 M                                         79, 80
Gezira steam station      BBC turbine        HFO      1 x 16,500        85             Zero           1,500     6,300     Recommissioned in April 1987
Lentjeb                                                                                        following manufacturer's
Boiler                                                                                         2-year warranty overhaul
Centrale diesel station   Deutz/Pelizzari   Diesel  4 x 960             59, 59, 63,    2 x 500          273       380     Two sets cannibalized and
6-in-line                                        64                                            retired.
Centrale diesel station   Deutz              HFO      4 x 2,160         68, 74, 75,    1 x 1,000        375       380     Although converted in 1983
VI2                                              77                                            to burn HFO, currently run-
ning on automotive diesel
fuel because of failed
auxiliaries.
Northern Region
Hargeira diesel station   Ruston             Diesel   I x 1,000         84             Zero            500        380     When fuel is available,
Deutz             Diesel   1 x 400           NA             200              750       380     power station generates only
Deuta             Diesel   I x 800           72             400              750       380     from 1730-0530 each night.
Berbera diesel station    Ruston             Diesel   I x 1,000        84                              500        380     When fuel is available,
Ruston            Diesel   I x 900           82             1,050            500       380     power station generates
English           Diesel   2 x 450           63                              500       380     from 1800-0200 each night.
Electricity
Burao diesel station      Ruston             Diesel   2 x 1,000                                        500        380     When fuel is available,
Deutz             Diesel   1 x 450           81                              75C       380     power station generates
Deutz             Diesel   I x 80            77                              750       380     from 1800-0100 each night.
MAN               Diesel   Ix 150            81             90               500       380
Southern Region
Baidoa diesel station     Finnish            Diesel   2 x 700           88             NA               750       400 )  Shown here are details of
) plant to be commissioned in
) 1988, financed from Finnish
) aid funds.
Kiszayo diesel station    Finnish            Diesel  2 x 1,000          88             NA               750       400 )
a/ As at March 31, 1987.



- 47 -
SCOALIA                                            ANNEX 2.2
27-Nay-07 
POKER REABILITATION AND ENERSY PIOJECT
NADISHI SYSTEN PONER GENERATION AND CONSUNPTIOW  1978-1996
Average
CY     1979      1979      1980     1981      1982      1983     1984      198      198   Growth
Energy Supply h Consuwption INWh)                                                                                                  lly)
Energy 6enerated                            41730    44200    59900    72670    75119    91203   113253   123440   131065           15.41
Syste. Losses k UnbilleC Consumption         1935     7514    10013    13810    13629    20627    24463    40277    36200
Billed Consueption                          33795    36686    48807    58860    62090    70576    88790    83163    94065           1.OZ
Billings by Consuer Category
Private a/                                  13502    13429    20859    19390    20975    32569    33222    25598    31961
Nunicipal                                    2132     2780      1961      2710     2471      1992      2186      938      4163
Governeent bi                               13122    17900    21101    32700    31654    29184   U4066    44513    49633
Esbassies cl                                 5039     2577      4966      4060     7090      6831      7316    12114      9208
Systen Naximuc Desand INV)                   11.5     13.5      14.5      16.5     17.2      20.2      24.2     25.5      27.6      11.62
System Load Factor                           41.4%    37.41    46.41    50.32    50.32    51.52    53.42    55,32    54.22
Energy Losses etc./Energy generated          19.O    17.02    17.02    19.02    18.0    22.62    21.62    32.62    27.62
Numbers of Consuser Connections
Private                                     17388    19176    22293    24901    27593    32378    37453    30434    39 99
Nunicipal                                      91      102       105       105      105       105       1tO     IS        t17
6overnoent                                   1418     1677      1692      1721     1813      1895      183i     1998      2140
Eabassies                                     364      417       475       505      518       613       473      413       452
19261    21372    24565    27232    30029    34991    39173    40950    42750          10.52
a/ Includes consueption by Soeali private households,suall cosmerce,snall industry and about 1500 expatriate households.
b/ Includes consumption by large public sector industry and infrastructure,and about 2000 households of senior public officials.
ci Includes consumption by about 500 households of embassy staff.
Source: ENEE



- 48 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 1 of 10
SOMALIA
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
MOGADISHU SYSTEM POWER DEMAND FORECAST 1987-1994
Approach and Methodology
1.         Following the approach of Kennedy & Donkin (UK) in their report
"Somalia - Power Planning Study" of February 1987, the mission has
constructed estimates of energy and peak power demands on the Mogadishu
system (at the points of consumption), starting with the calendar year 1987
as the base year and projecting demand up to 1994. These estimates are for
demand that is connected to ENEE's system and is unconstrained by system
supply capacity.  The mission's forecasts are given in the tables at the
end of this knnex.   The estimates are simulated according to consumer
categories that reflect important differences in energy consumption
characteristics, namely domestic (households), commerce, Government and
industry.    Total  system energy demand  is  the  sum of  these  category
demands. This approach permits the power demand forecast to be related to
forecasts for economic parameters such as population and sector gross
domestic product (GDP), and to power sector parameters such as numbers of
connected consumers and price and income elasticities of power demand.
Separate forecasts are derived for the city of Mogadishu and the four towns
whose power systems are scheduled to be connected to the Mogadishu system
by 1992, namely Afgoi, Balad, Jowhar and Merca.  The interconnections of
these towns with Mogadishu by 1992 was shown by Kennedy and Donkin in their
report to be the least-cost method of meeting demand.
2.           ENEE's billing data and operating records are inadequate for
demand forecasting purposes since they reflect the highly constrained
supply conditions that are described in Chapter 2 of this report, and the
data are not suitably organized.    To indicate  the extent  of  demand
suppression in 1986, the simulated demand for that year was   estimated
according to the adopted approach and compared with actual outputs by ENEE
as follows.
Estimated       Unserved
Actual       Unconstrained   Proportion of
System Output   System Demand   System Demand
Generated Energy (GWh)         131.1            154.5             15%
System Maximum Demand (MW)      27.6             41              32%
System Load Factor              54%              43%
(data relate to sent-out from power station and thus, include system
losses).
3.          Domestic Energy Demand:  Forecasts of domestic, or household,
energy demand are based on the following projections:   (i) the number of
households which is derived from the total population of Mogadishu and an
average household size of 5.8 people. The population in 1984 was estimated
from the national census to be 700,000 and its projected natural annual



- 49 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 2 of 10
growth rate is 3.0%. With projected immigration of 21,000 people annually,
the annual growth rate is 6% in 1986 declining to 5% in 1993; (ii) high
income households which are all connected to ENEE's system and are
characterized by ownership of air conditioners.   They are estimated to
number about 5,000 (2,000 households for senior public officials, 500 for
embassy staff, 1,500 for other expatriates, 1,000 for private Somali
households) with an an average specific consumption of 5,000 kWh/year in
1986; (iii) low and middle income households for which the connection rate
to ENEE's system is projected to increase from 20% in 1986 to 32.5% of the
total number of households in this group in 1994, with an average specific
consumption of 600 kWh/year in 1986.   The projected connection rates in
each category are applied to category populations which increase at the
overall urban population growth rate.
4.        Projected rates of specific consumption for the two income groups
are related to the following factors: (i) the income elasticity of demand,
under which the rate of growth of specific power consumption Is 1.7 times
the projected growth in national per capita income which is 1.07%
annually based on the projected GDP growth of 4.1% given in the World
Bank's report "Somalia - Recent Economic Developments and Medium Term
Prospects (February 10, 1987)" and population growth of 3.0% per annum; and
(ii) the price elasticity of demand for the low and middle income
households under which specific consumption changes at minus 0.3 times the
rate of change in tariff level. The power demand of high income consumers
is taken to be insensitive to the tariff level since many of these
consumers have their electricity bills subsidized (senior civil servants,
expatriates) and the others are wealthy. The net effects of these factors
is to increase specific consumption between 1987 and 1994 by 8% for low and
middle income households and 12.5% for high income households.
5.          Connections to the Power System:  ENEE's capacity to add new
connections to the power system will constrain the growth in connected
demand during the period of the demand forecast. This constraint is taken
into account explicitly by limiting the projected growth in connections in
the low and middle income domestic category so that the total annual new
connections on the system do not exceed ENEE's projected capacity to extend
the sub-transmission and distribution networks and to connect new consumers
to these networks. Up to 1992, the assistance to be provided directly for
this work under the Power Rehabilitation Project will constitute a major
part of this capacity, and thereafter it is expected that ENEE's capacity
will be sufficiently strengthened under the project to achieve a connection
rate averaging 6,000 annually.
6.        Commercial Energy Demand:  Forecasts of commercial energy demand
are derived for two sub-categories, viz small commerce such as shops and
restaurants and large commerce comprising banks, offices, hotels, embassies
(but embassy housing is included in the domestic high income category) and
transport centers (port, airport). The forecast power demand for the small
commerce category is based on the following projections: (i) total number
of establishments, which is linked to the number of households at the rate
of 150 establishments per 1,000 households in the central area of the city
and 60 per 1,000 in the outer areas; (ii) the proportion of this total that
is connected to ENEE's system, which is projected to increase from 552 in



- 50 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 3 of 10
1986 to 71% in 1994; and (iii) the specific consumption of power which is
projected to increase from 2,000 kWh/year in 1986 at the projected growth
in national per capita income (para. 4 of this Annex). The forecast power
demand for the large commerce category is based on assessments of growth
prospects of individual large consumers and groups of consumers.  Housing
for embassy staff that is included by ENEE in the Embassy category for
billings is transferred to the high-income domestic sub-category in the
mission's forecast.
7.        Government Energy Demand:  Forecasts of government energy demand
are derived for three categories, namely ti) large establishments such as
prisons, hospitals, university, schools and military areas by each
sub-group; (ii) municipal buildings, which are linked to the city
population at the rate of 20 establishments per 1,000 households, and whose
specific annual consumption averages 2,000 kWh/year; and (iii) street
lighting, for which demand is projected to increase at the same rate as
the city population. Housing for senior officials that is included by ENEE
in the Government category for billings is transferred to the high-income
domestic si'b-category in the mission's forecast.
8.         Industrial Energy Demand:  Forecasts of industrial energy demand
are derived for two sub-categories:   (i) large industries, mainly in the
public sector, whose future demands are assessed by individual plant; and
(ii) small industries, mainly artisanal, which are linked to the city
population at the rate of 30 establishments per 1,000 households, and whose
specific annual consumption averages 5,000 kWh.   No new large industrial
plants are included in the forecast in view of the highly uncertain
prospects for the viability of new developments for the next few years.
The growth in industrial demand is expected to come from increases in
capacity utilization of existing plants from the present low levels of
around 25%.
9.         System Maximum Power Demand:  The peak daily power demand on the
Mogadishu system occurs in the early evening (between 6 p.m. and 7 p.m.),
and a secondary daily peak in demand occurs around midday.  The forecast
unconstrained  system  peak power demand  is  estimated  from sum of  the
forecast power demands for the main consumer categories that coincide at
the time of the system peak demand. A coincidence factor (equal to or less
than unity) is applied to the forecast maximum demand of a category to
reflect that it may not coincide with the timing of the system maximum
demand.   The forecast maximum power demand of a consumer category is
derived from the forecast energy demand and the estimated load factor for
that category.
10.          In estimating the coincident category power demands with the
system power demand, the following values were used for load factors and
category coincidence factors:



- 51 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 4 of 10
Coincidence Factor
Load      Evening     Midday
Factor       Peak       Peak
(%)         (.)-        (%.)
Domestic:    low and middle income      25           100         10
high income                50          100          25
Commerce:    large commerce             42*           25        100
embassies                  50          100         100
small commerce             65          100         100
Government:  large Government           45            75        100
municipal                  45           25         100
street lighting            50          100          0
Industry:    large industry             37*           25        100
small industry             55           35         100
* average for 1986 to 1994.
11.       The program adopted for the interconnections of the power systems
in the four outlying towns with the Mogadishu power system is as follows:
Afgoi - January 1990;   Balad - January 1990;
Jowhar - January 1992; Merca and Shalamabad - January 1991.
12.       Consumers Willingness to Pay for Power from ENEE is an issue for
forecasting demand on ENEE's system following the increase in tariffs
implemented in early 1987 to SoSh 14/kWh (US¢10.4/kWh at the average of the
auction and free market exchange rates, SoSh 135/US$ in March 1987),
especially in view of the substantial amount of privately-owned generators
already installed on consumers premises.  ENEE concluded from a survey in
end 1986 that there were between 400 and 500 privately-owned generators in
Mogadishu, ranging in size from 0.5 kW to 800 kW with combined rated
capacity of 5 to 6 MW.
13.         The demand forecast for low-income domestic consumers already
takes into account the effect of tariff  levels through the estimated
price/demand elasticity of minus 0.3.   Rather than fuel switching, this
effect is considered to reflect constraints on overall energy consumption
as well as use of power from low household incomes. By way of comparison,
the estimated cost of lighting using kerosene lamps is equivalent to SoSh
17.2/kWh, as detailed below, which is about 23% higher than ENEE's power
tariff.
Cost of kerosene fuel                                          SoSh 21/liter
Ratio of Calorific values of /liter kerosene to /kWh electricity         3.4
Ratio of conversion efficiencies of kerosene and electrical appliances 0.4
Equivalent cost of utilizable energy from kerosene             ShSh 15.4/kWh
Capital cost of a kerosene lamp                                SoSh 400
Capital annuity factor @ 16% interest and 3 year life             0.445
Equivalent capital cost over 100 kWh/year/lamp                 SoSh 1.8/kWh
Total cost of using kerosene for lighting (equivalent)         SoSh 17.2/kWh



- 52 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 5 of 10
14.       The effect of tariffs on other consumers demands is considered to
be through switching to privately-owned generators. The economic costs to
Somalia and the financial costs to consumers of power from privately owned
generators currently installed in Mogadishu are detailed in the attached
table in this Annex in early 1987 prices for the range of generator sizes
in operation. These costs are based on meeting the consumers' total power
requirements from the private generators and thus, represent the lowest
average costs of power from these sources.   As back-up sources to ENEE's
supply, private generators would be used less than in the evaluation cases,
and the average cost of power from them would be higher.  This feature is
particularly marked for the small generators for which annualized capital
costs are a substantial proportion of total annual costs.  Foreign costs
are converted into Somali currency terms at the equivalent rate of SoSh
1351US$.    Economic  costs  of  capital  equipment  are  based  on  typical
international costs cif Mogadishu and exclude import duties. The financial
costs include Somali duties and taxes on such equipment, equivalent to a
cumulative  tax of 65%,  and the average   retail mark-up by Mogadishu
suppliers of 65% on the after tax cost. Economic costs of fuel are based
on import parity prices, whereas the financial costs -Are the official
retail prices and thus, represent the lowest prices that zonsumers pay when
fuel is in short supply.   Capital annuity factors are calculated from
estimated working lives assuming that the generators are properly
maintained, the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Somalia for
deriving economic costs, and the interest rate charged on loans for
equipment purchase in Somalia for deriving financial costs.
15.        The analysis of power costs from private generators shows that
such power typically costs the consumers about SoSh 22/kWh from large and
mediui-sized  diesel  generators,  about  SoSh  36/kWh  from  small  diesel
generators and about SoSh 85/kWh from small gasoline generators, based on
typical power consumption patterns.   The analysis of the corresponding
economic costs shows that the financial costs of power from the large and
medium-sized diesel generators are about 50% greater than the economic
costs, and from small generators the financial costs are about 100% greater
than the economic costs.
16.       Up to enid 1986 ENEE's tariffs were low enough for ENEE's power to
be cheaper to consumers than the costs of power from their own generators,
and so these consumers used their generators as a back-up power source.
However, at ENEE's tariff introduced in early 1987 (SoSh 14/kWh), and the
current petroleum product prices, the variable financial costs of power
about (SoSh 9/kWh) from own generating facilities used in industrial plants
are about 65% of ENEE's tariff, and the variable costs from the small
generators are also a little less than ENEE's tariff.  The total cost of
power from new generators including capital costs, is much higher than
ENEE's tariff for all types of privately-installed generator.   The above
cost analysis gives an indication of the limit of consumers willingness to
pay for power from ENEE. With a tariff of SoSh 14/kWh, ENEE is likely to
meet some resistance from large industrial consumers who have already
installed their own generating facilities.   Consumers with small diesel
generators already installed will not have a strong preference since their
variable costs are also about SoSh 14/kWh.   There will be no financial
incentive for consumers to purchase new generators.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 6 of 10
17.          The following approach is adopted to allow for existing and
additional privately-owned generators for forecasting power demand on
ENEE's system. Up to 1994, ENEE is unlikely to have sufficient generating
capacity to meet the forecast evening peak demands on its system, and will
have little capacity in reserve for the midday peak demand (Annex 2.4).
Hence, the existing privately-owned diesel generators will be required as
back-up to ENEE's supply. It is anticipated that Government will increase
the price of diesel fuel to restore its relationship with power tariffs
which existed up to end 1986, and that the situation prevailing in early
1987 will not remain in force throughout the forecast period.
18.           According to the mission's projections,  ENEE'o generation
capacity is likely to remain inadequate to meet the total demand for energy
at least until early 1989 (Annex 2.4).  Once power consumers perceive that
the reliability of ENEE's supply will improve due to the Power
Rehabilitation Project, there will be little incentive for them to purchase
new generators themselves, especially in the small commercial and domestic
categories.  The urea plant and the oil refinery at Gezira, the SOMALTEX
factory at Balad and the sugar mill at Jowhar co-generate with process
steam their own power from steam turbines.   It is therefore assumed that
substantial amounts of power will continue to be produced at these plants,
but there will be greater use of ENEE's power once it is available to
minimize total production costs.
19.       System Losses.  Forecast demand at point of station output to the
transmission system sent out power) is based on forecast consumer demand
and system technical losses excluding losses within power stations. In the
present condition of the system, energy losses are estimated to be about
20% down to low voltage supply, and 5% at 15 kV supply to large consumers.
The weighted average loss is 16.7% of sent out energy.   Power losses are
estimated to be nearly double the energy losses as a proportion of sent out
power,  viz.  presently  about  30%.    Under  the  improvements  to  the
transmission and distribution systems from the Power Rehabilitation
Project, system energy losses are expected to be reduced steadily to 15%
for low voltage suDply by 1991, and 11.6% overall.   It is assumed that
losses will remain at these levels until 1994.   Further reduction after
1991 would require a second major effort on the scale of the present
project.
20.       Summary of Demand Forecasts.  The forecast growth rates in demand
from 1987 to 1994 are shown below.   Although substantial, even with the
addition of the four outlying towns, the forecast rates are well below the
historic rate of growth of supply for 1978 to 1986 which indicates a
constrained growth in demand for that period.



- 54 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 7 of 10
Growth Rate
Historic     Forecast
1978-1986     1987-1994
(%/year)
Mogadishu System
System Energy Demand                      15.4           8.0
System Maximum Power Demand               11.6           6.5
Mogadishu + Interconnected Systems
System Energy Demand                       -            10.5
System Maximum Power Demand                              7.8
The underlying growth in power demand is expected to be significant in all
sectors, averaging 9.0%/year in the domestic category, 5.6%/year in the
commercial and Government categories, and 15.1% in the industrial category
as industrial output picks up from the presently extremely depressed
levels.
21.          There is a significant difference for purposes of econouic
justification between the sectoral composition of the evening and midday
peak demands.   About 50% of the evening peak demand is in the domestic
sector, of which probably at least half is from air-conditioners, whereas
about 30% is in the commercial and industrial sectors.  Conversely, about
60% of the midday peak demand is in the commercial and industrial sectors,
whereas only about 10% is in the domestic sector.   In both cases, the
balance of the peak demand is in the Government sector (about 20% and 30%
respectively).   Since power losses are a higher proportion of demand for
low voltage supply (domestic consumers) than for medium voltage supply
(large industrial and commercial consumers), this difference is more
pronounced in terms of peak demand at the generating stations than the
comparison  quoted  above  for  coincident  demands  at  the  points  of
consumption.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 8 of 1 0
SWLIA - P=       IAB1L1T      AND A N    PRY =
aOs OF ELECDIY F1RM PIVATELY-DErAUFAD (ERA1R  Di MOAISHJ
T_e and Ty Ic  Ue
Larg        Medium        Mdium &all           Sall        Very S*U
(iustrial)  (inlustrial   (cwrclal and    (etaraits &   (loks)
large     .nicipal offices)   high mnme
Techtical Paraeters               _coercial)  _meholds)
(nerator Rated apacity (kVA)           1,000         312             12.5              3.0           1.3
B*ine Speed (rpn)                      500          1,500           3,000             3,000         3,000
Typical Roar Factor                    0.8           0.8              0.8              0.8           0.8
Mu* Poer Output (kW)                   800           250               10              2.4           1.0
Fuel Oxuuwd                           diesel        diesl           diesel            dieel        gsoine
Aiual Usg (hours)                     3,000         3,000           3,000             3,000         2,000
Aee Capacity Factor                    0.75          0.75            0.75              0.75          0.75
Anual Loai Factor                      25%           25%             25%               25%           17%
Airage arg Production (M1)             1,752         548             22.0              5.0           1.5
(OperatLxg life (hous)               60,000        20,000          15,000             13,500        6,000
Wr1dng Life (years)                    20             7               5                4.5            3
Specific FuRl (xsntion (liters/kWh)   0.37          0.40             0.45              0.50          0.55
cd.c Costs
Capital Cost (SoSh thusai)           74,000        16,875            608               135            95
Capital &imity Factor @ &             0.102         0.192           0.251             0.273         0.3M8
hunial Capital (bst (SoSh thouad)     7,548         3,240           152.6              36.9          36.9
F        0 & M tCost (So  thousaid)    740           169              6.1               1.3           1.0
E=auc Cost of Rbel (SoSh/liter)       20.0          20.0             20.0              20.0          21.0
Variable 0 & M Cost (SDSh tfousad)      1.35         1.35            1.35              1.35          1.35
erage Varble Cost (Sok/Uh)             8.75          9.35           10.35             11.35         12.90
haual Variable Cost (SoSh thousad)    15,330        5,124           227.7              56.8          19.4
Total hkual (bst (Soi thousand)      23,618         8,533           386.4              95.0          57.3
Average Cost (SoSW/kWh)                 13.5         15.6            17.6              19.0          38.2
(USt/ldb equivalent)       10.0         11.5            13.0              1401          28.3
Fi  aal costs
Capital (bst (SoSh tlKsad)           122,000       27,850           1,640              370           230
Cpiqtal huzidty Factor @ 16%          0.169         0.248           0.305             0.328         0.445
hmuel Capital Cbst (So%i tixusnad)    20,618        6,907           500.2             121.4         102.4
FlYId 0 & M COst (So& thOusa1d)        1,220          279            16.4               3.7           2.3
PRel Price (SoShliter)                 20.0          20.0            20.0              20.0          27.5
Variable 0 & M Cost (SoSh/kbh)          1.35         1.35            1.35              1.35          1.35
Averoge Variable Cost (SoVklWh)        8.75          9.35           10.35             11.35         16.48
hnwal Variable Cost (Soh tkxusadl)   15,330         5,124           227.7              56.8          24.7
lTkal Aimnal COst (SoSh thusand)     37,168        12,310           744.3             181.9         129.4
Aemrage Cbst (SoSh/kih)                21.2          22.5            33.8              36.4          86.3
(US/Wh  equivalet)         15.7         16.6            25.1              27.0          63.9



- 56 -
ANNEX 2.3
27-Nay-97                                   SONALIA-POMER REHABILITATIDN AND ENERGY PROJECT                       Page  9  of  10
UO8ADISHU SYSTEN POWER DENAND FORECAST 1987-1994
Nogadishu Forecast Connected Energy Demand by Consuser Category  Nhlh/y)                Average
---------     ------   -----------------                  -                              Growth
Consumer Category                    tY      1986      1987      1988     1989      1990      1991      1992     1993      1994    11/y)
Domestic                                    41136    43050    50038    53437    59392    67133    72404    76714    81952             9.0?
Commerce                                    20531    30094    31755    33519    35381    37355    39448    41653    43999             5.62
Government                                  35279    36062    36863    39855    42867    45906    48966    53739    54682             5.6?
Industry                                    23400    28808    36534    46404    58019    65950    67994    69839    71945            15.12
Total Nogadishu Connected Demand           128347   138014   155190   173216   195660   216344   228713   241944   252479             8.8?
Systeo Technical Losses                     26151    27600    28697    28063    27816    28417    30189    31895    33645
Total Requirement for Sent-out Energy   154498   165614   193987   201279   223476   244761   258902   273839   296124                9.0?
===SCsWS=. ..   .. :.a7  ZC...   #s,u  =22c-s   2 Mc-ca   zzzu   sUUz    CU UM
Annual Growth in Demand for Energy                      7.2?     I.0?     9.51    11.0?       9.5?      5.9?     5.8?      4.5?
System Technical Losses:                     16.9?    16.7?    15.6?    13.9l    12.4?    11.6?    11.7?    11.6?    11.8?
Forecast Energy Demand from Isolated Load Centers on the Nogadishu System (Nih/y)
Consumer Category                    CY      1996      1987      1998     1999      1990      1991      1992     1993      1994
Domestic                                        0         0         0        0      1314     2971      4538      5497      6609
Commerce                                        0         0         0        0      1049      1934     2645      2989      3375
Government                                      0         0         0        0      1708      2211     2596      2683      2775
Industry                                        0         0        0         0    14040    20130    34157    37450    39732
Total Deand of Connected Load Centers           0         0         0        0    18111    27246    43936    49619    52491
System Technical Losses                         0         0         0        0      2707     3893      5062      5434      5654
----          - --    ----       ----      -----               ----    ---
Total Requirement for Sent-out Energy           0         0         0        0    20818    31138    4899        54053    58145
from the Nogadishu System                   ==:=    :===   =   :::a      :a3t5    2a:::     ==::=    =ax#=    :3:::    3::
System Technical Losses:                      0.0?      0.0?     0.0?      0.0?    13.0?    12.5?    10.3?    10.1?         9.7?
Interconnection Dates: Afgoi-  Jan-90    8alad-  Jan-90   Jouhar-  Jan-92 Nerca & Shalanabad  Jan-91
Forecast Connected Energy Denand for w ogadishu and Connected Load Centers(Uhly)
Consumer Category                    CY      1986      1987      1988     1999      1990      1991     1992      1993      1994
Dosestic                                    41136    43050    50030    53437    60706    70104    76942    82211    99561            10.1?
Commerce                                    28531    30094    31755    33519    36430    39209    42093    44642    47374            6.5?
Governtent                                  35279    36062    36863    39055    44575    49117    51562    56422    57457            6.3Z
Industry                                    23400    29908    36534    46404    72059    86080  102051   107289   111577            21.6?
Total Combined Demand                      128347   138014   155190   173216   213771   243590   272649   290564   304969           11.4?
System Technical Losses                     26151    27600    20697    28063    30523    32309    35252    37329    39300
Total Requirement for Sent-out Energy   154499   165614   183887   201279   244294   275899   307900   327893   344269              10.5?
rw22    Dls--a  as3a3a   Xxauz   noxanS   agscas   *a=x-m  suas   wavasta
Growth in Combined Deaand on Nogadishu System           7.2?    11.0?      9.5?    21.4Z    12.9?    11.6?        6.5?      5.0?
System Technical Lossest                     16.9?    16.7?    15.6?    13.91    12.5?    11.7?    11.4?    11.4?    11.4?



- 57 -
ANNEX  2.3
27-Nay-B7                                  SONALIA-POVER REPADILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT                      Page  10  of  10
NOCADISHU SYSTEN PDOER DEMAND FORECAST 1987-1994
Moqadishu Forecast Connected Power Dekand (N0)
Evenine Peak Denand
Coincident Consumer Catenory                               -------------------                                                    rage
Power Demand                         CY      I986     1901      1980     1989      1990      1991     1992      1993     1994   Growth
_--  ---- _------                                          ---       -    --       --        ---       --       ---      ..    MtY)
Domestic                                     13.1     13.4      16.1     17.2      19.4     22.4      24.3     25.7      27.4
Coerce                                       4.2       4.4       4.7      4.9       5.2       5.5      5.9       6.1      6.5
6overnment                                   6.1       6.2       6.3      6.9       7.4      7.9       6.5       9.3      9.5
Industry                                     5.1       5.7      6.8       7.9       9.0      9.1       9.3      9.4       9.5
Coincident Nax.Deaand of Consusers          29.5      29.9      34.0     36.9      41.1     45.0      47.8     50.5      52.9
Power Losses at Peak System Damund          12.4      12.7      13.6     12.9      12.6     12.6      13.5      14.2     14.9
Naximum Demand to be sent out               40.9      42.4      47.5     49.9      53.7     57.7      61.3      64.7     67.9       6.57
Av.Rate System Power Losses(2Mts.o.)        30.3Z    29.81    28.62    25. 92    23.52    21.92    22.0X    22.0X    22.01
System Load Factor                          43.1Z    44.52    44.2Z    46.12    47.52    48.52    48.22    48.32    48.22
Midday Peak kemand
Domestic                                     2.2       2.3       2.6      2.9       3.1      3.5       3.7       4.0      4.2
Cocoerce                                     6.5       6.9       7.1      7.4       7.7       9.1      8.4       8.9      9.2
Sovernment                                   8.4       8.6       8.9      9.5      10.2      11.0     11.7      12.9     13.1
Industry                                     9.1       9.8      11.1     12.5      13.9     14.2      14.6      14.9     15.4
.--     ----      ---       ----     ---      ----       ---      ----     - --
Coincident Hax.Deeand of Consumers          26.2      27.5      29.6     32.2      35.0     36.8      38.5     40.6      42.0
Power Lossem  at Peak System Demand         10.6      11.0      10.6     10.2       9.5      9.9       9.2      9.7      10.0
Naximum Demand to be sent out               36.8      38.5      40.2     42.4      44.5     45.6      47.7     50.4      51.9
m:       a::=      :,:      Una=      =a=      am::      xa-g      Xs*:     :fa
Av.Rate System Power Losses(2hhs.o.)        29.92    28.52    26.42    24.02    21.42    19.51    19.41    19.32    19.22
forecast Non-coincident Poner Peak Demand from Isolated Load Centers on the Mogadishu System (NV)
CY     1986      1987     1998      1989     1990      1991      1992     1993      1994
Afgoi                                        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       3.5      3.7       4.0      4.2       4.5
Balad                                        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       2.9      3.4       3.9      4.4       4.7
Jouhar                                       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       3.7       3.9      4.0
Merca & Shalaoabad                           0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      2.4       2.8       3.1      3.4
Combined Naximuo Demand to be sent out       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       6.4      9.5      14.3      15.5     16.6
Interconnection Dates: Afgoi-  Jan-90    Balad-  Jan-90   Jowbar-  Jan-92 Nerca & Shalaaabad  Jan-91
Forecast Maxioum Poner Deoand to be sent out for Mogadishu and Connected Load Centers4lM'
Isolated Load Centers   CY       1986     197       198      1989      1990     1991      1992     1993      1994
Coincidence Factor *             ----     ----      ---- ----                                       ----      ----
Evening Peak Demand        402              40.9      42.4      47.5     49.9      56.3     61.5      67.0     70.9      74.5       7.92
Midday Peak Demand         87X              36.9      38.5      40.2     42.4      50.1     54.0      60.2     63.9      66.5      7.72
Systeo Load Factor                          43.12    44.52    44.22    46.12    49.62    51.22    52.42    52.82    52.89
* Ieighted average by 1992 cateqgory demands and the Mogadishu category coincidence and load factors
Total Connections on the Moqadishu System
-in logadishu                              42750    45373    51640    58541    65955    73060    79750    84972    90442
-in connected load centers                     0         0         0        0      2200     4908      7098     9218      9453
-tatal imnnnttinns                         42750    45373    51640    59541    69155    77968    86839    93191    9989S



- 58 -
ANNEX 2.4
Page 1 of 8
SOMALIA
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
Mogadishu System Generation Development Program 1987-1994
Framework for System Development
1.         Planning the development of the Mogadishu power system over the
relatively short period of eight years to 1994 has to be carried out in the
context of a long-term least-cost development program.  The key issue for
power development in southern Somalia for the long-term is when power from
the Baardheere multipurpose hydroproject will be available to the Mogadishu
system. The earliest feasible date for commissioning the Baardheere power
facilities is during 1994.
2.        Kennedy and Donkin (UK) in their report "Somalia- Power Planning
Study" of February 1987, investigated the economic costs of meeting the
forecast demand for power in the Mogadishu area up to the year 2005 under
three different programs for developing generation capacity:
-  Commission  Baardhere  in  1994 with complementary new  thermal
capacity installed before and after Baardheere;
-  Commission  Baardhere  in  1999  with  complementary  new  thermal
capacity installed before and after Baardheere; and
-  an all thermal capacity program.
From their economic evaluation, Kennedy and Donkin (K&D) concluded that the
least-cost program would be to commission Baardheere in 1994 with the
following new complementary thermal generating capacity:   a second 15 MW
oil-fired steam unit commissioned in 1988;  a 15 MW diesel-burning gas
turbine in 1989; a second 15 MW gas turbine in 1990; a third 15 MW gas
turbine  in  1993.   K&D also  recommended  that  new diesel  capacity  be
installed in 1991 on the assumption that all the existing diesel units at
the Centrale Station would be retired by 1992.
3.           The generation development program for Mogadishu up to 1994
agreed between ENEE and the mission is based on the above program and the
rehabilitation program for the existing diesel generators in Mogadishu
under the project.   The program allows for some adjustment to allow for
slippage in the earliest likely feasible commissioning dates.  It will not
be possible to avoid shortfalls in installed capacity relative to energy
demand up to 1989 and peak power demand up to  1991.   The dates for
commissioning  the  second  steam unit  is slipped  to early  1990.    The
programmed commissioning dates for a new diesel generator is mid-1989, and
for the gas  turbines early 1991 and late  1992.   Under the operating
conditions in Mogadishu, gas turbines will have substantial derating, and
it is assumed that machines with a 15 MW name-plate rating will achieve a
maximum output of about 12 MW.   These gas turbines would be the main
spinning reserve capacity in the Mogadishu system in the decade following
commissioning of Baardheere in 1994.



- 59 -
ANNEX 2.4
Page 2 of 8
4.          If the Baardhere project were to be delayed substantially, K&D
determined that the least-cost strategy for development of generation
capacity would be based on 20 MW coal-fired steam units for base load
operation, and 15 MW and 30 MW diesel-burning gas turbines for peak load
operation and system reserve capacity.   With a 5-year delay to 1999 for
Baardheere commissioning, the least-cost development program up to 1998
according to K&D would comprise the second 15 MW oil-fired steam unit in
1988, 15 MW gas turbines in 1990, 1991 and 1995, 20 MW coal-fired steam
units  in  1993  and  1997,  and a 30 MW gas  turhtne  in  1998.   In the
all-thermal development program, the investments up to 1998 are the same as
in the case of Baardheere commissioning in 1999.
5.            Commissioning of the second 15 MW oil-fired steam unit is
included in all the development programs because or the reduction in
capital costs through investment already undertaken in common facilities
for the existing first unit at Gezira.  The role of gas turbines is also
common to the development programs.   The critical difference for thermal
capacity is the date of commencing a program of coal-fired steam units
(1991 if Baardhere is delayed, 2004 if Baardhere is commissioned in 1994).
With the respective lead times, a decision on the first coal-fired unit can
be delayed until 1988 by when the prospects for commissioning Baardheere in
1994 are expected to be reasonably clear.
Power Demand/Supply Balance to 1994
6.           The mission's projections for the balance between demand and
supply for power in the Mogadishu area to 1994 are shown on the
accompanying  tables  to  this  Annex.    The  main  assumptions  for  these
projections are as follows:
-  unconstrained  connected  demand  on  the Mogadishu  system will
increase according to the mission's forecast given in Annex 2.3;
and
- the commissioning program for new generating capacity is as
outlined in paragraph 3 above.
As a result of the rehabilitation and replacement program for the
generation,   transmission  and  distribution  systems  under  the  Power
Rehabilitation Project, it is assumed that:
- the availability of the existing generating units, for which the
timing of rehabilitation and subsequent planned maintenance is
important, will improve according to the rates given in the
mission's projections;
- there is an improvement in the derating facn:or at the generator
output terminals due to an increase in the system power factor
from the present level of 0.7 to 0.9 by the start of 1990; and
- energy technical losses in the tranmission and distribution
systems will declire from the estimated present level of 16.7% of
energy sent out to the system from the generation stations to
11.7% by the start of 1991.



- 60 -
ANNEX 2.4
Page 3 of 8
7,         Under the above assumptions, the mission's projections show that
the amount of energy that the actual system generating capacity can send
out will be about 34% short of the requirement for generated energy in
1987, 22% short in 1988, and 12% in the first quarter of 1989. Thereafter,
system energy generation capacity exceeds the energy requirement. However,
there will be small amounts of unserved energy demand associated with the
shortfalls in system power capacity to meet peak demands.  By comparison,
the energy deficit in 1986 was about 15% of the requirement, and the
deterioration in 1987 reflects the prolonged outage of generating units for
major maintenance and rehabilitation,   In 1994 the gas turbines are being
required to generate at 18% average annual load factor, which is a high
level for this relatively expensive source of energy. With the assumption
that in 1995 the Mogadishu system will be supplied from Baardhere
hydropower, this level of usage of gas turbines is only tet4porary.
Ehergy Dondr and Supply to the 1kgadishu System 1986 - 1994
(Qlh)
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990  1991   1992   1993   1994
Demaid for Generated Energy    154.5  165.6  183.9  201.3  244.3  275.9  307.9  327.9  344.3
Bnergy Sent Out                131.1  109.2  142.3  189.8  241.5  273.9  305.4  327.6  342.7
Served Energy Ddw              109.2  90.9  120.1  163.2  211.3  242.1  270.0  289.3  302,5
Ratio of Demand to Sent Out Energy  0.85   0.66   0.77   0.94   0.99   0.99   0.99   1.00   1.00
In 1986, the demand for generated energy refers to the mission's estimate
of unconstrained demand (Annex 2.3), the energy sent out is ENEE's recorded
data (Annex 2.2), and the served energy demand assumes that the rate of
system technical losses was the same as estimated for 1987, ie 16.7% of
sent-out energy.  Since ENEE's billings in 1986 amounted to 94.9 GWh (Annex
2.2), this assumption implies unbilled consumption, which is included in
served demand, of about 14.3 GWh in 1986, equal to about 11% of energy
sent-out to the system.
8.         With the program for rehabilitating existing generation capacity
and adding new capacity, ENEE will be able to avoid regular severe power
cuts at periods of evening peak demand from late  1992 onwards.   This
situation  follows  completion  of  rehabilitating  existing  units  and
installing the second oil-fired steam unit and a new diesel generator and
two gas turbines, and allows for a planned maintenance program for the
generating  units.    There  is  no  reserve  capacity  available  to  cover
substantial unplanned outage of generating capacity up to 1994. From 1987
to early 1991, substantial regular power cuts at the secondary midday peak
demands will be unavoidable due to lack of available generating capacity,
as shown below and in the tables in this Annex,



- 61 -
ANNEX 2.4
Page 4 of 8
Pozffl DaErd and Supply to the MZgishu System 1986 - 1994
(HO
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
E&enir  System Peak D[Bax         40,9   42.4   47.5   49.9   56.3   61.5   67.0   70.9   74.5
Midday System Peak L>xSi           36.8   38.5   40.2   42.4   50.1   54.0   60.2   63.9   66.5
Minimii Sent Out Pbwer Capability  27.6   10.5   19.6   26.6   43.2   45.9   56.7   69.3   69.3
Minlmm Ratio of Capability to Peak DEand:
- Evering                     0.67   0.25   0.41   0.53   0.77   0.75   0.85   0.98   0.93
- Midday                      0.75   0.27   0.49   0.63   0.86   0.85   0.94   1.08   1.04
The estimates of unconstrained peak demands were taken from the mission's
demand forecast (Annex 2.3).



02-Jun-87     CASE        I
SODALIA-POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
HCGADISHU SYSTE5 POWER AND ENERGY DALANCES WIITH DEVELOPMENT PROSRAII 1997-190
:Jan-lar Apr-JunSJul -SeplOct-Dec
Ouarterly Denand as t Annual Desand    23.5%   25.32   25.21   26.02
CY I            1S8l                               1988                              1999                              19SO
Requiresent for Generated EnergytlHhO)           165614                   :         183987                            201279                            244294
flanteu  Demand to be met in eveninq0Ull           42.4                   :           47.5                  :           49.9                             56.3
Kaxiauw Demand to be *et at sndday{KW)             38.5                   :           40.2                  :           42.4                             50.1
Quarterly Load Duration Curve        I.Jan-llar  Apr.-JunJul.-Sep: ct.-DecJan-IlartApr-JunSJul-SeplOct-Dec ?Jan-NarlApr-JunlJul-Sep:Dct-Dec :Jan-flarlApr-Jen:Jul-Sep&ct-Dec I
_ _- _ _ _  -  -------------------  -  --------   -----  -  ----  -   ----------- __  ------ _  -   ----------  -  - I---------------------------- :--
Requirement for Gneated Energy(HN1h):  36234   41900    41r74   43057   43214   46523   46339   4708    47302   50923   50721   52330   57410   61806   61561   63513:
harterly Rax.Demand  111)             1   42.4    42.4      42.4    42.4 1  47.5    47.5    47.5    47.5:   49.9    49.9    49.9    49.9         56.3    56.3    56.3    56.3
Quarterly Load Factor                 1      392     45.      451      462:    42?      452     452     462;    432       4n      461     496:     472     502      502     52%1
Peak Load 1N  I ZMlax.Dea          7021    29.7    29.7     29.7    29.7    33.3    33.3    33.3    33.3 1  34.9    34.9    34.0    34.9 1  39.4    39.4    39.4    39.4:
Peak NUb t0 ax.% Duration          10%1    1393    1393      1393    1393     1560    1560    1560    1560 1  1639    1639    1639    1639       1849    1849    1849    1849:
Base Load flax.Denand(O)              .1      0                4       5         1       4       4       5S       3        6       6       71       7       11      11      13:
Dase Load Energy DOmandNtbll          I       0     793      461   11IO8 I  2400    9017    8649  1587 I  6320   13572   13168   16385 t  15224   24015   23525   27429:
interoediate Load Energy Demand (10h) 1  34641   31714    316i6;   30557   39254   35946   36130   34661   39334   35712   35914   34306    40337   35941   36186   34234:
Systev Generating Capacity    Rating                                                                        t                                :
Availability of Units 11):    lnWso) 1 
Steas Units(Gesirs Station)           I
Unit II                        35.0 t       02     6::1     80%     BO0:    a02       252    B02      802:    802       251     802     8021    83      25l    vS02      802
Unit 62                        15.0:        02      0.       01      02:       02      01     0      O0,       0       02      02      OX,    402      802      802    B62:
Diesel Units                          : 
esira Unit 63                  5.0 1       602     602      vO;    6021        Ot    602      602     60bo     0       602     602     6021     502     702      702     7021
Sesira Unit 52                 5.0          02      0%       0%      021       02      02      02      02:    402       601     60t    4021      702     702      701     2021
6esira Unit 63                 5.0         0I       0%      x2      021      402     602     402     602:    602      602      602      02:     701     S0O     702      7021
6esira Unit 14                 5.0 1       602    60'       60%      021      602     602     602     4021:    602     602      602     6021     202     701     701      7021
6esira Unit D5                 5.0         602     60l      402     601:    602       601      Ot    6021:    60       602      402     602:     702     702     202      702:
Centrale Unit 35               2.0:        302     30v       0%     SOl:    502       501     301     501:    502       501     502     O0:      502     502     SOl    50v1
Centrale Unit 16               2.0 I        o0 X     2       02 1         OX:  02     502     502     3021     502      502     502     S02:      02     502     502      5021
Centrale Unit 67               2.0 1        02      0        0O     O0:    502        50     50     3021:    502      Sl      5D2      02:     502     502     Svl    502:
Cemtrale Unit O9               2.0 1        0%      Ol       0     5021:    502      S02     302     5021     SO0       02     502     502:     502     50l    302      50%1
en Diesel unit & Gas Turbines                                             :                                                                  *
unit e1                        10.0:        02      02      O0       021       O2      Ot      Ot      02:      O       902     902     902:     902     902     452      9021
Unit 62                        12.0         02 2    0        01      021       O       02      02      02:      02       02      02      02:      02      02      02       021
Unit 63                        12.0         01      02       02      021:      02      02      02      02       02       02      02      02:      02      02      02       02t
Pover Supply/Deand                    :                                   :                                 :
Probable Niniouo Available Capacity at Peak tNNV                          :
Steam Units                         :       0      i        15 I      s       35       0      is      I5        15       0       S      IS:      IS      IS      30       30s
Diese LUits                               s15      15       10       141      1       28      14      191      23       43      40      31:      33      40      26       40I                                     0Q
Gas Turbines                        I       0       0        0        0:       0       0       0       01        0       0       0       0        0       0       0        0o 
:      15      30       25      29S      33      28       29      341      38      43      55      46:       48      55      56      70:
Derating Factor for Generators due to:      0.7     0.7      0.7      0.7 1 0.7        0.7     0.7     0.7 1   0.7       0.7     0.8     0.9 I    0.9     0.9     0.9      0.9 I                                      -n
system power factor                                                                                        I                                                                                                         0 
Sent Out Capability at Peak(Elso)    :    10.5    21.0      17.5    20.3      23.1    19.6    20.3    23.8 1  26.6    30.1    44.0    36.81  43.2    49.5   50.4    63.0 :
Quarterly Itax.Evmning Demnd (NW)    :   42.4    42.4       42.4    42.4 1  47.5    47.5    47.5    47.5 1  49.9    49.9    49.9    49.9         56.3    56.3   56.3    56.3:
Surplus/Deficit Power (NV)            :  -31.9  -21.4   -24.9  -22.1 I -24.4  -27.9  -27.2  -23.7 1 -23.3  -19.8   -5.9  -13.1 1 -13.1    -6.8   -5.9                      6.7 1
Deficit as 2 of Na.Dmad               :      75      502      592     5221      512     59s     57      5011     472      402     122     2621     232      122     102      0%1
Deficit on lstalled Capacity 1ill   1        46      3i       36       32 1    35       40      39      34 1    33        29       7      161      15        8       7       0 1
I                                  :                                 I                                 I                                 I



02-Jun-97      CASE        I                              SONAlIA-PNER REPADILITATION ANO ENERGY PROJECT
MOGADISHIU SYSTEfl POWlER AND ENERGY BALANCES WITH DEVELOPMENT PROSRAII 1997-2990 (continued)
Poser Supply/Deeand fcont.)         CY               1997                                1999                               1199919
Quarterly Kax.llidday Denand 29W)           38.5    39.5      38.5    39.5 1  40.2    40.2    40.2    40.2 I   42.4    42.4    42.4    42.4 1 50.1    50.1    50.1    50.1
Surplus/Deficit Poser (MM)             1  -20.0   -17.5    -21.0   -19.2 .1 -17.1   -20.6   -19.9   -16.4 2 -15.9   -12.3             1.6    -5.6 1 -6.9    -0.6         0.3    12.9 
Deficit as I of lhat.9esand            I       731     451       551     47%11    431      51?      501     41114    371      291       0%     in'.    14?        1?       ox      ozi
Deficitan Installed Capatity (NVII            40       25        30      261       24      29       29      232      23       19o      0        11        B       I        0       01
Energy Supply/DenadI
-  ----  -  ---- 
Derating Factor for Generators due to:I
systes powe fattor                           0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      O .7     0.7     0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7     0.9      0.8 I   '0.9      0.9     0.9      0.9 
Systen Energy Capability (NVb)         2                                                                                                          I
Steam Unaits                         2       0   19396    19396   19396 1  19396    "49   19396   18396  182396    5749y  21024   21024 135479   31043   47304   47304 
Diesel Units                           124717   14717    12264   12264 11  19396   24529   17170   21769 I 22995   27594   31534   22776I133507   40406   36661   374491
NeO   Diesel Unit                             0       0         0       0 1       0       0        0       0 1      0 14556   19922   19922121297   21297   10643   212971
total Energy Generation Capability 1 14717   33113    3066    30660 136792   30277   35566  40165 1 41391   49999   71492   62722 190272   92736   94609  1060401
Unkserved Energy Denand due to                                                                                 I 1 
Power keficit(MNb'                     1   17809    6197      9723    6971 16941   10953   10037    677  1  5598    3497             644    1434 1 12434        745     646        0
Poser Limit to Served EnergylMib)    1   1426   35713    32011   36097 236274   35670   36302   41030 1 41704   47426   50075   50995 21 55976   61061   60915   63513 
Surplus/Deficit Entergy flUb)             -21517  -9797   -12074  -12397 1-6942  -16246  -10773   -7644 1 -5911   -3497    -646   -1434 I -1434    -745    -646                    01
Deficit as % of Requiroent             1      59%      211      271      2911      161     31       23      2611     i2n      7?       it      322       2?       1l      1?      011
Estimated Energy Senkt Out (NUn$       1   14717   33113    30660   30660 1 36274   30277   35566   40165 1 42391   47426   50075   50995 1 5596   61062   60925   6351  :
Systes Energy Losses                  2.   16.71   16.7?    16.71%  14.711'  15.6?   15.6%125.61   15.611  14.0?   14.0?   14.0?   14.011   12.5?   12.51   12.5?   12.5?:'
Served Energy Deaandfllllb)  -quarterlyl   12259   27593    25540   25540 1 30615   25554   30017   33999 2 35596   40786   43065   43770 149979   53428   53300   55574 
-annually 1 90922                               1 120095                           1143217                           1 211291
Aktual Energy Generated  ~Mb                                                I                                  I                                  I
Steaa Units                          1       0   19396    29396   19396 1  19396    5749   19396   19396 1 18396    5749   21024   21024 133123   26313   42574   425741
Diesel Units                             14717   14717    12264   12264 1  17979   24529   17170   21769 1 22995   41671  29051   299711   22963   34748   18341   20939 I
GasTuarbinem                                 0        0         0       01        0       0        0       0 1      0       0        0       0:        0       0        0       01W
1---    ----    ---  ---- ---                 ---      ---  -----I1-.- -                    -    --- ---- …--…-- --                  -- -   I
Total Enegy Genterated    quarterlyl   14717   33113    3066    30660 1 3,6274   30277   35566   40165 1 41391   47426   50075   50995 155976   61061   60915   63513 1
anually 1  109150                              1242291                            1299789                           1 241464
Estimated Feel Consuaption             I                                                                                                          
Specific Consuaption of Fmel(literstkWb)            Steas Units       0.335 1Gas Turbines    0.350                                                1
-Diesel Unts       2  0.393   0.393    0.393   0.393 2 0.352   0.352   0.352   0.352 1 0.311   0.311   0.311   0.31i1   0.270   0.270   0.270   0.2701
harterly Fuel Consooptim(ftboo.liters    5794   11946    1099    10982 I  12456   10560   12206   1382  2 13324   15437   16079   16410 117266   19297   19224   199161
Incrmnmtal Economic Cost of Developoet PrW4rnf1997 prices)                                                     III
Vith Developoent PrWgas (1U9$tbousandh                                                                         I
Capital Costs-Smusatios                I       -        -       92      431 1       0    2123    2123    t062 I 975        4376    2198    656   1097    329          3292    3292 
-Transeission & Distrib.1.        -       -       550     5621        0    1422    4967    2622 I 2567    1712    3423         954 I 2053    2053    2369    2369 
Om  uCots inc.Spares aCnnsuaables   2                                        1                                                                   11
-Geneiration                           1      114     too       to  100 201400            500      200     175 1700         500     500      4471s,400         500     400      350:                        0
-Transmissimn  Distribution            I        4       4         4       4 1       4       4        4       41t      4       4       4        41        4       4       4        4.1
Diesel Oil Costs 811c/liter   14.7 1  -    -                   ---  -  I-    -                    -      ---              ---                    I--    -   -                  -- g
Total Ecemoic Costs W9thowsmd)    I          662    1227      2606    2328 1   1575    5242    8341    4162 1 13275    8304    7627    9564   51 579    7540    6971    6897 
Without Devlopamt Progra:              I                                     I                                 I                                 I                                                           h.4
Total Economic CossfUSSthousand)    I        662    2227       1136    l000 1   1253    1021    1420    1420 1  1422        829    1102      97  1    95       342     693      69  1c
Incremental Economic Cost(US$thousndl          0        0     1470    1249 I    322    4221    692        2743 1 12964    7475    69       858  I   4324    7219    6198    6204 
incremltal Served Demen fith Devlopumnt Progra  (00)                        I                                  I                                  
With Develapemt Program                1   12259   2759      2550   25540 I30615   2555    30017  33999 1 3559    4079    43063   43770 1 4979   53429   5330                  5574 
With  outDvlopmot Frog..               1   12259   27593    25540   24263 126174   21390   28777   30001 1 2791    17049   24774   21964I119155    606   15324   1534 1
lncrunetal Served Deman                I       0        0         0    1277 1 4442    4164    1240    3999 1 779    23739   19242   21804 1 29824   4736    3797    402M 



02-4utrB7     CASE        I
SOALIA-PONIR REHAIILITATION AND ENER6Y PRIOJECT
_.____~~~~ ---- - -_ ------- __
NOSADIS)W SYSTEN POIER AND ENERGY MAKlACES VilTH DEVELOPIIEIT PR1  1991-1994
CY             M199                            1992                             1993                             1994
equirement for Generated EnergyHlNblI          275899                 I         307900                 J         327893                           344269                  I
taxieua Oemand to he set in eveniag(NlN          61.5                 :           67.0                 1           70.9                 1           74.5
Ibxiu  Dewnd to he oet at midday(lN)             54.0                 1           60.2                 1           63.9                 J           66.5
Quarterly Load DOation Curve         IJan-KarlRpr-JunIJul-Sep:Ott-Det :Jan-HarlApr-JunIJul-Sep: Ot-Dec IJan-l%ar IApr-Jun:Jul-Sep Okt-Dec :Jan-NarlApr-Jun1Jul-SeplOct-Det I
Requirement fur Generated Energy(NNh)1  64837   69802   69525   71730 I 72359   77898   77589   80049 1 77056  92956   82627  85247 1 80904  97099   86754  89504 1
Quarterly Nhx.Demad (NW)             I  61.5   61.5    61.5    61.5:        67      67      67      67 1  70.9   70.9   70.9   70.9 1  74.5   74.5   74.5   74.5 I
Quarterly Load Factor                I    48!       22     52s      531     492     532     53I    55!?      50l    53t    531    5571        50     531    53t    5521
Peak Load liO IlIax.Dea           701:  43.1   43,1    43.1   43.1    46.9   48.9   46.9   46.9 1  49.8   49.6   49.6   49.6 8    52.2   52.2   52.2   52.2:
Peak PMl  0 flax.! Duration       1011  2020    2020    2020    2020    2201    2201    2201    2201 1  2329    2329    2329    2;29 I  2447   2447   2447    2447 1
s, Load Hax.DeeandlWl)                  120        14      14      16:      12      17      17      19 1     13      18      18      21        14     19      I9      22:
Base Load Energy Deeand(Whi)         : 20879  30807   30255   34663    26190   37270   36653   41573 1 29687   40487   39830   45069 1 30015   42404   41714   47216:
Interwediate Load Energy DenandUtahi   41938   36974   37250   35046   43967   38427   38735  36275 1 46040   40140   40468  3784B 1 4944t  42247   4252   398411
Syste   enerating Caparity    RatiOg
Availability of Units lt3)    tlWsol: 1                                                                 I                                I
Stean Unitst6lsira Station)          1                                 *                                g
Unit It                       15.0 1    902      251     80t    8021    802       252     802    9011      90?     252     80t    9021      80?    252    809       80U z
Unit 02                       15.0 I    252      80?     80O    802O      25?    80?      802    804?      25    80O      802    9021      25?      0?    802      802: 
Diesel Units                                                          I                                                                  I 1                              1-
Gesira Unit S1                 5.0 :     70?     20?     70?    701:    70?       702     50     702:    70?       70    702     20?1     702    70?    70?       7021
resita Unit 02                 5.0:      70?    70?      70?    7et:    50?       70%     70?    70t      70%    20?      70l    7011    701    202    70?         70?:
Cesira hbit *3                 5.0        M 70? 70       20?    7021    702       70?    702    5012       702     702     70S    70Z1      20?     70!    T0?      70t:
esira Unit e4                  5.0       502     70?    70?      7021     702     20?    702    7021       70?     702    502      701:   70        70      202     70S1
Wesira Unit  5                 5.0       70?     70?    70?      50?:    702      70?    70?      7011    20?      70?    702    7021       702    70!      702     20?1
Central* Unit e5               2.0 1    30?      50?     502     5021    502       0?    502      502:    50t    S02       302     5021     50?    502    50?        O21
Ceotrale Unit 16               2.0 I    502    30?       50    5021      502     502      0?2       5011  S0?     50?     502    3021      50?     502    So0    501
Centrale Unit 07               2.0:      302     50     502     5021     502      02      t      so 5021  502     502     30?    SOU       50?     50        2 Sol  021
Ceutrale Utit 18               2.0 1     S 50      2 S0?  50  02  O       504     50        2 502  5011    302     502     5        02 5021 502 0!          s0t     5021
mew las Turbine(peat & reserve duty) I                                I                                I                                1                                1
Unit 01                       12.0 1    902      90?     452     9021:    90      90?     452    902t      90I    90?      452     901:    902    902       45?    90?:
Unit 42                       12.0:      50?     90      901     9011     902     90t    902    4511       902     902     902     452:    S02    90!    90?        45?:
Unit 43                       12.0        01 2    0?      02      021      0?      0?      O      451t    90?      90?     90?    451       90?    90?      90?    45%7.
Power    .ly/and                     :
Probable Iicimn Available Capacity at Peak (1m)
Stemuibts                          1    15       I5      30      30:      15      15      30      30 1    IS       15      30      30:      15      IS      30      30:
Diesel Units                       I    24       26      28      262      2B      24      26      281      24      28      24      261      28      26      28      24:
6as rurbines                       :     12      24      52      241      24      24      12      241      36      36      24      241      36      36      24      241 1                                             I
1 51       65      70      90o      67      63      68      82 2     77      79      79    8so        79      77      82      781
hrating Factor f6f Generators due tol   0.9       0.9     0.9    0.9 I   0.9       0.9     0.9    0.9 1   0.9       0.9    0.9    0.9        0.9     0.9    0.9      0.9 1
systee pow   factor                                                   I                                I                                I                                                                                _ -
Sent Out Capability at Peak(Nso)   1t  45.9   58.5   63.0   72.0 1  60.3   56.7   61.2   73.8 1  69.3   71.1   70.2   72.0    71.1   69.3   73.8   70.2 I                                                               0-
Quarterly Ulax.Eveing Dmand (11)    1  61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5 1  67.0    67.0    67.0    67.0 1  70.9   70.9   70.9   70.9 1  74.5   74.5   74.5   74.5 I
SurpluslDeficit Power (N)            I -15.6   -3.0       1.5    10.5    -6.7   -10.3   -5.8       6.8     -1.6     0.2   -0.7       1.1:   -3.4   -5.2   -0.7   -4.3 I
Deficit as  of N.Detand              I    252       52      02      021     10?     152      9?      o0l      2?      0?      I1      02.      52      7?       12     621
Deficit an lastalled CapacitylflM)    :    17       3       0       01       7       11      6       0 1      2        0       1      0:        4       6       I       5S
:                                I '*



02-Jun-Vl      CASE         I                            SOMALIA-POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
MCGAISHU SYSTEM POWER AND ENERGY BALANCES WITH DEVELOPMENT PRSRAM  199J-1994 Icontinued)
Powe SupplylDesan4 kcont.)          CY              1991                               1992                               1993                               1994
hawterly Mas.lldday Demand (IM)        I    4.0    54.0    54.0    54.0 1  60.2    60.2    60.2    60.2 163.9    63.9    63.9    63.9               66".5    66.5    66.5    66.5 
Surpluslfwicit Power (MM)              1-8. 1        4.5     9.0    18.0 11   0.1    -3.5        1.0    13.6 1    5.4      7.2     6.3      8.1 1    4.6      2.9     7.3      3.7 I
Deficit as?1 of lbx.Dewad              1      15       ox       02      021       02      6%       0?      021       01      ox       ox      021       02      0x      02       0111
keficitulonIstalled Capacity (MNIl            9        0        0       01        0       4       0        01       0        0       0        01       0        0       0        01
Energy SupplylDewaod                   *                                  U1
Dherating factor for Banerators due to: 
systec pow ieractor                   1.   0.9       0.9     0.9      0.9 1 0.9         0.9     0.9      0.9 1    0.9      0.9     0.9      0.9 1    0.9      0.9     0.9      0.9 1
System Energy Capability (MMt)        It                                                                                                        10
Stma units                           131043   31043   47304   47304 1 31043   31043   47304   47304 1 31043   31043   47304   47304 1 31043   31043   47304   47304 
Diesel Units                         13882    36661   37449   38435 140406   3357   38435   40406 1 3666    37449   3992    36661 1 37449   35478   37449   3357 
Sam Turbione                            33113   42574   31930   42574 142574   42574   31930  *42574 163860   6396    53217   42574 16396    6396    53217   42574 1
Total Energy Generation Capability  110298   110277  1 16683  129312 1114022  107124  117669  230263 1 13164  132353  139350  126539  113235   130392  137970  123335 
Unsmrwd Enegy Demani due to                                               I  
Poweirficit(mWb                            1709      329        0       01    734    1129       63         01      1275      0      77        01    372       569      77      4711
Poser Limit to Served Energy(IlW)    163129   69473   6952    71730 171624   76770   76954   80049 1 76991   9296   92550   95247    8 0532   96529   86677   89034
SurpluslDficit Enegy (11Nit)           1 -1709    -329         0        0 1-734   -1129    4635            0:1 -175          0     -77        0 1 -372    -569        -77    -4711
Deficit as I of Requirement            1       32      0x      ox       0i1       It      12       12  01  010%                      0011 0xo%o il     o        it      02       121I
Estimated Enegy Sent Out (KWh          I  63129   69473   69525   71730 1 71624   76770   76954   9009 :  76981   9295    O255    95247 1 80532   8629   96677   89034 14
System Energy Losses                  1.  11.61   11.62   11.62   11.6%1   11.7n    1.7 1.7%   11.721 11.7          , i7!   32.72   11.7    11.721   11.92   11.8%   11.8%   11.9111                                                       c0'
Served Energy DeaandilllW)  -quarterly.' 55806   61414   61460   63409 1 63244   67798   A7950   70683 1 67886   73250   72992   75273 1 71029   76319   76449   79529I 1l
-annually 1242099                              269665                            1 289301                           1 302325                                                                                    I
Actual Energy Senerated IMNit)                                                                               I                                  II
Steam Urtits                         129565   26313   42574   42574 129565   26313   42574   42574 11 29565   26313   42574   42574 1 2956    26313   42574   42574 1.
Diesel Units                         133564   36661   26951   29156 140406   33507   34380   37476 1 3666    37449   38829   366611  37449   35479   37449   33507 1
Gas Turbirnes                        1      0    6500        0        0 I1653   16950           0        0 I1065    19194    1148    6013 1  13519   24738    6654   12953 
* ----        - -  -…   -- - ---             -…
Total Energy Generated    quarterly'.  63129   69473   69525   71730 171624   76770   76954   80049 1  76981   92956   92550   95247 1  0532   96529   96677   89034 
annually 127387                              1 305397                          1327634                             1342772                           I
Estimated Fuel Consumption                               I                                                   1
Specific Consumption of Fueloliters/k#  Gas Turbines    0.350             1Steam Units        0.335                                             1
-Diesel Units      1 0.270   0.270   0.270   0.270 1 0.280   0.280   0.280   0.280 I 0.290   0.290   0.290   0.290 1 0. 300   0.300   0.300   0.300 
Duarterly Fuel Cousumptionitbou.1iters  19967   209089  21539   22134 1 21796   24129   2388    24755 I 24265   26393   25924   26"99    25970   28117   27926   29848 :Total Costs
lncremetal Econuaic Cost of Developsunt Proqrao(1997 prices)                            .
-       -- ---- - -                                                                 II fjthou.io
Wfith Developmet Program  (VSStbousand):                                  1                                                                     11197 prices)
Capital Costs-Genration                    5339    1790      990      990 1    365      365     243      243 1    382       55      55       55 1       0       0       0        0 1    50374
-Transmission & Distrib.?   1381    1381    1381    13821    1237    1237    1237    1237 1 1131    1131    1131    1131 1 1049    1049    1049    1049 1   43914
066 Costs inc.Spafes it Consumables   I                                                                                                                                            1
-Generation                            I   600       400     570      600 1    600      900     900      700 1    700      900     900      750 1    90       900     900      9001     17406
-Transmission Ir Distribution         .1    30        30      40       40 1     40       40      40       40 1     45       45       45      45 1      45      45      45       451        724                                         t
Fuel Oil Costs SUScIliter          9.4 1   179      2093    2025    2-   1   2080    2593    2246    2327 1 2479    2837    2458    2649 1   2683    3102    2739    2952 1   60636
Diesel uil Custs #1150iiter       so.,.…          …       …       ……--- ---    --      ---     ---      --       --        -- -- -……… I … ……         -…- ---                  --
lotal Ecomoaic Eosts lU84tbousand)    19132    5694    4905    4991     4321    5024    4665    4547 1 4737    4968    4589    46#30 14577    5096    4733    4946 1   272954                                                          0
Vithmut Deveopmnt Progras:1                                                                                                                                                         I  ---
Total Economic CostsiUS$thousand)    1      683      295     693      6831    693       28      683      683       683     285      683     683 1    693      285     683      683 I1
Incremetal Economic Cost(US$tbousaad's  9449    5399    4222    4308 1  338    4739    399              396     4053    4683    3905    3947 1   3994    4911    4050    4263 1                                                         l
Incremetal Served Demad with Developmet Program  (hub)                    I                                                                                                                                                              o
Vitit Devlopmet Program                I  5590    61414   61460   63409 1 63244   6779    67950   70683 167996   73250   7299    75273    71029   76319   76449   7958 
Without Devlopmet Program              1  15324    4799   15324   15324 115324    4799   15324   15324 1O132              4719   15324   15324 1  15324    4799   15324   15324 
lncrenetal Served Demnd                104042   5662    46136   48085 147920   62999   52626   5536  1  5252   68461   5756    59949 1 55705   71530   61125   63204 I



- 66 -
AN= 3.1
SAJ
POE                 AN,D ENM  PRWC
ENE -  a            ERM= UVICANDIG
Actul                      Pa32!!d  RE
D1criptitl9 1985                              16         1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
Techical
Intaled Qpacity (14                  39.2    55.7       55.7    63.8 a/ 80.3 b/ 92.3 c/ 92.3
InstaldW Depmv1able
Capacity Q"  d/                    33e5 e/ 20.0 f/   28        36       46       49       61
Peak Dkd (tW)                        26       28        33       35       39       43       47
Ctpacty Surplus (14)                  7.5   %g         Ng         1        7        6       14
Available Generation (*M0)           23      131        142     225      383      456      468
lbtal Requtwet
for sent-out enery (4*3)           40      154        184     201      244      276      308
Deficit/&rplus in energy sent out    D         D         D        S        S        S        S
&weVgy Genrated (.M)                123      131        142     190      241      273      305
N-teCal IDoses (Mi)                  18       16        14       18       10        8        6
Technical Insses (1Wih)              22       20        22       27       30       31       34
]btal IDss  (% d geeration)          33      28         25       24       17       14       13
Sales (M14)                          83       95        110     145      201      234      265
Dlesels (Gezira) (AIi/liter)          3.6      3.6       3.2      3.6      3.7      3.7      3.7
Stem (Gezira) (kIh/liter)             3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
Isttutional
Nsw Salary Structure                                     X
Organitiol PeAw/Adjustmemt                          X        X
Dbw Board in place                                                         X
lh. of Conwrs                    39,873  44,000      51,000   57,000  63,000  69,000   75,000
Sales/Omuner per year (kdih)      2,081    2,159     2,157    2,544    3,190   3,3900   3,530
Nb. of EhIlOYees                  1,010      880       995    1,036    1,086    1,113    1.154
lb. of O nsers per Bployee           39       50        51       55       58       62       65
Financial
Independent hAdit in place                               X
Adequae isuance Crerage                                  X
Cosldated Financil Stateants                             X
New Billing and (bllwtion System                                  X
N  kAcounting system                                              X
Invetory Caitrol Xsteu                                            x
Aeset Reistry and Revaluation                                     X
Firnnial MS                                                       X
Rate of Return                       (7)      2         NA       NA        8        8       8
Internal Contribution to
Inresbnent (%)                      0      (56)        0       10       20       30      30
Debt Service Overage                  0.6      2.2        1.5     1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5
kmunts Receivable                   324      324       120       90       90       90      90
kacits Payable                      295     231        120       90       90       90       90
a/ Diesel unit camissioned, Gentrale Deutz/PlIzzari diesels retired.
Steam umit coIssioned
c/ Gas turbine  emmissioned
/ Proposed tarts after 1989 asame that manufacturer's overhal schedule re        ati   are
being cpled with.
e/ NIwember 1985 - Powr Plannwg Study.



SOMALIA
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
ENEE Reference Investment Progam (RIP) for Mog6adishu asitem .
(US* 000)
1987                         1998                         1989                         199                          1991                         1992                         1993                         1999
Local    forts    toa I                 o to! ea  r   r   o.m       rwt      To        L             rmltal tocel    ro    m             o l tal Lca      ramu    total   Lia          for      Total    Loal    rom         rteo
9enra  otA                  l10         9      110        77    1779    I,8?           80    1,018    1099          76      689       765         2?      166       193        0         9         0        0         9         8        0         0         0
kum urn              ~0         0         a        0 1.931.93                       1,913  1.03              0 1,,0330I33                  0    45s   455               o    440          4         9         0         09
6eura ftre viotect1m
endIaligting sdms             a                           so 9     gm0      93                  RD32    1VA          9         9                  0         0                            9         9        a         9         0        0         90
Cmeitraleke                  10912001,530                  0         0        9         0         0        9         0         9        a         0         0         0        9         0        9         9         0        0         9         a         0
cootraSW"'e                   a         a        9         0  1,Soo0,590                I         0        0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0         a         9        0         a         0        0         9        9
is NJst,u,bit                 a         0        0         0        0         0    3408,3548,.694 1,908O,2799,29                                3491,7502.090                  0         0        9         0        0         a         0         9        0
lOI a O ineoelG.eto           0        8         9         0         a        0       182    6.659    6,911    1,35         254    1,699          0        3 ? 373             0         0         a        a         0        0         0         9        0
lz OIhGmlorbl*                a        a         0         0        0         9         0         0        0        49    4.483    4,S32        218       171       389        0       496      49          0         0        0         a         9         0
12 9  6es3wurbrt              9        a         0         9         9        0         9         0        0         0         0        9                        Im4.8   4.32 21       171      38          0      46        496         9         9        0
Sub-total                  210    1.209    1,419        157    5,20      S.360       163   17,384   $8,141    2,499   I4.77     17.21          634    7,76      8,196       Zt 1     .1 10?    1.32        0      4%        4%          a         9        0
Z. ll0Substations                  9         0        0        251,39          1,415       ISO1,N          Z,=9         120       5   1,010            55     4is        55         Ss      So        85        55       goo     8a5         Ss       80        855
MO Utramsim onL                 a        a         0        10      409       410        49      30        349        40       ISO      193    0        4    93V    5so         4        3s9      399        93       350      39         40       330      39
Sub-ota!                     0        a         0        35    1,9       1,825       193    2.0       2,390A      168    1,949    1.23          95       940    1,93         95    1.159    1,245         95    1,1s0    1.245         95    1,159    1,245
8Ifostatawnt                 19    I ,450    1,964        70    2,00      2,157      2VA     2,90      2,367       29     2,98      2,36        397    1,948    2,345         ?0    1,49      1,429        70    1,490    1,470         so    1,900    1,950
(lpsnzoo              9~ ~          ~ 0  0       140    2,03      2,22?       569    2,997    2,647        560    2.987    2.647         793    2,3       2,0         560    2,365    2,925       29 0         2,23 220200             2.299    2,400
Sub-total                   14    1,459    1.464       210    4,074    4.384        849    41714    S,914        840    4,174    5,014       1.190    4,935    S,225        630    3,765    I,3m         27     3.4011   3,679        250    3,2A      3,450
4. Ge;:¶l plot60                                                                                                                                                                                                                             270
oemcles               0~        9        0         9       8a       Os8         9       290      209         0        72        72         0       so        so        so      189       118       20        40ze                         70        9
Vo         ~         f        oli      0         9         0        0         8        79      230       27         40      119       ISO        10        18        49       19        39        49       49       m        29         18       189       130
Distr.OptOedoleto             9        0         0        49       4        195        i0      108       its         0        0         0        00        29        00       to         0       l0        10         9       t0        29        18       s0
twaucotor,                    0        0         0        20      299       220        18       70       199         0        0         0         0         0         0       49       189      140        t0        29       30        29        30       so
Swhtota1                     a        0         0        60  2,90132,063            110       588       698        le      192       222        20       13o      120        93       23       32         so      31e       398        93      21        320
S.  roedt lb eomt,
teclonal bussltoc.
and lrajnq                      0         0        0       352    1,63      1.934       345    1,61?    1,62         369    1,912    2.28          53       472       525       60       700       77       110    1,990    0,119        120    1,000    1,120
Sub-total                    0         0        0       352    1,632    1,904        385    0,617    1,962        19     1,912    2.9           53       47       RS5        60       710      77        1t0    1.909    1,119        129    1,90      1,129
LStoiIes
Ri I                                 70   7     50m        9         0        0         0         0        9         8         0        0         0         9         0        0         0         0        0         8         I8            0         0 9
mu                            a      is        iso         a        0         i         0         0        *         8         A        0         0         a         p        g         g         o        *         8         8        9         9         0
5y"  Otm  tke.t               0         0        a         9         0        9        55       290      335         9         8        0         0         0         0        0         9         0        0         8         I        0         0         8
r.otbllit, sttot.             0        a         0         9         0        0         0         10       0        69      42   40         0               9   0   a                    9         9        9         8         8        9         0         0
Sot-Total                    8  1,50    1,6 9             0        9         9        5   28            33         69       a2       40          0         0         0        8         0         8        0         9         a        I         9         0
lota   am                     77 24    4,150    4,37       904   14,402   15,200    2,2        3,993   M,A         3,9 28      W 771    . 2,    1,982   17,89   1,771    1,m5          1,617    7,.65        s15    6.5       1,52       s15    5,73       1.,4
00pic9aUr cup                 22   791   78    901.44 01,2                             732,91  2,8121    332,0                             ZAN62   S 10,321,47?W   IN    661   76    57   69   062    12   M2   52
MU eCcAt9pm                     I    44           4         i1   559   soI98                    I 91, 1,496    2921,377619                          Z1980,298I'    1in   86   9102   891,51,15    li 012135l,2
tota  kg. a    'U             SO    4,419    4,M0          916   t6,401   17,18?    2,603   39,888   82,43    4,6635,914   3,.478    72.19   11,77? A 17.                      29      8,13      9,429       65     7,69      8,2%98 113         1,2       7,56
TOta  ia. Ss  uill"            35       616      23       1IN      2,88     7,958       506    5,918    6,43    1,919    5.75    6,18              S6O    3,118    4,18        16      2,969    2,114        13    2,701f    2,49         204    2,11`1   2.7
a IsC.l,n al e49sdt'om for b4hwe 9*. ad maclaW fruataw



- 68 -
ANNEX 4.2
Page 1 of 3
SOMALIA
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
Project Description
The project will consist of the following components:
1. eThe Consulting Services for project management, operational
assistance, training, and recruitment as described in detail in Annex 4.3.
2.             At Gezira power  station,  using IDA, ADF and EIB funds,
procurement, delivery and supervision by manufacturer of installation of
new 5,966 brake kW capacity Mirlees Blackstone KV16M engine for diesel unit
No. 2; rewind of spare 15 kV, 7,200 kVA stator; rehabilitation of
auxiliaries for five units and station auxiliaries (including refurbishing
of switchboards, replacement and recalibration of instrumentation and
repair and/or replacement of fuel treatment equipment); provision of fire
detection and prevention equipment and new high intensity lighting scheme,
and provision of three years spares and consumable materials.
3.            At Centrale-Hamar power station, using Italian funding and
engineered and supervised by ENEL, the rehabilitation of four 2,250 kW
diesel unit prime movers, repair or rewind of alternators (2,700 kVA) for
diesels 6, 7 and 8; rehabilitation of station auxiliaries (including
overhaul of heavy fuel oil separators, renlacement of fuel oil heaters and
remedial work on transformer banks an   switchgear),  provision of fire
detection and prevention equipment.
4.           Provision of a 10 MW (site rating) heavy residual fuel oil
burning diesel generator  and associated step-up transformer,  two road
tankers and tank farm of lx500 and 2x1,000 tonne capacity to be installed
at and in timely coordination with the new North 33 kV substation.
5.         Using Italian aid funding and engineered and supervised by ENEL,
the provision of a second 15 MW oil-fired boiler and steam turbo generator
at the Gezira complex using the existing stack, water intake and treatment
plant and other common facilities.
6.        33 kV Transmission and Associated Substations.
(i)  procurement of materials for the construction by ENEE of 7 km of
33 kV overhead line to replace sections of line encroached on by
new  buildings   constructed   dangerously  close   to  existing
conductors and structures;
(ii)  procurement of 9 km of 33 kV underground cables and accessories
and materials for the construction by ENEE of 9 km of underground
feeders and 70 km of 33 kV overhead line to interconnect the
Gezira, Centrale, North, West, and East substations, and Afgoi
and Balad towns;



- 69 -
ANNEX 4.2
Page 2 of 3
(iii) extensions of 33 kV switchgear assemblies at Gezira and West
substations;
(iv) new 33 kV substations at Centrale, North, and East sites;
(v) installation of seven 10 MVA 33 kV/15 kV transformers; and
(vi) installation of surge arrestors at existing and new 33 kV
substations.
7.          15 kV and 380/220 V Distribution.  Using Italian aid funds and
engineered and supervised by ENEL, provision of materials, plant, vehicles
and contractors for:
(i) installation at 15 kV of airbreak switches and drop-out fuse
gear, transformers and materials for about 165 15 kV/380/220 pole
and ground mounted substations;
(ii) the construction of (a) about 30 km of 15 kV overhead
distribution lines; (b) 26 km of 380/220V 4-wire mains; and (c)
2, 3 and 4 wire subsidiary 380/220 V submains and concentric
consumer service wire, meters and fuse cut-outs to improve
supplies to about 5,000 existing consumers; and (d) mains,
submains and consumer materials to connect about 20,000 new
customers;
(iii) an expansion of the existing pole factory to enable ENEE to
produce pre-stressed 8 and 11 meter poles at the rate of at least
60 units per week;
(iv) an emergency rehabilitation component to begin in 1987 to replace
existing 3 kV amd 380/220 V overhead lines in Zone 1 (Wadajar)
and Zone 13 (Caboul Casils) of Mogadishu;
(v) installation of about 5 MVAr of power factor correction equipment
and provision of transmission and distribution spares; and
(vi) an expansion of the transmission and distribution workshops.
8.        Communications.   Provision of a 2-channel radio communication
system with sets installed in each vehicle, substation and power station.
9.        General Plant.
(i) provision of spares for existing fleet;
(ii) provision of vehicles including two 7-ton trucks with integral
5-ton cranes, six 4-wheel drive open-back 2-ton utilities one
"bucket" truck, one trench excavator and pole-hole drill, and 10
half-ton open-back 4-wheel drive utility vans, and two 10-seater
buses; and
(iii) workshop tools and equipment.



- 70 -
ANNEX 4.2
Page 3 of 3
10.       Energy Sector Planning.  Provision of the services of a long term
(three years) energy planning advisor to the Energy Planning Department
(EPD) in the Ministry of National Planning; short term technical assistance
in the fields of petroleum procurement marketing and distribution,
household  energy,  woodfuels  supply  and  distribution;   external  and
in-country short term training, equipment and materials.
11.       Household Energy Demand Management.   Provision to the National
Woodstoves Project (NWP) National Range Agency of three manmonths of short
term technical assistance, external and in-country training and equipment
and materials to support NWP's activities in the design, testing,
development and dissemination of improved energy efficient woodstoves.



- 71 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 1 of 6
SOMALIA
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Consulting Services for Project Management/
Operational Assistance/Training and Recruitment Tasks
Objectives
1.        The objectives of these services will be:
(a) to assist Ente Nazionale Energia Elettrica (ENEE) in Lhe
procurement, engineering and design, inspection, construction
supervision,   and  start-up   testing  and   commissioning  and
acceptance of the various project packages and subcomponents
listed in the Description of the Project (Annex 4.2); and
(b) to assist ENEE in its recovery plan by making improvements in the
utility's management, financial and engineering functions - in
the short term with the provision of staff support, and in the
longer  term  with  system  and  managerial  improvements  and
reorganization, staff development and training.
2.        In the managerial area,  operational  assistance will need  to
review the duties and responsibilities of the ENEE management and staff,
and recommend and where agreed implement during the project period,
reorganization,   management   systems  and   procedures,   delegation  and
clarification of authority, and training schemes.
3.        The objective of the operational assistance in the finance area
is to formulate and implement a set of institutional, operational and
investment measures to strengthen the reliability and efficiency of ENEE's
financial management, particularly in the areas of customer billing,
collections and record keeping; plant accounting; inventory management and
control; financial accounting and financial statement preparation; and
financial planning and  forecasting.    In addition,  the  company's data
processing requirements should be reviewed, including the introduction of
appropriate hardware and software systems which it is intended also be
financed under the Project.  Given ENEE's limited experience with modern
financiai management systems, the assistance should be focussed on
developing   financial   reforms  that  can  be  integrated  easily  and
expeditiously into the existing operations.
4.             The objective of the recovery plan in the technical and
engineering area will be the improvement of ENEE's generation and
transmission, operation and maintenance procedures, keeping in mind the
utility's main objective - the provision to consumers of supplies of
safely, efficiently and reliably produced electricity.
Scope of Work
5.        The following is an outline of the task to be performed by the
consultant together with, in Section A - Project Management and Section B -



- 72 -
ANNEX 403
Page 2 of 6
The Recovery Plan, a suggested approach to the taskg, but the invited
consultants are not limited to these suggestions, although each offer will
be evaluated by ENEE bearing these parameters  in mind.   Section C -
Reports, outlines the regular reports the consultant will providee
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
6.           It is expected that by the time that the subject consultancy
services contract comes into effect, ENEE will have already largely
completed the bidding process and eigned procurement contracts for the
provision of many of the project's packages and subcomponents.
7.         To assist ENEE in the management of the project, the consultant
will provide home-office and on-site staff in sufficient strength to
perform the following tasks:
(a) Carry out factory inspection of equipment and materials;
(b)  Perform  construction  and  commissioning  management  for  the
turn-key packages;
(c) Provide technical assistance to ENEE in supervision of the
transmission, distribution and services construction;
(d) Provide procurement assistance and installation supervision for
equipment that ENEE, upon advice from the consultant, installs
during the project  period.   This will include the hard and
software for the accounting and billing system; and
(e)  Certify invoices for payment, and generally assist ENEE in its
relations with the donors EIB, ADB and IDA, and ensure the
appropriate technical integration of all aspects of the project
including those components financed by the Italian aid funds.
B. THE RECOVERY PLAN
8.        To assist ENEE in its recovery plan, the consultant would provide
resident consultant staff, who will hold in-line, responsible posts of
authority  in ENEE for  three years.   A  list  of these posts and the
description of each is included as Attachment I to this Annex.
9.        On behalf of ENEE,  the consultant would recruit staff to be
contracted by ENEE at the commencement of the project (see Attachment 2 to
this Annex).   The international search for suitable candidates will have
been carried out by the consultant with the objective of maximizing the
effect of the funds available.  Offers of employment would be based on a
2-year contract with a subsequent possible 1-year renewal. (For each first
renewal  after  the  initial  2-year  period  -  indicating  performance
satisfactory for both ENEE and the employee - the consultant would receive
a bonus equivalent to two months of the employee's first year base salary.)



- 73 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 3 of 6
10.       Home office and consultant resident staff will be expected to
carry out the following tasks during the project period.
11.       Organizational Structure.   Review organizational  structure of
ENEE (including statutes, role and composition/authority of its Board as
well as the linkages among Government, ENEE, management and Board),
evaluate and, where agreed, implement restructuring option.
12.       Generation and Transmission Oerations.  Review existing systems
and procedures and status of plant, and recommend and after agreement
implement changes to ensure that in the short and long term supplies of
electricity  in  Mogadishu  are  reliable*   Such  changes  in  operational
procedures would need to embrace merit order use of generating plant, load
shedding and scheduling of electricity supplies to priority users, strict
outage of plant and equipment for maintenance purposes, proper manning of
centers of operational control including control rooms and where necessary
switch-houses  and  switching  yards.    Codes  of  practices  and  safety
regulations used elsewhere would need to be reviewed and revised for use in
the Somali environment, and following endorsement by the ENEE Board and
Government, enforced for the safety of the public, the staff and the
plant. Review record keeping of operational statistics, and installations
(including cable route drawings and consumer service connections) and where
improvements are needed implement changes.
13.       Generation  and  Transmission  Maintenance.    Review  existing
practices of diesel generation and furnace, boiler and steam plant
maintenance and implement improvements where necessarye   Implement safe
methods of isolation of equipment and safe and efficient methods of
working; recommend and where possible implement improvements in working
conditions; recommend and assist in the procurement of spares, consumables
and tools and plant items to improve maintenance techniques and results;
improve where necessary record keeping of maintenance performed; implement
routine preventative maintenance programs for ENEE's power stations,
substations, transformers, overhead lines and consumer services and meters;
improve the efficiency of diesel generators by routine maintenance
including accurate repairs and adjustments to fuel injectors; implement
plans to ensure that instrumentation is properly repaired and adjusted to
show plant status including exhaust temperatures on diesel equipment and
quality of furnace exhausts; ensure that auxiliary plant is properly
maintained so that most economic fuels can be used in diesel prime movers;
ensure that sufficient spares are always in stock to enable routine and
emergency maintenance to be performed with reasonable timeliness.
14.       Customer  Billing  and  Collection.    Review  existing  billing
procedures; recommend new procedures and new hardware/software requirements
to improve reliability of billing data and expedite billing process;
implement  new  system  including  necessary  training.    Review  existing
collection practices; recommend new procedures designed to expedite
collection time and reduce level cl arrears for both private and public
sector customers; implement new procedures, including necessary training.
Review level of illegal connections; recommend and implement new procedures
to ensure complete billing of all customers.



- 74 -
ANNEX 4,3
Page 4 of 6
15.       Plant Accounting.   Survey ENEE assets and inventories, both in
Mogadishu and the regions; make necessary write-downs and write-offs to
existing asset register;  derive monetary value of assets for financial
statements.   Review existing plant accounting practices;  recommend new
procedures and hardware/software requirements to develop computerized asset
register for financial statement preparation and capital investment
planning; and implement new system, including necessary training.  Review
appropriate revaluation method for fixed assets in financial statements;
revalue fixed assets according to new method beginning with the 1987
financial statements and train staff in new system.
16.        Procurement and Inventory Control.  Review existing commercial
procurement procedures; recommend and implement new procedures to simplify
and accelerate ENEE and Ministry of Finance purchase approval process.
Review existing inventory control and accounting procedures; recommend and
implement new procedures to ensure more accurate accounting ard valuation
for maintenance planning and financial statement preparation.
17.        Financial Accounting and Financial Statements.  Review existing
procedures and account classifications used in financial accounting system
and   financial   statement   preparation;   recommend   new   procedures,
classifications,  and  hardware/software  requirements  to  provide  more
thorough and timely financial statements; implement new system, including
necessary training.
18.       Review existing treatment of operations  outside Mogadishu  in
financial statements; develop new procedures to prepare consolidated
accounts; consolidate accounts for 1987 financial statements and train
staff in new system.
19.       Review existing treatment of subsidiary operations such as pole
factory and electrical equipment sales in financial statements; develop new
procedures to better monitor financial performance of individual subsidiary
operations; implement new procedures.
20.       Review  existing  depreciation  practi-ces  used  in  financial
statements; develop a more complete depreciation accounting system based on
appropriate units of plant life with and reasonable net salvage value of
equipment, implement new system, including necessary training.
21.       Prepare audited and consolidated financial statements.
22.       Auditing.      Review  existing  internal  auditing  procedures;
recommend and implement new practices to etrengthen internal auditing and
financial control functions.
23.       Financial Planning.   Review existing systems and procedures for
forecasting capital requirements, investment plans, and cash flow;
recommend new hardware/software required to strengthen financial projection
and analysis capabilities; implement new system, including necessary
training.



- 75 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 5 of 6
24.       Review  financial  management  information  needs  and  reporting
requirements;  develop financial MIS;  outline performance indicators  to
monitor financial performance; implement MIS, including necessary training.
25.       Analyze   annual   financial   requirements   including   tariff
adjustments to meet stipulated performance parameters.
26.       The following schedule is envisaged for the implementation of the
recovery plan in the areas of fiscal control:
- Commissioning of the new billing system by December 1988, with
monthly billing of all customers thereafter;
- Commissioning of new financial accounting system by September 30,
1988;
- Commissioning of new inventory control system by December 31,
1988;
- Revaluation and computerization of asset base by March 31, 1989;
-  Preparation of audited  and  consolidated  financial  statements
within six months after the end of the fiscal year;
-  Preparation  of  multi-annual  financial  forecasts  for  ENEE,
including annual update;
- Preparation of tariff and other financial proposals necessary to
meet financial performance criteria agreed with ENEE's lenders;
- Commissioning of financial MIS by June 30, 1989;
27.       Manpower and Training.   Conduct manpower needs assessment for
implementation of engineering operations and maintenance and financial
management reforms; identify new positions and write job descriptions;
assist in local hiring.
28.       Review  training  and  qualifications  of  existing  managerial,
financial management and accounting and engineering staff; determine
training requirements necessary for implementation of the reforms; develop
and organize training course; develop training materials as necessary to
support training program.
29.        Review and evaluate existing technical, engineering, managerial
and financial training programs available in Somalia, the region, and
overseas, which would be appropriate for ENEE training and arrange for
selected ENEE staff to participate in the chosen program.
30.       Equipment Procurement,   Assist ENEE in evaluating, selecting,
procuring and setting to work the most appropriate hardware/software option
for the various accounting, billing, collection, planning and MIS functions
of the utility, and assist ENEE in the procurement of other incidental
material needs of the recovery plan.



- 76 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 6 of 6
31.       Assist ENEE in securing necessary technical service and support
contracts from hardware and software equipment suppliers.
32.       Planning.    Review  and  update  in  a  timely  fashion  ENEE's
generation, transmission and distribution development plans to the mid
1990s including the integration into ENEE's Mogadishu system of the
proposed 100 MW Baardheere hydroelectric project and its associated 500 km
of 220 kV transmission lines and substations, and the towns of Afgoi,
Balad, Jowhar and Merca.
33.        Review and revise where agreed ENEE's corporate procedures, its
statutory instruments, and advise the Director General and Government on
the need for and the format and objectives of a Statutory Board of
Governors.
34.        Counterparts.  Evaluate the various staff of ENUE and possible
local recruits, propose the most suitable to act as counterparts to the
consultant's and expert staff, evaluate their progress during training and
over the project period, and support them with advice during the
transitional final year of the contract when the counterparts take up their
designated positions.
C. REPORTS
35.       During the course of the services the consultant shall submit to
ENEE quarterly reports within 15 days of the end of the quarter giving a
statement of the work performed and its results, and a detailed account of
project progress including a statement and supporting tables illustrating
the project expenditures to date and cost of the project to completion; a
reconciliation of both progress and expenditure of the services and a
schedule of the work to be performed during the remainder of the period of
the services; the consultant's findings and advice for improvements, his
latest conclusions and recommendations; the personnel employed during the
quarter; equipment, used, installed or required.



- 77 -
ANNEX 4.3
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 3
SOMALIA
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
Staff in Consultant's Employ and Their Terms of Reference
Head Office and On-site Support Staff
1.        Expertise and number to be assessed by proposing consultant.
Project Management
2.        One resident staff consultant will assist ENEE's Project Director
and occupy the in-line post of Assistant Director (Projects) and be
responsible for the following aspects of the project:
(a) coordination between ENEE, the consultants' head office, and the
contractors employed by ENEE under the project;
(b) on-site engineering supervision and progressing of ENEE's
contractors employed under the project for rehabilitating the
generation plant equipment and the installation of the 33 kV
switchgear and substations, and new generating plant;
(c) organization of ENEE's project stores;
(d) review of contractors' delivery and erection invoices for
pa)ment;
(e) production of disbursement applications to the various donors
EIB, ADB and IDA; and
(f) production, in liaison with the consultants' head office, of
4uarterly project reports, to ENEE and the various financing
organizations, together with project accounts.
Operational Support
3.          Four resident consultant staff would assume line positions and
corresponding responsibilities in the technical and financial departments,
working as assistant directors for (i) generation operations; (ii)
rehabilitation and maintenance; (iii) transmission and distribution; and
(iv)  finance.    In addition  to  their day-to-day  responsibilities,  the
consultant staff will recommend and, in coordination with ENEE's top
management, implement organizational improvements in their areas of work
and for ENEE as a whole.  They will also assist the training manager in
identifying the details of training priorities, programs and candidates.
One resident consultant staff will act as training manager responsible to
ENEE's director general.



- 78 -                          ANNEX 4.3
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 3
4.              The Assistant Director (Generation Operations)  would be
responsible to ENEE's Technical Director for the safe and efficient
day-to-day operation of the Gezira diesel and steam power station and the
Centrale diesel power station and their operational shift staff. He would
liaise  with  the  Assistant  Director  (Generation  Rehabilitation  and
Maintenance) for availability of plant for routine and other maintenance
either funded under the Project or otherwise.   He would establish merit
order priority operation of generators taking into account comparative
efficiencies, age, maintenance costs and capacities, and establish safe
methods  of  operation.    He would  be  responsible  through  the  finance
department for fuel stocks replenishment and their security, and his duties
would be those normally encompassed by the post entitled Power Stations
Manager.  Under his direction a statistic section would be established to
handle records of plant efficiencies, outputs, histories, etc.
5.                The  Assistant  Director  (Generation  Rehabilitation  and
Maintenance) would be responsible to the Technical Director for scheduling,
organizing, and supervising ENEE's staff in that rehabilitation and routine
maintenance which is to be performed by ENEE's staff at the Gezira and
Centrale power stations.
6.         The Assistant Director (Transmission and Distribution) would be
responsible to ENEE's Technical Director for the planning and construction
of expansions to the 33 and 15 kV networks.  He would also be responsible
for the rehabilitation and expansion by ENEE's staff of the 15 kV and
380/220 V networks.    He would,  where  appropriate,  reorganize and  be
responsible for ENEE's existing transmission and distribution staff
directing them in safe working and isolating procedures via a set of safety
instructions to be designed by him for approval and ratification by ENEE's
Board His aims would be the safety of the public and ENEE's staff and the
efficient operation of the networks.   His departmental responsibilities
would also encompass the consumer services and metering section and the
pole manufacturing plant.
7.         The Training Manager will be responsible to the Director General
for the organization of ENEE's training needs both in Somalia and
overseas.   He will identify the detailed training needs of the Somalian
staff (and the identified counterparts to the Assistant Directors) based on
ENEE's operational requirements and the advice of the Directors and
Assistant Directors.  As necessary the Training Manager would be expected
to be able to draw support from the consultants' head office, His duties
will encompass:
(a) establishing a training program for technicians and accountants;
(b) organize overseas training in industry and academia when such
training is not available in-house nor in Somalia; and
(c) produce within six months of his arrival in Somalia a fully
comprehensive training plan budget with contingencies for the
project time-span, including estimates of ENEE staff travel and
subsistence allowances where these are necessary during training



- 79 -
ANNEX 4.3
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 3
abroad. This training plan and budget will be a refining of the
plan and provisional budget sum for training contained in the
consultant's proposal. The five consultant staff will remain in
thei.r positions for a period of three years.  During the first
year, they will, in coordination with ENEE's top management,
propose counterpart staff who will be trained on the job or
elsewhere under the training provisional sum and who will be
expected to take on their responsibilities at the beginning of
the second 6-month period of the third year; at this stage, the
five consultant staff will for their final six months act as
advisors.
Planning Advisor
8.         One resident consultant staff engineering economist would occupy
the post of Planning Advisor for three years and would advise ENEE's
Director General on questions of corporate structure, includiag Board
functions, staffing, and power system planning including advice on issues
relating to protection of the environment.   His advice would reflect the
impending construction and commissioning of the 100 MW Baardheere
hydroelectric project and the associated cost recovery, with which
Somalia's electricity industry will be faced.



- 80 -
ANNEX 4.3
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 2
OUTLINE DESCRIPTION OF POSITIONS FOR WHICH
CONSULTANT IS TO RECRUIT ON BEHALF OF ENEE
Staff will be recruited by the consultant for ENEE's direct
employment.   They would be expected to participate in training and the
imparting of their skills to ENEE's staff.
1.          The Controller of Stores will be responsible to the Assistant
Director (Finance) for the replenishment, disbursement and safekeeping of
ENEE's materials.    He will  establish  an efficient  procedure  for  thc
recording and reordering of stocks at the request of the various
operational departments.   He will initially carry out an inventory and
evaluation, and write-off and dispose where necessary and with the approval
of the Director General, ENEE's current stocks.  He will carry out an
annual  stock-taking  exercise.    He  will  establish  with  the  various
departments minimum and maximum stock levels to ensure the reliable and
efficient operation of ENEE's generation and transmission departments.
2.              The  Instrumentation and Communications Engineer will be
responsible to the Assistant Director (Transmission and Distribution) for a
small department of ENEE's technicians for the calibration, repair and
installation of power station and transmission instrumentation.   He will
also be responsible for the installation and maintenace of fixed and mobile
radio and ca rier communication equipment and for the establishment and
operation of a meter test facility.
3.            Two Diesel Mechanics will be responsible to the Assistant
Director (Generation Rehabilitation and Maintenance) for the supervision
and active participation in the maintenance and rehabilitation of the
diesel prime movers and mechanical auxiliaries at Gezira power station.
One will have a certificate in fuel injector calibration and maintenance.
4.           Four Operators will be responsible to the Assistant Director
(Generation Operations) for shift control of ENEE's staff in the safe,
efficient operation of Gezira oil-fired steam power station.
5.          The Switchgear Technician will be responsible to the Assistant
Director (Transmission and Distribution) for the acceptance by ENEE of the
33 kV switchgear erected by contractors.  He will be responsible for its
maintenance and that of the 15 kV and 33 kV switchgear on the system and
within the confines of the power stations.
6.             The Power Station Electrician will be responsible to the
Assistant Director (Generation Rehabilitation and Naintenance) for the
routine and emergency mainternance of electrical plant within the Gezira
power station.
7.        The Regional Electrification Engineer will be responsible to the
Assistant Director (Generation Operations) for the coordination of the
generation and distribution of electricity in the provincial towns
associated with ENEE.



- 81 -
ANNEX 4.3
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 2
Recruitment
8.            The international search for suitable candidates should be
carried out with a view to minimizing employment costs to ENEE while
meeting the stipulated qualification requirements. On behalf of ENEE, and
following contract negotiations,  the consultant will hire the personnel
referred to in I to 7 above.  Contract offers should be based on a 2-year
contract with a subsequent possible 1-year renewal. For each renewal after
the initial two years - indicating performance satisfaction for both ENEE
and tize employee - the consultants will receive a bonus equivalent to two
months ot that employee's base salary.



- 82 -
ANNEX 4.4
SOMALIA
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
CY     CY     CY      CY     CY     CY
Component                            87     88     89      90     91     92
Project Management
and Technical Assistance
Issue of LOI                       x
Evaluation                          x
Contract Award                        x
Staff in Place                          xxxxxxxxxxxxx,xxxxxx
Advisory Period                                        xxxxx
Commissioning of:
New billing system                      xxxx
Financial MIS                                  xxxx
Accounting system                       xxxx
Inventory control                            xxx
Asset revaluation                              xxxx
System Study                              xxxx
Generation
Gezira Rehabilitation
Enquiry issued                    x
Contract award                     x
Implementation                       xxxxxx ixxxxxx :xxxxx
Unit 2 commissioned                            x
Diesel generator
Enquiry issued                    x
Contract award                     x
Works manufacture                    xxxxxx
Installed on-site                         xx, :xx
Steam Plant
Contract award                         x
Works manufacture                        xxxxxxxxx
Installation on-site                           xxxxxixxxxxx
Gezira Spares Manufac-                        j
turing and Delivery                       xx xxxiii xxxiii cxxxxxx :xxxxxx
Centrale rehabilitation             xxxxxx
Transmission and Distribution
15 kV Emergency Program           xxxxxx
15 kV Rehabilitation                    xxxxxxxxxxxNxxxxxxMxxxxxxx xxxxx
33 kV Substations
Enquiry issued                    x
Contract award                     x
West sub. commissioned                  x
North sub. commissioned                   x
Central sub. commissioned
East sub. commissioned                        x
Services and Meters                    xxxxxx xxxxxxixxxxxxx xxxxxi xxxxxx
_ _ _._I_      _I_I_I



- 83 -                           ANNEX 4.5
SOMALIA
POWER REHABILITAiTION AND ENERGY PROJECT
PROJECT COST TABLE
Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total
Cost    Cost    Cost        Cost    Cost    Cost
----US$, 000--  --S-hM-----
Gezira Rehabilitation                261    3,574    3,835          31     429      460
Gezira Spares                           0    4,076    4,076          0     489      489
Gezira fire protection and
high intensity lighting            175    1,227    1,402         21      147      168
Centrale rehabilitation               38    1,157    1,195           5     139      143
Centrale spares                        0    1,500    1,500           0     180      180
15 MW Steam Unit                   1,700   17,302   19,002        204   2,076   2,280
10 MW Diesel Unit                  1,649    7,807    9,456         198     937   1,135
33kV Substations and
Power Line Carrier                 350    3,937    4,287         42      472      514
33kV Transmission Expansion          100    1,tl3    1,713          12     194      206
15kV/380V Reinstatement            1,041   10,419   11,460         125   1,250   1,375
15kV/380V Expansion                  861    8,652    9,513         103   1,038   1,142
Vehicles, spares, workshop
and tools (ADB)                  110    1,487    1,597         13      178      192
Electrical workshops, pole
factory and vehicles (Italy)    152    2,631    2,783           18      316      334
Computer and billing equipment        50       270       320         6      32       38
Technical Assistance, Project
Management and Training         1,165    5,553    6,718        140      666     806
Study: Energy                        100       700       800        12      84       96
Study: Household                     240        88       328       29       11       39
Stud,: ENEE Development               87       260       347        10      31       42
PPF Refinancing                        0    1,500    1,500          0      180      180
Total base cost                    8,079   73,753   81,832        969   8,850   9,820
Physical Contingencies               808    7,225    8,033          97     885      982
Price Contingencies                  462    3,692    4,153    1,074   8,085   9,159
Total Contingencies                1,270   10,917   12,187    1,171   8,970  109141
Total Project Cost                 9,349   84,670   94,019    2,140  17,820  19,961



- 84 -
ANNEX 4.6
SOMALXA
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJEC!T
Financlng Plan
(TS$ million)
Italy          Somali
Item                                           ADB   EIB      IDA   Govt.   ENEE   Govt.   Total
Gezira Power Station
Replacement prime mover for Unit No. 2             2.3                     0.1           2.4
Rehabilitation                                              1.8            0.2           2.0
Fire prevention and lighting schemes         1.4                           0.2            1.6
Diesel and auxiliary spares                        3.4 a/  1.3 a/                        4.7
15 MW steam plant and training                                     22.0 b/              22.0 b/
Centrale Power Station
Rehabilitation, diesel spares and training                          3.0                   3.0
10 MW diesel plant                                   9.0                     1.9          10.9
33 kV switchgear/transformer + 33 kV           6e4                           0.5           6.9
interconnector materials
15 kV + 380 mains rehabilitation and
expansion programs and training                                    22.0    2.2          24 2
General plant (vehicles, pole plant,
workshop)                                    1.7                    3.0    0.3            5.0
PPF I and II                                                  1.5                           1.5
Projazt management, operations
assistance/training, billing equipment                     6.7             1.4           8.1
System studies                                               0.3             0.1           0.4
Energy Planning and Household Management                     0.9                     0.4   1.3
Total                                      9.5  14.7    12,5    50.0    6.9 c/  0,4  94.0
a/ No lending to ENEE; only foreign exchange allocation against matching funds in local currency
by KNEE.
b/ Includes financing of local costs of steam plant erection.
_/ Actual financing by ENEE is US$11.4 million which includes US$4.6 million for operating
spares.



- 85 -
ANNEX 4.7
SOMALIA
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements a/
(US$ mill i o n)
Loan Signing:    November 1987
Assumptions                Effective Date:  January 1988
Closing Date      June 30, 1992
IDA Fiscal Year              Disbursement                Percent Disbursement
and Semester           Semester      Cumulative          % of Total Credit
1988
June 30, 1988           2.7 b/          2.7                      22%
1989
Dec. 31, 1988           1.9             4e6                      37%
June 30, 1989           1.8             6.4                      51%
1990
Dec. 31, 1989           1.7             8.1                      64%
June 30, 190            1.7             9.8                      78%
1991
Dec. 31, 1990           1.4            11.2                      89%
June 30, 1991           0.6            11.8                     95%
1992
Dec. 31, 1991           0.5            12.3                      98%
June 30, 1992           0.2            12.5                     100%
a/ The disbursement schedule conforms with the standard profile for IDA
credits for power projects in .he Eastern and Southern Africa Region.
b/ Includes refinancing of Project Preparation Facility advanced by IDA in
IDA FY87.



- 86 -
09-Jul-87
SOllRlIR                                                      ANNEX  5.1
POUMR REHR8IlItQRION RNO ENER6Y PROJECT
ENEE (lO6ROISHU SYSTEM)
INCOiE STATEIENT FOR THE YERRS ENDIN6 DECEMBER 31, 1984-1994
(So. Sh. Ilillion - Current ferns)
:u::   ga      ,u ::: a 3a   s   uuw wauw :az         :c 
-CTURLL---------    ---------------------F---------O RE     CAT--
1984     1985     1986     1987     1988     1909     1990      1991     1992     1993     1994
---          ---       ...       ...      . .     - -       . .     - -
Operating Reuenue
Electricity Sales           242      315      632    1,273    1,681    2,208    3,993    4,804    5,619    6,932    8,693
Connection Charges           36      117      224       269      309      348      391      440      49S      55?      557
Other                         3        8       23        28       32       36       40       45       51        S?       57
TOTAL                       281      471      879    1,569    2,022    2,669    4,425    5,290    6,165    ,5i?    9,308
Operating Expenses
Fuel                        161      336      46?       459      743      984    1,370    1,771    2,337    3,032    3,812
Ilintenance Mlaterials       22        8        23       75      130      220      295      398       502      577      669
Personnel                    15       29       38        52      129      149      167?     f8       212      238       268
Ainistration                  6       10       12        16       30       34       38       43       48       54        61
Depreciation                 44      226      240       374      572      960    1,458    1,891    2,286    2,639    3,075
Other                         6       13       23        31       55       64       72       81       91      102      115
TOTRL                       254      621      804    1,008    1,659    2,410    3,401    4,374    5,475    6,643    7,999
Net Operating Inmc              27    (151)       75       562      363      258    1,024      916      690       901    1,308
Hon-Operating Expenses
Interest-LTD                 24       40       88      106       193      370      549      6b8      787      891    1,026
Other fin. Charges            4        6       19         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
TOTRL                        28       46      10?      106       193      370      549      688      787      891    1,026
Net Inco                       (1)   (197)    (31)        456      170     (111)     475      228      (97)      10       202
Ua3Ua55  vXV228 4      t  a 3s s U s   zlam a  acauca   U%UXUX U rutu UUMAGUM     UUUUl a =uu *



- 87 -
S$LWA                                                   ANNEX 5.2
N O UJLITSIIUU   EURSN ftEECt
C (8i0            SlStOI)
O        SKEEIT r  tNE yEW  ENam  &CEw    31, 11I"4
(So. Sb. Wilma   Curet 1en)
- ---- ZtUIL---------       -      -------------------fflECIS1------------------ ----- -----
E5511 1984    185    1986                               1987     1988    1989      190      191      12       1"3      19
Current but,
Operating Cash&*              2       3       23        6       i5       60       80      102      131      165      202
SurplusCu                    0        0        0      375    1,130       o       26       135       73      260      705
accts.  ailble             29       it7      681      418      415      563      9S    1,185    1,386    1,709    2,144
Inventer                    32       22      166      102      16?      237      3        428        7      69       8
Other                       13       53       25       23       23       23       23       23       23       23       23
total Cur. aets            339      46       89       94"    17M      1,872    1,679    1,872    2,169    2,855   3,933
riKed A5Wt5
iron                       450   4,104    4,220    S,96    9,557   16,334   24,944   32,850   39,990  47,505   5,903
Less:kccu  Oep.            150      376      616      9"4    1,791    3,047    4,876    7,793   10,404   14,317   19,182
Net                        300    3,728   3,604    5,022    7,766   13,287   20,069   25,565   29,506   33,180   36,721
Uork in Progress                6        0        3      112      519    1,406    1,462    1,039      S42      49       487
Deferred ashts
Crou                          0       0        0      231      231      308      432      432      432      432      432
Le:Rc    ep.                 0        0        0       46       92      154      240      327      413      439      439
Net                          0        0        0      185      139      164      192      10S       19       (7)      (7)
ToIIL ASSttS                  645    4,232    4,502   6,263   10,203   16,718   23,400   28,582   32,315   36,535   41,134
LIA8ILITIES PnD IOUIY
Liabilities
Current Liabilitie
kcets Pa,qble           224      296      311      191      236      321      438      565      734      929    1,148
0,qdraft                  0       58      135        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Other                     4        5       10       10       10       10       10       10       10       10       10
Curr. Portion ltO        43       75      214      330      384      481      529   1,079    1,173    1,659    1,782
Det Arrears              18       V7      219        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
__ -_     ---    --------  . .... ..... .  . . ...  .^. ... .. . ....... . .....  .... ... .
Total Cur Liab          288      520    9"I        532      630      812      977    1,654    1,917    2,598    2,940
Long-lem Oebt (let)        282    3,833    3,664    6,222    9,027   12,603  15,324   16,689   17,767   19,186   20,75?
Oter Lo -let liab.           9       to       11       12       13       14       15       16       17       18       19 Pension tud
Total labtlities           579   4,363    4,624    6,765    9,670   13,629   16,317   18,359   19,701   21,802  23,716
Equity
Paid-In Capital             31       31       71      499    1,031    4,806    8,132    9,752   10,446   10,446   10,446
letained Etnings            35    (163)   (194)    262         432      321      796    1,023      926      936    1,218
levl. Surplus                0        0        0   (1,264) (1,71)  (2,039) (1,845)    (553)   1,242    3,351    5,754
. _ ... _. .. .  ..         .... ...     .. ... .. .  -   __ -------   ... -----   _. ---   ---     -
total Equity                66    (132)   (123)   (503)    533   3,069    7,083   10,222   12,614   14,733   17,418
TOT1L U    1, EQUITY          645    4,231    4,501    6,262   10,202   16,718   23,400   28,581   32,31S  36,54   41,133
5        Ug33"55553533   *35n8   WEUSEU  _m3="  ._.833   **s383   8358* 553635S



- 88 -
09-Jul-87    
SOlIRANE
PDUER REHR9ILIIRIION RND ENERGY PROJECT                                    ANNEX  5. 3
EHE[ (MOGADISHU SYSTEN)
SOURCES RND USES or fUNDS fOR THE YEARS ENDING DECE18ER 31, 1984-1994
(So. Sh, Million - Current Terms)
- RCTURL ------C ------------------------A--- fOgECRST------------------------------
1984     1985     1986      1987     1988     1989     1990      1991     1992     1993     1994
Operating Inco,e                 27     (151)      75      562       363      258    1,024       916      690      904    1,308
Oepreciaticn                     44      226      240       374      572      960    1,458    1,894    2,206    2,639    3,075
. .. ^. ...    .....    ----  ----  .....    ---- . ---      ---       --         ---      ---
Cash fron Oper.               70       75      315      936       935    1,218    2,482    2,809    2,975    3,543    4,383
Deductions
Interest                      13        6       19      248       193      370      S49       688      787      894    1,026
Principal                      1        0        0      485       330      384      481       529    1,079    1,173    1,659
Increase in U/C               44       82      358      (210)      16      133      393       172      160      269      374
Other                          0        0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         a
Total Deductions             58        88      377      523      539       887    1,423    1,390    2,026    2,336    3,060
CoMtrib. to  ,4e5t.              12      (12)     (62)      412      396      331    1,059    1,419       950    1,207    1,323
Investsent Program              233    2,428      111      650    2,782    6,230    6,573    4,190    2,397    2,406    2,385
Fiancing Gap                    220    2,441      173      238    2,386    5,898    5,514    2,771    1,448    1,200    1,062
fanced By:
Long-Te  Oebt               26?    2,383        75      188    1,8.    2,797    1,484    1,043         720    1,421    1,545
Overdraft                     0        58       7?        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0
Equity Contrib.               0         0       40       28    1,332    2,975    3,326    1,620        694        0        0
.. ~~----              ...... --   -----   -----     ------   -_ --  --- -     -- -        ---
Total Cinning              207    2,440       193      616    3,160    5,772    4,810    2,663    1,414    1,421    1,545
Cah Beginning of Year            16        3        2       22       401    1,175    1,048       344      237      204      425
Rnn.Cash Surplus(Otficit)       (13)      (0)      20      378       774     (127)   (704)    (107)       (33)     221      483
Cash End of Year                  3        2       22      401    1,175    1,048       344      237       204      425      908



- 89 -
ANNEX 5.4
Page 1 of 2
SOMALIA
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS USED IN FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
1.        Inflation and Exchange Rates.  The following rates were used:
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
Domestic Inflatior. (%)       34.0  20.0  15.0  12.5  12.5  12.5  12.5  12.5
Intl. Inflation (X)            3.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   3.5   3.5   3.5   3.5
Devaluation of So. Sh. (%)   30.1  18.8  13.9  11.4   8.7   8.7   8.7   8.7
2.         Sales and Revenues.  Electricity sales for the period 1987-1992
are calculated on the basis of the demand forecast agreed with ENEE (Anaex
2.3) and assume the following average tariff increases, to become effective
on January 1 of each year:
1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
Average Tariff Tncrease (%)            0     0    35      5     5    15    20
Connection charges and other revenues are based on historical trends,
annually adjusted for domestic inflation.
3.        Operating Costs.  Maintenance requirements are based on standard
industry levels for ENEE's generating tquipment and transmission and
distributior, system.   Fuel requirements are based on ENEE's consumption
rec3rds for diesels and steam units, as well as industry standards. While
staff size has been kept at the existing level, the increase in personnel
costs in 1988 accounts for the implementation of the new compensation
package  under  the  project  (para.  3.12).    A  50%  real  increase  in
administration costs and other costs is assumed in 1988 to account for the
new administrative, supervisory, insurance and reporting requirements of
the project.  Domestic inflation is annually applied to all expenditures,
except fuel costs which are inflated in line with the devaluation of the
So. Sh. and real term price movements based on the Bank's latest commodity
projections.
4.        Assets and Depreciation.  Fixed assets are revalued in line with
domestic inflation and depreciation is charged at an average rate of 5.5%
of revalued gross fixed assets, which is consistent with past experience.
The following retirement schedule for the existing diesel generating
equipment is assumed, based on year-end dispersals: Centrale 1-4 in 1987,
Centrale 6 and 7 in 1989, Centrale 5 and 8 and Gesira 3 and 4 in 1991, and
Gesira  1$ 2, and 5 in  1992.    The average gestation period  for new
investments in transmission, distribution, and generation is assumed at
1.25 years; accordingly, 75% of these new investments go directly into the
fixed asset base and 25% into work-in-progress, from where they exit into
the asset base one year later. Studies are entered under deferred assets,
and are depreciated over 5 years.



- 90 -
ANNEX 5.4
Page 2 of 2
5.          Inventory.  Inventory is projected to consist of two months of
annual petroleum requirements and four months of annual maintenance
requirements.
6.         Cash, Accounts Receivable, Accountants Payable.  Ope.ating cash
requirements have been estimated at 15 days of cash operating expenses.
Annual cash positions above this level are deemed to be surplus funds and
are counted against necessary tariff increases. Accounts receivable, after
the financial restructuring required by credit effectiveness, are assumed
to represent 90 days of annual electricity sales.   Accounts payable are
similarly reduced to 90 days equivalent of non-payroll cash operating
expenditures.
7.        Debt Service.  ENEE's existing debt service obligations under the
Kuwaiti Fund and Arab Development Fund loans are continued in line with
original loan terms.  The existing debt service arrears and overdraft are
assumed to be settled in 1987 with the cash generated by the 80% tariff
increase in February 1987. The onlending intereet rate for the IDA credit,
ADB and EIB are those indicated in para. 4.19.
8.          Investment Program.  Projected investment levels are identical
with the agreed reference program presented in Annex 5.1, except for the
Gezira spares which represent maintenance costs and are integrated in the
income statement.



- 91 -                       ANNEX 6.1
Page 1 of 4
SOMALIA
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
ECONOMIC RETURN TO THE MOGADISHU POWER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Approach to Evaluation
1.        The economic return to the Mogadishu Power Development Program to
i994 is derived from the incremental costs and benefits from the Program.
The increments are relative to the mission's assesswent of the situation
that would prevail if no rehabilitation or development of the Mogadishu
system were to take place. Thus the incremental costs are the differences
in total system costs, comprising capital, 0 & M and fuel costs, between
the development program case and the no rehabilitation and development
case.    The costs  of  technical  assistance  for  project management  and
training are also included in the with program case since this assistance
is considered to be essential to achieving the projected improvement in
system performance.   Similarly, the incremental benefits are the differ-
ences in total served power demax.d between the development program oace and
the no rehabilitaLion and development case.   Served demand in the with
program case is based on the mission's power demand forecast (Annex 2.3).
System Supply Capability
2.           The generation development program for the Mogadishu system
includes the availability of Baardheere power from 1995 to meet demand in
both Mogadishu and the Juba Valley.   The average annual energy available
from Baardheere of 530 GWh is about 20% greater than the combined forecast
energy demands in 1995 of about 443 GWh.  However, the installed capacity
of 105 MW is insufficient to allow the greatest use of Baardheere energy to
meet demands in both systems, so that in 1995 about 425 GWh of Baardheere
energy could be accepted by the systems, and 18 GWh has to be supplied from
the thermal generating capacity installed beforehand.
3.         The proposed Baardheere installed generating capacity restricts
the rate of increase of utilization of the Baardheere energy potential to a
much lower rate than the increase in demand, so that even by the year 2002
the full energy potential cannot be utilized under the least-cost method of
meeting both the Mogadishu and Juba Valley demands.   Consequently, the
energy required from thermal units, particularly the Mogadishu oil-fired
steam units, increases rapidly from almost zero in 1995 to about 242 GWh in
2002. The projections are not taken beyond the year 2002 for purposes of
evaluating the Mogadishu Power Rehabilitation Project since the rehabili-
tated diesel units will be reaching the end of their working lives by
then.  Also, additional generating capacity will required in 2003 to meet
the forecast increase in power demand, and it would not be possible to dis-
aggregate the benefits from this new capacity from the rest of the system.
A projection of Mogadishu system energy supply from the generation sources
for 1987 to 2002 is given in this Annex, for which the mission modified the
detailed simulation work done by Kennedy & Donkin.   The transmission and
distribution rehabilitation and development program will have to be
cortinued beyond 1994 to meet the forecast demand to 2002.   The required
annual rate of investment is taken to be the same as projected for 1994.



- 92 -                   ANNEX 6.1
Page 2 of 4
4.             For purposes of the economic evaluation,  the mission has
projected the power supply situation in the no rehabilitation and
development case, In their current condition, it is possible that none of
the existing diesel units would be operable after the first quarter of
1990.   This would leave the existing oil-fired steam unit as the only
source of power in Mogadishu, and it is assumed that ENEE would carry out
adequate maintenance annually to keep this unit in service. Assuming that
system technical losses and specific fuel consumption rates do not
deteriorate from the present levels, which is probably optimistic, the
mission estimated that served energy demand in Mogadishu would decline from
89.6 GWh in 1987 and 106.3 GWh in 1988 to 91.6 GWh in 1989, 55.9 GWh in
1990 and 50.8 GWh from 1991.   Thus, the approximate proportion of total
demand for energy that would be served in this case declines from 70% in
1987 and 80% in 1988 to 60% in 1989, 30% in 1990, 25% in 199i and 20% in
1994.
5.          In the comparator case of no rehabilitation and development in
the Mogadishu system, the capacity of the existing transmission end
distribution networks will severely constrain the amount of power that can
be delivered to consumers.  The interconnection between the Gezira power
station and the main substations at 21st October Rd. and Centrale are the
principal constraints, talthough the existing 15 kV and 3 kV distribution
are also major constraints.  Westinghouse Electric S.A. estimate that tha
maximum system demand of 27.6 MW served in 1986 is about the largest load
that can be transmitted in the system in its present condition.  The same
conclusion would apply if the source of generated power were to be
Baardheere with an entry point to the system other than at Gezira power
station.    This  limitation  becomes  the  overriding  constraint  on  the
Mogadishu system for supplying energy once Baardheere power becomes
available.
Economic Costs and Benefits
6e        Power system economic costs are valued in economic terms at 1987
price terms, and are based on international prices cif Mogadishu and
associated internal costs.  Somali taxes and duties are excluded from the
costs. Operating costs which are independent of system development are not
included in this cost comparison since they are~ common to all development
options. Similarly, the capital and 0 & M costs associated with hydropower
from Baardheere are not included in the comparison to avoid the need for
arbitrary assumptions on the allocation of joint costs between power,
irrigation and flood control objectives and an allocation of power costs
between the Mogadishu and Juba Valley power  systems.   The comparison
captures the savings in costs arising from improvements in system operating
efficiency brought about under the development program.  The main sources
of savings are (a) reduction in system technical losses by improving the
balance of transformer loading and the voltage profiles on distribution
feeders, and by installing reactive power compensation equipment in the
transmission system; and (b) reduction in the specific fuel consumption
rates of the existing diesel units.  The system economic costs associated
with the development program case are detailed in the tables to Anrex 2D4,
and the costs for the two evaluation cases are compared in the table to
this Annex.



ANNEX 6.1
- 93 -                       Page 3 of 4
7.          System benefits are derived from the increase in served energy
demand that would be achieved under the development program, as detailed in
the tables to Annex 2.4.   Since Baardheere co ~s are omitted from the
comparison, for consistency the demand served from Baardheere power from
1995 is also omitted.  Thus the comparison focusses on the utilization up
to the year 2002 of the thermal generation capacity as well as transmission
and distribution capacity in Mogadishu that is rehabilitated or added by
1994.  This approach credits the investment in the Mogaaishu transmission
and distribution systems after 1995 cnly with the limited proportion of
demand supplied from thermal capacity, whereas this portion of the
investment program is also essential for deriving the benefits from the
supply of Baardheere power to Mogadishu. This underestimation of benefits
to the 1987-1994 Mogadishu power development program is unavoidable with
the exclusion of Baardheere power costs and benefits from the evaluation.
The served demands in the two evaluation cases are summarized in the table
to this Annex.
8.        The incremental served demand is valued at an estimate of average
consumers willingness to pay for power from ENEE's system in 1987 price
terms, which is derived from the weighted average cost to consumers of
meeting their demands for power from private power sources at costs
analyzed in Annex 2.3.   These costs  are based on past evidence  that
consumers  are  prepared  to incur  them.   The weighted aver ge cost  of
consumers willingness to pay for the forecast demand for power is estimated
to be SoSh 26/kWh on the following basis.
Consumer Category               Willingness to pay  Proportion of Total 1991
for ENEE power        Demand in Category
(SoSh/kWh)                  M
Low/Medium Income Households            17.2                    14.1
High Income Households                  36.4                    15.0
Small Commercial establishments         33.8                     8.6
Large Commercial establishments         22.5                     7.8
Government-large establishments         21.2                    15.0
Government- municipal                   33.8                     3.8
Industry-large plants                   21.2                    26.8
Industry-small workshops                36.4                     8.9
Weighted average                        26.0                   100.0
The equivalent value at SoSh 135/US$ is US cents 19.2/kWh.
9.         The economic rate of return to the net incremental benefits of
the Mogadishu power development program to 1994 is computed to be 25.3%, as
detailed in the table to this Annex.  This estimate does not include any
costs and benefits associated with the supply of power from the Baardheere
project, and thus it excludes some of the benefits after 1994 from the
development of the transmission and distribution systems in Mogadishu.
This rate therefore, is a conservative estimate of the economic return to
the Mogadishu power development program up to the commissioning of the
Baardheere  project  at  the  beginning  of  1995.    Any  delay  in  the
commissioning date for the Baardheere project would require extended use of
the thermal generating facilities, and would thus increase the economic
rate of return to the Mogadishu power development program.



O8-Jun-87                                                 SOILIA-PONER REHABILITATION AND EIERGY PROJECT
ESTIMATED ECONOMIC RETURN TO THE DEVELOPMENT PRRM  FOR 1987-1994
---     -- --------------------------- -         -------                                        Deand Valued #USc/kkh:        It.2
tith Development Program Case
Increaental 8enefits and Costs
toqadishu Systeo Energy Demand and Supply t987-2002                                    Econosit Costs                        (wi th progras less witbout proapa casesl
-~~-~------~-                                                                           -- ~~~-~~-~~-~~-~-~-  --~~~--             B" enefit of
CY  t1gadishu  Juba   - ------Supply to Mogadishu-------                Nogadishu Served                                                            Incremental      locreent   Net
Required  Yalley   Hydra    Oil-fired Diesel   Gas                     Demand              Capital    Fuel  Technic.  Total                    Served  Mand   Economic  Econosic
Eneroy   Deaand  lbheerel  Steam   Gtrits  Turbines                Total  Thereal          +1I1            Assistan.                          froo Thermal        Cost   Benefit
(6tl)                                        (wh)                    (tUSSthousandsl                                             tUS$thousaad)
1987      166                           55       54        0                91       91            3092     3731        0    6823                       245             6823      -6578
1988      184                           61      et         0               120      12v           14710     4610    2123   21443                       2639            !6973     -14335
1989      201                           66      123        0               163      163           32602     6168    2099   40869                      13751            37004     -23253
1990      244                           145      97        0               211     211            19484     7012    2446   28942                      29839            26434        405
1991      276                           14i     126        6               242      242           16730     7?82      569   25281                     36735            22946      13709
1992      308                           141     146        19              270      270            9323     9235      847   19405                     42030            17070      24960
3993      328                           141     150       37               289      289            85      10423    1221   20144                      45800            17809      2791
1994      344                           141     144       58               302      302            7877    11475      506   19858                     48300            17524      30777
1995      368       75       350         16       1         1              325       16            7877      595        0    8472                      3110             8056      -4946
1996      394       95       350        40        3        1               348      39             7877     1400        0    9277                      7477             t861      -i384
1997      422       ItS      344         71       6        1               372      69             7977     2448        0   10325                     13166             9909       3256
1998      451       131      342        99        9        1               390      96             7877     3431       0   t1308                      16504            10892       7611
1999      493       141      340        329      13        1               426      126            7977     4476        0   12353                     24192            11937      1225S
2000      517       156      334        141      40         2              456      161            7977     5660        0   13537                     30932            13121      17310
2001      553       272      326        141      83        3               488      200            7877     6929        0   14806                     3841:            14390      24020
2002      592       18,      317        141     128        6               522      242            7877     8343        0   16220                     46498            15804      30684
Nithout Development Progras Case                                                                        Ecenomit Rate of lieturn       25.31
Nogadishu System Energy Desand and Supply 1987-2002                                    Econosic Costs
CY   togadishu          -----Supply to  logadishu-----                  logadishu Served
Energy            Hydro   Oil-fired  Diesel   Gas                     Demand
Supplied           W8heere) Steas      Units  Turbines              Total  Thermal        Capital    Fuel  Technic.  Total
_____  _______ --------- -----          Rssistan.
(61l)                          (                                        h3             --          ---- …----    ---
1987      too                           55       52        0                90       90                1US$thousands)
1988      128                           61       74        0               106      106             476     3994       0    447t
1989      13O                           61       52        0                92       92             476     3389        0    3865          Notes
1990       67                           61        6        0                56       56             416     2092        0    250-
1992       61                           61        0        0                51       Sl             416     1919       0    2335           I/togadisbu energy requirement projected from 1995                                       *TS
1992       61                           61        0        0                St       51             416     1919        0    2335            onwards at an annual growth rate of             7.01                                   OQ
1993       61                           61        0        0                St       51             416     1919        0    2335            and includes systeo technical losses.            ----                                  t   P
1994       61                            61       0         0               51       51             416     1919        0    2335          2/Juba Valley deuand is based on keonedy & Donkin's forecast.                            4>
1995      242                242         0        0        0               201        0             416        0       0      416          3/8aardheere supply becomes avaxlable to togadishu and the                                O
1996      242                242         0        0        0               201        0             416        0       0      416            Juba Valley by the start of 1995.
1997      242                242         0        0        0               201        0             416        0       0      416          4/The amount of Baardheere energy utilized in lMogadishu is
198       242                242         0        0        0               201        0             416        0       0      416            limited to less than the available energy (530Sh/vear)
11S9      242                242         0        0        0               201        0             416        0        0     416            minus the amount supplied to the Juba Yalley by the
2000      242                242          0       0         0              201        0             416        0        0     416             amount of generating capatity installed at 2aardheere.
2001      242                242          0       0         0              201        0             416        0        0     416          5/Baardheere capital and O&h cofts are not included in the
2002      242                242          0       0         0              201        0             416        0        0     416             econosic cost streans.



- 95 -
ANNEX 7.1
SOMALIA
POWER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY PROJECT
Documents Entered into Project File
1. Kennedy and Donkin. Somalia - Power Planning Study. Final report -
February 1987.
2.  Westinghouse Electric SA.  Rehabilitation of Mogadishu Power System.
Final report and recommendations - March 1987.
3. Societe Generale pour l'Industrie. Project Data Review. Feasibility
study and project preparation for the extension of the power supply
system in Mogadishu - December 1983.
A, Bechtel National Inc. System Rehabilitation Asseasment and Management
Audit of ENEE. Summary report - May 1986.
5. Energy Development International. Energy Strategies for Somalia.
Summary report of zhe National Energy Assessment - October 1982.
World Bank Documents
6. Report No. 6542-SO. Somalia - Recent Economic Developments and Medium
Term Prospects - February 198T.
7. Report No. 5796-SO. Somalia - Issues and Options in the Energy Sector
- December 1987.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 20528
44                                       4.,
-12's         /
DJIBOUTI                                                                      +8*erdn  12
o Zatis                             ~~~~~~~Adado
Las Korehti      019sago
Mailt,               + 
Berbara;0
O eF                    Erigavo
OBoorams                                                    i-az Daua  o
G iebiloy                                                   8Scusaluban,
<> o   tp   Dhubbato4
urao                 ~~~Gard  +
tX    idargelaas  OBurao                      Ciard>+            . gpendar Bells
Salahlfh           Alnabo
SDOuruAkL  A  k l  Las Anod
POWER REHABILITATION                                      earo
AND ENERGY PROJECT
BITUMINOUS SURFACED ROADS
G¢AVEL.EARTIR SURFACED ROADS                    4 Qo8akayo
^;    MAJORS PORTS
+     DOMFSTIC AIRFIELDS
*3F    INTERNATIONAL AIRFIELDS
RIVERS                          /
INTERNATIONAL                          ODua Mareb             ,6bbla
BOUNDARIES                  For Fer                        s
Dol  wHoddur  *El/Bur
4'~~~~~~~~~~~u 
4            ~~~~~Ganana                        Buo                                                             !
/   °  °walid           , Burtl
/ arbs
Harre"
AudInl/0 oBaldoa
Bur Akaba
o     o Jowhar
Bardere        ° DInsor Wanls Wain        Balad
Afgol 
Jannle   0    MOGADISHU
Jlannale0   4? 
Gai:JenO   ; Merca
Bales
Goganl                                                                                                 OMALIA
Llbol °          b                                e   10r  160  200  250  300
_  Kolblo         °Jnmame                     KILOMETERS                                                         0
°Klsmayo                          "bW1,4 * C_ Sl
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41 0" 4s vwltI d 0 I  6                                        -
(Goba s,srS.
8adade                                        .,, FW CO*101
4J 48
July 1987



