Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1850 SO
             (Power Rehabilitation and Energy Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
              ENTE-NAZIONALE ENERGIA ELETTRICA (ENEE)
                      Dated December 17, 1987
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  December  17,  1987,  btween INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION  (the   Association)  and  ENTE-NAZIONALE
ENERGIA ELETTRICA (ENEE).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between  Somali  Democratic  Republic  (the Borrower) and
the Association,  the  Association  has  agreed  to make available
to the Borrower  an  amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to
nine  million  seven  hundred   thousand  Special  Drawing  Rights
(SDR 9,700,000), on  the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition that ENEE
agree to undertake such obligations  toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and ENEE, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit  Agreement will be made available
to ENEE on the terms  and  conditions set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS ENEE, in consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. ENEE declares  its commitment to the objectives
of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to  this  end,  shall  carry out the Project
with due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial,  engineering  and environmental
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. ENEE shall carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03 through 9.08  of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use  of  goods  and  services,  plans and schedules,
records   and   reports,   maintenance   and   land   acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.04. ENEE  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree, ENEE shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) ENEE shall,  at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the  Association with regard to the pro-
gress of the  Project,  the  performance  of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  ENEE shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens  to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment  of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by ENEE of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of ENEE
     Section 3.01. ENEE shall carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility  practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. ENEE shall  at  all  times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and  other property, and from time
to time,  promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs and
renewals thereof, all  in  accordance  with  sound engineering and
financial practices.
     Section 3.03. ENEE shall  take  out and maintain with respon-
Page  3
sible insurers, or make other  provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such  risks  and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  ENEE  shall  maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices,
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  ENEE shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   including  the  Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate  auditing  principles consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year,  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year  as so audited
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, ENEE shall not incur  any debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures  of ENEE shows that the estimated
net revenues of ENEE for each  fiscal  year during the term of the
debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt
service requirements of ENEE  in  such  year  on  all debt of ENEE
including the debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of ENEE
               maturing by its term  more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  the  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations  and  net  non-operating income;
                    and
               (B)  the sum of all  expenses related to operations
                    including  administration,   adequate  mainte-
                    nance, taxes and  payments  in  lieu of taxes,
                    but  excluding   provision  for  depreciation,
                    other non-cash operating  charges and interest
                    and other charges on debt.
Page  4
         (iv)  The term "net non-operating  income" means the dif-
               ference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of taxes, incurred in  the generation of reve-
                    nues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  The term  "reasonable  forecast"  means  a forecast
               prepared by  ENEE  not  earlier  than twelve months
               prior to the  incurrence  of  the debt in question,
               which both the Association  and ENEE accept as rea-
               sonable and as to  which  the Association has noti-
               fied ENEE of  its  acceptability,  provided that no
               event has  occurred  since  such notification which
               has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to
               have, a material  adverse  effect  on the financial
               condition or future operating results of ENEE.
        (vii)  Whenever, for  the  purposes  of  this  Section, it
               shall  be  necessary  to  value,  in  terms  of the
               currency of the  Borrower,  debt payable in another
               currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
               of the prevailing lawful  rate of exchange at which
               such  other  currency  is,  at  the  time  of  such
               valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
               such debt, or, in the  absence of such rate, on the
               basis of  a  rate  of  exchange  acceptable  to the
               Association.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, ENEE shall  produce,  for  each  of  its fiscal years after
its fiscal year ending on  December  31, 1987, funds from internal
sources  equivalent  to  not  less  than  (i)  1%  of  the  annual
investment program for fiscal  year  1988;  (ii) 10% of the annual
investment program for fiscal year  1989;  (iii) 15% of the annual
investment program for fiscal  year  1990;  (iv) 20% of the annual
investment program for fiscal year 1991; and (v) 30% of the annual
investment program for fiscal year 1992 and thereafter.
     (b)  For the  purposes  of  this  Section,  the  term "annual
investment  program"  means  the  annual  tranche  of  the  RIP as
modified from time to time.
     Section 4.04. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, ENEE shall earn,  for  each  of  its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on December  31,  1989, an annual return of not
less than 8% of  the  average  current  net  value of ENEE's fixed
revalued assets in operation.
     (b)  Before September 30 in  each  of  its fiscal years, ENEE
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by ENEE and satisfactory
to the Association, review whether  it would meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph (a)  in  respect  of such year and the next
following fiscal year  and  shall  furnish  to the Association the
results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  ENEE would not meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  for ENEE's fiscal years
covered by such  review,  ENEE  shall  promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the struc-
ture or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
Page  5
          (i)  The annual return  shall  be calculated by dividing
               ENEE's net operating income  for the fiscal year in
               question by one half of  the sum of the current net
               value of ENEE's fixed  revalued assets in operation
               at the beginning  and  at  the  end  of that fiscal
               year.
         (ii)  The term "net operating income" means total operat-
               ing revenues less total operating expenses.
        (iii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations.
         (iv)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses related  to  operations, including admini-
               stration, adequate maintenance,  taxes and payments
               in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation of
               the average  current  gross  value  of ENEE's fixed
               revalued  assets  in   operation,  or  other  basis
               acceptable  to   the   Association,  but  excluding
               interest and other charges on debt.
          (v)  The average  current  gross  value  of ENEE's fixed
               revalued assets in operation shall be calculated as
               one half of the  sum  of  the gross value of ENEE's
               fixed revalued assets in operation at the beginning
               and at the end of  the  fiscal year, as valued from
               time to time in  accordance  with sound and consis-
               tently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory
               to the Association.
         (vi)  The term "current net  value  of ENEE's fixed reva-
               lued assets in operation"  means the gross value of
               ENEE's fixed revalued assets  in operation less the
               amount of accumulated  depreciation, as valued from
               time to  time  in  accordance  with  sound and con-
               sistently maintained  methods  of  valuation satis-
               factory to the Association.
     Section 4.05.  ENEE  shall  take  all  measures  necessary to
ensure that  its  accounts  receivable  on  electricity  sales and
accounts payable on  non-payroll  cash  operating expenditures are
reduced to 120 days  by  December  31,  1988,  and  to 90 days for
fiscal year 1989 and thereafter.
     Section 4.06. (a)  ENEE  shall,  at  the  end of every Fiscal
Year, review the  RIP  in  consultation  with  the Association and
revise  it  as  necessary  after  obtaining  the  approval  of the
Association.
     (b)  Until the completion of  the  Project, ENEE shall obtain
the approval of the Association prior to making any changes and/or
making additional investment not  contained  in  the RIP as agreed
with the Association,  if  any,  such  new  investment would be in
excess of: (i) the value of one percent (1%) of ENEE's gross fixed
revalued assets as defined in  Section  4.04 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the equivalent of $1 million, whichever is the smaller.
     Section 4.07. ENEE  shall:  (a)  not  later than December 31,
1988, submit to the Association  for review its asset registry and
asset revaluation manual;  and  (b)  promptly thereafter carry out
asset revaluation taking into account the Association's views.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Page  6
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of ENEE thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms  before  the  date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify ENEE
of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For ENEE:
          P.O. Box 1
          Mogadishu, Somalia
                                            Telex:
                                               630 ENEE-MOG
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ENEE, or  by ENEE on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit  Agreement,  may be taken or executed
by the General Manager of ENEE  or such other person or persons as
ENEE shall designate in  writing,  and  ENEE  shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
Page  7
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    ENTE-NAZIONALE ENERGIA ELETTRICA
                    By /s/ A. A. Addou
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided  in  Part  C  hereof, power station units,
auxiliary plant replacement parts  and non-proprietory spare parts
shall be procured under contracts  awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set  forth  in  Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under  IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Somalia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Contracts for  spare  parts  for  proprietary  generation and
transmission equipment may, with  the  prior approval of the Asso-
ciation, be  procured  under  contracts  negotiated  with the res-
pective equipment manufacturers.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     The procedures set forth in paragraphs  2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall  apply  to  all contracts for procurement.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Page  8
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist  ENEE  in  carrying  out the Project, ENEE
shall  employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,  experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory  to  the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
