Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1850 SO
             (Power Rehabilitation and Energy Project)
                              between
                    SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 17, 1987
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1850 SO
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 17, 1987, between SOMALI DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC (the Borrower)  and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the  Borrower  intends  to  contract  from  the European
Investment Bank (EIB) a loan  (hereinafter called the EIB Loan) in
an amount equivalent  to  fourteen  million seven hundred thousand
dollars ($14.7 million) to assist  in the financing of the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the EIB  Loan  Agreement)  to  be  entered into between the
Borrower and EIB;
     (C)  the Borrower intends to contract from the African Devel-
opment Bank (AFDB) a loan (hereinafter called the AFDB Loan) in an
amount equivalent to eight million  Fund Units of Account (FUA 8.0
million) to assist in the  financing  of  the Project on the terms
Page  2
and conditions set forth  in  an agreement (hereinafter called the
AFDB Loan Agreement) to be  entered  into between the Borrower and
AFDB;
     (D)  the Borrower has obtained a grant from the Government of
Italy (hereinafter called the Italian  Grant) in an amount equiva-
lent to sixty five billion Liras (Lit 65,000,000,000) to assist in
the financing of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (hereinafter  called  the Italian Grant Agreement)
entered into between the Borrower  and  the Government of Italy in
April 1986;
     (E)  Part  of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by Ente-
Nazionale Energia Elettrica (ENEE)  with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such  assistance, the Borrower will make available
to ENEE the proceeds of the  Credit as provided in this Agreement;
and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and ENEE;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General  Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein set
forth:
     (a)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and ENEE of  even  date  herewith,  as the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between  the  Borrower  and  ENEE pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as  the  same may be amended from time
to time;
     (c)  "Special Accounts"  mean  the  accounts  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advances granted by the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters  dated  June  9, 1986; and June 30, 1986
and an exchange of letters dated  March  22, 1987 and May 11, 1987
between the Borrower and the Association;
     (e)  "EPD"  means  the  Energy  Planning  Department  of  the
Borrower's Ministry of National Planning;
     (f)  "NWP" means the  National  Woodstove Project established
within the Borrower's Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range;
     (g)  "RIP" means the  Reference  Investment Program developed
by the Borrower as the least-cost  program for power for the years
1987-1994; and
     (h)  "Fiscal  Year"  means  the  period  from  January  1  to
December 31.
Page  3
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, an  amount  in various currencies equiva-
lent to nine million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 9,700,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars  two special accounts in a commercial
bank on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Special Account A shall be  opened  for  purposes of Parts A, B.1,
B.2 and D.1 of the Project  and  Special Account B shall be opened
for purposes of Parts  B.3,  C,  and  D.2 of the Project. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special Accounts shall be made in
accordance with  the  provisions  of  Schedules  3  and  4 to this
Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Prepa-
ration Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment  charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date  of  the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  February 1 and August 1
commencing February  1,  1998  and  ending  August  1,  2027. Each
installment to and including the  installment payable on August 1,
2007, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
Page  4
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the  United States of America
is hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.02 of the
General Conditions.
     Section 2.09. For purposes of  Parts  A,  B.1, B.2 and D.1 of
the Project, ENEE is designated  as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any  action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of  Section  2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end,  without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall: (i) carry out Parts B.3, C.1, C.2 and D.2 of the
Project through its Ministry of  National Planning; (ii) carry out
Parts C.3 and D.3 of the Project through NWP; and (iii) cause ENEE
to carry out Parts  A,  B.1,  B.2  and  D.1  of the Project and to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
all the obligations  of  ENEE  therein  set  forth, shall take and
cause to be taken  all  action,  including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable ENEE to perform such  obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken  any  action  which  would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend,  out  of  the proceeds of the
Credit, an amount not exceeding the equivalent of $10.3 million to
ENEE under a subsidiary loan  agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and ENEE, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association  which shall include, inter alia,
interest at 7.76% per annum,  repayment of principal over 20 years
including five  years  of  grace  and  ENEE  to  bear  the foreign
exchange risk.
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise  its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except  as  the Association shall otherwise agree,
Page  5
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     (d)  For the purpose of carrying out Part A.5 of the Project,
the Borrower shall enter into a Foreign Exchange Purchasing Agree-
ment with ENEE under  terms  and  conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association for the purpose of selling to ENEE the
proceeds of the Credit allocated to and withdrawn under Category 1
of the table in paragraph  1  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement to
enable ENEE to purchase the required spare parts.
     Section 3.02. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required
for Parts A, B.1 and B.2 of  the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall  be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
     (b)  In  order  to  assist   the  Borrower  in  carrying  out
Parts B.3, B.4 and  C  of  the  Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications,  experience  and  terms and con-
ditions of employment  shall  be  satisfactory to the Association,
such consultants to be selected  in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to  the  Association  on  the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set  forth  in  Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use of goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively)  shall  be carried out by ENEE
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than April 1,
1988, submit to the Association  for  review and comments its pro-
posals for the energy  sector  institutional  reform, and (b) take
into account the views of the Association in developing its energy
sector institutions.
     Section  3.05.  Without  limitations  to  the  generality  of
Section 3.01  of  this  Agreement,  the  Borrower  shall  take all
measures  necessary  including  the  prompt  authorization  of the
adjustments of ENEE's tariffs  to  enable  ENEE to comply with the
provisions of Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30,
1989, submit to the  Association  for  its review and comments the
Household Energy Survey under Part  C.2 of the Project, the Petro-
leum Procurement and  Distribution  Study  under  Part  C.1 of the
Project and the Commercial  Woodfuel  Study  under Part C.3 of the
Project; and (b)  implement  the  recommendations  of said studies
taking into account the Association's views.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices,  the  operations, resources and
expenditures in respect  of  Parts  B.3,  C,  D.2  and  D.3 of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying them out.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this Section and those for the Special
               Account B for each  fiscal  year audited, in accor-
               dance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles con-
               sistently applied, by  independent auditors accept-
Page  6
               able to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year  the  report of such audit by
               said auditors, of such scope  and in such detail as
               the Association  shall  have  reasonably requested,
               including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  ENEE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable  that  ENEE will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  Law No. 34  of  1973  of  the  Borrower  shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or  waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of ENEE to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ENEE or for the suspension of its operations.
     (e)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for  altering  the market system for
determining the exchange rate of the Somali shilling;
     (f)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of  any  grant  or  loan  made to the
                    Borrower  for  the  financing  of  the Project
                    shall have been suspended, cancelled or termi-
                    nated in whole  or  in  part,  pursuant to the
                    terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
               (B)  any such loan shall  have  become due and pay-
                    able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:  (A) such suspension, cancel-
               lation, termination or prematuring is not caused by
               the failure of the  Borrower  to perform any of its
               obligations under such  Agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from the  other  sources  on  terms  and conditions
               consistent with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower
               under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
Page  7
     (a)  the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after  notice  thereof  shall  have  been  given by the
Association to the Borrower;
     (b)  the events specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  the event specified in paragraph  (f) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this  Agreement  shall  occur,  subject  to the proviso of
paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to  the  effectiveness  of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 2.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement  and the Foreign Exchange
Purchasing Agreement have been executed  on behalf of the Borrower
and ENEE;
     (b)  ENEE has submitted  documentary evidence satisfactory to
the Association showing that:  (i)  all  arrears  owed by the Bor-
rower's Ministries and other public  authorities to ENEE have been
settled; and (ii)  all  arrears  owed  by  ENEE  to the Borrower's
Ministries and other public authorities have been settled;
     (c)  ENEE has submitted  documentary evidence satisfactory to
the Association showing that  ENEE has contracted insurance cover-
age of its plants and equipment;
     (d)  ENEE has signed a contract(s) with a consulting firm for
Project Management, Operational  Assistance, training and recruit-
ment services;
     (e)  all conditions  precedent  to  effectiveness  of the EIB
Loan and the  AFDB  Loan,  other  than  the  effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
     (f)  ENEE  has  submitted   to  the  Association  documentary
evidence satisfactory to  the  Association  showing that: (i) ade-
quate land for the North  power  substation has been acquired; and
(ii) the right of way  for  a  high voltage transmission line from
Bardhere to the North power sub-station has been obtained.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in  the  opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by ENEE, and is  legally  binding upon ENEE in accordance
with its terms; and
     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower  and ENEE and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and ENEE in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.04.  The  obligations  of  the  Borrower  under the
provisions of paragraph  (a)  of  Section  5.02  of this Agreement
shall cease and  determine  on  the  date  on which this Agreement
shall terminate or on the  date  20  years  after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
Page  8
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of  the  Borrower  at the time responsible
for finance is designated  as  representative  of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Government of Somali
            Democratic Republic
          Mogadishu, Somalia
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               MINFIN                            612 MINFIN
               Mogadishu                         Mogadishu
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                    By /s/ A. A. Addou
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  9
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Spare Parts                   870,000       100% of foreign
     under Part A                                expenditures and
     of the Project                              100% of local
                                                 expenditures (ex-
                                                 factory costs).
(2)  Power Station               1,210,000       100% of foreign
     Auxilliaries                                expenditures, and
     under Part A                                100% of local
     of the Project                              expenditures (ex-
                                                 factory costs).
(3)  Vehicles, Computers                    )    100% of foreign
     and other office                       )    expenditures
     equipment under:                       )
                                            )
     (a)  Part A of the            270,000  )
          Project                           )
                                            )
     (b)  Parts B.3,                45,000  )
          C.1 and C.2                       )
          of the Project                    )
     (c)  Part B.4 of               45,000  )
          the Project                       )
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4)  Consultants'                           )    100% of foreign
     services and                           )    expenditures
     studies for:                           )
     (a)  Parts B.1              3,860,000  )
          and B.2 of                        )
          the Project                       )
                                            )
     (b)  Parts B.3,               740,000  )
          B.4 and C of                      )
          the Project                       )
(5)  Training for:                          )
                                            )
     (a)  ENEE                     640,000  )
                                            )    100%
     (b)  EPD                       67,000  )
                                            )
     (c)  NWP                       23,000  )
(6)  Refunding of                1,160,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advances                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(7)  Unallocated                   770,000
                                 _________
          TOTAL                  9,700,000
Page  10
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project  is  to assist the Borrower: (a)
improve the efficiency and  reliability  of power supply, (b) meet
the demand for power in  Mogadishu;  (c) develop its capability in
energy planning; and (d) promote energy conservation measures.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Power Generation and Transmission
1.   (a) Rehabilitation and maintenance of power generation plants
at the Gezira power station through the provision of one new power
engine for  a  diesel  generator,  fire  detection  and prevention
equipment and installation of a high intensity lighting scheme.
     (b)  Rehabilitation  and  maintenance   of  power  generation
plants at  Centrale  through  the  provision  of  a fuel treatment
plant, fire detection and prevention equipment.
2.   Installation of about 10 MW  of heavy fuel-oil burning diesel
generation at the North  sub-station,  and  a 15 MW heavy fuel-oil
fired steam unit at Gezira.
3.   (a) Improving the power  transmission system through the: (i)
provision of materials and construction  of  a 33 kV over-head and
underground feeder network; (ii)  provision  of materials and con-
struction of 33 kV and  33/15 kV sub-stations; and (iii) provision
of materials for power extensions to existing switch yards.
     (b)  Rehabilitation and maintenance of the 15 kV power system
at Gezira through: (i) the  provision of materials and the instal-
lation of a new 15 kV  reticulation system; and (ii) the provision
of materials for  supplying  power  to  about  20,000 new consumer
units and replacement and  upgrading  of power distribution system
to about 5,000 consumer units.
4.   Provision of vehicles and repair tools, a radio communication
system, computers,  accounting  and  billing  machinery, and other
power-related equipment to ENEE.
5.   Provision of spare parts  for  power generation equipment and
for vehicles.
Part B:   Technical Assistance
1.   Improving ENEE's ability  in Project management, procurement,
Page  11
engineering design, construction  supervision and commissioning of
the Project.
2.   Strengthening  ENEE's  management  through  the  provision of
technical assistance to carry out line-management functions.
3.   Strengthening EPD's ability to  carry out energy planning and
administration  functions  through   the  provision  of  technical
assistance and logistical back-up resources.
4.   Strengthening NWPs ability to carry out work on store design,
testing,  marketing  and  distribution  through  the  provision of
technical assistance and logistical back-up resources.
Part C:   Studies
1.   Carrying out studies on  petroleum procurement, refining, and
marketing and on pricing of petroleum products;
2.   Developing  household  energy  supply  and  demand management
strategies and power sub-sector investment analyses; and
3.   Carrying out studies on wood fuel supplies and end-use.
Part D:   Training
     Local and overseas  training  for:  (1)  ENEE  staff, (2) EPD
staff and (3) NWP staff in various fields of energy planning.
                            *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1991.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                         Special Account A
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1),
(2), (3)(a), (4)(a) and  (5)(a)  set  forth  in the table in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $800,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
Page  12
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion  from  the  Credit  Account  under  the  respective  eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such and
other evidence as the  Association shall reasonably request, show-
ing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the eligible  Categories, minus the amount
               of any outstanding  special commitment entered into
               by the Association pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
               General Conditions with  respect  to  Part A of the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of  the  Credit allocated to the eli-
gible Categories shall follow  such  procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to  the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after  and  to  the extent that the Association
shall have  been  satisfied  that  all  such  amounts remaining on
deposit into the Special  Account  as  of  the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii)  was  not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
                            SCHEDULE 4
Page  13
                         Special Account B
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  Categories"  means Categories (4)(b)
and (5)(b) set forth in the table  in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $100,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and depo-
sited in the Special Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits  shall  be  withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from  the  Credit  Account  under  the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such and
other evidence as the  Association shall reasonably request, show-
ing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the eligible  Categories, minus the amount
               of any outstanding  special commitment entered into
               by the Association pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
               General Conditions with respect to Parts B, C and D
Page  14
               of the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of
               twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of  the  Credit allocated to the eli-
gible Categories shall follow  such  procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to  the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after  and  to  the extent that the Association
shall have  been  satisfied  that  all  such  amounts remaining on
deposit into the Special  Account  as  of  the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii)  was  not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
