OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1850 SO
Project Agreement
(Power Rehabilitation and Energy Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ENTE-NAZIONALE ENERGIA ELETTRICA (ENEE)
Dated               a      /j      , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1850 SO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1  , 1987, btween
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
ENTE-NAZIONALE ENERGIA ELETTRICA (ENEE).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Somali Democratic Republic (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
nine million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 9,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that ENEE
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ENEE, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to ENEE on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS ENEE, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ENEE declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental


﻿-2-
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. ENEE shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. ENEE shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, ENEE shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ENEE shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the pro-
gress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) ENEE shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by ENEE of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ENEE
Section 3.01. ENEE shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ENEE shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and


﻿-3-
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and
financial practices.
Section 3.03. ENEE shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ENEE shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices,
its operations and financial condition.
(b) ENEE shall:
(i) have its records, accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) including the Special
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, ENEE shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures of ENEE shows that the estimated
net revenues of ENEE for each fiscal year during the term of the
debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt
service requirements of ENEE in such year on all debt of ENEE
including the debt to be incurred.


﻿-4-
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of ENEE
maturing by its term more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii) the term "net revenues" means the difference
between:
(A) the sum of revenues from all sources related
to operations and net non-operating income;
and
(B) the sum of all expenses related to operations
including administration, adequate mainte-
nance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
but excluding provision for depreciation,
other non-cash operating charges and interest
and other charges on debt.
(iv) The term "net non-operating income" means the dif-
ference between:
(A) revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B) expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
of taxes, incurred in the generation of reve-
nues in (A) above.
(v) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(vi) The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
prepared by ENEE not earlier than twelve months
prior to the incurrence of the debt in question,


﻿-5-
which both the Association and ENEE accept as rea-
sonable and as to which the Association has noti-
fied ENEE of its acceptability, provided that no
event has occurred since such notification which
has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to
have, a material adverse effect on the financial
condition or future operating results of ENEE.
(vii) Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time of such
valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, ENEE shall produce, for each of its fiscal years after
its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1987, funds from internal
sources equivalent to not less than (i) 1% of the annual
investment program for fiscal year 1988; (ii) 10% of the annual
investment program for fiscal year 1989; (iii) 15% of the annual
investment program for fiscal year 1990; (iv) 20% of the annual
investment program for fiscal year 1991; and (v) 30% of the annual
investment program for fiscal year 1992 and thereafter.
(b) For the purposes of this Section, the term "annual
investment program" means the annual tranche of the RIP as
modified from time to time.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, ENEE shall earn, for each of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on December 31, 1989, an annual return of not
less than 8% of the average current net value of ENEE's fixed
revalued assets in operation.
(b) Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, ENEE
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by ENEE and satisfactory
to the Association, review whether it would meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next
following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the
results of such review upon its completion.


﻿-6-
(c) If any such review shows that ENEE would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for ENEE's fiscal years
covered by such review, ENEE shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the struc-
ture or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
ENEE's net operating income for the fiscal year in
question by one half of the sum of the current net
value of ENEE's fixed revalued assets in operation
at the beginning and at the end of that fiscal
year.
(ii) The term "net operating income" means total operat-
ing revenues less total operating expenses.
(iii) The term "total operating revenues" means revenues
from all sources related to operations.
(iv) The term "total operating expenses" means all
expenses related to operations, including admini-
stration. adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation of
the average current gross value of ENEE's fixed
revalued assets in operation, or other basis
acceptable to the Association, but excluding
interest and other charges on debt.
(v) The average current gross value of ENEE's fixed
revalued assets in operation shall be calculated as
one half of the sum of the gross value of ENEE's
fixed revalued assets in operation at the beginning
and at the end of the fiscal year, as valued from
time to time in accordance with sound and consis-
tently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory
to the Association.
(vi) The term "current net value of ENEE's fixed reva-
lued assets in operation" means the gross value of
ENEE's fixed revalued assets in operation less the


﻿-7-
amount of accumulated depreciation, as valued from
time to time in accordance with sound and con-
sistently maintained methods of valuation satis-
factory to the Association.
Section 4.05. ENEE shall take all measures necessary to
ensure that its accounts receivable on electricity sales and
accounts payable on non-payroll cash operating expenditures are
reduced to 120 days by December 31, 1988, and to 90 days for
fiscal year 1989 and thereafter.
Section 4.06. (a) ENEE shall, at the end of every Fiscal
Year, review the RIP in consultation with the Association and
revise it as necessary after obtaining the approval of the
Association.
(b) Until the completion of the Project, ENEE shall obtain
the approval of the Association prior to making any changes and/or
making additional investiment not contained in the RIP as agreed
with the Association, if any, such new investment would be in
excess of: (i) the value of one percent (1%) of ENEE's gross fixed
revalued assets as defined in Section 4.04 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the equivalent of $1 million, whichever is the smaller.
Section 4.07. ENEE shall: (a) not later than December 31,
1988, submit to the Association for review its asset registry and
asset revaluation manual; and (b) promptly thereafter carry out
asset revaluation taking into account the Association's views.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of ENEE thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.


﻿-8-
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify ENEE
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated. by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                      440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ENEE:
P.O. Box 1
Mogadishu, Somalia
Telex:
630 ENEE-MOG


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ENEE, or by ENEE on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed
by the General Manager of ENEE or such other person or persons as
ENEE shall designate in writing, and ENEE shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By//          6Lc           '.
Regional Vice President
Africa
ENTE-NAZIONALE ENERGIA ELETTRICA
ByAuthrize Represen
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Exce?t as provided in Part C hereof, power station units,
auxiliary plant replacement parts and non-proprietory spare parts
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and Il of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Somalia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for spare parts for proprietary generation and
transmission equipment may, with the prior approval of the Asso-
ciation, be procured under contracts negotiated with the res-
pective equipment manufacturers.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply to all contracts for procurement.
Where payments fpr such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 11 -
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist ENEE in carrying out the Project, ENEE
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Spare Parts                   870,000       100% of foreign
under Part A                                expenditures and
of the Project                              100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory costs).
(2) Power Station               1,210,000       100% of foreign
Auxilliaries                               expenditures, and
under Part A                                100% of local
of the Project                             expenditures (ex-
factory costs).
(3) Vehicles, Computers                    )    100% of foreign
and other office                       )   expenditures
equipment under:                       )
(a) Part A of the           270,000   )
Project                           )
(b) Parts B.3,               45,000   )
C.1 and C.2                       )
of the Project                    )
(c) Part B.4 of              45,000   )
the Project                       )


﻿-14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4) Consultants'                           )    100% of foreign
services and                           )   expenditures
studies for:                           )
(a) Parts B.1             3,860,000   )
and B.2 of                        )
the Project                       )
(b) Parts B.3,              740,000   )
B.4 and C of                      )
the Project                       )
(5) Training for:                          )
(a) ENEE                    640,000   )
)    100%
(b) EPD                      67,000   )
(c) NWP                      23,000   )
(6) Refunding of               1,160,000        Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advances                              2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(7) Unallocated                  770,000
TOTAL                 9,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 15 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower: (a)
improve the efficiency and reliability of power supply; (b) meet
the demand for power in Mogadishu; (c) develop its capability in
energy planning; and (d) promote energy conservation measures.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Power Generation and Transmission
1.   (a) Rehabilitation and maintenance of power generation plants
at the Gezira power station through the provision of one new power
engine for a diesel generator, fire detection and prevention
equipment and installation of a high intensity lighting scheme.
(b) Rehabilitation and maintenance of power generation
plants at Centrale through the provision of a fuel treatment
plant, fire detection and prevention equipment.
2.   Installation of about 10 MW of heavy fuel-oil burning diesel
generation at the North sub-station, and a 15 MW heavy fuel-oil
fired steam unit at Gezira.
3.   (a) Improving the power transmission system through the: (i)
provision of materials and construction of a 33 kV over-head and
underground feeder network; (ii) provision of materials and con-
struction of 33 kV and 33/15 kV sub-stations; and (iii) provision
of materials for power extensions to existing switch yards.
(b) Rehabilitation and maintenance of the 15 kV power system
at Gezira through: (i) the provision of materials and the instal-
lation of a new 15 kV reticulation system; and (ii) the provision
of materials for supplying power to about 20,000 new consumer
units and replacement and upgrading of power distribution system
to about 5,000 consumer units.
4.   Provision of vehicles and repair tools, a radio communication
system, computers, accounting and billing machinery, and other
power-related equipment to ENEE.
5.   Provision of spare parts for power generation equipment and
for vehicles..


﻿- 17 -
Part B:   Technical Assistance
1.   Improving ENEE's ability in Project management, procurement,
engineering design, construction supervision and commissioning of
the Project.
2.   Strengthening ENEE's management through the provision of
technical assistance to carry out line-management functions.
3.   Strengthening EPD's ability to carry out energy planning and
administration functions through the provision of technical
assistance and logistical back-up resources.
4.   Strengthening NWPs ability to carry out work on store design,
testing, marketing and distribution through the provision of
technical assistance and logistical back-up resources.
Part C:   Studies
1.   Carrying out studies on petroleum procurement, refining, and
marketing and on pricing of petroleum products;
2.   Developing household energy supply and demand management
strategies and power sub-sector investment analyses; and
3.   Carrying out studies on wood fuel supplies and end-use.
Part D:   Training
Local and overseas training for: (1) ENEE staff, (2) EPD
staff and (3) NWP staff in various fields of energy planning.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1991.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account A
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3)(a), (4)(a) and (5)(a) set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $800,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit Account under the respective eligible


﻿- 19 -
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such and
other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, show-
ing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to Part A of the
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eli-
gible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit into the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the


﻿- 20 -
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account B
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (4)(b)
and (5)(b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $100,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and depo-
sited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective eligible


﻿- 22 -
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justifi.ed by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such and
other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, show-
ing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i)  the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to Parts B, C and D
of the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eli-
gible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit into the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the


﻿- 23 -
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foreL,:ing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


