 IEG
                                                                                                 Report Number: ICRR14624

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 04/13/2015

              Country: Argentina
           Project ID: P088220                                                       Appraisal            Actual
        Project Name: Urban Flood                     Project Costs (US$M):          US$ 189 million US$ 193.01 million
                       Prevention And
                       Drainage Apl1
  L/C Number:          L7289                            Loan/Credit (US$M):          US$ 130 million US$ 134.01 million

       Sector Board:       Water                        Cofinancing (US$M):        US$ 79,26 million        US$ 59 million

           Cofinanciers: The Borrower's               Board Approval Date :                            04/05/2005
                         contribution was US$                 Closing Date:         12/31/2010         08/31/2012
                         59 million, both
                         planned and actual.
          Sector(s):     Flood protection (94%); Sub-national government administration (4%); General water
                         sanitation and flood protection sector (2%)
          Theme(s):      Other urban development (40% - P); Natural disaster management (40% - P); Water
                         resource management (20% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:             ICR Review                  Group:
                                                    Coordinator:
Vibecke Dixon              Christopher David        Christopher David           IEGPS1
                           Nelson                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
  The project development objective was “to reduce the Borrower’s vulnerability to flooding through the improvement
of the level of protection of the Borrower’s rain drainage system and the implementation of a risk management
program.” (Loan Agreement – LA Schedule 2 p. 17; Project Appraisal Document – PAD p. 13). This formulation of the
PDO was also used in the main text of the PAD (p 13, para 44).

This ICR review is based on the statement of the project development objective in the Loan Agreement, as per IEG
standards.


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
 The PAD is unclear with regard to the appraisal cost figures for each component and for the total project cost, as is
the ICR. After the submission of the ICR, the Bank provided IEG with additional information, including the following
table, calculated from figures provided in different places in the PAD. According to comments received from the Bank,
the main text on pages 14-16 refers to loan proceeds (Bank contribution), while the figures in Annex 5 include the
Borrower's contribution. This is not clear in the PAD itself; it is not stated what the figures refer to (total cost or Bank
contribution) or what they include or exclude. This is clarifying, as this information had not been presented clarly in the
PAD nor in the ICR.

Breakdown of Project Cost between Borrower and Counterpart (project team’s calculation )
                                                              US$ million
 Component                      Total costs                Loan Proceeds                  Counterpart
 Component 1                                        6.46                           6.14              0.32
 Component 2                                      181.62                        121.80              59.82
 Component 3                                        2.16                           2.06                 0.1
              Baseline costs                      190.24                        130.00              60.24
 Contingencies                                     19.02                              0             19.02
 TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                              209.25                        130.00              79.26



Component 1: Risk Management Scheme (for the City Government ): Total planned cost: US $6.46 million. Total
actual cost figures for Component 1 are not provided in the ICR.

The component would finance assistance to the City Government to promote a risk management approach in dealing
with floods, including prevention, mitigation and rapid response to emergency. In addition, the component would
strengthen the existing City Agencies so that the transfer of implementation responsibilities to relevant agencies would
be smooth. It included (PAD, pages 14-15):
a)        support for proposed legal and regulatory framework adjustments, such as land use plans, building codes
and environmental standards;
b)        installation of a hydro-meteorological warning system;
c)        development of vulnerability and risk analysis tools;
d)        preparation and diffusion of contingency and emergency plans;
e)        Improved solid waste management (collection flexibility during flood alerts and increased public awareness);
f)        studies to help increase and improve green areas, and an urban forestry program; and
g)        hydrological, environmental, communication and education program, aimed at increasing awareness.

There is no further information regarding the planned sub-projects of this component, neither in the PAD nor in the
ICR There is no information about the exact form these sub-components would take, what the project contribution
would be (e.g. planning, studies, training, equipment, works), or what the scope of each sub-component would be.

Component 2: Development of Key Defense Facilities : Total planned cost: US$ 181.62 million. Total actual cost
figures for Component 2 are not provided in the ICR.

This component was to finance structural works including:
(i)       the construction of two collection tunnels, one of 9.9 km and the other of 4.7 km to improve the functioning of
the existing draining system in Maldonado Basin;
(ii)      the extension and improvement of the existing secondary drainage network;
(iii)     feasibility studies to prepare the city’s future hydraulic investments;
(iv)      contracting a special team to supervise tunnel construction; and
(v)       a Technical Panel of Independent Advisers.

Component 3: Project Implementation and Auditing Total planned cost: US$ 2.16 million. There are inconsistencies
within the table on page 55 in that US$ 2.06 million of local costs with no added foreign costs add up to a total of US$
2.16 million for this component. Total actual cost figures for Component 3 are not provided in the ICR.

This component was to cover shares of consultant services and functioning expenditures incurred through project
implementation, for annual audits for example, on a declining basis over time.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
  Project Cost: The project documents are unclear and inconsistent with regard to what the appraisal costs and actual
costs were. However, the Loan Agreement (Article II, Section 2.01.) states that the Bank agreed to lend the Borrower
98 million Euros. The figures in the main text of the PAD add up to 98 million Euros (4.62 + 91.83 + 1.55 = 98),
indicating that they are loan proceeds and excluding the Borrower's contribution. The figures stated in the PAD’s
Annex 5 add up to 110.85 million Euros, and include the Borrower's contribution (although this is not clearly stated).

The PAD’s main text does not provide clear information of what the expected contribution from the Borrower would be.
The ICR reports the actual project cost to be US$ 134.01 million, while the appraisal estimate was US$ 130 million.
The discrepancy is explained to be due to currency rates: The originally approved loan amount of Euro 98 million was
equivalent to US$ 130 million at the exchange rate prevailing at that time. Due to variations in the exchange rate since
the approval, at the time of the ICR, the approved amount stood at US$ 134.01 million (ICR Annex 1, page 24,
footnote 13).

The ICR reports the following (as if they were total costs, but the figures do not include the borrower’s contribution):
Project cost by component was as follows (ICR Annex 1, page 24):
Component 1: Appraisal estimate: US$ 6.14 mill, actual cost: US$ 2.81 million (46% of appraisal estimate)
Component 2: Appraisal estimate: US$ 121.8 mill, actual cost: US$ 131.17 mill (108% of appraisal estimate)
Component 3: Appraisal estimate: US$ 2.06 mill, actual cost: US$ 0.03 mill (1% of appraisal estimate)

However, the ICR is reporting the Bank’s contribution only and is omitting the Borrower’s contribution in the table on
project cost and financing in Annex 1, page 24, while presenting them as if they were the total project costs

Financing: Apart from the borrower’s contribution, the IBRD loan was the only source of financing. There were no
other external financing sources.

Recipient Contribution : It is unclear what the borrower’s contribution was estimated to be at appraisal, as there are
major inconsistencies in the documents. The PAD reports it to be US$ 79 million on its page i. In Annex 5, page 55 of
the PAD, it is reported to be US$ 43.16 million, and in the ICR, page 24, it is reported to have been US$ 59 million.

According to the ICR (Annex 1, page 24), the total borrower contribution was US$ 59 million, however, the ICR does
not provide any supportive background information to show how this figure came about. The table in Annex 2 (pages
25-27) does contain some information about borrower contribution per sub-component, but is quite unclear in that it
mixes planned and actual cost figures in the same column, and often does not provide information at all of whether
the figures presented are planned or actual, and the figures are not added up to provide the total amount – neither per
component nor for the total project.

Dates: The Loan was approved on April 5, 2005, was signed by the Ministry of Finance on May 18, 2006, and was
declared effective on August 16, 2006.

There were two extensions of the closing date for a cumulative period of 20 months; as part of the project
restructuring in December 2010 (18 months) and in June 2012 (2 months). The ICR reports (pp. 10-11, para 19) that
these extensions were responding to delays in implementation, as the time period required for procurement in
contracting the main works became longer than anticipated due to the complexity and novelty of the works to be
undertaken. The review of the bidding documents took a whole year. Doubts were raised after Appraisal over the
proposed technical solution, and the Panel of Experts recommended additional analysis to the carried out, which
caused further delays. The ICR reports that these delays not only impacted on the disbursements and the
implementation time frame, but also contributed to the increased costs of the works, affecting the scope of activities
that could be completed under the loan.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
High
The Project’s Development Objectives were relevant to national priorities and to the Bank’s Country Assistance
Strategy at appraisal, and this continued to be the case at project closing. Both the World Bank Group’s Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2006-08 (Report No. 34015-AR) and the 2010-12 (Report No. 48476-AR) emphasize
three pillars, namely sustainable growth with equity, social inclusion, and improved governance. Both documents
include urban flood prevention and drainage infrastructure as part of the main focus areas for the Bank’s investment
lending (as detailed in the CAS for Argentina 2006-08 Report No 34015-AR, pages 41, 42, 43, Annex H page 128,
129, Annex K page 144, Annex L page 194, Annex B3 page 201, 207, and the CPS for Argentina 2010-12 Report No.
48476-AR, pages 22, 27, and in Annex 2, page 1, Annex 3, pages 9, 25, 32)

In the 2006-08 CAS, “urban flood and drainage” is one of three priorities under the area of infrastructure (p 41). On
page 43, it is pointed out that one strategic area the Bank is trying to expand is its direct lending to the provinces, as is
the case with the urban flood and drainage projects. It is furthermore stated that the CAS program will seek to
“implement proposed interventions in urban flood protection and drainage at the municipal level, and develop an
integrated water resources management strategy. Furthermore, on page 44, it is stated that “the Bank has provided
important support to the City of Buenos Aires with the Urban Flood Prevention APL, and will continue under the
second phase to expand the assistance to other eligible provinces at risk. The project seeks to increase the country’s
resilience to floods through protection of critical urban infrastructure, and to introduce a risk management approach to
investment of provincial and municipal governments. Key goals are to increase population awareness and
preparedness to the threat of floods as evidenced by improvements in flood protection levels, a reduction in the
population living in areas at risk of flooding, and a reduction in damage to properties by storm”.

On page 74 of the 2010-12 CPS, it is stated that the Urban Flood Prevention and Drainage Project (Euro 98 million) is
now being implemented satisfactorily and is expected to make a major contribution toward mitigating flood risk in the
City of Buenos Aires.

According to the ICR (page 14), flood prevention and drainage remains a top priority both within the national
Government and the Government of the City of Buenos Aires. The ICR does not refer to any official documents where
these priorities are stated, nor are any official documents from the national or municipal governments listed in the
supporting documents in Annex 7. Nevertheless, the ICR reports that the Government remains committed to its
objective of promoting the country’s move from a disaster response approach to a risk prevention one and that at the
City Legislature has signed a law allowing the City to incur debt in order to finance drainage investments, and the City
has requested from the National Government that the future planned investments be included within the sector’s key
priorities.


b. Relevance of Design:
Modest
Relevance of project design (activities, components, policy areas) to the objectives:
The Program Development Objective is to reduce the borrower’s vulnerability to flooding, and this is to be achieved
through both non-structural and structural measures: through the introduction of a risk management programme and
through improving the rain drainage system. The project components reflect these to a certain extent in that there is
one component including non-structural measures and one including structural measures. However, due to the
relatively weak description of Component 1, it is difficult to know whether the planned activities under that component
would be necessary and sufficient to reduce Buenos Aires’ vulnerability to flooding. The planned activities under
component 2 were necessary and sufficient to contribute to the achievement of the PDO, in that the rain drainage
system was to be improved.

Quality of the results framework:
The project’s objective “to reduce vulnerability to flooding”, is to be achieved through two outputs (there are no
outcomes (neither intermediate nor final) in the formulation of the PDO): i) improvement of the level of protection of
the rain drainage system and ii ) the introduction of a risk management programme. The intended achievements, as
formulated in the PAD (page 13) were envisaged to be a reduction of the areas flooded, the peaks and the frequency
of events causing damage.

Due to the weak description of the sub-components under Component 1, it is difficult to know whether the inputs are
relevant, necessary and sufficient to lead to the output of having a risk management programme in place. Also, it is
unclear how this output would lead to the achievement of the objective, namely a reduction of the City’s vulnerability to
flooding.

The causal chain for component 2 is clearer: the input is financial contribution to the construction of the necessary
tunnels (improvement of the storm drainage system - output) which is assumed to lead to a reduction of water levels
when the City experiences storms and heavy rains (outcome), which again will contribute to the achievement of the
PDO (it is a necessary element, but not sufficient in itself): reduced vulnerability to flooding.

The causal chain between Bank funding, outputs and intended outcomes is not very clear and convincing, especially
for the weak description of Component 1.

 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   Modest
The PDO was to reduce the Borrower’s vulnerability to flooding through the implementation of a risk management
program and the improvement of the level of protection of the Borrower’s rain drainage system.

Output 1: Implementation of a risk management program: Modest
Outputs: The project only partially contributed to “introducing a risk management approach to the government
investment program”, as some activities were not completed in the lifetime and within the budget of the project.
According to the ICR (para 41 page 16), preparedness for storms did not increase. Awareness programs should have
been implemented but these were only partially completed with only a limited level of awareness and preparedness
existing at the end of the project. This is evidence of a modest achievement of the objective.

The project introduced flood risk prevention criteria (ICR para 44 page 17) in planning and decision making in the
public sector in the city of Buenos Aires. This was done through (i) measuring the impact of solid waste on the
drainage system and incorporating this into the operational plan of the works, and (ii) incorporating the results of the
study on urban tree cover and green areas in urban runoff estimates. Other efforts aimed at influencing both public
and private sector planning, in particular the improvement and publication of a hazard map and regulatory framework,
were not completed at the time of the ICR. The ICR reports that preparedness for storms (to reduce vulnerability) did
not increase (ICR p 16).

The ICR offers limited evidence to show how or to what degree these outputs may have contributed to a reduction of
the City’s vulnerability to flooding.

Output 2: Improvement of the level of protection of the rain drainage system: Substantial
Outputs: The construction of two drainage tunnels (9.8 km and 4.6 km long) and the upgrading of the secondary
drainage network attached to them. At the time of the ICR, both tunnels had begun operation, and the secondary
drainage network was partially completed (works were underway in 2 of the 6 proposed areas), with the remainder
expected to be completed with City funds.

Outcomes: The ICR reports that since the operation of the tunnels began, there have been severe rain events during
which the works successfully protected the project area and its infrastructure from flooding. During intense rainfall in
March, November and December 2012 (of which the December 2012 rains were equivalent to a 50 to 100 year event,
with rainfall of 177 mm in some areas), repeated press coverage indicated that while flooding was significant in other
parts of the City, it was minimal in the project area. The lack of accumulation of water in historically flood-prone areas
was also verified by the PIU. The PIU estimated that the overall system (including secondary drainage networks)
tripled the drainage capacity of the basin. However, the ICR does not provide sufficient data to back this up, nor is
there any reflection in the ICR of whether the reduction in water levels during the heavy rains might be attributable to
any other factors than the upgrade of the rain drainage system. After submission of the ICR, the Bank informed IEG
that the Bank and the Borrower do have enough background data and evidence to report progress contributing to
achievement of the PDO, but this was not presented in the ICR (nor in the comments received).


 5. Efficiency:
  Substantial
At appraisal, a detailed economic analysis found the project to be economically feasible, using both the Avoided
Damage Costs Method and the Hedonic Prices Method (see the PAD’s Annex 9 for details).
The economic benefit stream calculated through the avoided damage costs method measured the cost of direct flood
damage, which the project would cause to be avoided. This calculation corresponded to the difference between the
damage costs under two scenarios: with and without the project. The associated damage costs varied with the
intensity of the flood, which implied different water levels, and extension of flooded areas. These costs were
calculated in probabilistic terms, based on historical data and a hydraulic mathematical model for storm simulation.
Several alternatives to investment were evaluated according to different number of years of recurrence. Avoided
damage cost was estimated for (i) the residential sector, (ii) the public sector (urban infrastructure), and (iii) industrial
and commercial sector. The analysis concluded (PAD p. 75, para 232) that the project would avoid damage costs for
US$ 122 million of which US$ 78 million correspond to cost reduction in the residential sector. The benefits surpassed
the costs by about US$ 33 million.

The hedonic prices model was used to examine the contribution of different attributes to prices of housing. Property
values depend on physical attributes of the dwelling, vulnerability of the property site, condition of the house, etc.
Hedonic techniques allow measurement of the effect that each attribute has on the property value, holding other
factors constant. Hedonic price functions were estimated for vacant lots, houses and condominiums. The results show
(as reported in the PAD’s Annex 9, page 77, para 237) an increase in property value between 1.0% to 3.3% for a
reduction of 10 cm in the water level in a flood occurrence.

The economic analysis concluded that the Maldonado project was economically viable, with net benefits of US$ 33
million when the avoided damage cost method is used and US$ 23 million when the hedonic prices method is used.
The relationship between benefits and costs was found to be about 1.3 with both methodologies.

Sensitivity and risk assessments showed that the likelihood of a negative economic output was very low.

According to the ICR (p. 17, para 46), the avoided damage costs analysis was updated in 2007 indicating a Net
Present Value (NPV) of US$ 48 million with an internal rate of return (ERR) of 18.7%. The ICR reports that the 2007
economic analysis was “updated” at the time of the ICR taking the actual works schedule into account: the lower than
anticipated level of completion of the works and associated reduced impact, and using “updated prices and exchange
rates”. The results found an NPV of US$16.7 million and IRR of 14%. Inflation and fluctuating exchange rates should
not affect an ERR estimate that should be based on constant prices in one particular currency. It is unclear what is
actually meant by “updating” in the ICR as no more details are provided in the ICR,

Judging by the disbursement profile (ICR p. 16) implementation was inefficient; it was too early to assess whether the
operation of the works had resulted in increased real estate values, and preparedness for storms did not increase.

Based on this, the project’s efficiency, while lower at completion than anticipated, is still rated substantial, given that
the results of the economic analysis reported by the ICR reflect an ERR that is above the opportunity costs of capital.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                      18.7%                                    100%

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                       14%                                     100%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of Objectives is rated High as the PDOs were relevant to national priorities and to the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) both at approval and at closure. Relevance of Design is rated Modest, as the causal chain
between Bank funding, outputs and intended outcomes is not clear and convincing in the PAD nor in the ICR,
especially for Component 1. Efficacy is rated Modest, as there were limited outputs under Component 1, and the ICR
offers little evidence to show how or to what degree these outputs may have contributed to the PDO; a reduction of
the City’s vulnerability to flooding. The main output under Component 2 was that the rain drainage system was built.
How and to what degree this output led to achievement of the PDO (reduction of vulnerability to flooding), is not
sufficiently documented in the ICR. Efficiency is rated Substantial even though the project's efficiency was lower at
completion than anticipated, the results of the economic analysis reported by the ICR reflect an ERR that is above the
opportunity cost of capital.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   Moderate
Although arrangements for maintenance of the works are in place and implementation of the project’s non-structural
measures are likely to be continued, there is a risk that the City may not succeed in securing funding for carrying out
these remaining activities under the PGRH.

The completed works were handed over to the General Directorate for the rainfall network within the Ministry of
Environment and Public Spaces, along with the auscultation system linked to the hydro-meteorological monitoring
network to ensure the work’s adequate operation.

A comprehensive environmental management plan was developed for the operation and maintenance of the tunnels,
and a contract was signed by the City with a private company for their regular cleaning. According to the ICR (para 54,
page 19), the main risk that may affect the operation of the tunnels in the long term is associated with poor urban
planning. These risks can be mitigated by the City’s proposal to develop a cross-sectoral management system to
coordinate the efforts of different City Agencies on flood prevention and drainage, including those responsible for
urban planning, solid waste management and education. The ICR does not provide any information as to whether
such a mitigation plan has been developed.

Insufficient coordination between City agencies is a clear risk, especially with regard to the implementation of the Risk
Management Program.


   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate
8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The ICR reporting of the positive aspects of Quality at Entry is thin and at a very general level only. It does
report positive experiences with regard to financial and economic aspects, such as the background analysis that
was undertaken at appraisal. However, the cost estimates from the background study did not provide adequate
contingencies for price, exchange rates and cost increases, and they were not revisited at appraisal. Furthermore,
the inadequate design of the project’s results indicators did not accurately reflect its impact, tarnishing its overall
outcome rating.

There are inconsistencies in the appraisal document that confuse the correct interpretation of the project
development objective, the project costs and indicators:
- The PAD operates with several different versions of the PDO; one which is similar to the PDO formulation in the
Loan Agreement, and another that is slightly different. The second version of the PDO (on page ii of the PAD) was
also used in the economic and financial analysis presented in Annex 9 in the PAD (p.70, para 214). Consequently,
the project used that as the PDO (as opposed to the formulation of the PDO which is found in the PAD’s main text
and in the Lending Agreement), and the ICR also chose to use that second version of the PDO as its point of
departure. A third version of the PDO is found in Annex 3 on the Monitoring and Evaluation Framework. The
inconsistency in the PDO formulation is likely to have caused some confusion with regard to the project’s objective
and purpose.
- There are also inconsistencies in he presentation of the projects key indicators. In its main text (p. 13, para 44),
the PAD presents four key indicators (as outlined in Section 3b). However, in the PAD’s Annex 3 detailing the
Results Framework and Monitoring (page 40), only the first two outcome indicators were included, and the latter
two were left out. This led to the omission of the latter two indicators in the M&E of the implementation of the
programme. The ICR omits them as well and fails to mention that the PAD originally had identified four key
indicators. This is a serious omission, as the latter two indicators are relevant to the PDO and if measured, could
have provided substantial information on the degree to which the program achieved its development objective.
The project team (meeting 08.26.14) confirmed that the latter two of the four original key indicators from the PAD’s
main text had not been used by the project; in fact, the team had not been aware that the PAD’s main text
included two more indicators than those mentioned in the PAD’s Annex 3. Later on, the Bank informed IEG that
they and the borrower would be in a position to report progress on these two indicators ((i) Reduction of population
in the basin under risk from flooding in the 10 year recurrence; and (ii) reduction in damage to properties by
storms up to 10 years of recurrence) using the flood models, the capacity of the infrastructure built under the
Project, recent census data, geographical cadastral information, and comparing these with the initial assessment
used in the economic evaluation (that used the baseline data). The Bank does not provide any further clarification,
however, as to why the ICR did not report progress on these indicators when the data needed to do so was
available.

The arrangements to secure smooth implementation of a programme that combined both structural and
non-structural measures under one single operation were insufficient; the lack of institutional coordination
mechanisms and lack of clarity regarding the division of responsibilities for the non-structural components posed
an implementation and management challenge. The Project did not include explicit funds for capacity building and
coordination within the City Agencies, despite the fact that the mandate for many of the non-structural
sub-components were outside the PIU. (ICR p.22, para 64, and p.10 para 17).


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    According to the ICR (para 58 page 20), the Bank’s approach to supervision included the presence in-country
of a highly qualified task team, which enabled the Bank to undertake close supervision during and between official
missions. This team conducted regular site visits and provided periodic guidance to the PIU, permitting the timely
progress of the works and their compliance with environmental and technical standards.

The Bank changed team leaders five times during implementation. The ICR claims, however, that this did not
affect the project’s outcome (para 58 page 20).

However, the Bank team could have implemented a more proactive restructuring to address the impact of the
shortfall in resources on the project’s scope and outcomes in the restructuring of the program, which they failed to
do. The lack of progress on non-structural measures was not reflected in the Implementation Progress rating,
which was constantly rated Satisfactory in Implementation Status reports, and thus failed to alert management to
the project’s restructuring needs. The Bank team also failed to take the opportunity in the restructurings to make
more meaningful changes to its indicators (including addressing all four key indicators presented in the main text
of the PAD).

Furthermore, the Bank team overlooked the two most significant PDO indicators in the PAD and as such failed to
report progress against those which could have provided evidence of successful achievement of the PDO.

The Bank team did, however, make a proactive push for implementation of the non-structural measures towards
the end of implementation, whereas, according to the ICR (para 58 page 21), a more pragmatic approach would
have entailed reducing the project’s scope to what the available funds could realistically achieve.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The Government, in the case of this loan, includes the National Government (the Guarantor), which provided
the Guarantee for the loan, and the Government of the City of Buenos Aires (the Borrower), to which the loan was
made.

According to the ICR (page 21, para 60). there was generally high government ownership and strong commitment
to achieving the project’s development objectives at both the national and the City levels counterpart funding from
the City was provided in full and the City appointed a well staffed PIU with high technical capacity, which
underwent very little rotation.

However, the Government failed to create an enabling environment for the Project in terms of institutional
coordination and legislation, which affected the implementation of the project in that some sub-components of
Component 1 were not completed or not even initiated, and others were delayed.

   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    According to the ICR (para 61 pages 21-22), the implementing agency (PIU) UPEAM in the City of Buenos
Aires was facilitated project implementation in a proactive manner. The preparation of bidding documents for the
project’s main works started prior to effectiveness. The PIU contributed to the project’s quality assurance by
setting up a new Panel of Experts for the construction period. .

According to the ICR, the PIU’s response to the financing gap was appropriate and strategic in light of the loan’s
available resources. The PIU prioritized the excavation of the main tunnels at the expense of the non-structural
measures and secondary drainage networks, as the project would have certainly failed in its objectives had the
tunnels been left incomplete, and their estimated contribution to the City’s drainage was significantly greater than
that of the project’s auxiliary activities. However, the choice to focus on the structural component at the expense of
the non-structural component meant that the project did not achieve its planned outcome of a risk management
program in place.

According to the ICR, the PIU maintained procurement and financial management arrangements compatible with
Bank standards, and complied with the requirements of the Bank’s safeguards throughout implementation.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:
  a. M&E Design:
    The four outcome indicators listed in the PAD (page 13, para 44) were:
·         Population awareness, preparedness and consciousness assessed through survey.
·         Increase of real estate market values reflecting incremental improvements in flood protection levels.
·         Reduction of population in the basin under risk of flooding in the 10 year recurrence.
·         Reduction in damage to properties by storms up to 10 years of recurrence.

All four key indicators are relevant to the PDO and if measured right, they could have given significant information
about the degree to which the project achieved its objective.

However, the PAD’s Annex 3 on Results Framework and Monitoring omitted the latter two key indicators (pp. 40-43),
and it is not clear whether they were left out on purpose or whether they were overlooked by a mistake. Regardless of
the reason for the omission, this is a serious mistake as the latter two indicators, if measured right and with baseline
data, could have provided the project with substantial evidence of the degree to which the objective was achieved.

The latter two key indicators identified in the PAD’s main text are not mentioned or treated in the ICR either. These
latter two key indicators are both relevant to the PDO (especially to the structural works component) and they are
measurable. There is, however, no information in the ICR of whether these indicators were used in the M&E
framework and actually measured, nor whether baseline data has been collected to enable measurement of their
changes/improvements.

The ICR (page 12), claims that indicators 1 and 2 pose measurement challenges due to their vagueness or
complexity. However, PDO indicator 2 focuses on increase in real estate values, which could have been measured in
the available timeframe; changes in the market and project attribution could have been measured through analysis of
the counterfactual, but adequate methods for this were not applied. The ICR points out that the number of indicators
for non-structural measurements (representing only 5% of the total loan) was disproportionately higher than those for
structural measures, but this must be due to the omission of the latter two original key indicators, which would have
measured the degree of PDO achievement relevant to the structural works.

The Bank team missed the opportunity to leverage project restructuring to meaningfully modify the project's main
indicators: modifications made to the results framework in June 2012 were not sufficient to provide a reliable set if
indicators by which to assess the project’s impact. The omission of two of the projects original four key indicators was
not discovered then either.

b. M&E Implementation:
  According to the ICR (para 24 page 12), most of the project indicators were not tracked during implementation.

The ICR (para 25 page 12) reports that the City of Buenos Aires relied on a useful system to monitor the progress of
the construction works, which efficiently identified bottlenecks and allowed for proactive management of the works
contract. This system was established by the City and the contractor with inputs from the Bank team, and also
included a system for regular monitoring of the quality of the works through the supervision contract and regular site
visits by the Bank team. The ICR does not report on how and to what degree this was related to the project’s M&E
framework

There is little evidence of M&E implementation in the project; there is no information of any baseline data collection
planned or carried out. There is an apparent lack of reliable and good quality data, and no evidence of sound
methodology, independence of analysts or quality control of the monitoring and evaluation of the project (monitoring
and quality control of the structural works were carried out, but seemingly not on the outcomes and impact of that).


 c. M&E Utilization:
    Many of the project indicators were not used until the end of the project. Indeed, as late as the May 2010 ISR, the
Bank team still could not provide target values or intermediate results for most of the project’s indicators, and these
provide almost no information enabling the monitoring and tracking of the project’s main works.

There is little information in the ICR of monitoring and evaluation that would go beyond the monitoring the progress
and quality of the structural works, i.e. measurements of any real outcomes or impact. A complete hydrological
monitoring network was not developed for the City, but the ICR reports that “efforts were made to establish and use a
monitoring mechanism capable of determining the impacts of the works on flood prevention”. The ICR furthermore
reports that a network of hydro-meteorological and hydrometric stations was established during the works’
construction, and a robust auscultation network already in forms the operation phase. A partnership was established
early in implementation with La Plata National University, which has provided support to the PIU in monitoring rainfall
and flows and modeling the tunnels’ behavior. However, how and to what degree the City of Buenos Aires’ monitoring
system related to the project’s monitoring framework and indicators is not reported on in the ICR.

The project team (meeting 08.26.14) confirmed that the latter two of the four original key indicators from the PAD’s
main text had not been used by the project; in fact, the team had not been aware that the PAD’s main text included
two more indicators than those mentioned in the PAD’s Annex 3.

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The Safeguard policies triggered by the project were Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01) and Projects on
International Waterways (P/BP/GB 7.50) (PAD p. 29, Table 21).

Regarding the International Waterways, the Bank notified Uruguay, the other riparian of the Rio de la Plata basin, of
the proposed project and provided the relevant details thereon. Such details confirm that the project will have no
adverse effects on the Basin or on Uruguay. No unfavorable response was received by the Bank by the deadline set
for comments (PAD, p. 30, para100).

The project was given a Category A for Environmental Impact according to the Bank’s OP 4.01 (PAD, page 92, para
283), indicating that it was likely to have significant adverse environmental impacts. According to the ICR, (Annex 8,
pp. 37-38), the project implemented a robust Environmental Management Plan (EMP). The main components of the
EMP were those related to the mitigation of the two most significant negative impacts according to the type of work:
generation of a large amount of excavated material and physical intervention by the passage of a tunnel in an area of
aquifers. In addition, the EMP focused on compliance with local and national environment standards.

The changes in the technical design of the works was expected to be beneficial to the environment compared to the
original plans (as reported in the last paragraph on page 37), but there is no information with regard to whether or to
what degree these anticipations materialized.

The ICR claims (p. 13, para 27) that social and environmental issues raised by stakeholders during implementation
were duly addressed, but there is no information as to what the complaints were about and how the issues were
solved other than that the City and Bank team have continued to hold regular meetings with the association who
raised concerns. The ICR states, however, that the absence of any environmental issues during implementation is
noteworthy for a project with a category A environmental assessment.


 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
According to the ICR, (p. 13, para 28, the project complied reasonably well with prescribed Financial Management
arrangements and Bank requirements, such as acceptable periodic FR reporting and up to date accounting records.
Project transactions were subject to the external oversight of private audit firms whose last audit report to the Bank
showed unqualified audit opinions. While a qualified opinion was issued on the Project Basic Financial Statements
due to lack of supporting documentation, the issue was not material nor indicated an accountability issue. Audit
reports were reviewed through implementation and always deemed acceptable.

The ICR reports the quality of Procurement to be generally high, except from some irregularities in hiring consultants,
the time needed for the PIU to address recommendations made through previous Bank Procurement Reviews, and
delays at different stages of contract processing. These challenges were resolved with the PIU through a corrective
action plan.

 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
The ICR does not report any significant unintended impacts, neither positive nor negative, apart from mentioning that
the project received some media attention (page 19). However, it does report “population awareness” as an
unintended impact (para 52), when it very much was intended. This is commented upon further under Section 15.

d. Other:
12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Moderately          There were shortcomings in the PAD in
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory      several important areas such as the
                                                                                financial figures for project components,
                                                                                total project cost and borrower’s
                                                                                contribution. There are also at least four
                                                                                different (more or less materially
                                                                                consistent) formulations of the PDO in
                                                                                the PAD which opens up for a variety of
                                                                                interpretations of the project’s objective
                                                                                and purpose and complicates both
                                                                                implementation of the project and the
                                                                                monitoring and evaluation of it. Two of
                                                                                four key indicators were left out in the
                                                                                M&E Framework. The Bank team failed
                                                                                to properly address the M&E issues
                                                                                during restructuring, and consistently
                                                                                rated the project’s implementation
                                                                                status as satisfactory despite the fact
                                                                                that crucial elements of Component 1
                                                                                did not materialize.

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately          The Borrower failed to implement and
                                                            Unsatisfactory      coordinate important sub-components
                                                                                of the project.

                Quality of ICR:                             Unsatisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The following lessons can be drawn from this project:

The combination of structural and non-structural components within the same project is challenging. This requires
specific implementation arrangements that offer incentives for highlighting both dimensions.

According to the ICR (page 23), the project’s non-structural measures were only partially implemented due to a
limited understanding of their expected outputs and associated indicators. The project’s indicators should have
been revised during implementation to meaningfully reflect the project’s objectives, as they concentrated on
non-structural measures not prioritized within the original loan allocation, were either overly complex or too vague,
and were disconnected from the project’s PDO, distorting the overall outcome rating.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No
15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The quality if the ICR is Unsatisfactory.

First of all, the ICR focused on the wrong objective, i.e. not on the formulation of the Objective found in the Legal
Agreement or in the main text of the PAD. In doing so, the ICR was output-based (construction of infrastructure and
deliverance of the non-structural components) instead of directly addressing outcomes and the Program’s
achievement of the PDO, namely the reduction of the Borrower’s vulnerability to flooding. The quality of the evidence
presented for achievement of the PDO is thin, and the reporting focuses mainly on program outputs.

The ICR failed to pick up on and rectify the many shortcomings of the PAD. Two of the four key outcome indicators in
the PAD are not mentioned at all in the ICR, and the project's failure to pay attention to these is not picked up on in the
ICR. The Bank has informed IEG that the background data related to these indicators are available, and the fact that
the ICR does not report on those indicators despite available data is a significant fault.

Furthermore, the ICR fails to provide sufficient information on the Borrower’s contribution for each component, and as
such is not reporting on the full cost of the project, which raises accountability concerns. The ICR also presents a
weak set of lessons learned.

On p. 19, the ICR reports the population’s increased awareness of flooding risks as an “unintended impact’ when it
was very much intended. This interpretation betrays the ICR’s lack of understanding of what this project intended to
achieve.

 (Note: There is a typo in table (a) of Annex 1, page 24; total project cost is stated to be 131.01, while the component
figures add up to 134.01, - which is also the figure for total project cost in table (b) and in footnote 13).
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
