Damnist eof
The World Bn
FaR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4224-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 11.3 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
April 24, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withouL World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Sri Lanka Rupee
US$ 1.00    =   SL Re 28.0
SL Re 1.00      US$ 0.036
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEB     -  Ceylon Electricity Board
CHBP    -  Center for Housing, Building and Planning
CITP    -  Construction Industry Tra'ning Project
CM      -  Colomibo Mhnicipal Council
ICTAD   -  Institute for Construction Industry Training and Development
LGTRI   -  Local Government Training and Research Institute
LLDF    -  Local Loan Development Fund
ILGHC   -  Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Construction
NEDA    -  National Housing Development Authority
NIBM   -  National Institute of Business Nanagenent
SLIDA   -  Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration
UDA     -  Urban Development Authority
ULAs    - Urban Local Authorities
UPU     -  Urban Program Unit
WDB     -  National Water Supply and Drainage Board
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
NUNIr-PAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Credit and Proiect SumsarY
Borrower:       Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Amount:         SDR 11.3 millicn (US$13.0 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
Project
Description:    The objectives of the project are to support the Government
of Sri Lanka's sector policy adjustment process and
strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Local Government,
Housing and Construction (MLGUC) for improving the
managerial, financial and service delivery performance of
urban local authorities (ULAs). The project supports the
Goverment's strategy of further decentralization of
authority by developing greater accountability in ULAs,
introducing an incentive-based system of budgetary transfers,
improving local resource mobilization, and implementing a
concerted municipal management training effort. The project
ccmprises: (a) technical assistance and studies in the areas
of urban management and policy, financial management, local
resource mobilization, urban service delivery, mapping and
human resource development; (b) demonstration municipal civil
works; (c) aerial photography, surveys and map production for
urban areas; and (d) equipment, vehicles and supplies
required for the efficient provision of the proposed
technical assistance and training. By providing more
efficient and cost-effective urban infrastructure and
services, the urban population would benefit from an improved
standard of living and the enterprises from increased
productivity. The foreseeable risks are three, none of which
is unduly serious: (a) lack of political support to reforms;
(b) limited coordination capacity at the national level; and
(c) insufficient availability of qualified local manpower at
the national and ULA levels.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofAicial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Coat: jJ
Local  EQKeign   Total
- -(US$ Million)--
Urban MNeagen ent and Policy     0.71     2.21     2.92
Financial Managenent and
Resource Mobilization         0.81      2.16     2.97
Service Delivery                2.84      2.92     5.76
Napping                         0.85      2.65     3.50
Human Resource Development       0.43     2.00     2.43
Project Administration          0D-                0,08
Total Base Cost             5.72    11.94    17.66
Physical Contingencies          0.02      0.25     0.27
Price Contingencies             0.84      1.2    -2,46
Total Project Cost          6.58    13.81    20.39
Financing Plan:
Local   FoEig    Tota
-    (Us$ Million)---
Goverzent                        6.58     0.81     7.39
IDA                             QMOQ    13.00    13.00
Total                       6.58    13.81    20.39
Est&mated
Disbursements:    IDA FY      MflL  FY11  1m  9   I    1I0F9    FY92   1711  lxii
(US$ Million)
Annual       1.04  3.41  3.50   2.14   1.42   0.98  0.31    0.20
Cumulative   1.04  4.45  7.95  10.09  11.51  12.49  12.80   13.00
Economic Rate
of Return-:,       Not applicable
StAffi ADraisi-
lleport:           Not applicable
Nap:               IBRD 19519
&J  Includes taxes and duties of US$0.41 million.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
DEKOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit
to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for SDR 11.3 million
(US$13.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
municipal management project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      A country economic memorandum, "Sri Lanka: Recent Economic
Developments and Policies for Growth" (Report No. 5628-CE, dated May 14,
1985) was distributed to the Ezecutive Directors on May 28, 1985. Country
data are provided in Annex I.
3.     After almost ten years of low growth at 2.9 percent per annum, Sri
Lanka, in 1977, initiated a new development strategy. It entailed a package
of policy measures to liberalize the economy and allow a greater role for the
private sector. These policies, supported by the IMF, were designed to: (a)
reduce government intervention in comodity markets; (b) reduce government
consumption subsidies and restore producer incentives and public savings; and
Cc) create a favorable environment for private (foreign and domestic) invest-
ment through tax concessions, the creation of an Investment Promotion Zone,
and the unification and depreciation of the exchange rate. Two important
characteristics of this policy reform package were: (a) periodic increases
in the domestic support price for paddy (to bring it into line with world
prices) that spurred a highly positive response from paddy producers; and
(b) a decline in the cost of selected subsidies and transfers from about 10
percent of GDP in 1977 to about 3 percent by 1981.
4.      At the sAme time, the Covernment began to implement an ambitious
public investment program centered on three major initiatives:
(a) accelerated implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program, the
1/ This part is substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's
Report for the Second Industrial Development Project (Report
No. 4284-CE), which was approved by the Executive Directors on May 8,
1986.



-2-
largest multipurpose river basin development program ever undertaken in Sri
Lanka; (b) establishment of a 200-square mile free trade zone to attract
foreign investors located north of Colombo near the international airport;
and (c) institution of a massive housing and urban renewal program focusing
mainly on the Colombo metropolitan region, including the construction of a
new capital complex at Kotte, a suburb of Colombo. As the public investment
program gained momentum, its share in GDP jumped from 6 percent in 1977 to an
average of 13 percent in 1978/79 and a peak of 19 percent in 1980. The
public investment was financed in part by domestic resources (generated, in
turn, by a reduction in subsidies and transfers) and, in part, by high levels
of foreign aid.
5.      The initial result of both the policy reforms and increased level
of investment was an impressive jump in the GDP growth rate during 1977-80
to an annual average of 6.8 percent. The growth rate subsequently declined
to a more sustainable 5.3 percent in 1980-83 and 5 percent in 1984-85.
Underlying the increased growth of output was the expansion of paddy
production, garment exports, construction, and tourist services. The growth
rate of paddy production averaged 5.7 percent a year during 1978-85 with the
result that rice imports declined sharply and averaged only 10 percent of
total rice consumption during that period compared to 33 percent during
1970-77. Manufactured garment exports increased from US$12 million in 1977
to an estimated US$300 million in 1985 and now account for 80 percent of
non-petroleum manufactured exports. Tourist arrivals increased from 150,000
in 1977 to 400,000 in 1982. However, due to ethnic disturbances, arrivals
have declined since to 320,000 in 1983/84 and an estimated 260,000 in 1985.
6.      The rapid expansion in aggregate demand, led by high levels of public
investment, resulted in serious financial imbalances affecting the budget and
the balance of payments. The massive public investment initiated in 1977 led
to increases in budgetary spending from 23 percent of GDP in 1977, to a
record 43 percent in 1980. These high levels of spending, however, were not
accompanied by corresponding increases in fiscal revenues. When the economy
began to show serious signs of "overheating" in the early 1980s, the
Government squeezed current spending by reducing subsidies and by placing
limits on already inadequate public sector salaries and operation and main-
tenance expenditures. But with severe limits on the extent to which these
expenditures could be curtailed, the Government was impelled to borrow
heavily to finance the deficits which varied between 10 and 17 percent of GDP
during 1981-85. During that period, 45 percent of the deficits were financed
by foreign aid, 10 percent were financed by foreign commercial borrowings and
45 percent by domestic borrowing.
7.      The high levels of of investment also spilled over into the balance
of payments. Between 1977 and 1980, import volumes grew at an average annual
rate of 19 percent, while imported investment goods increased from US$83
million to US$493 million, and intermediate goods and petroleum imports
tripled in current prices. As a result of this fairly broad-based expansion,
merchandise imports as a share of GDP increased from 23 percent in 1977 to 51



-3-
percent in 1980. Export volumes, however, expanded at a much lower rate (an
average annual growth rate of 5 percent between 1977 and 1980) as the decline
in tree crop export volumes offset the strong growth in garment exports from
firms established in the Investment Promotion Zone. Consequently, merchan-
dise exports as a share of GDP increased from 21 percent in 1977 to only 26
percent in 1980. These diverse trends in the volume of trade were accom-
panied by a 26 percent deterioration in the terms of trade over the same
period. Rapid growth in tourism receipts and private remittances from abroad
failed to offset this deterioration in the trade account, and the current
account balance deteriorated from a surplus equivalent to 2.4 percent of GDP
in 1977 to a record deficit equivalent to 19.8 percent of GDP in 1980.
Deficits in 1978 and 1979 were more than offset by increased net aid
disbursements, and Sri Lanka continued to add to international reserves.
But, in 1980 the situation changed, when the current account deficit rose to
$800 million. It was financed by concessional flows, use of reserves (which
declined by $220 million) and recourse to commercial borrowing.
8.      ReaLizing that a continuation of the 1980 trends would result in
serious financial instability, the Government initiated an adjustment program
in 1981. The measures agreed upon initially, in consultation with the IMF,
includev tighter overall monetary policy, a substantial reduction in govern-
ment spending, and a gradual realignment of the exchange rate. The economy
began to respond positively by the end of 1981 (when the current account
deficit in the balance of payments declined to 13.7 percent of GDP and the
budgetary deficit to 15.5 percent), but in 1982 - a year in which there were
presidential elections and a referendum to extend the life of Parliament -
the political resolve to continue to apply the needed policy mix weakened.
As a result, both the external and internal deficits increased in 1982 (to
15.3 percent and 17.3 percent, respectively) and the GDP growth rate declined
to 5.1 percent. Although policy measures did contribute to the decline in
the current account deficit of the balance of payments in 1983 and 1984 (12.4
percent of GDP in 1983 and 3.7 percent in 1984), the primary factor was the
improvement in the terms of trade as a result of higher tea prices. With the
subsequent decline in the price of tea, the terms of trade deteriorated in
1985 and the current account deficit of the balance of payments increased to
8 percent of CDP. Furthermore, on account of lower receipts from taxes on
exported tea and higher defense expenditures, the overall budget deficit
increased from 10 percent of GDP in 1984 to 11 percent in 1985. Because the
price of tea declined in the second half of 1985, however, its effects on the
budget will mostly be felt in 1986 when the fiscal deficit may turn out to be
much higher.
9.      Achieving a more viable internal and external financial position are
now two prime policy objectives for Sri Lanka. To improve the external
position, one of the foremost requirements of government policy will be to
restructure the economy towards exports rather than producing for the very
limited domestic market. With the exception of garments, for which Sri Lanka
has a particularly strong comparative advantage, exports have performed
poorly. A major focal point for improvinig export performance is the tree



-4-
crop sector, which, as a result of more than a decade of neglect, has
experienced a stagnant level of production. This trend must be reversed.
To promote export activities, a more neutral incentive framework is needed,
including a foreign exchange policy that would permit the full diversity of
Sri Lanka's comparative advantage to develop.
10.     The Government has recently indicated its determination to pursue
reforms in this sector. In 1985, it reduced the overall tax burden on tree
crops. This reduction, in combination with the management/incentive reform
package for state-owned plantations implemented in early 1984, has improved
incentives for producers throughout this traditionally overtaxed subsector.
The Government has also introduced tariff changes, based on recommendations
made in the final report of the Presidential Tariff Commission on trade
taxes, aimed at reducing the overall tariff level and the variance of effec-
tive protection among sectors.
11.     The comparatively high levels of social welfare expenditures which
the population has long enjoyed and which cannot easily be reduced, together
with sharply increased defense expenditures, means that the Government must
renew its efforts to improve domestic resource mobilization -- especially in
the public sector - to pay for these outlays. Improving the domestic finan-
cial situation will require broadening the tax base thus increasing tax
revenues and reducing unproductive government expenditures. A focal point of
these measures will have to be the public sector enterprises, which account
for 40 percent of the value added in the non-petroleum manufacturing sector,
but are a heavy burden on the budget because of high protection from external
competition, administered prices for their products, their monopolistic or
quasi-monopolistic position, and the inefficient use of resources. They will
have to improve their management and reduce the support they obtain from the
budget.
12.     Throughout the entire 1978-85 period, the  response of the interna-
tional aid community to the Government's development efforts has been
enthusiastic. Project aid was stepped up, particularly for the Accelerated
Mahaweli Program. The overall level of aid commitments per year increased
from US$250 million in 1977 to a record US$800 million in 1981, equivalent to
US$55 per capita. Disbursements grew much more slowly so that the aid
pipeline rapidly expanded to around US$1.63 billion by the end of 1981.
Because implementation and domestic financial constraints required cuts in
public capital spending after 1981, aid commitments declined to US$500 mil-
lion in 1982, US$350 million in 1983, and US$460 million in 1984, halting
further increases in the pipeline. Aid disbursements have increased
steadily, from US$200 million in 1977 to US$550 million in 1984. Continued
high levels of aid will depend upon donors' willingness to finance a sizeable
portion of local costs, provide supplementary financing for ongoing projects,
where needed, and to increase non-project aid. Local cost financing in
support of Sri Lanka's resource mobilization efforts will not only provide
valuable relief from budgetary pressures, but will also supplement foreign
exchange resources needed to support the balance of payments.



-5-
13.     At the end of 1985, the external public debt outstanding and dis-
bursed stood at an estimated US$2.7 billion, about 40 percent of GDP.
Although over 70 percent of this debt is on concessional terms, the increased
commercial financing resorted to in 1981 and 1982 contributed to the increase
in the debt service payments (excluding IMF charges and repurchases) between
1982 and 1985, at which time the debt service ratio had risen to 15 percent.
Assuming that the Government's efforts to contain the budget deficit and to
implement policy measures designed to stimulate exports and efficient import
substitution activities are successful, the current account deficit in the
balance of payments should decline to approximately 7 percent of GDP toward
the end of the decade, and the debt service ratio, after temporarily rising
to almost 19 percent because of existing debt repayment commitments, should
drop to 15 percent in 1990. Nonetheless, the Government will need to monitor
carefully the level and terms of external borrowing to ensure that the
country maintains a satisfactory external payments position.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
14.     Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the World
Bank has approved 12 loans totaling US$183.7 million (net of cancellations)
and 38 credits totaling US$753.2 million (net of cancellations) in support of
47 projects. About 53 percent of World Bank assistance has been for agricul-
ture (irrigation, tree crops, and rural and dairy development), 17 percent
for power, 10 percent for transportation, and the remainder of 20 percent
among development finance company operations, a program credit (involving the
import of raw materials for industry), water supply, construction industry
training, and telecommunications. Eight loans and 16 credits have been fully
disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of World Bank Group opera-
tions as of March 31, 1986.
15.     In Sri Lanka, the IFC has a total investment of US$2.13 million
equivalent in equity and US$18.69 million equivalent in loans as of March 31,
1986. Investments have been made so far in two textiles industries, one
polypropylene bag industry, one equipment-leasing company, one hotel, and two
IFC lines of credit, one of which has been extended to the government-owned
Bank of Ceylon for term loans to medium-sized industries.
16.     A central element of the World Bank Group's current strategy in
Sri Lanka is the achievement of a more sustainable balance-of-payments posi-
tion in the medium term through export promotion and import substitution in
viable economic activities. The Bank Group's macroeconomic and sectoral
analyses of the Sri Lankan economy indicate that achieving and maintaining
external equilibrium in the context of a growing economy require major policy
changes in several areas: investment priorities should be assessed more
carefully than in the 'past; the system of economic incentives should become
more consistent; the role of the public sector in manufacturing activities



-6-
should be limited to clearly established priority areas; and cost recovery
should be seen as complementary to, rather than conflicting with, greater
equity in distribution.
17.     Within the above framework, the Bank's lending program has been
concentrating resources on directly productive sectors, such as agriculture
and industry, and in support of energy and transport infrastructure. Within
agriculture, Bank Group strategy had given until recently the highest
priority to the expansion of paddy production and to rehabilitation of the
vital tree crops subsector. Regarding tree crops, the objective has been to
channel resources into an activity in wihich Sri Lanka has a comparative
advantage. While this objective will retain its importance, the probable
attainment of self-sufficiency in rice wiLl allow the lending program to
support in the future programs aimed at expanding the production of other
important agricultural products for local consumption and, possibly, local
processing for exports.
18.     The World Bank has also provided financing for a broad range of
large-, medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises, primarily in the
private sector, through support of industrial development finance
institutions. Future lending in the sector would continue this support,
focusing on firms with export potential. It would also capitalize on the
conclusions of technical assistance financed through past operations to
provide support for improvement in trade and incentive policies, and for
increasing the efficiency of public enterprises.
19.     The Government's priority to rehabilitate rundown infrastructure and
expand the capacity of existing capital stock by high priority new invest-
ments is well placed and necessary in order to support expanded economic
activity, particularly in the private sector. Major elements of the lending
program would be directed at helping to meet the energy needs of the economy
and at easing transport bottlenecks. The World Bank has provided financing
to a number of power projects for generation, transmission and distribution.
The thrust of future operations would be decided on the basis of a comprehen-
sive assessment of investment needs in all three areas. However, given that
the majority of high yielding sources of energy in Sri Lanka have been util-
ized already, it is envisaged that the future program would accord relative
priority to energy conservation rather than generation, through both required
investments and policy measures. The old and inefficient power distribution
system would be rehabilitated to reduce system losses; small but significant
improvements in energy conservation would be undertaken in large energy
consuming industrial/commercial units; and a study is underway to recommend
measures to improve energy efficiency in the transport sector, a large con-
sumer of commercial energy in Sri Lanka. Support to the transport sector
would continue with rehabilitation and upgrading of the road network,
institutionalizing proper maintenance methods and improving sectoral planning
of policies and programs.



-7-
20.     Institutional capabilities, at both the planrking and implementation
levels, have been strained by the recent rapid expansion of public
investment. Continuing emphasis would be placed on project components sup-
porting institution building, human resource development, business and
industrial management, and public administration.
21.     The World Bank's development of a coherent lending program for Sri
Lanka, and its continuous dialog'e regarding the specific elements of the
program and policies necessary for increasing the program's effectiveness,
have been accompanied by firm support for a substantial transfer of resources
to Sri Lanka. The main grounds for this support have been the need to offset
the deterioration in the world trade environment; the achievement of a high
and sustained growth rate; and the tightness of the Government's budgetary
situation as increased operational and maintenance requirements make demands
on domestic resources.
22.     The World Bank Group, as of the end of 1984, accounted for 15.2
percent (IBRD, 2.3 percent; IDA, 12.9 percent) of Sri Lanka's total debt
outstanding and disbursed, and 5.0 percent of debt service on medium- and
long-term debt. The projected World Bank Group's share in total existing
external debt outstanding and disbursed will increase to 18.3 percent (with
IBRD's share declining to 1.9 percent) and its share in debt service will
increase to about 5.4 percent, by the end of 1986.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Development Context
23.     Sri Lanka's urban population is currently about 3.4 million or 21.5
percent of the total population. The urban population's growth rate is low
by regional standards. Government projections estimate urban population
growth of about 2.4 percent per year for the period 1981-1991, increasing the
share of urban population to 23.2 percent. The relatively slow growth of
urban areas is related to achievements of social policies: birth and death
rates are lower in Sri Lanka than in any other country of its income class;
welfare, edacation and health standards, although under pressure in recent
years, are relatively high and are widely spread over the island.
24.     Several factors will keep Sri Lanka's urban population from growing
rapidly in the near future. Conscious policy efforts at decentralization
have resulted in geographically dispersed social services and nearly equal
social welfare indicators in urban and rural areas. Transportation networks
allow easy commuting from farms and villages to smaller urban centers for
employment, commerce, social services and amenities, helping decrease rural
to urban migration. However, non-agricultural production currently con-
tributes about 70 percent of GNP, and typically urban economic activities
such as manufacturing (14.3 percent of GNP), construction (8.8 percent of



-8-
GNP), commercial services (17.6 percent of GNP), financial services (3.8
percent of CUP) and utilities, transport and other services (26 percent of
GNP) are expected to slightly increase their contribution to national
economic development. Therefore, improved urban efficiency is critical for
sustained economic growth.
Sector Organization
25.     An adequate national framework for urban administration is in place
in Sri Lanka under the guidance of the Ministry of Local Government, Housing
and Construction (MLGHC). The 51 urban local authorities (ULAs) and 7
statutory bodies, including the Urban Development Authority (UDA), the
Natioral Housing Development Authority (NHDA), the National Water Supply and
Drainage Board (WDB) and 7 departments are supervised by MLGHC (see Chart).
The single-tiered local government structure consists of popularly elected
ULA councils, each with an independent corporate status, whose powers and
duties are conferred by statute.
26.     Administration in the ULAs generally follows the British model of
local government and is, in principle, capable of handling the full range of
local government duties. The ULAs have been granted independent raxing and
charging authority (property, entertainment, business and trade taxes, and
various user charges and fees for services) and borrowing power. Local
expenditures, on the other hand, are determined by the type of services
prescribed by law. UIAs are responsible for the regulation and administra-
tion of all matters relating to public health, public utility services and
local roads, and generally for promoting the welfare and amenities of their
respective urban areas. Except for shelter and, in some cases, water produc-
tion and distribution and electricity distribution, all basic urban services
are delivered through local governments, including streets, drainage, street
lighting, sanitation, solid waste collection and disposal, and community
facilities such as bus depots, markets, slaughter houses, playgrounds and
libraries. In addition, the decentralization of some urban planning and
shelter implementation functions from UDA and NHDA to the ULAs was initiated
in 1985. However, until recently, the MLGHC was neither adequately organized
nor staffed to develop and implement policies and support programs for ULAs
(para. 39).
Sector Issues
27.     The principal issues facing the urbar sector are that:  (a) locally
mobilized resources and direct cost recovery are inadequate for providing
needed services; (b) financial management by the ULAs is weak; (c) ULAs have
become excessively dependent on government transfers for providing a minimum
acceptable range of municipal services; (d) provision of municipal services
is deteriorating; and (e) recruitment, training and retention of qualified
staff by ULAs are unsatisfactory.



-9-
28.     Local Resource Mobilization.  Locally mobilized resources and direct
cost recovery are inadequate. As a result, many ULAs are not in a position
to cover the cost of their administration and the operations and maintenance
of their assets. In addition, ULAs have been defaulting on payments to WDB
and to the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) for water and power retailed
through the local authorities. For all urban services except electricity
(i.e., administration, planning, water supply and sanitation where
applicable, refuse collection, roads, street lighting, health and welfare
services), ULAs spent a total of about Rs 179 (about US$8.60) per capita in
1982, a relatively small amount even for essential maintenance of existing
municipal services.
29.     ULAs are financing a decreasing proportion of their expenditures from
local taxes, with the balance being financed by service charges and govern-
ment transfers. In 1977, 44 percent of local expenditures were financed from
local taxes; in 1979, 29 percent; in 1982, 26 percent; and they are projected
to decline further to about 18 percent by 1987 if the proposed policy adjust-
ments are not implemented (para. 38). Because real per capita expenditures
generally remained stable over the period, the ULAs' financial deterioration
has resulted from decreasing local resource mobilization rather than spending
acceieration. ULAs do not need additional taxing authority but would need to
improve the administration of existing revenue sources, such as improved
valuation, rating and revenue records.
30.     Financial Management.  Although ULAs have the potential to be strong
local organizations, the trend has been one of deterioration. Not until
recently has a sense of responsibility in financial management been supported
by government policies, and by administrative and financial reforms. A
valuation unit with sufficient capacity to revalue all urban property on a
five-year cycle has been largely unused, while obsolete and incomplete
assessments significantly reduce yields from the local tax with the greatest
potential for increasing locally generated revenues, the property tax. A
lack of sound fiscal management on the part of the ULAs for financing
urgently needed urban services has resulted in increasing government sub-
sidies on recurrent account (para. 33). The Government's willingness in the
past to provide subsidies was a further disincentive for the ULAs to adopt
sound financial practices.
31.     All ULAs are required to prepare an annual budget consisting of
estimates of revenues and expenditures on both recurrent and capital
accounts. By law, the budget should be balanced by raising sufficient local
revenues through the property tax system to meet the difference between
proposed expenditures and income from sources other than property taxes. In
practice, this has not been done in many ULAs, leading to shortfalls in both
required capitaL investments and operating expenditures.
32.     The MunicipaL and Urban Councils Ordinance also requires councils to
use a standard system of program budgeting. However, prescribed financial
systems and practices, for the most part, are not being observed and the



-10-
standard of local financial management is weak. This has been attributable
in part to a lack of experienced staff, inadequate financial information
systems, and laxity in monitoring at the central level. Nearly all ULAs are
behind in meeting the legal requirements for closing their books and conduct-
ing audits. The Auditor General is resFronsible for the audit of urban local
authority accounts; however, an urban local authority is not required to
publish its accounts, nor does the audit procedure provide for public
examination or objection to the accounts -- a serious weakness in public
accountability. A system of auditing is in operation, but the preparation of
annual accounts for many ULAs is considerably in arrears. In September 1985,
20 ULAs had not submitted their 1984 accounts, and several were more than one
year in arrears.
33.     Government Transfers to ULAs.  To sustain minimum levels of urban
services, ULAs depend on the national treasury and receive subsidies to meet
shortfalls in their operating budgets. A large proportion of the recurrent
grant is allocated according to increases in employee costs statutorily
imposed on ULAs by Government to ensure that local government staff salaries
and conditions are equivalent to those of central government employees.
Total transfers from Government to the ULAs have increased steadily from
about Rs 79 million in 1977, to Rs 318 million in 1983, and 580 million in
1984. These transfers absorbed about 1.2 percent of Government's recurrent
expenditure budget in 1984. The importance of government transfers is even
greater when seen from the point of view of the ULAs' operating budgets. For
example, in 1977 transfers covered 43 percent of ULAs' operating
expenditures; in 1983, 44 percent; and in 1984, 80 percent. The large
increase in 1984 was due to the Government's greater statutory salary support
requirements and payment of debts accumulated by the ULAs with CEB and WDB
over several years, and was in addition to revenue sharing and coverage of
operating deficits. Unless a strategy for strengthening local resource
mobilization and improving financial management is implemented, these trends
could have more serious fiscal implications for the treasury and further
diminish the capacity of urban areas to provide infrastructure for and serv-
ices to households and businesses.
34.     In contrast to transfers for recurrent expenditures, total capital
grants are very small (Rs 12.3 million in 1984). Until 1986, there was no
formal strategy for the allocation of capital grants to ULAs. The assistance
distributed was based on a small (Rs 0.2 million) allocation per electorate.
ULAs are expected to generate internal resources or to borrow to cover the
cost of capital projects. Nevertheless, the ULAs cannot effectively exercise
their borrowing authority because their creditworthiness is perceived as
limited. As a result, the ULAs' borrowing instrument, the Local Loans
Development Fund (LLDF), depends on government sources of finance, amounting
to approximately Rs 5 million a year, which is insignificant compared to the
ULAs capital needs. In addition, LLDF is not organized effectively and an
expansion of its operations should be reviewed.



-11-
35.     Urban Service Delivery.  Although, in general, conditions of cities
in Sri Lanka are better than in neighboring countries, ULAs suffer from many
deficiencies. Municipal services for developing land have not kept pace with
population growth. Shanties are estimated to house 15,000 families in
Colombo. The 1981 Housing Census estimated that piped water supply was
available to less than half of all urban households; of which only one
quarter have it on the premises. Sanitation was underdeveloped: only a few
parts of Colombo have waterborne sewerage systems and those are in poor
repair. Although 18 percent of households had f'.ush toilets and 65 percent
had other forms of latrines, 18 percent had no facilities. The planning,
construction, operations and maintenance of other urban services, such as
roads and storm drains, is severely inadequate. Even the necessary correc-
tive maintenance often is not carried out, allowing assets to fall into
disrepair and premature deterioration. A water supply and sanitation
rehabilitation project, being processed in parallel with this project, would
provide financing to help ease some of these constraints.
36.     Human Resource Development.  In some larger cities, the numbers of
ULA staff seems adequate. This is not the case, however, in the smaller
towns which are at a disadvantage in recruitment of qualified staff and where
positions often remain unfilled for months or even years. Moreover, the
appearance of adequate staffing may be the result of towns not performing
many of their development functions because of shortage of funds. Where
there have been attempts to increase significantly the developmental
activities of cities or to collect reasonable levels of taxes and charges,
inadequate staffing has emerged as a serious problem.
37.     The Local Government Department of the MLGHC is responsible for
assisting local authorities to recruit, place and train staff. There is no
overall humn resource development strategy, however, and the existing train-
ing resources in municipal management have been inadequate in the areas of
administration, finance, resource mobilization and even in operations and
maintenance of municipal services. Little systematic training is available
to new recruits in the ULAs, forcing on-the-job training on ill-prepared
local officers. The Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration
(SLIDA) offers only one short course in budgeting and financial control and
one diploma course in public financial management. These courses, however,
are broadly focused and not aimed specifically at municipal finance. The
National Institute of Business Management (NIBM) also offers finance and
management courses for businesses and industries, but those courses do not
meet ULA needs. Finally, the training approach of the Local Government
Training and Research Institute (LGTRI) of the MLGHC has relied mostly upon a
small lecture program to the exclusion of "hands on" exercises and work
experience and on outside lecturers with less relevant training and
experience in municipal financial management. LGTRI now focuses on training
of rural leaders. A vocational training project being processed in paralleL
with this project would provide financing to help ease some of the con-
straints in the construction industry.



-12-
Sector Policy Adjustments
38.     Emerging Sector Strategy.  Recognizing the magnitude of the issues
facing the ULAs, the growing importance of urban areas in the Sri Lankan
economy, and the risk of social unrest, the Government carried out in 1983,
under the leadership of the MLGHC, a joint sector review with IDA to develop
a sector strategy (paras. 42-43) to implement the required policy
adjustments. The strategy aims at developing, testing and adopting new
approaches to improve local government administration, focusing on the
managerial, financial and service delivery capacity of ULAs before consider-
ing significant increases in capital investments. The emerging strategy
looks for long-term, sustainable improvements in sector management by
decentralizing authority, developing greater self-reliance and
accountability, reducing financial dependence on the central Government
through increasing local resource mobilization, developing incentives for
better resource use and proper operations and maintenance of municipal
services, and initiating a national effort of technical assistance and
training. To reduce the financial dependence on the central Government, the
strategy aims at eliminating open-ended transfers to cover ULA operating
deficits in the next eight years, limiting transfers only to statutory salary
increases imposed by the Government on ULAs, and to sharing locally generated
revenues collected by Government. The actions detailed below have been taken
by MLGHC to initiate implementation of the sector policy adjustments in
preparation for the municipal management project.
39.     Urban Program Unit.  In April 1985, the MLGHC took the first steps to
establish an Urban Program Unit (UPU) for developing, implementing and
monitoring a municipal development program. Six staff members were appointed
to the UPU in August 1985. Its mandate is to: (a) initiate basic financial
and operational improvements in the ULAs principally within the existing
legal, institutional and financial framework; (b) develop a detailed policy
framework and strategy for long-term, sustainable improvements in ULA
performance; (c) introduce and develop an incentive-based system of grants
and an improved capital loan fund instrument; (d) assist each ULA in prepar-
ing and implementing management and finance plans; and (e) monitor actual
performance and assess the impact of the national strategy and municipal
program.
40.     In an effort to support the UPU in fulfilling its mandate, the MLGHC
initiated in August 1985 a 12-month UNDP-financed, IDA-executed technical
assistance project. The project provides for four full-time specialists
Ceach working closely with their counterparts in the UPU in the areas of
urban management, local government finance, municipal engineering, and
resource mobilization), and a part-time urban training specialist. The UNDP
project also aims at testing and implementing short-term improvements par-
ticularly in the areas of budgeting, resource mobilization, financial manage-
ment and operations and maintenance of pilot municipal services. With UPU
assistance, the ULAs have taken immediate steps to improve property tax
administration (records, billing and collection measures); introduce a finan-



-13-
cial appraisal process for capital investments; and establish (in the 12
larger ULAs) a Budget and Finance Committee, a General Management Committee
and an Operations and Maintenance Committee to exercise better control of
financial management. The ULAs are now paying all current bills for water
and electricity, and a schedule has been established to repay all arrears
owed to CEB and WDB in the next three years.
41.     Government Transfers to ULAs.  In 1985, the Government reformed the
inter-governmental transfer system by introducing performance criteria for
allocating grants. These criteria include: timely financial reporting
(monthly and annual accounts); improved revenue performance (especially,
property tax administration and reevaluation); efficiency of service delivery
with emphasis on operations and maintenance; settlement of arrears with CEB
and 1DB; preparation of an annual investment plan and a four-year development
plan, introduction of quarterly and yearly coordinating meetings; etc. The
number of criteria and the relative weight assigned to each in deciding
specific allocations to each ULA need further rationalization in order to
make the new system more effective. Recognizing this, the Government is
proceeding cautiously with the introduction of the system. In 1986, about
Rs 32.4 million of recurrent and capital grants, or about 5 percent of total
transfers to ULAs, have been withheld because of actual performance.
Notwithstanding the limited portion of grants allocated on the basis of
performance criteria, preliminary information suggests that ULAs are already
responding positively to this reform. In -he first three months of 1986,
five ULAs have introduced tax rate revisions, two have undertaken property
revaluations, two have improved billings and collections, three have
increased water user charges and three have introduced new accounting
systems.
IDA Role and Sector Assistance Strategy
42.     IDA's support for urban development in Sri Lanka has been con-
centrated over the past decade in the water supply and sanitation subsector.
Two lending operations have been undertaken and a third is under
consideration. Lessons from the first two water supply operations
(Credit 709-CE) suggest that greater emphasis should be given to strengthen-
ing of management and that institutional development efforts should be tar-
geted at the sector as a whole. In addition, IDA completed a Water Supply
and Sanitation Sector Study (No. 4190-CE) and an Urban Sector Report
(No. 4640-CE) (para. 38) in 1984, both with significant participation of Sri
Lankan sector agencies. These reports have been the basis for developing
sectoral policies, broadening discussions with donor agencies, understanding
more fully sector institutions and issues, and identifying the proposed
project.
43.     IDA's sector assistance strategy supports the Covernment's policy
adjustments (paras. 38-41) and emphasizes three objectives: (a) the
strengthening of policy formulation and public sector management capacity
through, inter alia, more systematic technical assistance and training (espe-



-14-
cially in the area of financial and municipal management); (b) improvement of
local resource mobilization, through better administration of the property
tax and, more importantly, the introduction of a performance-based system of
government transfers to ULAs; and (c) more efficient and effective use of
resources in delivering and maintaining urban services. The Association can
assist the Government in achieving these objectives by supporting its policy
adjustment process to improve municipal management.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Formulation
44.     The project was identified during the preparation of the Urban Sector
Report (paras. 38 and 42), which included a broad review of the country's
urban policies and programs. The project's objectives, scope and preparation
schedule were agreed with Government in August 1984. Following this
agreement, MLGHC decided to establish the UPU (para. 39) as the focus of
sector policy development and for preparing a municipal management program,
and mobilized consultants in August 1985 to support project preparation under
the UNDP-financed, IDA-executed technical assistance project (para. 40). The
proposed project was appraised in November 1985. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. from March 24-25, 1986. The Sri Lankan delegation was led
by Mr. R. Paskaralingam, Secretary, MLGHC. No appraisal report has been
prepared given the technical assistance nature of the project. A supplemen-
tary project data sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives
45.     The proposed project would support the Government's sector policy
adjustment process as set out in para. 38, strengthening the MLGHC's
organization and developing and refining approaches for improving the
managerial, financial and service delivery performance of all ULAs. It is an
explicit objective of the project to support all ULAs, including the less
stronger ones, so they can benefit from technical assistance and training in
management improvements. The objectives of the proposed project have a high
probability of being achieved for two reasons. First, the Government at its
highest levels, and also MLGHC's leadership, are determined to bring about
necessary reforms in all ULAs. Second, the Government possesses an effective
means of inducing ULAs ro introduce the required reforms through the provi-
sion of grants, which finance more than 50 percent of ULA's operating
expenditures.  The Government has already introduced a performar;ce-based
system of grant allocations among the ULAs, covering 5 percent of total grant
alLocations (para. 41), and has explicitly stated that the allocation of
progressively greater portions of grants to ULAs would become subject to
performance criteria.  The proportion allocated on the basis of the perfor-
mance criteria would be decided on the basis of annual reviews of ULA
response to this incentive system.



-15-
Project Description
46.     The project supports improvements in five areas:  (a) urban manage-
ment and policy, (b) financial management and resource mobilization,
(c) service delivery, (d) mapping, and (e) human resource development.
Inputs for technical assistance and studies would provide an annual average
of 0.13 staff years of foreign expertise and about 0.55 staff years of local
expertise for each ULA during the 7-year period. These provisions are based
on minimum requirements for developing, testing and adopting the proposed
management improvements.
1. Urban Management and Policy (US$2.92 Million)
(a) Urban Program Unit: Technical assistance and studies for
strengthening the management of the UPU, and developing further
its capacity for policy formulation, investment programming,
monitoring performance of ULAs and preparing a feasibility study
for a follow-up municipal program. MLGHC would maintain the UPU
and would staff it with appropriately qualified staff.
(b) General Management: Technical assistance for strengthening the
ULAs' administrative organization, developing management informa-
tion systems and administrative procedures, improving organiza-
tional structures, assisting manpower planning and development,
and preparing management and financial plans.
(c) CMC Organization and Management: A study for the improvement of
the organizational structure, information systems, staffing,
financial and technical management of the Colombo Municipal
Council (CMC), and assistance for implementation of reforms
recommended by the study, by July 31, 1989.
(d) Ministerial Organization: Technical assistance and studies for
reviewing the structure of the KLGHC and its sectoral departments
and agencies, and developing a strategy for organizing a more
efficient structure, and assistance in the implementation of
reforms. It is expected that reforms would be introduced by
July 31, 1989.
2. Financial Management and Resource Mobilization (US$2.97 Million)
(a) Capital and Recurrent Transfers: Technical assistance for fur-
ther developing and rationalizing the grant system, monitoring
the new performance system for allocating funds (para. 41), and a
feasibility study to review the LLDF and its potential develop-
ment into a municipal loan fund. MLGHC would maintain the
performance-based grant system, would conduct an annual review of
the system, and starting in June 30, 1988, in consultation with



-16-
the Association would institute appropriate changes to the
system, including allocating an increasing proportion of grants
based on performance.
(b)  Financial Management:  Technical assistance, equipment and
studies for streamlining, improving and updating the municipal
financial reporting system, including: introduction of new
budgeting formats which relate revenues from and expenditures on
services provided; introduction of a capital assets register and
a supplies inventory; a streamlined accounting system and a study
to review the long-term auditing requirements; capital expendi-
ture programming and financial information systems for decision
making, including a CMC computerization study (which would lead
to computerization of CMC's operations in 1989); and
(c)  Resource Mobilization:  Technical assistance and studies for
improved organization and management of local resource mobi-
lization in ULAs, with special emphasis on the local property
tax and business fees, including new systems of property
valuation, rating and revenue records, improved appeals and tax
exemption p ocedures, including a study to set up a central
rating/valuation unit. Revised property tax valuation and rebate
systems are to be instituted in 1988.
3. Service Delivery (US$5.76 Million)
(a)  Infrastructure and Municipal Services:  Technical assistance,
pilot civil works, vehicles and equipment for demonstrating on an
annual basis in selected ULAs more cost-effective approaches to:
(i) planning and design, construction and rehabilitation, opera-
tion and maintenance of infrastructure (e.g., water supply and
sanitation facilities, streets, storm drainage, electricity
supply and street lighting); and municipal services and
facilities (e.g., markets, libraries, and public administration
buildings); and (ii) preparation of standards, guidelines and
procedural manuals for implementing similar improvements in all
ULAs; and a first phase of priority improvements in solid waste
management for CHC. Criteria for selecting ULAs for pilot
schemes include: coverage of service areas, diversity in popula-
tion size, geographical location, institutional capability, past
service performance and magnitude of needs. Pilot schemes would
be selected annually from existing ULA investment programs.
(b) Studies for: (i) defining ULAs' role in shelter programs and
developing a 5-year shelter program for ULAs; (ii) municipal
drainage systems and the development of guidelines for the
preparation of local drainage plans; and Ciii) traffic management
for greater Colombo and guidelines for traffic management,
including management of public transport systems in Larger ULAs.



-17-
4. Base Mapping (US$3.50 Million)
Technical assistance and training for building up the capacity of
the Survey Department, aerial photography, equipment, materials
and vehicles for the production and updating of urban base maps
for an area of about 530 km2, including links to the plot
registration system in ULAs and in the Valuation Department, in a
phased program for the ULAs, to be completed in 1991.
5. Human Resource Development (US$2.43 Million)
(a) Technical assistance, equipment and books for setting up a Local
Government Training Unit within the UPU and for implementing a
5-year training program for ULAs in the managerial, financial and
technical areas, including staffing, program content and institu-
tional arrangements with existing training organizations, to
prepare and deliver about 105 course weeks per year.
(b) Training fellowships and overseas training and study tours.
(c) A study to formulate a long-term human resource development
strategy for ULAs, including staffing needs, recruitment policies
and salary structures (included in the urban management and
policy component).
Operational Action Plan
47.     The implementation of the technical assistance studies, physical and
managerial improvements and policy measures would follow a number of bench-
mark dates by which actions should be taken. These have been grouped into an
agreed Operational Action Plan, which would facilitate the monitoring of
progress of the project and the achievement of its objectives. The Action
Plan would be reviewed annually by MLCHC and updated in consultation with
the Association.
Project Costs and Financing
48.     The estimated total cost of the project, including contingencies is
US$20.4 million, with taxes and duties of US$0.41 million (Annex IV, Table 1,
Summary Project Cost). Base costs are expressed in prices projected as of
JuLy 1986. The estimated foreign exchange component is US$13.8 million,
representing approximately 68 percent of total project costs. Physical
contingencies of 10 percent have been allowed on equipment, supplies,
vehicles, and books, but excluding the pilot civil works component. Price
contingencies have been based on the following rates: for foreign costs, 7.0
percent for 1986 and 1987; 7.5 percent for 1988; 7.7 percent for 1989; 7.6
percent for 1990; and 4.5 percent for 1991 onwards; for local costs, 10.0
percent for 1986 and 1987; 9.0 percent for 1988; 8.0 percent for 1989; 7.6



-18-
percent for 1990; and 4.5 percent for 1991 onwards. The project includes
about 195 staffyears of local and 45 staffyears of foreign consultant and
advisory services to MLCHC, the UPU, the Survey Department and the 51 ULAs,
including CMC. The project would be financed by an IDA credit of US$13.0
million covering 64 percent of total project costs (65 percent net of taxes),
and the Government's contribution of US$7.4 million (36 percent of total
project cost, 35 percent net of taxes). Credit proceeds and Government
counterpart funds would be passed on as budgetary allocations to the MLGHC
and as grants to the various ULAs.
Project Implementation
49.     Status of Project Preparation.  Project preparation was initiated
by an MLGHC Steering Committee and several Task Forces which emerged from the
preparation of the joint Association/Government Urban Sector Report.
Responsibility for project preparation was assumed by the UPU in May 1985.
The unit became fully operational in August 1985, with the appointment of six
staff in urban finance, resource mobilization, service delivery, urban
management and training, and with consultants supported by the
UNDP-funded/IDA-executed Technical Assistance Project (para. 40). The
project's broad objectives, institutional design and components were
presented in a proposal in late 1985. UNDP supported technical assistance
would be continued to July 1986 to complete preparation and to initiate pilot
testing of the proposed improvements in financial reporting, revenue
administration and service delivery standards and maintenance procedures, and
to initiate key training courses.
50.     Recruitment of additional staff needed for the UPU has begun.  Final
terms of reference have been prepared for the major technical assistance
components requiring consultants' services. Shortlisting of qualified firms
began in April 1986. Selected firms and consultants would be in the field
starting September 1986. An overall procurement plan has been prepared
(para. 52). All critical preparation work should be compLeted in time for
the scheduled project start-up in September 1986.
51.     Implementing Agencies.  The MLCHC, through the UPU, would have over-
all responsibility for coordination and management of the project. The
implementation strategy is one of testing, refining, learning and adapting
methods in municipal management. The ministry would also be responsible for
contracting consultant services for the UPU. The phasing of the principal
activities is illustrated in the implementation schedule (Annex V) and in the
Operational Action Plan (para. 47). The agencies involved in the project
are:
(a) the MLGHC would be responsible for the institutionalization and
strengthening of the UPU and training of its staff, the reforms of
the grant and loan system including the monitoring of ULA
performance, the ministry's organizational strengthening, and the
human resource development study;



-19-
(b) the MLGHC, through the UPU, would be responsible for overall policy
direction, monitoring of project implementation, including prepara-
tion of a follow-up urban program, and the technical assistance and
studies components;
tc)  the NLGHC, through the LGTU, to be established as part of the UPU,
and with assistance from SLIDA, NIBM and CITP/ICTAD, the
universities, and CHBP, would execute the training components;
(d) the ULAs, with UPU assistance and as appropriate the sectoral agen-
cies (namely WDB and CEB), would implement the municipal service
delivery component;
Ce) the ULAs, with UPU assistance, would implenent the financial manage-
ment and resource mobilization components;
(f)  the CNC, in liaison with the MLGHC, would implement the organization
and management and computerization studies for that city, the ini-
tial phase of the solid vaste management improvements and the traf-
fic management study; and
Cg) the Survey Department, in liaison vith the MfLGKC, would execute the
base mapping component.
Procurement
52.     Procurement arrangements are snmmarized in the Table below.
Consultants services for technical assistance and studies would be obtained
through short listing in accordance with IDA guidelines on selection of
consultants (US$10.6 million). Technical assistance for training would be
awarded to the consultants currently engaged for this purpose (US$0.85
million). Fellowships would be avarded following'approval by the Association
(US$1.1 million). The equipment, supplies and vehicles that could be grouped
into contracts vplued at US$50,000 or more would be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) (US$2.5 million). Goods manufactured
locally would be given a preference margin of up to 15 percent or the
applicable customs duty, whichever is lower, on ICB procurement. All civil
works contracts (US$2.8 million) and equipment and supplies contracts (US$0.7
million) with a value less than US$50,000 would be procured through LCB.
Minor equipment and supplies (US$0.2 million) in packages of US$10,000 or
less would be procured through local shopping based on at least 3 quotations.
Minor civil work' for maintenance and rehabilitation of municipal services
and infrastructure (US$1.0 million) and mapping (US$0.5 million) would be
carried out by force account in the ULAs and the Survey Department,
respectively. It is not likely that any of the individual civil works con-
tracts would be large enough to attract foreign bidders. Moreover, the local
construction industry is well developed and capable of executing small
municipal works at costs competitive with international bidders. Local
competitive bidding (LCB) policies and procedures followed by Government are
generally compatible with Association requirements.



-20-
I ________Procurgent Methods
I        I  Short  I           I           I        I Total
I   ICB  I  List &/I   LCB   I  Other  I  N/A -I Costs
1.  Technical Assistance    I          I  10.60  1           I  0.85 b/l          I 11.45
and Studies              I         I   (7.67) I             (0.62)  I         1 (8.29)
2.  Civil Works               l        l           1 2.80 /l   1.00 s/I          1  3.80
l        l           I (0.53)  I (0.19)  I          I (0.71)
3.  Equipment, Vehicles       I 2.51 {II           I 0.70 a/I   0.20 f.l          1  3.41
and Supplies             1(2.30)  1           I (0.63)  1 (0.19)  1           1 (3.12)
4.  Surveying and Map         l        l           1         1  0.53 Il           I  0.53
Production               l         l          I          1 (0.00)  I          I (0.00)
5.  Fellowships, etc.         I                                          I l  I  I  1.10 I  1.10
l        I           I         I           I (0.87)1  (0.87)
6.  Project Administration                                               I  0.11 I  0.11
I        I           I         I           I (0.00)1  (0.00)
TOTAL                    1 2.51   |  10.60  1 3.50   I  2.58   I  1.21 | 20.40
1(2.30)  I   (7.67) 1 (1.16)  1 (1.00)  1 (0.87)1 (13.00)
NOTES:  1.  All amounts in US$ million, including physical and price contingencies.
2.  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
3. All equipment contracts of US$50,000 or more would be subject to
prior review by IDA. Other contracts would be subject to selective
post award review.
ai  All contracts for these consulting services would be awarded based on
the Bank's guidelines for selection of consultants through short listing.
b/ Comprises: (i) 3.25 man-years of expatriate assistance procured sole
source (University of Birmingham, UK, proposed to continue its current
assistance as a twinning arrangwaent) and (ii) 71 mar-years of
individual local trainers and translators.
c; Part of the civil works contracts would be awarded based on LCB while
part of the works would be carried out by force account in the ULAs.
The latter is an important element in the approach whereby specific
projects would serve as vehicles for developing standards and other
indicators of service delivery efficiency and guidelines and procedure
manuals for ULAs, based on strong involvement by ULA technical staff
and with strong emphasis on on-the-job training and technical
assistance by UPU/Consultants. The allocation between contracted works
and force account works would be determined on an anneal basis when the
actual projects have been selected. All projects will be small with an
estimated maximum contract size equivalent to US$50,000. 'The cost
estimates include minor related equipment
dI Survey and mapping equipment for the Survey Department and a computer
for C1fC. Procurement under ICB would apply to equipment packages of
US$50,000 equivalent or more.
e/ Vehicles, survey instrunments and supplies.
g/ Local shopping, in an aggregate amount of not more than US$0.2 million,
will be based on at least 3 quotations. This applies to packages of
US$10,000 or less which would be financed through the Special Account.
g] Labor and administration, etc. for force account work carried out by the
Survey Department.



-21-
53.     All procurement documentation would be prepared and reviewed by the
agencies in charge of the respective project components, under the supervi-
sion of MLGHC, which would have the sole authority to execute contracts,
except for some civil works contracts which would be executed by ULAs. All
civil works and goods contracts of US$50,000 or more and all consultancy
contracts, accounting for about 70 percent of total project costs, would be
subject to prior review by IDA. Other contracts would be subject to post-
award review.
Disbursements
54.     The project would be completed by December 31, 1993, and the proposed
credit of US$13 million is expected to be disbursed by June 30, 1994. The
disbursement schedule is given in Annex IV, Table 2. The eight-year disbur-
sement period is consistent with the region-wide experience for technical
assistance projects.
55.     Disbursements by IDA would be fully documented except payments under
contracts for locally procured goods and local civil works costing less than
equivalent $50,000 each, and in respect of civil works under force account,
which would be disbursed against certified statements of expenditures. IDA
would finance 100 percent of foreign costs of technical assistance and
studies; 100 percent of overseas fellowships and training; civil works at
20 percent; and equipment and vehicles, 100 percent of foreign expenditures
if directly imported, 100 percent of local expenditures, ex-factory cost if
locally manufactured, and 70 percent if procured locally.
Special Account
56.     In order to expedite disbursements, a Special Account with an
authorized allocation of dollars equivalent of SDR 700,000 (representing
about four months of estimated IDA-financed expenditures), would be estab-
lished at the Central Bank for account of the Project entity, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. All IDA-financed expenditures
will be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Special Accounts,
which would be replenished on a monthly basis on receipt and review of
withdrawal application, supported by the required documentation.
Financial ManaRement and Audits
57.     Overall financial management and accounting of the Project would be
the responsibility of the MLGHC. The Project would provide technical assis-
tance to ULAs for establishing the information base for the municipal
accounting system. The MLGHC would consolidate the accounts sent by ULAs and
other Project entities in a special set of project accounts, which would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The annus; audit
would include audit of payments made out of the Special Account and a
separate opinion on expenditures reimbursed by IDA on the basis of statements



-22-
of expenditures. The audit report should be submitted to IDA no later than
nine months after the end of each fiscal year.
Monitoring and Supervision
58.     Each of the executing agencies would prepare brief monthly progress
memoranda, which would be submitted to the MLGHC through the UPU. The UPU
would make recommendations on any corrective actions considered necessary
to ensure that project objectives, management reforms, implementation
schedules, staffing and cost estimates are achieved. Based on the brief
monthly memoranda and its own field supervision and controls, the UPU would
prepare semi-annual reports on the overall progress of the program highlight-
ing any major problems in any component and suggestions for overcoming them.
The semi-annual project reports would set out managerial, financial and
service delivery and training indicators, and would be submitted to IDA by
the MLGHC within one month following the end of each reporting semester. The
monitoring and reporting procedures and formats would be periodically
reviewed with IDA and updated as necessary. The Operational Action Plan
would be updated on an annual basis and reviewed with IDA. Upon completion,
GOSL woull prepare a Project Completion Report.
Project Justification
59.     Benefits.  The proje^t is expected to lead to more efficient public
sector management at the national and local levels. Through improved finan-
cial management and more efficient resource use, the project would lead to
enhanced service levels and reduced demands on the national budget. The
project would strengthen the role of the HLGHC in implementing and monitoring
the sector policy adjustments initiated under the Government's decentraliza-
tion strategy. At the local level, the project would strengthen the
managerial, financial and technical expertise of ULAs by introducing and
improving systems for plAnning, financing, delivering and operating the
services for which they are formally responsible. The application of finan-
cial criteria for the appraisal of investments would increase efficiency of
resource use for more viable capital investments. The restructured inter-
governmental transfer system linked to ULA performance would also encourage
overall efficiency of local resource utilization. The project would also
support long-range training and human resource development to enhance the
technical, financial and managerial efficiency of ULAs.
60.     It is not possible to calculate the economic rate of return on the
project as a whole because of its technical assistance and training thrust.
Financial rates of return would be calculated for individual capital projects
with direct cost recovery, as and when they are designed (e.g., markets,
water supply, shelter, etc.).
61.     The project is not designed to specifically target benefits to the
urban poor. The project benefits take the form of gains in efficiency and
effectiveness in the delivery of urban services for the total population of



-23-
the ULAs. It is estimated that about 30 percent of ULAs' population have
incomes below the poverty threshold and about 25 percent of project costs
would benefit the poor, directly and indirectly.
62.     Risks.  The foreseeable risks are three, none of which is unduly
high: (a) lack of political support for the reforms; (b) insufficient coor-
dination capacity at the national level; and (c) unavailability of qualified
manpower at the national and local levels. To reduce the risk under (a),
procedural improvements in the administration of property tax (including
extending coverage, improved record keeping, more efficient collection and a
new system of valuation) would be introduced in all ULAs. These are not
expected to meet serious political opposition. Similarly the service
delivery and mapping components would be introduced in a phased program
covering all ULAs. The more politically sensitive reforms, such as increas-
ing the property tax rate structure or the reassessment of property values,
are decisions that rest with each ULA, and would be gradually introduced in
ULAs with political support at the council level. However, the reformed
grants system provides incentives for carrying out property revaluation.
63.     Insufficient coordination capacity at the national level is addressed
by the project's institutional design and the support and strengthening of
the UPU through extended technical assistance and training, and by the sector
policy adjustments initiated by the NLGHC (paras. 38-41). More specifically,
MLGHC's effort in project preparation, the setting up of a unit as a focus of
sectoral policy, the decisiveness with which performance incentives were
introduced in the 1986 grants system, and the organization of annual seminars
for ULA management, all indicate the ministry's long-term commitment to a
policy reform process supportive of the national decentralization effort.
64.     Regarding the limited availability and turnover of qualified
manpower, at the national Level the MLGHC has provided the UPU with a core of
skilled staff, and has formalized its mandate within the structure of the
ministry.  Hanp.wer development is also supported through a long-term program
of technical assistance for the MLGHC throughout the implementation period.
In addition, the project supports a long-term training program for UPU and
ULA staff, including study tours and fellowships in municipal managemer.c,
finance, resource mobilization and service delivery, and the preparation of a
long-term human resource development study.



-24-
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
65.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recomend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington D. C.
April 24, 1986



-25-                                           AMNX
MOWS?  L1 hNC~             wUUUofU6
I& IS*   L             PAt  Fa A                         lPCof
ma (133  ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ on a num)L
M(o 41.3  es. .n>N    f
TOTL                                         65. *s*    *s-                  *
AAIUoLl1.S                        1178.2     24.2       21.1
3M  cea  CM351                     ..          ..                         13x.1                   W01'.'
inv  nouTia rU ceua
cLoLOI o OIL 0IUTALKNT)           122.0       31a.0      123.0             231.7                    SA6.8
NII nUge XVL  osfitce
POPuLATIA .MID-9AS CTluNuSA)   9649.0    13211.0    1341..0
WIAN PCPtSATIU     Or TOTAL)       17.3       21.9        23.0              22.3                    311.
POUUIATt ll SWKCitus
POPulATIs tEal  2000 (lULL)                             21.1
nOTATIOSSATPOPOLATIOS (PUILL)                           32.0
POPIN.TION 001mtm1.
9oULqATIOU 33311
in  g. MS.                      I1.O        190.3      231.0              113.1                   334.9
M  SQ. UN. AG11. LAND           113.9      517.6       32.U              353.3                   1519.s
POPUATIo *01 STuacTOm  (5)
@-il us                         42.0        41.9       31.2               3.1                     23.2
11-4, TS                         34.3       * .4         0.3 2             9.                      57.7
63 1AM AM                        32.3       3.3         '.1               4.1                      1.1
POPIIATWOI CRlAUS lATE (2)
TOTAL                             2.1         2.4        1.4               2.0                      2.3
Una                               4.1 '.3                2.9               4.31                     4.
CtIII1    PAT (M1  TUSO            33.7       29.4        2&.5              27.1                     30.1
Iu1 aImU RATS (M l2u )              9.2        7.5         4.0              10.2                      9.4
mu01 3WIUOCTION JA                  2.3        2.2         1.4               1.7                      2.9
POULI PLANNZI
A         ANm. (TONS)             ..         5.3       100.1
sm    CZw sNeD         )          ..         ..         3.0              *49.4                       .S
2160  0 10010.MlCPT
(SW71-1100)                        93.0      103.0       144.0             114.1                    124.4
PU CAPT SUPL or
CILI    (a or N UUUS)            36.0       101.0      109.0             10.                    113.3
PUTINS( A   in Off)              44.0       41.0        44.0              0.1                     0.3
or 1m11    SD" An  ULS           13.0       12.0        3.0              14.4                     14..1
01. (CA    1-4) 364A1 ILTE          7.1        4.3         2.0               73                       7.2
Lin  mncT. A ut1s (TAS)            42.0       *.6         39.1              40.1                     10.1
In*3I S01?. at (PU 1I)             71.0       M9.0       37.0        H        .2                    44.9
ACCES To gmN HATER (110W)
TOTAL                             ..         21.0       23.0 Id           44.2                     44.0
01313                             ..       iv.ff        H.  j             77.2                     57.4
IMAL                              ..         14.0       13.0                                       37.1
ACCESS TO KRTA DIUSSAL
CZ or POPOLTIIM
TOUL                              *          4.         H9.0 L             7.8                     30.1
03*3                              ..        74.0        30.0              23.                      52.9
anAL                              ''        41.0        33.0               1.1                    4&.7
POPUATIO  MU UtSCIA              4490.0     1950.0      1170.0            3318.0                 1711.1
POP. P" 3035136 p3i"            4*170.0     220.0      1340.0            4490.7                   2444.5
P. M  NO=   tol
TOUIL                           320.0      330.0       340.0 It         1039.2                  I1111
313                             120.0 /    210.0       240.0 x           3".1                    451.4
LOL                            1060.0      370.0       54.0             *2.2                     2513.9
UIAD iUS P1L ESPITAL En             ..        54.4         ..               52.3                    43.1
xVERE SIzE Of UOLD
TOEZ.                             3.4        1..
13M                               4.3 l.3
WUSDL                             3.2 11     S.S
AV0  30. N Or iIdOWSu
TOTAL                             2.0 ib     2.1
tWAN                              2.1 7F     2.1
LUL                               2.0        2.5
s92C1TA01 Or 3JLIMM WM tLCT.
TOTAL                             7.35       9 .0
1311                             33.9 7F    3&.S         ..                ..
IDEAL.                            2.3 7      3.0



_26                                                 ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
T A I L f 3&
Sit LANKA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA MNEET
SRI LANKA                             RCFSgRMCE GROPS (W&tOITEI) AVERAS) /a
MSt                      (MlST Rg CENT LSTLHAT) lb
K&CtxLt            LOW tINCIl            ItDDLCE INCL4E
19601-b     197Utl   tSTIMATKSt      Ab4A & PACIFIC         ASIA * PACIIIC
ADJUSTED ENlOLIENT tATIOS
PRIMtA :  TOTAL                    95.0        99.n       103.'l              92.b                     100.7
MAtE                   100.0       104.4       106.0              105.5                     104.4
FCUALt                  90.0        94.0       lul.O               79.3                      S7.2
SECOUDAMYt TOTAL                   27.0        47.0        54.0               31.3                      47.b
KALE                    38.0        46.0        52.0               4u.8                      5U.b
FESALE                  16.0       4d.0         57.0              21.Y                      44.*
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECOHNDt)            ..          0.4         0.4                3.2                      1U.4
PUPIL-TEACMER RATIO
8RNLWD                             31.0        28.0        1b.0               38.0                      30.4
SECOND                                                                        17 .4                     22.2
PASSENGER CAISIT20S3AND POP           S.4         7.0         7.3 /L             0.9                      Iu.I
RADIO UECEWEIS/TSIOSAND POP          35.8        39.9       111.9              129.8                     172.9
TV RECEIVERS/TAOUSAZID POP                                    3.3               19.8                      58.5
NEWSPAPER (DATIT GENETUL
INTEREST") CIRCLATION
PER THOUSAND POPLATION              36.0        48.9       110.7               25.7                      65.3
C1IA ANNUAL ATYENDICEIAfITA           2.9  j      7.8    *     .3                6.0                       3.4
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          3391.0      4188.0      5920.0
FEKALE (PERCENT)                  22.6         23.7       25.2               33.2                      33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              56.0        55.0        54.0 Id            69.6                      52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCtNT)                 14.0        14.0        I4 0 7d           15.8                      17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              34.3        33.5        3B.4              41.9                       38.9
HALE                               50.8        49.1        S0.9              53.6                       50.8
FEMALE                             16.2        16.5        17.8              29.1                      26.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDSNCY RATtO             1.3         1.4         1.0                1.0                       1.1
INONE; DTS!TI0UE
PERCENT OF PRMVATE ZUCCUE
RECEIVE ST
I:IGCESS 5S OF HOUSENOLDS          26.4 /h    18.2
HIGHEST 20 OF HOUSCEOLDS           5241 7ir    43.4                                                    4b.O
LOWEST 202 OF lOUSEHOLDS            4.5 th      7.5                                                     6.4
LISST 4O2 OF IWOUS5EOLDS           13.7 7;r    19.2         .                                          15.5
?O17 TAU CROONE
ESTIAM-D  ABSOLUTE POVEI DCWE
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPTA)
URAN                                             .          .                133.9
Il1RAL                                    .                 ..              111.6                     151.5!
STImKATED REATIE POVEMY  INDME
LVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UA                                  ..          ..         ..                 ..                      177.9
RURAL                              ..                       .                61.7                     164.7
ESTDLATED POP. BELW ASOLUTE
POVERTY INCOM LEVEL II)
UN                                              ..         ..                43.8                      23.5
RUMW                                                                         51.7                      37.8
NOT AVALABLE
NOT APPL!CANL.
10 T E S
The rvop awtinps for each  .ndtcatoa are  opplation-veIgted arinluaric mans.  Coverage of couetrlem
1Mo  the indicators dependa an avalability of date and Is not umiform.
/b  UDness othebils noted. "Data for 1960r refer to any year batven 1959 and 1961: 'Data for 1970" betveen
1969 and 1971; and data for Naac Racent Estimate" between 1981 and 1983.
/c  1977;  Jd 1980; Ic 1962;  /f 1979;  X 1976; /h 1963; /1 1978; t 1958.
JUNE. 1905



ANNEX I
-27  -                                              Page 3 of 6
DEIN(IMNh OF SOCIAL INDICAT01ms
Notes Although the dab miedrawn from MwnUft7 peneuaIt4 judged the mort aviumth e rio and reliaNt it shotakld it' he tnted that the5 ma) flit he mnternaiecnalI!
cimpabhi beume of the Ilac of rarndrdized definitonk and comrps tamed Wb different countrie. in co1kvmiun liht dilt The data. are. nrnaihekes. uewrul in
dewntk orders or tnrnoitde. midicate iends. mnd eharicterar certimn mejor diltncri. heis Knf ee ntine.
The rerrenee  ur*tiaps rIe IlI Ilth  iaft colfnir! group of the suhli aounflr and 121 . c unIr gro uur  iiih tnewhal highei aerdpr eincorie than the counir)
FouruofThesbjeci coulnr) tfcit friR -Nigh Incotme Oil I tporeerC gtrup where Middle Incsinl %'nh nfriLA and Middl lati isichiien bteciu of mtiinget
moo-cullural Wahnirsi In the rerenev proup daii the average. are populatiun weighied irtuhmetik meanc fan emih tndiw.o. and shown onlh when n.ajomrt
ofher Lcuuanirne in sgorphasdal. tfo lumi mndwst" Sinficeh coLverage of isuntriesinmong Ihe indkato  depends on the aii.iiiiil) tfdaia and it not unifnrm.
cautionust he esrcosedn retinig  er.tage'ofronndiai.- to another Theseverae. arv oml tuwfulnconiaflflnn the dlue t oneindiatl,or iili inwaniofn
th I acunir) mnd referenve pritupa
AR EA I thou sand sq. k m I                                          Crude Birth Roar per thousande   Num ber of Ih e births m I he ycJ:
Total -lotal surrace area comprsinf land area and miand v.it er%.    per thousnd of mid-%car p.ipul.t.tin. 1960. 1970. and 1953 date
1960. 197(t and 1953 dat:                                            Crudr Death Rate tpet sIhorund)  Number of deaths in the year
Agrieautal - Estimale of agncultural area used temporarl) or         per thousand of mid-year populaion. 1960. 1970. and 1913 data
permanentl% for crop%. pastures. market and kitchen gardcn'. or its  Gross Reproduction Rat  Averagc number of daughters a womar
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1952 dal.i                                will eair in her normal reproducitne period if she experience.
prewsni age-specific fertilit) rates. usually five-yearaveragesending
GNP PER CAPITA (LISSY--NP per capila estimates Al currenl            tn 1960. 197(1. anJ 1983
market prices. calculated b) same conversion method as World              y Plmning-A:eprr. Annual (thousandsj- Annual num-
Bank Arlas f 1981 -J basit'). 1983 da ta                             ber of acceptor of birth-conroil de aces underauspices of nationa
famnih planning program
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA--Annual apparent                           -
consumption of commercial pnmar) encrgy (coal and lignite.           Family Pning-users (periet ofnmarried tmen)-- - The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro. nuclear and geothermal clec-       tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita. 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing an) form of contraception. Women
1982 data                                                            ofchild-bearing age are generallh women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptivC usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                      groups.
Totdal Popuaion. Mid- Yew  thousands)-As ofJ ul) 1. 1960. 1970.      FOOD AND NL.TRITION
and 1983 data.
lind  of FoodProdur ion Per Cpita  96971= IfI)  lndexofper
Urbn Poplation (percent ef torta    Ratio of urban to total          capita annual production of all food commodities Production
population;differentdefinitionsofurbanareasmavaffectcompar-          excludes animal feod and seed for agricultur. Food commodities
ability of data amnong coutrites; 1960. 1970. and 1933 data.         include primars commodities (c.g  sugarcane instead of supag
Population Pnjerions                                                 which are edibk and contain nutrients (e.g coffee and tea are
Population in yeor 20U l-The projetion of population for 2000.       excluded), the% comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separaiely. Starting with infonmation on       vegetables. Fruits. nuts. sugarcane and supr beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products Aggregate production ofeach country is based
inteniational migration in the base year 1980. thtse parameters      on national average producer pnce weiLhts, 1961-65. 1970N and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized    1982 data
assumptions until the population became stationary.                  rer Capita Sarpp4 of Caories (percent ofirequirenentsf- -Comput-
Stationary population-is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-     ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies asailable in countrn
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level   tion, imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also      food processing. and losscs in distribution  Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population     estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activius
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperaturc. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                           waste at household level. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Papularion Momnenrnn-Is the tendency fo - population growth to       Per Capita Sapply of Prrein (gramns per daV)- - Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertilit has been    per capita net supp1% of food perda. Net supply of food is defined
achieved that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached   as above Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as     provide for minimum allowance' of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in   day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 gram',
the year s. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These s-andards.are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                            75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Population Denst                                                     average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-        Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                     Per Capita Prorein Supply Fiero  Anita and Pnlise-Protein suppli
Per sq.km. agricultural land-Computed as above for agncultural      of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 19E2 data.                                1970 and 1977 data
Popaliuion Age Strwrtarr (percearl-Children (0-14 years). work-      Chfild(ages 1-4. Death Rate (per thousand) -- Number ofdeaths of
ingage(l5-64years) and retird (65 yearsand over) as percentage       children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data                    group in a gipen year For most de'clopmng countries data derned
PopulaetionGrowth Rate (percent)-bostal --Annual gzrowth rates of    from lafe tables. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83          HEALTH
Poplation Growth Rate (percerr-urban-Annual growth rates             Life Expectancy at Birth (years-  - Number of vyars a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-1(3 data         inrant would Inc if prevading patterns of mortality for all peoplc



-28-                                          ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the dine of ofits birth were to ny the ume throughout its lifte  p&rnckr Rotio . pr..!v. c   ardmdur-Total students e.
1960.1970 and 1983 data.                                       ralled in pnmary and econdary kvels divided by number Of
Wow Meral by Rtw (pr shmusidj-Number of infants who die        techers in the cormponding levels.
befioe eching one yer of ag per thonund lve births in a given
year. 1960,1970 and 1983 data.                                 CONSN MTIm oN
Amn to n*  S10er (petteuof _    piobiQ-flal. U6i1    d         AawMUr Cars (per Sagsed pqpbrhj-PNsrcnger cars   nw
Numra-Nunber of people (otel. urban, and rual) vAth reasble    prei  motor cars stint les than eight persons; excludes ambul-
osm to ate water supply (indudes treated surae vwaters or      ance  hears and military vehidc.
untreted but uncontaminated water such - that from protc ed   Rub Reeersr (pr khousm.dpopuiasbu)-All types o recives
boreholes prin and anitary wells) as pteentages of their IcP-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of populalion;
dye populationL In an urban area a public fountain or stndpost  excludes un-licensed receiver in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters Rrom a horn may be considerd  registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as beng within resable aces  of that houe. In rural areas      not be comparable since most countrines abolished liensing.
reasonab  accesswouldimplythatthehousefeor membeors ofthe      7 Ivers (praIIte-TV meivers for brodcst
houselhold do not have to spend a disprp_iite part of th dayn rpbl-Trcnnobt
in hetching the fhnily's waterndra                             to gnerl public per thousand population: exdudes unlicensed TV
receiven in countris and in years when registration of TV st was
Acce  to Exrete Drpoestl (pemrce f efpopuhatioa-orarei.  .     in effect.
and rural-Number or peopie (total, urban, and rurl) srved by
ccreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Ner'WY" Cfclsh (per 'thesa t  psp.ldm)-Shows the aver
Eacreta disposal may include the collction and disposal with or  ae arculation of "daely geeral interest newspaper  defined a a
without treatment, of human excea and waste-water by water-    periodical publication devoted primarily to recording gnral news
borne systems or the u- of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be -dailyf irit appears at least four times a week.
hp.Wro per Pblyidau-Rpulation divided by number of prac-       Clfem  Amul Antm_ane per CEa per Yew-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university levde  number of tickets sold during the year. induding admissions to
Pepulaia per NArsbg Persne-fpulation divided by number or      drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing mal and  emale graduate nures assistant nurses
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LBORFORCE
&A  l per HepW  mal-         wtol,  _M   -  reral-pulation     Teral Lubr Frc (tbsmndsJ-Econornically active personL, in-
(total, urban, and rural) divided by thei respective number of  duding armed forces and unernployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public and private, gener and speciaed  students. etc., covering population of all as. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers Hospitals are establishnents  various countries are not cempamcbk 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
pmanently staled by at lean one physiian. Establishments prov-  FeA.f (percetrp--Female labor force as percentage of total bbor
iding prncipany cusodl care are not included. Rural bospitals,  force.
however, include health and medical centes not penently staffed  Asrkabwe (percmnQ-Labor force in farming. forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medial aistant. nure, midwife etc.)    nd fishing a percntalge of total labor force; 1960. 1970 nd 1910
whic offer in-ptit accommodation nd provide a limited rnge     data.
of medicl faciities.                                            hisry (percerr-Labor force in mining, construction  mu-
A'         per Heph  R&d--Total number of admions to or        facturing and eectricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
dischrges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.        force; 1960. 1970 and 190 data.
Ani winm   (pereerl-eeru, mkl,pation
HOUSING                                                        or acivity rates a  computed as totl. mle, and fmale labor rorce
Aere Skr of go-Ahed (rwas per &iusu)u-foral elon,              as percentages or toal male and female popubtion of all as
avdrrt-A household consists of a group orindividuas who share  recively; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data. These are baed on ILO's
lving quaters andt ti main meas. A boarder or odr may or       picipation  rteslecting ap-  structure of the population, ad
may not be induded in the bousehold for statiscl purpoes,      long time trnd. A few estimates  e fom natio   sourcesl
Ava  Number of Persons pe Rem.-.. orban. l       d, drralt-    &coam'  Depeudeacy Raria-Ratio of population under IS, and
Average number of persons per room in Ia urban, and rural      65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwelings, rpectively. Dwellings exdude
non-permnent srumtures and unoccupied pat                      INCOME DISTRlIUTION
Pereeqe of DiveWas wial Eetidy-flrul  ria, ad real-            Percente of Toa Dhpesaw Jncome (l1r & casb an _d)-
Conventional dweings with eectricity in liing quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by totel house-
tage of total, urban, and nual dwellings respectively          hold income.
EDUCATnON                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4ind EuwAuese Plo,i                                           The folowing estimates are very approxinate measures or poverty
Ptiary sWeol - tot( mate and femeGleoss total, male   d        levels, and should be interpreted with consideable caution.
femal enrolment of all ages at the prinary levd a percentages or  EinwudtAheu   Poverty Iwwe Lad (US per espc) -ardam
respective primary school-ae popuations. While mny countries   ad real-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 yaws, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differncoes in country practices in the ages nd duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflcted in the rtios -rea. For some counres witb umivel   E&ned Redre AJwe  lncom Levd (US per caybJ_-nha
education gross enrolment may exceed IO perc   since some      ad rel-Rural relative poverty income kvd is one-third of
pupils are below or above the county's standard pimaryt-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
agc.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secodary school - otal, mak cad fannie-Computed as above;      living in urban areas.
secondary education requirs a last fkour years of approved pn-  Esemucd Popiaea Delw ABsohure Awert lyarwe Le   (per-
mary instruction provides general, vocationaL or teacher training  cent -awro and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instrutions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of agr correspond-  who are absolute poor.-
cnce course are gnelly excluded.
Vationol Erobeni (percnt of sracwary)-Vocational institu-                Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions indude technical industrial, or other programs which operate     Economk Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



ANNEX I
-29-             Page 5 of 6
SRI LMKA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
UTPUT IN 19Y4 1! SECTOR                                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTII (Z. constant priceS)
Value Added
$ million 2                       1970-77        1977-84       1970-84
Agriculture                    1.519      28.0                    2.0             4.0          3.0
Industry L/                    1,347      24.8                    2.1             5.3          3.9
services                       2i566      47.2                    LIZ              L.          5.4
Total L/                     5,432    100.0                     2.9             5.7          4.4
GROSS DOEBSTIC PRODUCT II 1984
U$ 11illion      %
GDP at Narket Prices                            6,012       100.0
Investment                                      1,567        26.1
Gross National Savings                          1.347        22.4
Current Account Deficit                           220         3.7
Exports of Goods and NFS                        1,755        29.2
Taports of Goods and NFS                        2,121        35.3
GOVEENNT FINANCE
Central Goverment
(Re million)    Z of GDP at Market Prices
1M 984       175      183        1 984
Current Receipts J                         33,342        17.2     18.9       21.8
Current Expenditures 5Ji                    27,795        18.3     18.6       18.2
Current Surplus                              5,547        -1.1      0.3        3.6
Capital Expenditures 3/                     21,105         7.3    13.7        13.8
Ekternal Assistance                         12,934         3.2      8.0        8.5
&J Nanufacturing, mining, and construction.
IL GDP at factor cost.
_i Includes capital revenue.
Al Includes advance accounts.
3/ Includes net lending.
South Asia Progras Department
February 5, 1986



-30-                   [gme bOf 6
III LANKA -  CONOMIC INDICATORS
pONFf. CCRDIT. AND PRlCZB IED                    127     1978      lD9     t980    tin        1982     19U1    UIM
(Cnd of period)                                                           (R. Million)
Money and Quasi Money                  3,115    8,717    10,589   15,058   19,860   24,447   30,510   37,257    43,427
lank Credit to Public Sector           2,856    4,659     4,226    6,267   13,095   17,277   21,828   21,918    18,703
hnk Credit to Private Sector           1,320    4.116     6,449    8,705   12,709   16,690   20,570   27,375    31,224
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Honey and Quasi Money as 2 of CDP       22.8    23.9      25.5      28.7     29.9    28.8       30.5    30.6       28.4
General Price Index (1970-100)         100.0   147.0   164.8    182.6   230.2   271.6    301.1   343.3    400.5
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                     45.9     .1.2    .12.1     .10.8   +26.1   +16.0   +10.8   +14.0    416.7
Dank Credit to Public Sector           +10.4    +7.7    -9.3       448.3  +109.0   +31.9    .26.3        40.4    -14.7
Dank Credit to Private Sector           +8.6   +40.5   +56.7    +35.0   +46.0   .31.3    +23.2   .33.1             14.1
BJLMICE OF PAYMENTS                                                 MZRCIIANDIS  EXPORTS (1964)
15       tl       194                                    S Million       L
(U$ Million)
Tea                             620       42.0
Exports of Goods, IFS                 1,305    1,360    1,755       Rubber                           130        S.8
Imports of Goods, IWS                 2,205    2.138    2,121       Coconut Products                  60        4.1
Resource Gap (deficit * -)             -9D0     -778     -366        All Other Camodities          __S        -AS
Net Factor Income                       -98    -138      -131              TOTAL                   1,475      100.0
Net Transfers &  memittances            264      274      277
Balance On Current Account             -734     -642     -220
ElTERNAL DEIT (S Million) NJ
Direct Foreign Investment                63       37       36
Net HILT Loans                          403      292      311                                    December   Decmber
Disbursments                          472      373      410                                      1983        19.  .
Amortization                           69       81       99
Capital Grants                          162      171      154        Total Outstanding            3,678       3.738
Otber Capital (net)                      79      143       24
Cbhnge in Reserves (. - increase)       -27       +1     .305        Total Outstanding
and Disbursed              2.214       2,420
Gross Reserves (end-year)               527      522      735
Met Reserves (end-year)                 -22      -21      284
Crude Oil and Petroleum Products                                     DEST SERVICE R4AlkOI (2)      17.7        14.2
Imports                               59D      468      419
Exports                               158      114      129
IBRD/IDA LENDING, Sentember 30. 1965 (USS Million)
RATE oF EXCHANGE
a        Is
Id 1979                 Znd 1982
US$1.00 - Rs 15.45      US$1.00 - Rs 21.32                           Outstanding and Disbursed        34.6   362.7
Rs 1.00 - US$ 0.06      Rs 1.00 - US$ 0.05                          Undisbursed                       2L.9   342.2
zpt 1980                Bud 19B3                                    Outstanding, including
US$1.00 - Rs 18.00      US$1.00 - Rs 25.00                            Undisbursed                     58.5   704.9
Rs 1.00 - U05  0.06     Rs 1.00 - USC 0.04
End 1981                End 1984
Us$1.00 - Rs 20.55      US$1.00 - Rs 26.28
Rs 1.00 - US$ 0.05      Rs 1.00 - 0S$ 0.04
A/ Repayable in f oreign currencies and vith a maturity over one year.
hi Ratio of debt service on public and publicly guaranteed MILT debt (including IF charges
and repurchases) to exports of goods and selrices.
South Asia Programs Department
FebruAry 5, 1986



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31. 1986)
US$ million
Loan or                                                                      hAount
Credit                                                               (net of cancellations)
No.       Year   Borrover       Purpose                            Bank  IDA   Undisbursed
Eight loans and sixteen credits fully disbursed                     72.9  133.2
818       1978  Sri Lanka  Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea)                 21.0       5.1
891       1979  Sri Lanka  Kurunegala Rural Development                   20.0       7.0
931       1979  Sri Lanka  Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research                           15.5       9.0
979       1980  Sri Lanka  Nahaveli Ganga Technical Assistance             3.0       1.3
994       1980  Sri Lanka  Road Passenger Transport                       53.0      13.0
1017       1980  Sri Lanka  Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation              16.0       5.8
1020       1980  Sri Lanka  Telecommunications                             30.0       0.7
1041       1980  Sri Lanka  Second Water Supply                            30.0      12.6
1048       1980  Sri Lanka  Sixth Power                                    19.5       8.4
1079 la    1981  Sri Lanka  Second Rural Development                       33.5      13.5
1130 La    1981  Sri Lanka  Construction Industry                          13.5       3.6
1160 La    1981  Sri Lanka  Village Irrigation Rehabilitation              30.0      18.1
1166 La    1981  Sri Lanka  Mahaveli Ganga Development III                  90.0    40.6
1182 La    1982  Sri Lanka  SKI II                                         30.0      23.1
1210 La    1982  Sri Lanka  Seventh Power                                  36.0      10.7
1240 La    1982  Sri Lanka  Tea Rehabilitation and
Diversification                             20.0       9.0
2187       1982  Sri Lanka  Eighth rower                            36.7     -        2.6
1317 /a    1982  Sri Lanka  Forestry I                                       9.0      8.4
1363 La    1983  Sri Lanka  Third Rural Development                        23.0      12.2
1401 La    1983  Sri Lanka  Industrial Development Project                 25.0       8.1
14  la /b 1984  Sri Lanka  Mahaveli Ganga Development IV                   30.0      30.0
2437 Lb    1984  Sri Lanka  Mahaveli Ganga Development IV           12.1             12.1
1537 /a    1985  Sri Lanka  Major Irrigation Rehabilitation                17.0      17.6
2517       1985  Sri Lanka  Second Roads                            24.0             21.1
1562 la    1985  Sri Lanka Fourth Tree Crops                               55.0     55.6
2576 La Lb 1985  Sri Lanka  Dairy Development II                    38.0             38.0
TOTAL                                                              183.7  753.2    387.2
of which has been repaid                                          52.1    6.2
Total now outstanding                                              131.6  747.0
hAount sold                               3.6
of which bas been repaid                3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA /c                                  128.0  747.0
Total Undisbursed                                                   35.7  351.5    387.2
/a  IDA 6th, and 7th replenishment Credits, principal amounts and credits not
yet effective shown in US dollars equivalent at date of negotiations, as shown
in the President's Reports and undisbursed amounts for effective credits shown
in US dollars equivalent at the rate of exchange for the SDR at March 31, 1986.
/b  Not yet effective.
/e The original principal of credits under replenishments 1, 2 and 3 has been
increased by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the
devaluation of the US dollar in 1972 and 1973.



- 32 -
Page 2 of 2
S. STATUT OF' TIC KNKSHKTS (as of Nmrch 31. 1986)
miN1r             2h.1C                     SVTyge of uinsount (US Million)
km   lbuiti  Total
1970         Pearl Textile                  Textiles                  2.50   0.75    3.25
1978/80/83   The Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon        Development Banking       -     0.45    0.45
1978/81      Bank of Ceylon                 Development Banking       7.00    -      7.00
1 979181     Cyntex                         Textiles                  3.15   0.54    3.69
1979         Hikechris Industries           Polypropylene Bag        0.89   0.10      .99
1980/84185   LMC                            Leasing                   3.00   0.34    3.34
1981         Taj Lanka Hotel s              Hotel                    19.30   _70  20.00
Total Gross CGmitments                              35.84   Z.84   38.72
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments, and Sales                        17L2   ._n   17.L0
Total Citments now Held by IPC                      18.69   2.13   20.82



- 33 -
ANNu_ III
Page 1 of 2
SRI LMKA
JUNICIPAL NbANMENKT PROJECT
Suunlmentarv Project DAta Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken to prepare
the project:                15 months
(b)  Project prepared by:        Ministry of Local Govermuent,
Housing and Construction, assisted
by Grant Thornton (USAWK), financed
by UNDP
(c) First IDA mission to
prepare project:            August 1984
(d) Appraisal Mission
Departure:                  Novenber 1985
(e) Negotiations completed:    March 15, 1986
(f) Planned Credit
Effectiveness:              September 1986
Section 2:  Secial IDA Actions-:
None
Section 3:  Special Conditios:
(a) The LGIC would maintain the UPU and would ensure its staffing
with appropriately qualified staff (para. 46(la));
(b) The iLGIC vould maintain the performance based grants system
agreed upon with the Association (para. 46(2a)).
(c) The LGC, in consultation with the Association, would conduct an
annual review of the performance based grants system,
comencing by June 30, 1988, and would institute appropriate
changes to the system as necessary (paras. 45 and 46(2a)).



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) The HLGHC, and the CMC and the Survey Department in liaison
with MLGHC, would contract consultants whose qualifications
and terms of reference are satisfactory to IDA (para. 52);
(e) The )LGEC would submit to IDA, within nine mouths after the end
of each fiscal year, long form audit reports prepared anually
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, for Project
Accounts and for the Special Account (para. 57);
(f) The UPU would prepare semi-annual reports on the overall
progress of the project and submit them to IDA one month
following each reporting semester (para. 58); and
(g)  The MLGHC would submit annually to IDA for its review an
updated Operational Action Plan (para. 47).



- 35 -rte
EMICIPAL N*CEIINT ROJZCT
Table 1:  WN  POJEC  CMST  l           US  I * 29.00 Rubpel
Ipes  000                    U6 000            ForeaIn
COFOIIENTS                    Local   Forel g    Total    Local   Forign   Total    Total
A. Wr. Nueptt ad Policy
TeMical kRist.ce               7,41   11,144   25,632        267      me        915       71?
Rdidn                         12,192   42,160   54,352       435    1,50      1,41        7
Whisil   I Equipent              134    1,546    1,630         5       55        60       921
19,114   61,649    1,664      70      2,20    2,917         761
F. Fintcinl Nanaguent and
Reouwrce Nobilizatlon
Tchnical  ssistance           20,449   27,216   47,664       730      972    1,702        571
Studies                        2,124   30,618   32,742        76    1,094    1,169        942
E-,ipaemt                        224    2,576    2,300         I       92       100       921
22,796   60,410   13,206       314    2,156    2,972        732
C. Skrvice Delivery
Technical b sistance          10,464    9,072   19,536       374      324      69u        462
Stvdies                        4,524   24,570   29,094       162      379    1,039        34i
Civil karti                   63,940   42,560  10b,400   2,200    1,520    3,100          401
Solid Kate Equipent              756    5,544    6,300        27      I99      225        t02
79,534   31,746  161,330    2,342    .,920    5,762         51t
nl. D. happing
Equipmt and   pplife           4,994   57,316   62,300       179    2,047    2,225        m
Technical  ssistance               0   16,900   16,900         0      600      600       1001
brial Photography              3,500        0    3,500       125        0       125        6?
Survy, and sap production   11,200          0   11,200      400         0      400         0x
19,694   74,116   93,300       703    2,647    3,350        792
E. Non lsource D evlopomnt
Tehdical Asistance             6,757   32,773   39,530      241    1,170    1,412         832
LKul Fdlluships                5,000        0    5,000       179        0      179         OZ
Overses Fell"uips                  0    4,366    4,361        0       156      156       IOOI
*Overeas training & Study v        0   16,14   16,194          0      571      573       1001
Equdwpmnt I looks                235    2,705    2,940        a        97      105        m
11,93   56,029   68,022       428    2,001    2,429        922
F. Project Administration        2,215         0    2,295       02         0       J2        0t
amm. 0amu=  a.m.a...  .Uw....... ,nwwxi .-aaaa             ..._ _..
TOMAL USE COST (July 1996)    156,156  334,151  490,306    5,577   11,934   17,511          66?
Physical Contiencies               633    6,906    7,602        23       249      272       m
Price Comtinancl n              22,797   45,351   03,141       114    1,620    2,434        6n
xm m  mm          s     .  Mmxwa       am              m m
TUTUL PNOJECT COST             179,536  336,471  5U6,057    6,414   13,303   20,216         602



i     i   i I i Is
S  S_  _,  _o- o- S -  I 
P--"---   s*   I ZN
of~~ 3- YI3-:t:=   
. ~     ~~ w
q~~~~~~ a%



I:        n |aon           U' ;"   a Rw
n      o w.nEe. r     w  w    w. u a- om
8~~~~d                   U 9 P     ."s""""
I~~~~  j.. plE              3  S B 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~ .    .    .
U R                      R~~~~~~~
""~~~~~1                           S  SS  Sa   ""      
-i.IIIIiIiIi~~~~ i iS ii II    S  S4 
I~~~~~ I I InI IT  1111
hu      llnu         u     nI Iu  I n     -  
DI U      I  I    I  I  II nn     
"~~ "                       i   _"" "  in_
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 



38 -                          ANNEX VI
SRI LANKA
MUNICIPAL MANACEMENT PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
1.      Final Report:  Solid Waste Management Plan for Colombo, Sri Lanka,
Solid Wastes Management Consulting Services, LTD, Connecticut, June 1982.
2.      Sri Lanka:  Urban Sector Report, World Bank (Report No. 4640-CE),
Washington, D.C., June, 1984.
3.      Sri Lanka:  Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Study, World Bank
(Report No. 4190-CE), Washington, D.C., June 1984.
4.      Sri Lanka:  Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Construction,
Management Analysis Center, October, 1985.
5.      Performance Improvement of Urban Local Authorities, Draft Project
Report, Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Construction, Colombo,
January, 1985.
6.      Allocation of Government Crants to Urban Local Authorities on the
Basis of Performance, Urban Program Unit, Colombo, June, 1985.
7.      Performance Improvement of Urban Local Authorities, (4 vols.:
Background Information on Training, Background Information on Management,
Background Information on Finance, and Background Information on Municipal
Services), Urban Program Unit, Ministry of Local Government, Housing and
Construction, Sri Lanka, n.d. (1985).
8.      Performance Review of Urban Local Author ties in Sri Lanka (Phase I
Report), Urban Project Unit, Ministry of Local Government, Housing and
Construction, and Alexander Grant & Co. in association vith Economic
Development Unit and T. P. O'Sullivan and Partners, UNDP/World Bank,
December, 1985.
9.      Proposal for implementation of digital mapping in the Survey
Departmient for large scale mapping in ULAs, Norplan, Oslo, January 1986.
10.     Set of detailed Project Cost Tables.
11.     Detailed Project Description.
12.     Consolidated ULA Accounts Table.
13.     Detailed Project Description.



- 39 -
<-X;=  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
iii
3i1  0  :1~~~~~~~I
'i~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i.t"- h



IBRD 19519
- ,E, -                                                                    _                      - r,
Valveddinura    ilnt Pedro                            S R I   L A  N  K A
MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
* ,c    Chavakachchrl
M* unicipal councils              Elevation In feet
*    Urban councils                   _   -100
-      National roads                      1O0-500
Rallfoads                          500-3,
o    Solected towns and villages         3(lS (3 0
* Natioanal capital                   30-w
.  \lIdmbm                     Province boundarib m;w 5000
rTamwnn,r                                                        Rivers
0       a' '0           so      o0
; -  ~       ~ ~~~~~~                                       ID           3p     I
wvaun
WmtalaMabl.       '*   ..-      \        \        '                iA             \
oIND, \         V     at.   du          illC                .              \W
Dehwal-Mi  \wn                  Hu ' i   / aE-OIcdl                                    / 
Mrw *   (lioP iKa \t'- /
PAKiSANj'  --...      Bard.Ia"                                                                                                      7
Dahkve m-t. Lavin'                                                                        l iwI ar\t
ngw~~~~~~~~~~~~~ too a818,.0
PnduS                                              anul -1d  4
SRi~ LANKA                                               -    .. ., a\o -                                        f
PAKl STAN               HN   B-ruwala>> _9  
INDIA                                                                                                       7  -      HO 8AM 7Dm*atffi --_e
A-bzlanevaat~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r   d- -d -v* -; R-te *
Weliem bc, _
i  SRI LAN" KA                                                                                                  - sa  i  U
FEBRUARY 1986



