Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16503
IMPLEMNENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1697-CE)
April 17, 1997
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(June. 1996)
Currency unit      =   Sri Lanka Rupee (SL Rs)
SL Rs 1.00         =   US$ 0.0182
US$ 1.00                SL Rs 54.969
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -     Asian Development Bank
CMC       -     Colombo Municipal Council
GOSL      -     Government of Sri Lanka
LGDP      -     Local Government Development Program
LLDF      -     Local ltoans Development Fund
MDTU    -       Management Development Training Unit
MIS       -     Management Information System
MLGHC   -       Ministry of Local Government, Housing and
Construction
MMP       -     Municipal Management Project
NHDA    -       National Housing Development Authority
NWSDB   -       National Water Supply and Drainage Board
OP        -     Operational Plan
PC        -     Provincial Council
PS        -     Pradeshiya Sabhas
ULA       -     Urban Local Authority
UNDP    -       United Nations Development Program
UPU       -     Urban Program UTnit
USAID    -      US Agency lor International Development
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Director:      Fakhruddin Ahmed (Acting)
Division Chief:  Marie Robinson
Staff Member:  Graeme Lee (Sr. Municipal Finance Specialist)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1697-CE)
Page No.
Table of Contents
PREFACE ..................................1
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................................                                      2
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .................................5
B. Achievement of Objectives ..................................7
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ...................................9
D. Project Sustainability ................................. 10
E. Bank Perfonnance ..................................                                    11
F. Performance of Borrower .................................. 11
G. Assessment of Outcome .................................                                12
H. Future Operation ................................. 13
I. Key Lessons Learned ..................................                                 14
J. Evaluation of Program Objective Categories .................................           15
PART 11- STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1   Summary of Assessments
Table 2   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3   Project Timetable
Table 4   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
Table 5   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A  Project Costs
Table 8B  Project Financing
Table 9   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13  Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire (with Operation Plan)
B. Borrower's Evaluation
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1697-CE)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT
PROJECT in SRI LANKA, for which Cr. 1697-CE in the amount of SDR 11.3 million equivalent was
approved on May 13, 1986 and made effective on September 18, 1986.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1995, one year behind the originally scheduled closing date.
About 78% of the credit was disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on November 10, 1995.
The balance of unutilized SDR 2,506,994.98 was canceled effective January 22, 1996, the date on
which the final transaction, a refund of unused funds in the special account, took place under this
project.
The ICR was prepared by Alistair Blunt (Consultant) and Toshiaki Keicho (SAIIN), under
supervision of Graeme Lee (SAlIN), and reviewed by Marie Robinson, Division Chief, and
Fakhruddin Ahmed, Project Advisor. The borrower provided its own evaluation, and this is included
as appendices to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission,
June 1995. It is based on material in the project file, discussions with implementing agency officials,
and comments received from a former Bank task team for the project. The borrower contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution and initial
preparation, by providing comments on the draft ICR, and by cooperating with the Bank ICR team.






2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1697-CE)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.         During the early 1980s, the Urban Local Authorities (ULAs) in Sri Lanka were facing
increasing difficulty to mobilize funds for urban services. ULAs were becoming progressively dependent on
the national treasury, and the share of the expenditures covered by locally generated revenues was
decreasing. Given these situations, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) began to prepare a national
strategy for improving the managerial, financial and technical capacities of ULAs.
2.         The project was identified during the preparation of the Urban Sector Study, which included a
broad review of Sri Lanka's urban policies and prograrns. After the project's objectives, scope and
preparation schedule were agreed with Government, the Ministry of Local Government, Housing and
Construction (MLGHC) decided to establish the Urban Program Unit (UPU) as the focus of sector policy
development and for preparing a municipal management project. The project was approved on May 13, 1986
and made effective on September 18, 1986.
Project Objectives
3.         The objectives of the project were to support the GOSL's sector policy and to strengthen the
capacity of MLGHC for improving the managerial, financial and service delivery performance of ULAs.
4.         Although these objectives supported the emerging sector strategy of the country, the project
design failed to anticipate the extent to which Sri Lanka's complex political and institutional circumstances,
the ethnic conflict, and fiscal devolution issues would affect the project.
Imnplementation Experience and Results
5.         The project contributed to improving management practices, book keeping, accounting, and
local resource mobilization. It was less successful in its aim to strengthen MLGHC in sector development
and to improve the service delivery performance of the ULAs.
6.         The project achieved only limited success in the areas of urban management and policy. The
required studies were completed, a performance improvement program is being utilized for all ULAs, a
management information system was developed, and proposals have been made for a follow-on project.
However, the failure to retain experienced UPU staff jeopardizes the full impact and long-term sustainability
of the project. There is little evidence that the project strengthened the policy-making capabilities of
MLGHC and other ministries.
7.         The project contributed to improving financial performance of ULAs. Based on the available
data, it is seen that the total revenue of ULAs increased significantly during the course of the project, mainly
due to the growth in locally-generated revenues. This meant that the ULAs became less dependent on the
transfers from the central government and more autonomous after the project. The percentage of recurrent
expenditure covered by local revenues has been almost constant, with ULAs' expenditures keeping pace with
the growth of the local revenues. The ULAs are now devoting more, in per capita terms, to repairs and



3
maintenance. In addition, all ULAs introduced new accounting systems and now prepare final accounts more
quickly at the financial year-end. Property assessments were carried out in all ULAs, and tax revisions were
introduced in more than half of the local authorities. Furthermore, while the Government ended the
performance-related grant system, UPU continued awarding prizes for improved performance. Some
Provinces have now adopted this system themselves.
8.         A limited number of pilot projects were carried out under the project. However, the delay in
starting the pilot projects contributed to the under-spending in this component of the project. Therefore, it
cannot be considered to have been completed. In addition, the mapping component was not undertaken as
planned.
9.         With the inclusion of the eight Provincial Councils and the 236 Pradeshiya Sabhas after the
change in the local government structure in 1987, more training courses were conducted than originally
conceived. However, considering the high staff turnover, the objective of institutional development was only
partially achieved.
10.        Many factors that affected the project were political ones, reflecting the political nature of local
government. These included the changes in the local government structures, the widespread civil unrest
during the implementation period, elections, and the change in central Govenunent. Other factors included
the delay in appointing a Project Director, and the lack of a performance-oriented and incentive-based
government employment policy to attract and retain better-skilled staff.
11.        The sustainability of the project is unlikely. Although the performance of the local
governments has improved during the course of the project, particularly in the area of financial management,
financial performance tends to be subject to extemal factors such as elections. Another factor that makes the
project sustainability unlikely is inadequate institutional capacity. Although the project prepared training
courses, manuals and handbooks for public officials, some courses were soon terminated and the manuals
not utilized. The training capacity in Sri Lanka's public sector continues to depend on funds being made
available on a regular basis. Also, the failure to retain skilled personnel trained under the project adversely
affected the project sustainability.
12.        Bank's performance was generally satisfactory except appraisal. In retrospect, it would have
been better had the project design taken on more of a program approach and allowed for greater flexibility in
its design. This would have enabled it to respond faster to the unforeseen political changes.
13.        The overall performnance of the Borrower was satisfactory during both preparation and
implementation. The Borrower also complied with the covenants, but for a few exceptions. Most of the
studies were completed, and the tasks identified including the human resource development, the
improvement in resource mobilization, and financial management were undertaken with the exception of the
Base Mapping component. However, very few pilot projects to improve the service delivery of the ULAs
were carried out.
14.        The overall outcome of the project is unsatisfactory since the project failed to achieve several
of its major objectives. Of the project objectives, the only one that was achieved was improvement of the
financial management of the ULAs. Local resource generation also increased, although it is not clear to what
extent this was due to the project. The service delivery objective was not met. In addition, the objective of
strengthening the central ministry was not achieved since UPU was apparently disbanded, and most of the
original staff have left.



4
Summary of Findings. Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
15.         The plan for future operations identifies a number of key indicators which relate mainly to the
establishment of the agreed institutional arrangements and the following up of actions on reports and
recommendations, etc. However, quantitative and qualitative performance indicators should further be
developed and monitored.
16.         The key lessons learned from the project include the following:
a)          Projects which aim to strengthen political institutions and affect the system of governance tend
to be more vulnerable to changes in Government. To overcome this, the Bank needs to be prepared to re-
establish ownership of the project by the new administration.
b)          Projects with long-term  objectives are more susceptible to changing macro-economic and
political situations. Such projects need to have as clear objectives as possible, but allow greater flexibility in
the tasks to be undertaken.
c)          Borrowers must be fully aware of the need for institutional development and the long-term
finrancial benefits it will produce. Also, in order to achieve sustainable institutional development, an incentive
system that will attract and retain the right caliber of staff to public service is needed.
d)          Those projects experiencing problems require an intensive program of missions.
e)           Performance indicators should be identified in terms of the long-term objectives of the project.
They should also measure the qualitative improvements that projects can bring.






5
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 1697-CE)
A. EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
The Context
1.1    While the urban population of Sri Lanka is relatively small and not growing as fast as other
countries within the region, it was expected to be almost a quarter of the population by the end of the
project. Nevertheless, in the early 1980s Urban Local Authorities (ULAs) were facing difficulty to mobilize
funds to open up and service new urban areas. They were becoming increasingly dependent on the national
treasury to meet operating budgets. The share of the expenditures covered by ULAs' locally-generated
revenues had decreased from 44% in 1977 to 22% in 1982, and was projected to fall further, below 20%
by the end of the decade. While the basic powers and structures of the 39 urban and 12 municipal councils
were suitable, in principle, to provide strong city government, the expenditures that councils could make
were limited by law, and many of the powers to raise revenues were under-utilized. The 1984 Urban Sector
Study highlighted the importance of strengthening the financial capacities of both the ULAs and national
agencies, like the National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB), through sustained technical
assistance.
1.2   In recognition of these facts, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) began to develop new
strategies for the allocation of grants based on performance, and established the Urban Program Unit
(UPU) to prepare a national strategy for improving the managerial, financial and technical capacities of
ULAs and to prepare a program for its implementation. The first two phases of technical support for ULAs
were funded by UNDP (SRL/84/042) and executed by the Bank. The objectives of these first phases were:
i) to support the Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Construction (MLGHC) develop a national
urban policy and also, a program to enhance the performance of the ULAs; ii) to help establish the UPU,
and iii) to prepare the feasibility study for the Municipal Management Project (MMP). Therefore, MMP
covered what was seen as Phases III and IV of the series of technical support for ULAs. MMP was
approved on May 13, 1986 and made effective on September 18, 1986.
1.3    A proposed solution to the civil conflict in the Northem and Eastern Provinces resulted in changes
to the local government structure and the creation of the Provincial Governments under the Provincial
Council Act No. 42 of 1987, as well as the replacement of District Development Councils by Pradeshiya
Sabhas (PS) under the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of the same year. Hence, MMP was restructured
under Phase IV, to include the new Provincial and PS authorities, as well as for the completion of the tasks
still outstanding under the original Terms of Reference.
The Objectives
1.4   The objectives of MMP were to strengthen MLGHC organization in sector development and to
improve the managerial, financial and service delivery performance of ULAs.



6
1.5    These objectives were to be achieved through improving central government administration and
sectoral policy making, building up the financial capability of local authorities, and improving local
government service delivery. The project consisted of the following five components:
(a) review of MLGHC structure to assist the implementation of reforms including assistance to
UPU, Colombo Municipal Council (CMC) and ULAs, in particular their administration,
information systems and procedures, and staff capabilities;
(b) improvement of the financial performance of local authorities and the rationalization of the
system for allocating grants and providing loans for development;
(c) improvement of service delivery by undertaking pilot demonstration projects that would provide
the basis for guidelines, standards and procedural manuals for the ULAs, including guidelines for
undertaking the preparation of local plans for shelter, drainage, and traffic management;
(d) provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to prepare improved urban base maps;
and
(e) establishment of a training unit within UPU to conduct training programs in managerial,
financial and technical areas, and the development of a long-term human resources strategy for
the ULAs.
Evaluation of Objectives
1.6       The main emphases of the project were institutional strengthening at the center and
financial management and service delivery at the local level. While these emphases were justified since they
supported the emerging sector strategy, they did not include strengthening the capacity of ULAs in the
broader physical planning process. Although the priority was rightly placed on improving the financial and
budgetary operations of ULAs, the link between budget preparation, setting of income generation targets
and future infrastructure requirements, establishing priorities for investrnents, and their downstream
operational and maintenance costs was not made explicit'.
1.7   It is clear that the project design and objectives failed to anticipate the extent to which Sri Lanka's
complex political and institutional circumstances, the ethnic conflict, and fiscal devolution issues would
affect the project. A further problem for all projects that aim at strengthening political institutions is the
risk of being perceived as supporting a particular political party's interests. While lack of political support
was seen as a risk, this was interpreted in terms of the sensitivity to the specific reforms proposed and not
because changes of government may lead to reduced ownership of the project by the new administration.
This was proposed by the GOSL in September 1992 but rejected by the Bank as too great a task. Instead a
Provincial development plan was proposed with the PS and ULAs submitting investment proposals to be
evaluated at Provincial level. No suggestions were made how priorities would be identified at the local
level for submission to the Provincial.



7
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
2.1    The project document did not contain specific performance indicators whereby the success of the
project could have been measured, except in terms of the tasks to be fulfilled. However, progress in all the
main components implemented can be evaluated. These include: local resource mobilization; financial
management; government transfers to ULAs; urban service delivery; and human resource development.
Data on each of these issues is available, though they are unreliable and incomplete (see Tables 5.1 to 5.5).
Based on the data, it is seen that the project has contributed substantially to improving management
practices, book-keeping, accounting, and mobilizing local resources, as well as some aspects of financial
performance and service delivery. But it has been less successful in its aim to strengthen the Ministry's
organization in sector development.
Urban Management and Policy
2.2    The required studies were completed, a performance improvement program is being utilized by the
Provinces for all ULAs, a management information system (MIS) was developed and proposals have been
made for a follow-on project. The recommendations made under various studies included the grant formula
for the Provincial Councils, the revised accounting procedures, and the institutionalization of MIS.
However, there has been a high turnover of staff in UPU, and the failure to retain experienced UPU staff to
follow up on the implementation of these recommendations would seem to jeopardize the full impact and
long-term sustainability of the project.
2.3    The project did usher in a change in the traditional understanding of the central Government-local
authorities relationship, facilitating the replacement of the concept of control with one of support and
encouragement. There is little evidence, however, that it strengthened the sector policy-making capabilities
of government Ministries. Had the project been undertaken in a more stable political environment, it may
have been able to concentrate more on such policy issues as the devolution of power, the roles of the
various levels of government and the manner in which they should relate to each other.
2.4    The support to the organization of CMC included a review of the work of the solid waste
department and site identification for a final solid waste disposal site, a twinning arrangement between the
financial and accounts departments and their counterparts m the local authority for Stafford, UK, and
training in management on courses prepared and funded by the project.
Financial Management and Resource Mobilization
2.5    No internal rate of return can be estimated for this project. Based on the available data, however, it
is seen that the total revenue of ULAs significantly increased during the course of the project. This was
mainly due to the growth of locally-generated revenues. Though the improvements were not always
consistent, the proportion of the local revenues in the total revenues of ULAs rose from 52% in 1985 to
71% in 1992, making them less dependent on the transfers from the central government and more
autonomous after the project. The percentage of recurrent expenditure covered by local revenues had been
almost constant around 70% to 80%, with ULAs' expenditures keeping pace with the growth of the local
revenues. They are now devoting more, in per capita terms, to repairs and maintenance (see Tables 5.1 and
5.4).
2.6    During Phase III, all ULAs had introduced new accounting systems. A new system for the PSs has
been developed, and has been implemented in some PSs, although the Provincial Councils have yet to
formally accept it.



8
2.7    While the Government ended the performance related grant system in 1989, UPU continued
awarding prizes for improved performance using the government's consolidated fund. Some Provinces
have now adopted the scheme themselves. A study was undertaken on developing a policy for rationalizing
the grants system. This policy was proposed to the Provincial Councils, but, to date, no action has been
taken.
Service Delivery
2.8   It is too early to determine the impact of the limited number of pilot projects on the level of service
in local authorities. To maximize the impact of the limited opportunities to demonstrate techniques, the
variety and location of the pilot projects were carefully selected. However, the delay in starting the pilot
projects contributed to the fact that there was much under-spending in this element of the project.
Consequently, it canmot be considered to have been completed.
2.9    Of the specific sub-sectoral studies identified, only the study on municipal drainage was
undertaken. But a manual prepared under this study is yet to be utilized more broadly due to lack of
training programs. Studies on the local authority's role in shelter programs, traffic management for CMC
and public transport systems in larger ULAs were not undertaken, the first being the responsibility of the
National Housing Development Authority (NHDA) and the subject of assistance from USAID.
2.10   For CMC, a study of potential final disposal sites for city's solid waste and an environmental
impact study were undertaken. A site identified in the study, Welisara, has been selected to be developed
into a sanitary landfill. Four special courses for those involved in the solid waste project were prepared
and run, and some equipment purchased.
Mapping
2.11   This task was not undertaken as planned for a number of reasons. First, the insurrection in various
parts of the country led to security regulations which prohibited aerial photography in much of the country.
Second, MLGHC was reluctant to use project money to fund the training of members of other ministries.
Third, initially it was thought that an ADB-funded Urban Sector project would provide the maps, but it
was later found that these were of a smaller scale. Lastly, Bank's procurement procedures did not permit
the direct appointment of a firm of consultants, already operating in Sri Lanka with an aircraft, which was
prepared to undertake the work. However, updated inventories of services and infrastructure were
completed for many areas by enlarging existing maps.
Human Resource Development
2.12   The project objectives included the development of the human resources available at all levels of
Government. With the inclusion of the eight Provincial Councils and the 236 Pradeshiya Sabhas in Phase
IV, more councils were benefited and more training courses were conducted than originally programmed.
While the Provinces have Management Development Training Units (MDTU), the development of the
institutional infrastructure for supplying training and technical assistance to the local authorities is in its
infancy. Though all Provinces have received training equipment, it is too early to say whether the efforts
initiated by the project will mature. As the Government has been unwilling to retain the services of the
personnel from UPU and has yet to set up a fully functional unit to which the experience can be passed, the
public sector in general, and the sub-national governments at which this project was aimed are unlikely to
receive the full benefits of the training and the experience gained.



9
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Political Factors
3.1    When the project began it was not possible to foresee the impact of the civil unrest in the Southem
Province, but more significantly in the Northem and North Central Provinces. The widespread unrest in
1988/89 led to the virtual suspension of operations outside Colombo. The Peace Accord, which resulted in
the 13th Amendment of the Constitution, redefined the balance of power between the central and local
govermments, introducing a strengthened intermediate layer of govemment at provincial level, and
necessitating that UPU work through the provinces. Further changes in policy saw the replacement of
District Councils with Pradeshiya Sabhas (PS), which led to requests by GOSL to extend the coverage of
the project beyond the ULAs to both the Provincial Councils (PCs) and PSs.
3.2    Secondly, during the lifetime of the project there were six elections: presidential, national, and
local. During the campaign periods before elections and immediately after, work with the ULAs was
limited. Over the nine years of the project this represents approximately 12 to 18 months. Finally, the
changes in Government led to reduced ownership of the project in its closing stages, which has had
consequences both in terms of the completion of the work and the sustainability of the local govemment
strengthening processes established by the project.
Lack of Project Director
3.3    The lack of a project director for much of the life of the project is an important factor in
implementation delays. Although support from the Secretary of MLGHC (and later the Ministry of
Finance, Policy Planning and Programming) in the early days was unwavering, and important decisions
were made at that level in the absence of a Director, the failure to appoint a Director had an impact on the
work of UPU. Without a Director, critical decisions were delayed, and there was a lack of follow-up on
actions required by the Bank.
Institutional Structures
3.4    The establishment of a third layer of local government -the PCs- took away the direct access of
local authorities to central government. The introduction of this layer had the short term effect of making it
necessary for UPU to adjust its manner of operation (see above) and created demands from the Ministry
that it should extend the training to these councils also. Furthermore, the political origins of the structure
caused considerable doubts to be expressed in parts of the Ministry as to its long term viability, adding to
the uncertainty generated by the change.
Govenmment Employment Policy
3.5    The current employment policy of the government provides little incentive to higher productivity. If
the Government is to attract and retain staff of the right caliber, it should be able to offer them performance
based incentives. Otherwise, the institutional strengthening measures attempted under the project can yield
only very limited results, and sustainable institutional development is unlikely.



10
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
4.1    The sustainability of the project is unlikely, considering the following three factors: (a) the impact
of the project on the operational performance of the local governments; (b) the institutional capacity to
continue providing the necessary support to the efforts to improve the practices of the local authorities; and
(c) the continued availability and involvement of skilled and motivated staff in government and private
sector agencies concerned with the delivery of local services.
4.2    The performance of the local governments has changed markedly during the course of the project,
particularly in the area of financial management. New methods of accounting have been introduced in all
the urban local authorities and 86% of all local authorities. Property assessments have been carried out in
all urban local authorities and all the PSs with "town" areas. Tax revisions have also been introduced by
57% of the local authorities. One impact of these changes is seen in the figures of annual final accounts
completed. Between 1993 and 1995, the number of outstanding final accounts dropped over 70% in the
seven provinces covered by the project. Likewise, figures on the proportion of operating budget of the local
governments covered by Central Government transfers showed a significant decline between the years 1983
and 1984, and 1991 and 1992 (the latest year for which figures are available). However, such performance
tends to be subject of external factors such as the proximity of national or local elections.
4.3    Further, the failure to develop adequate institutional capacity to monitor and develop strategies or
to carry out key tasks, will affect the sustainability of these improvements. At the central level, while the
Ministry agreed to retain the services of some key members of UPU to wind up the work of the project and
hand it over to a small new unit, key members of the original UPU show a reluctance to continue working
in the unit. At the local level, the failure to institutionalize the Provincial Valuation Units proposed makes
further asset valuation on a regular basis unlikely.
4.4    On the sustainability of the human resource development capacity, the project prepared training
courses, manuals and handbooks. Some of the training courses were lodged in existing training institutions.
Of the eight such courses developed during Phase III (1986-89), only four were still running in Phase IV
(1993-95). Of these, one is the basis for two new courses, while the remaining three are continuing with
German funding. Twelve courses were developed in Phase III to be provided by UPU, of which five
continued in Phase IV. Four will continue being provided by the provincial training units, while one has
covered all the local authorities concerned and will in future only be provided through on-the-job training.
Of the seven discontinued, two courses were for electrical services, which are no longer the responsibility
of the local authorities, four were stopped for lack of demand, and one, on solid waste management,
because of dearth of trainers.
4.5    Four courses were developed under Phase IV of the project and lodged with an outside training
institute. Of these, one was for the UPU staff, two others ceased for lack of funding, and the fourth will
cease if funds are not made available. Three other courses were designed for delivery by UPU or other
qualified trainers at the province level. The first uses trainers available in the provinces. The second, the
training of trainers for project formulation, was undertaken once and needs appropriate budget provision to
continue. Finally, the third, on resource-mapping, was undertaken only once in one location.
4.6    While the institutional training capacity is being developed at the provincial level, it is clear from
the data presented that sustainability depends on funds being made available on a regular basis. This will
occur only when the national, provincial and local authorities appreciate that the training brings real
benefits that can be measured in terms of a more efficient use of resources and potential savings. There
appears to be no plan for putting this message across to the responsible authorities, and thus it is likely that
such programs will be the first to be neglected when resources are low.



11
4.7    On the retention of skilled personnel, it is debatable whether people who participate in such a
project and receive formal (national and overseas) training through the project are ever a totally lost
resource unless they work outside the country. Those that have been members of UPU or have been hired
as individual consultants to UPU are likely to provide a resource which will continue to benefit the country,
even after they have left the project, either as consultants or when transferred to other assignments within
government. However, the loss of such people is undoubtedly a blow to the chances of continuing the
specific work of the project. The loss is not only of the professional staff, but also the technical and
clerical staff who often hold the key to the institutional memory, knowing where the files are kept and on
which file information can be located. In summary, without a performance-based incentive system to retain
better skilled staff, sustainable institutional development cannot be achieved.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
5.1    The project identification was satisfactory; it responded to the needs which had been identified in
the urban sector report and the UNDP-funded Project Feasibility Study. In retrospect, however, it would
have been better had the project design taken on more of a program approach and allowed for greater
flexibility in its design. This would have enabled it to respond faster to the unforeseen constitutional
changes that followed the Peace Accord (see 3.1 above), and to extend assistance for the management of
urban development in a more comprehensive manner (see 1.6 above).
5.2    The Bank has followed the standard procedures during the supervision of the project, and its
performance was satisfactory. Supervision missions were regular, except for the period from September
1990 to February 1992 when the two missions were spaced eight and nine months apart respectively (see
Table 13). This period coincided with the "loss" of correspondence from the client which contributed to the
delays in 1991/92 over the finalization of the arrangements for Phase IV.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
6.1    The overall performance of the borrower was satisfactory for both preparation and implementation.
Firstly, GOSL has complied with all the covenants, except for the performance grants. The system of
providing grants to ULAs based on performance criteria was suspended after the Provincial Council system
was put in place (see Table 10). While the project was located in four different Ministries during the nine
years, the counterpart funding was satisfactory and the project received the support as agreed in the loan
covenants, with only minor delays. The under-utilization of funds was because of the changes in the pilot
projects, base mapping and assistance to CMC elements of the project. The project management completed
all its undertakings, including reporting and accounting responsibilities, and also followed the procurement
procedures as specified.
6.2    Secondly, most of the project components were implemented. These included the completion of all
the studies identified in the project with the exception of three. These three were: i) a study of MLGHC
which was subsequently abolished; ii) the shelter study, as responsibility came under NHDA which had its
own program; and iii) the traffic management for CMC and other municipalities, due to the reluctance of
CMC to participate in the project. All the other tasks identified, including human resource development,
enhanced resource mobilization, improved financial management and service delivery, were undertaken,
with one exception of the Base Mapping for reasons already given (see 2.11 above).



12
6.3    The major performance failures were: the delay in appointing a full-time Project Director until
1993 despite repeated requests from the supervising missions starting in 19902; delays in implementing the
pilot projects; and, the inadequate provision made following the closure of the project for both the
implementation of the study recommendations under the project and the continuing data base development
required for sound policy making at central government level.
6.4   In defense of the borrower, the delays in the start of Phase IV were in part due to the decision by
the Bank to split Phase IV into two parts. While this appeared necessary because the proposed closing date
of the project was too close to allow a two year contract to be signed at that time, there was a clear
reluctance within the Bank to push through the further extension of the project until such time that the
performance of the borrower was properly demonstrated. The extension was received four months prior to
the earlier closing date, but this was too late to avoid the need for a more costly second contract.
6.5    Generally the performance of the consultants, both national and international, has been
satisfactory. However, the lead consultants in the early phases tended to concentrate too much time on
institutional strengthening of UPU and on adhering too strictly to the letter of the contract. While both are
understandable, with the slow mobilization of staff and the nature of the contracts, this resulted in UPU
becoming at one time very bureaucratic and less able to respond to changing needs. The performance of the
sub-consultants was highly satisfactory. This was particularly true of the local consultants in Phase IV.
All the tasks given to them were completed.
6.6    The use of local consultants facilitated the development and dissemination of improved approaches.
Other consultants contracted on a direct-hire basis to provide line functions within UPU performed
satisfactorily. However, such a system indicates a weakness in the Government's employment policy, since
these personnel cannot be retained once the special counterpart funds provided under the project are
exhausted. The project also made use of regional consultants, but some doubts have been expressed about
the benefit of this, as it is argued that the local government system and culture are not similar and language
difficulties remain.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
7.1    The overall outcome of the project is unsatisfactory since the project failed to achieve several of its
major objectives. Of the project objectives, the only one that was achieved was improvement of the
financial management of the ULAs. However, the other objectives were not fully achieved. The service
delivery objective was not met since very few pilot projects were carried out and no follow-on project is
now contemplated. In addition, the objective of strengthening the central ministry was not achieved since
UPU was apparently disbanded, and most of the staff have left. Therefore, the arrangements for future
sustainability of the work are not adequate.
7.2    The positive aspects of the project include:
(a) increased capability at national and sub-national government levels and in the private sector;
(b) training course, materials and manuals;
(c) trained trainers, particularly at PC level;
(d) improved practices (even if these still require re-enforcing);
2 While the Secretary of State at the MLGHC acted as a stand-in for the Director and made quick and decisive
decisions, once he was no longer in that position, the lack of a full-time Director contributed to the delay in the
start of Phase IV.



13
(e) improved performance in most sectors of ULA activity;
(f) improved infornation systems to monitor local authority performance; and
(g) advancement of understanding of issues and problems in setting up strong and capable local
government structures.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
8.1    The plan for future operations provides for a greatly reduced size core team within the Ministry,
which would follow up the implementation of the outstanding parts of the project, continue monitoring the
performance of the PCs and the local authorities, and undertake further studies and assistance depending on
the means available. The main training function will be undertaken by the PCs, through MDTU. The PCs
will also continue the Priority Investmnent Programs for the local authorities. The local authorities will keep
in place a training coordinator and will continue efforts to meet the standards established in MMP. To
monitor this, they will prepare data on their performance as required by the PCs.
8.2    The plan identifies a number of key performance indicators which relate mainly to the
establishment of the agreed institutional arrangements; the following up of action on reports and
recommendations; and the publication of complete data on perfornance at the local, provincial and national
levels.
8.3    A limitation of the indicators identified in "Operational Plan for Continuing the Work Started"
(OP, see Appendix A) is that they concentrate more on 'Inputs" and "outputs" and not sufficiently on
'impacts." There is no guarantee nor effective measure, therefore, that the actions proposed will result in
further improvements to the capability and performance of local authorities. However, if the plan is
implemented fully as stated, the probability of some further improvement in the performance of local
authorities is high.
8.4   If the OP is effected, the basic lessons of MMP should be adequately institutionalized. However,
the OP is vulnerable for a number of reasons. Firstly, there is no staff continuity at the center, except for
the hand-over period. The reluctance of the old UPU staff to remain in place pro tempore and the relative
inexperience of the replacement team limits the effectiveness of this hand-over period.
8.5   It is recommended to follow the progress of implementing the OP in the period immediately
following the project, as well as establishing a location at the central government level for the continuous
annual monitoring of the perfornance of the local authorities. The performance indicators which should be
developed at central level should initially include:
(a) the collection performance for local taxes, covering: total collected both in magnitude and as a
proportion of total collectable, and change in performance between years;
(b) the proportion of operational expenditures covered by local revenues, including
measures of change over time;
(c) the proportion of capital development expenditure covered by: i) loans from the Local Loans
Development Fund (LLDF), ii) other loans; iii) non-government grants; and iv) as part ofjoint
venture scheme, including measures of absolute and proportional change each year;
(d) the proportion of ULAs and PSs that have loans with LLDF and other sources, by source and
annual change;
(e) the repayment performance on loans, by source of loan, amount of loan and a size and
revenue base classification of local authority; and



14
(f) the proportion of operational expenditure utilizedfor maintenance and repairs, by
size/type of local authority, over time.
8.6    Further qualitative performance indicators should be developed over time and, initially, could
include:
(g) proportion ofpopulation with access to all-season roads orfootpaths, by size/type
classification of local authority;
(h) proportion of population served by garbage collection, by system of collection and size/type
classification of local authority;
(i) ratio of population of primary school age to each school, by size/type classification of local
authority;
(j) ratio ofpopulation to each health center by size/type classification of local
authority; and
(k) land area brought into urban usage, annual amount and change.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
9.1    Context: Political Nature of Project. Projects which aim to strengthen political institutions and
affect the system of governance tend to be more vulnerable to changes in the political leadership. To
overcome this, the Bank needs to be prepared to re-establish ownership of a new administration. This will
require more frequent missions at such times. The Bank could also, at the project design stage, develop
mechanisms for guaranteeing the continuation of the work regardless of political changes.
9.2    Project Design: Program Approach to Long-term Technical Assistance Projects. Projects with
long-term objectives, like MMP, are more susceptible to changing macro-economic and political situations.
Such projects require to have as clear objectives as possible, but need greater flexibility im the tasks to be
undertaken. This will require a program approach as opposed to a project approach. It will have the
advantage of reducing the delays due to the need to redefine inputs and the coverage of the project.
9.3    Project Design: Subsidized Funding Dangers. Institutional development projects are too frequently
seen as only worth doing if subsidized funds are available. This is either, because of the lack of
understanding of the real financial and economic benefits that such projects can bring, or because the type
of work done is of low priority to the government. Borrower Governments must be fully aware of the need
for such projects and the financial benefits (and cost savings) that they provide. While it is not desirable
for governments to see these projects solely in terms of the short-term financial benefits, efforts must be
made to clarify the economic and social benefits that can be achieved by turning these savings into
investments. Thus, while the priority at the beginning of the project may be to improve financial and
general management efficiency, the longer-term need will be to enable the local governments to prioritize
investment requirements and plan such investments.  It will also need to develop skills for project
preparation and for carrying out feasibility studies.
9.4    Project Supervision: Increased Supervision Missions for Problem Projects. Those projects which
appear to be experiencing problems, as was the case in this project, require an intensive program of
missions.
9.5    Project Staffing: Problems of Sustainability. While salary levels in government are not competitive
with the private sector, the most common way to attract the right caliber of staff is to provide bonuses from
special budget allocations for the project. However, once the project is completed, the special counterpart



15
budget allocations are cut. In such a situation, many staff leave the government service or look elsewhere
for improved employment opportunities (with some even being drawn off to work for the international
funding agency). While this issue concerns the government's policy on employment, the recruitment of key
staff on special contracts covered by the Bank's loan should be discouraged. What is needed is an incentive
system that can attract and retain the right caliber of staff to public service.
9.6    Monitoring: Clearer Indicators of "Desired Improvement".  Performance indicators should be
identified in terms of the long term objectives rather than the "inputs" and "outputs" of the project. They
should also, where possible, measure the qualitative improvements that such projects can bring, especially
if the savings made, or the additional revenues raised, are re-invested in improved service standards.
J. EVALUATION OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES
Social Objectives
10.1   While the whole project has the potential to improve the availability of services for all citizens in
the local authority, no specific social objectives were identified in the project. Hence there is no measure or
indication of the impact of the project, in terms of poverty reduction or improved employmnent opportunities
for women, and so forth. These could be added to the longer-term performance indicators as proposed in
8.6 above.
Environmental Objectives
10.2   The project provided the first study of sanitary landfill in Sri Lanka (for CMC). This landfill is
now being constructed.
10.3   Local authorities are responsible for a number of environmental issues. Many were included as
part of the Priority Investment Programs, and used for assessing the performance of the local authorities.
These included food sanitation in markets, solid waste management, safe water and mosquito control.
10.4   Storm water drainage improvements were undertaken in the ULAs in 1987, as part of the project,
and a handbook prepared in Phase IV for the design and maintenance of simple storm water disposal
systems. This had been introduced to the Technical Officers, but has yet to be implemented by any
authority.
Private Sector Development
10.5   Only in Phase IV did the project begin to consider ways of involving the private sector in
development, and the necessary training that the local authorities would need to facilitate this participation.
Some discussions were held about making LLDF available to the private sector to help provide loan
finance for privately developed and operated facilities which had previously been the responsibility of the
local authority, and the project did start two initiatives which would begin the process of involving the
formal commercial private sector or non-government organizations.
10.6  In 1991 and 1992, the Mayors training included sessions on the concept of joint venture
development. Case studies prepared by UPU, based on experience in Sri Lanka, were included in this
training. Following this, USAID invited UPU to be involved in the development of a project by the



16
Secretariat of Infrastructure Development Indicators, to develop pnrvatization schemes for local government
service delivery.
10.7   The study of "Formulation and Identification of Projects for Funding by Non-Government
Agencies" was prepared and training undertaken in two PSs for two pilot projects. The first one is now
being implemented based on an investment of Rs. 7 million.



Part II - Statistcal Tables
Table 1: Summary Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives   Substantial      Partial       Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies        E               0               0I
Sector Policies               E                               E               I]
Financial Objectives          aEl La
Institutional Development     0                               E               El
Physical Objectives                                                           M E  E0
Poverty Reduction             O               El              El
Gender Concerns               E               E               El
Other Social Objectives       Ol              E               El
Environmental Objectives      E                               El              El
Public Sector Management      0                               El              El
Private Sector Development    0               0                               El
Other (specify)               E               El              El
B. Project Sustainability        Likely               Unlikely                Uncertain
El                                             E 
Highly
C. Bank Performance           Satisfactory           Satisfactory             Deficient
Identification                0                                               El
Preparation Assistance        0                                               E0
Appraisal                     M                      0l
Supervision                   0l                                              FEl
Highly
D. Borrower Performance       Satisfactory           Satisfactory             Deficient
Preparation                   0                                               El
Implementation                0                                              El
Covenant Compliance           El                                             El
Operation (if applicable)     El                     al
Highly                                         Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome      Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
El               l                             E l



Table 2
Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title   1              Purpose                1 Year of          Status
l                                      l Approval l
Preceding Operations
1. First Water Supply water supply improvement in Colombo and    1977    Completed in 1984
Project (Cr. 709-CE)    other towns
2. Second Water Supply  a) to improve water supply and sewerage
and Sewerage Project services in Colombo and other towns;
(Cr. 1041-CE)         b) to strengthen NWSDB's financial and    1980    Completed in 1987
operational performance; and
c) to improve the institutional organization of
NWSDB
3. Urban Sector Report to identify measures that would help:
(4640-CE)             a) increase domestic resource mobilization;
b) improve the efficiency and effectiveness of
resource utilization for land, infrastructure,    1984    Completed in 1984
and service delivery; and
c) improve and strengthen institutions for
urban management and training
4. Water Supply and  a) to conduct an overall review of the sector;
Sanitation Sector Study  and                                    1984    Completedin 1984
(4190-CE)             b) to assist GOSL and NWSDB in the
development of future sector policy
5. Technical Support for a) to develop national policy to support
Urban Local Authorities  ULAs;
- UNDP  funded  as b) to establish UPU; and                     1984    Completed in 1986
Phase I & II of MMP - c) to prepare feasibility study of Bank funded
(SRL/84/0421A/01/42)   MMP
6. Water Supply and  a) to increase utilization of existing water
Sanitation Rehabilitation  supply  and  sanitation  systems through
Project (Cr. 1700-CE)   rehabilitation and extension;
b)  to  improve  NWSDB's  technical,   1986    Completed in 1996
managerial and operational practices; and
c) to improve public health through increased
service levels of safe water supply, sanitation
Followin ___________   and drainage_ _                             _   _ _  _
Following  Operations   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ __               ___                  __                 _ L__



Table-3
Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle         Date Planned          Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Preparation                         April, 1985                 April, 1985
Appraisal                     October/November, 1985     November/December, 1985
Negotiations                        March, 1986              March 24 - 25, 1986
Board Presentation                  May, 1986                  May 13, 1986
Signing                                                        July 24, 1986
Effectiveness                     September, 1986            September 18, 1986
Project Completion               December 30, 1993             June 30, 1995
Credit Closing                     June 30, 1994               June 30, 1995



Table 4
Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
IDA Financial Year     Appraisal        Actual       Actual as % of
___________________    Estimate                        Estimate
1987             1,040           1,200           115.38
1988             4,450           2,100           47.19
1989             7,950           5,900           74.21
1990             10,090          8,100           80.28
1991             11,510          8,700           75.59
1992             12,490          8,700           69.66
1993             12,800          9,300           72.66
1994             13,000          9,800           75.38
1995             13,000          11,709          90.07
Date of Final
Disbursement                     Nov. 10, 1995



Table 5.1
Local Resource Mobilization
Performance Indicators
Indicator:
Electricity: Change in proportion of outstanding amount due on annual collection
Water: Change in proportion of outstanding amount due on annual collection
1985     1986      1987      1991      1992      1993
(Rps million)
Electricity
a. Outstanding    120.820   115.811   109.282    62.231    31.845  -
b. Amount due    265.895   256.613   282.675   284.435   224.891   -
% a/b           45.4      45.1      38.7      21.9      14.2     -
(17 ULAs) ( 11 ULAs)
Water
a. Outstanding   21.096    22.274    13.107    32.932    54.047    22.716
b. Amount due    34.276    38.705    41.817    76.396   106.840    93.361
% a/b            61.5     57.5      31.3      43.1      50.6      24.3
(20 ULAs) (19 ULAs) (18 ULAs)
Indicator:
1. Proportion of local revenues in total revenues of ULAs (%)
1985     1986      1987      1988      1989      1991      1992
52.4     48.5      34.5      38.2      34.4      75.1      71.5
2. Proportion of total expenditures of ULAs covered by local revenues (%)
1985     1986      1987      1991      1992
72.4     76.9      69.3      61.3      71.6
3. Proportion of recurrent expenditures of ULAs covered by local revenues (%)
1985     1986      1987      1991      1992
79.2     84.2      78.3      66.6      84.2



Table 5.2
Financial Management
Performance Indicators
Indicator:
1. Proportion of LAs that have carried out property assessment in last five years.
Number   % Total
ULAs          51        100
PSs           84       100*
* = all Pradeshiya Sabhas that have 'town' areas.
2. Proportion of all LAs that have introduced new accounting systems.
89% by end May 1995               (100% of ULAs)
3. Proportion that have introduced tax revisions in the past 2 years (1993-95)
57% by end of May 1995
4. Proportion of LAs that have introduced revised accounting system
100% by end of May 1995
5. Proportion of LAs that have completed final accounts for
July 1993                                      1988      1989       1990       1991      1992       1993      1994       Total
a. Number of Accounts Outstanding 07.93         11         26        46        95         137        -          -        315
b. Number of Accounts Outstanding 05.95         0          0         0          1         5          15        69        90
c. Change in Number of Accounts Outstanding                                                                              225
d. Improvement {c/a)                                                                                                    71.40%
e. Performance for Previous Year's Accounts 1993 and 1994                                58.10%               29.20%
Data based on 236 LAs in 7 Provinces (NEP excluded)



Table 5.3
Govemment Transfers to ULAs
Performance Indicators
1983      1984      1991       1992
Indicator
1. Proportion of Operating Budget covered by Central Government Transfers
a. Government Transfers                             173.196   237.02
b. Operating Budget                                 567.965   771.86
c. Proportion alb                 44         80        30        31
(19 ULAs)
2. Proportion of total capital development budget borrowed from LLDF
a. LLDF loans to Urban Local Authorities               1.4       4.3
b. Total Capital Expenditure of Urban Local Authorities  63.326    83.292
c. Proportion a/b                                    2.21%      5.16%
'Adjusted based on sample



Urban Service Delivery
Performance Indicators
Indicator
1. Expenditures per capita on repairs and maintenance
1986      1987      1991      1992    i19
a. Amount Spent ('000)                9431.11  14970.62 42163.61  49650.34       15.49
b. Population ('000)                   606.86    622.81   1194.09  1.208.42    316.26
c. a/b                                   15.54     24.04     35.31     41.09     48.98
d. Rs /US$ exchange rate                 29.40     29.90     41.40     44.30     47.98
e. US$/capita                             0.53      0.80      0.85      0.93      1.02
Number of ULAs in sample                11        11        19        19        10
1981     1992
2. Proportion of urban population
without access to a sanitary latrine  18       33    Note: These services are not
the responsibility of the ULAs
3. Proportion of urban population
without access to piped water       >50        23



Table 5.5
Key Indicators: Human Resource Develooment
IUPU Designed Coures)
Institute                     Course                                   Purpose                          Participants                                  Status
(UPU organised unless otherwise stated)                                                               1986-89   Since '89
1. PiM         Dip in Loc.Govnt Admin and Finance         Strengthen Management of UPU and ULAs          55            1       Not continued but MPA established, ecture  from UPUL
now paid by PiM. Dip. In DecentrakatIon of Local
Govenment now established at University of Colombo
and funded by ODA. 10 participants.
2. NIBM        5-day course in Senior Management Dev.     Strengthen Management of LAs                  287            0       Not continued, but stil needed.
NISM        Cleansing Superviors                       For CMC Environmental Management           4 couses          0       For CMC. special course to meet identified need. Completed
3. ICA         Diploma in Local Govnt Finance             Introduce new accounting systems               84            0       Stopped. Insufficient demand. For ULAs only.
4. AAT         Certifticate in Local Govnmnt Accounting   Improve Local Govt. Finance Capacity            -           142      Stopped due to lack of finance.
AAT         Book-keeper and Accounts Clrks                                                            -            80       Lack of funds led to closure In 1995
5. ICTRL       Counciior and Mayors training               Improving management capacity of LAs                      2394-    Needs funds or elso wil cease
ICTRL       Road Maintenance Induction Course          Improve service delivery In LAs           less than 80      40-      Continued with German funding
ICTRL       Senior Ubrarian's Training                 Improve service delivery In LAc               20            25-      Funded up to 1991 by UPU and continued with German funding
ICTRL       Nursery School Teachers                    Improve service delivery in As Llss than 10                200+      Continued with German funding
Schroffas Coure                            Improve practices In financial recording      60             0       Specialist course for cashiers, ceaed 1989
Budget Preparation and Monitoring          Introduce improved budgetting and            200-          540       Wil be run and funded In future by Prov.Training UnitaIPTU)
accounting systems
Rates Ledger Card System                   Improving records of rate payments          22 ULAs       all ULAs   No mom training. In future only on-the-job.
Revenue Inspectors/Overseer                Improved intemal auditng                      40-          225-    Wiil continue to be provided by P.T.Us
Equipment Maintenance                      Improved Service delivery                     40-            0       Ceased
Electrical Linesmen. Foremen etc           Improved service delivery                     42             -       Elecriity no longer responsibility of LAs
6. NWSDB       Operation & Maintenance of Water Supplies    Improved service delivery               less than 30       -       Water no longer responsibility of LAs
Training   Meter Technology                          Improved service delivery and coHlections     55-            -       As for Eletrical Unesmen
Section   Public Heaith refmesher Coure              Improved service delivery                     120            0       Special course on new polices/techniques
Solid Waste Management                     Improved servie delivery                     100-            0       Stlll required
MOHs and CPHIs Seminar                     Improved service delivery                     15             0       Ceased 1989
Investigating Officers Seminars            Improved Intemal audiing                      40           256'    To be continued at Provincial level
7. SLIDA       Training Techniques and Materials          Human resource development                     -             30      UPU staff
Development Training
Training Coordination and Management       Human resource development                   129'          11586    Provinces to take on responsibility for runrmng and funding
Physical Development Training              Improved basis for capital expenditure         -           2735*    Trained trainers in place In Provinces
Resource Mapping                           Improved management of resources                            60       Undertaken In one location only
Project Formulation                        Improved resource mobilsation                  -            40       Training of Trainers for Particptaory Community Based
Planning



Table 6
Key Indicators for Proiect Operation
I. Key operating indicators in SAR                                      Estimated           Actual
1.                                                               _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
2.__                                                                                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _
II. Modified indicators
1.                                        X                     _
2.                                                            _
Im. Indicators for fiiture operation
1. Establishment and staffing of a Unit at the Ministry, with budget appropriation
2. Taking action on reports and recommendations emanating from MMP
3. Completion of the institutionalization of the training responsibilities for local authorities of the Provinces
4. Approval of a budget and trainng plan for annual local authority training plan for each province
5. Supply of data required for monitoring by all LAs and PCs to the Ministry
6. Publication of comprehensive and complete local authority performance data at local, provincial and national level



Table 7
Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                 at a praisal/redefined             Status            Impact of study
.   Study for Lending           To assess the extent of sustainable  Study complted  Ascertaining demand for
Arrangements for Local    demand and to recommend appropriate  and final report  lending and cnsuring that
Government Development    institutional arrangements for lending    handed over to the   assistance is tageted
and Restucturing of the   to and through Local Authorities for    Local Loans &  properly.
Local Loan and            econonic and social infrastructure  Development Fund
Development Fund          development projects.             (LLDF).
2.   Study for Streamlining,    To recommend a long-tenn audit    Study completed    Improvement in the covrage
Improving and Updating    strategy to serve as an independent  and final report  and timeineus of audits in
Auditing Systems and      appraisal activity within a ULA for the  handed over to the   Local Authorities.
Review of the Long Term   review of accounting, financial and  Urban Program
Auditing Requirements of  other operations as a basis for service   Unit (UPU).
Urban Local Authorities   to management.
3.   Study to Establish Rating and  To establish a Provincial Unit to  Study completed  Increased income from
Valuation Units in Provincial  provide property valuation services to   and final report  assessment rates and ksser
Councils                  Local Authorities and to attend to all   handed over to the   dependence on central
valuation work by Provincial Council.  Southern Provincial  government funds.
Council (SPC).
Action delayed due
to financial
constraints.
4.   Design of Simple Storm     To develop a sirnple handbook with  Manual prepared  Enhanced capacity to
Water Drainage System for   basic guidelines for the use by  but few training   encounter storm-oriented
Technical Officers in Local   technical officers in Local Authorities   programs  hazards and greater ability to
Authorities               for the design and maintenance of  conducted.         mitigate these effects.
urban drainage schemes.
5.   Study to Formulate Projects   To study the functions of Local  Study completed.    Creation of better
for Donor Funding         Authorities, to identify activities that    Proposals  understanding between
might qualify for funding by donor  implemented in two   donors and Local Authorities
agencies and to prepare detailed  Pradeshiya Sabhas.  as aid-recipient.
guidelines for the identification,
formulation and evaluation of projects.
6.   Feasibility Study of Pipeline   To study the feasibility of the  Study completed  This would assist Local
Projects                  proposals by the lending organization.   and projects  Authorities to realize priority
identified.        order of online projects.



Table 8A
Proiect Costs
(in Millions US Dollars)
COMPONENT                     PLANNED                   ACTUAL
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total
URBAN MANAGEMENT AND POLICY        0.71    2.21    2.92       N/A     N/A    4.43
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT & RESOURCE    0.81    2.16    2.97       N/A     N/A    2.08
MOBILIZATION
SERVICE DELIVERY                   2.84    2.92    5.76       N/A     N/A    3.08
BASE MAPPING                       0.85    2.65      3.5     0.00    0.00    0.00
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT         0.43    2.00    2.43       N/A     N/A    2.16
ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS               0.08    0.00    0.08       N/A     N/A    3.63
TOTAL                               5.72   11.94   17.66      N/A     N/A   15.38
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY               0.02    0.25    0.27      0.00    0.00    0.00
PRICE CONTINGENCY                  0.84    1.62    2.46      0.00    0.00    0.00
GRAND TOTAL                        6.58   13.81   20.39       N/A     N/A   15.38



Table 8B
Proiect Financina
(in Millions US Dollars)
A praisal Estimate          |         Actual/Latest Estimate
Source    Local Costs  Foreign Costs    Total      Local Costs  Foreign Costs    Total
IDA                    0            13          13      N/A           N/A            11.709
GOSL                6.58          0.81         7.39     N/A           N/A               4.4
TOTAL               6.58         13.81        20.39                                  16.109



Table 9
Economnic Costs and Benefits
Assumptions                       Costs                         Benefits
N.A.                           N.A.                           N.A.
I= 



Table 10
Status of Legal Covenants
Original         Revised
Covenant    Present    Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Agreement    Section               tvp          Status          Date              Date                  Description of Covenant                               Comments
Developemt          3.04             9             C                                           UPU shall prepare semiannual progress reports of  Final report for six monts ended July 1995
Credit                                                                                         the ptoject and furmish them to IDA within 30 days  available.
Agreement                                                                                      following the end of each reporting semester.
3.06 (a)         10            NC                                           Maintain and monitor the system of grants to ULAs  Program   suspended   by   GOSL   after
basod~ ~ onpromneciei.                     Provincial Council system was put in place in
based on performance criteria.                   1987. UPU  has proposed  an  amended
performnc based grant systern, which is
_                                                _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~under conskideration.
3.06 (b)         10            CP                                           Carry out, in consultation with IDA, annual review   Despite suspension of the performance-based
of perfonnance based system of grants to ULAs,  grant system, UPU has undertaken, jointly
and introduce such changes as shall be agreed with  with Provincial Councils, a performance
IDA.                                             rating exercise for each ULA.
4.01 (b)          I            CD         09/30/88 and                      Records and Accounts, including Special Account,  Reports delayed.
annually                       shall be audited each year and the auditor's report
thereafter                      provided to IDA.
4.01 (c)          1            CD         09/30/88 and                      Records and  Accounts  for the Statement of  Reports delayed
annually                       Expenses shall be audted each year and the
- ---------l6-                   therealler                      auditor's report provided to IDA.
Covenant types:                                                                 Present atus:
1 =  Accou0a/audit                  8  =   Indigenow people                   C   = covenant conmiped with
2 =  Fnancial perfmiae/revexe       9  =   Monitoing, review, and reporting   CD = complied with after delay
generation fiom beneficiaries
3 =  Flow and utiizationt of proect  10 =   Prieoct intplemenation not covered  CP = compLied with partially
faind                                 by categoriea 1-9
4 =  C-aerpai fiwnling              11=   Sectoal or cro-wectoral budgetary or   NC = not compLied with
dhr ree alocation
5 =  Management aspecs of the project  12 =   Sectois or cro-wectonl policy/
or execung agency                     egutorymiutioa action
6 =  Envizonnet covenan             13 =   Odier
7 =   nolurtaiy rettlemei



Table 11
Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title          Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1.  N.A.                                      N.A.
2.
3.



Table 12
Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project    Financial   Planned    Revised    Actual
Cycle          Year       Weeks    Weeks    Weeks
Through appraisal      FY85                            36.8
Appraisal-Board        FY86                            23.4
Board-Effectiveness   FY86                             2.90
Supervision          FY86 - 95    64.70                88.40
Completion           FY96 - 97    4.00       6.00      6.00
TOTAL                             68.70               157.50



Table 13
Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of              Number   Days        Specialized  Implement- Develop-
Project     Monthl      of        in       Staff Skills   ation     ment      Types of
Cycle       Year    Persons    Field   Represented a/ Status b/   Impact  Problems c/
Through
Appraisal
Appraisal     11-12V85      5
through
Board
approval
Board
approval
through
Effectiveness
Supervision     8/86        4                   a, c, e        -
11-12V86     4                  a, c, h, 9      1
3/87       4                  a,c,h,g         1
9/87       3                    a, d, i       1
1-2188      2                    a, i          1
5-6/88      1                     a            1
5/88       2                    a, d          I
10188       3                   a, d, i       2
6-7/89      3                   a, d, i        2
10189       2                    a, i         2
4/90       3                    a, d, i       2
9/90       3                    a, d, i       2
5191       3                    a, d, i       3
2/92       2                     d, i         3
6/92       3                    a, d, f       3
11/92       2                    a. b         3
3-4/93      1                     b            3
7/93       2                    a, b          2
2/94       1                     b            2
11194       2                    a, f         2
6-7/95      2                    a, g
Completion
at Key to Specialization          bl Koy to Status        cl Key to Problems
a = Financial analyst             1 = Improving           1 = Technical
b = Economist                    2 = Static               2 = Financial
c = Sanitary engineer             3 = Deteriorating       3 = Institutional/Management
d = Solid waste expert
* = Municipal finance spec.
f = Engineer/Planner
g  Urban development exp.
h  Training expert
i= Municipal engineer



Appendix A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETON REPORT
SRI LANKA
MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT PROlECT
(Cr. 1697-CE)
Mission's Aide-Memnoire



The World Bank                                   1818 H Street, N.W.  (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT    Washington, D.C. 20433   Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION            U.S.A.              Cable Address: INDEVAS
August 4, 1995
Mr. Austin Fernando
Secretary
Ministry of Co-operatives, Provincial Councils,
Local Government and Indigenous Medicine
Colombo, Sri Lanka
SRI LANKA
Dear Mr. Fernando:
SRI LANKA - Municipal Management Proiect (Cr. 1697-CE)
I have pleasure in enclosing the Final Aide-Memoire prepared by our
Municipal Management Project supervision and ICR preparation mission which
visited Sri Lanka during the period June 24 to July 7, 1995. The objectives of
the mission were to undertake the final supervision of the project, and to review
progress with preparation of the project's Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
and Operational Plan.
The mission reports that the major part of project activities have
been satisfactorily completed. Benefits from the project include an increased
capability at Provincial and local councils levels, the creation of a database
about local council performance, and the establishment of improved practices and
training systems.   The mission also reported that Government has agreed a
satisfactory timetable for completion of the project's ICR, whereby Government's
contribution in final form would be provided by September 30, 1995.
We are very concerned, however, about the apparent lack of clear
arrangements to sustain the benefits of the project in a satisfactory manner.
The operational plan you discussed with the mission indicates the need for a
continuing capacity at the centre to follow-up on implementation of important
project recommendations, such as the proposed new grant structure, for
maintenance of the information base started by UPU, for monitoring of Provincial
council  activities  with  regard  to  local  authorities,  and  for  training
coordination.
Although we understand that Government's revised intention is to
continue UPU with a small nucleus of staff, we do not yet feel confident that
this arrangement will be capable of implementing the agreed actions as envisaged
in the operational plan.  Accordingly, we would request to be kept advised,
either directly or via the Resident Mission, of how these arrangements develop,
and to be provided with a full statement of status when you provide Government's
final comments for the ICR on September 30, 1995.
RCA 248423 * WUI 64145 * FAX (202) 477-6391



Mr. Austin Fernando                   - 2 -                        August 4, 1995
On behalf of the m-ission I would like to thank your Minister, yourself
and your colleagues for their hospitality, assistance and the courtesies extended
during the mission.
Regards,
Sincerel,
Marie Garcia-Zamor
Division Chief
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department 1
South Asia Region
cc: Secretary Finance
Ms. Mallika Karunaratne, Director, Human Settlements Division, National
Planning Department.



SRI LANTKA
MUNI1CIPAL M.ANAGEMENT PROJECT
CR. 1697-CE
IDA SUPERVISION AND ICR PREPARATION MISSION
FINAL AIDE MEMOIRE
JULY 26, 1995
INTRODUCTION
1.    An IDA mission comprising Messrs. Graeme Lee (mission leader) and Alistair Blunt
(urban development specialist) visited Sri Lanka during the period June 24 to July 7, 1995 for
the final supervision of the Municipal Management Project (Cr. 1697-CE), and to review
progress with preparation of the project's Implementation Completion Report (ICR) and
Operational Plan. The mission met with the Minister, Secretary and Additional Secretary of
Cooperatives, Provincial Councils, Local Government and Indigenous Medicine (the Ministry),
and the Director and officials of the Urban Programme Unit (UPU).
2.    The mission appreciates the courtesies and cooperation extended to it during its visit.
The findings and recommendations of the mission, as incorporated in this Aide Memoire, are
confirmed by IDA management.
BACKGROUND AND STATUS
3.    The Credit closed, after a twelve month extension, on June 30, 1995. In anticipation of
the credit closing, IDA had initiated, in February 1995, discussions with UPU about the
preparation of the project's Implementation Completion Report.  Also, at the request of
Government, the final date for receipt of withdrawal applications for expenditures incurred prior
to credit closure had been set as October 31, 1995.
4.    The main item of work during the final stage of the project, the Phase IV consultancy,
is complete, and the consultants final reports have been submitted for the overall work
undertaken, work in each province, and for specific topics such as management information
systems. Reports and studies completed during this phase of the project are listed in Annex 1.
5.    As part of its Phase IV activities, UPU has undertaken pilot works in local authority
areas in order to demonstrate good practices and standards. In addition to technical advice,
UPU has provided project financial support for physical works up to a ceiling of Rs.300,000 per
pilot scheme. This approach has proved successful and 22 demonstration pilot works have been
completed. The prop.osed procurement of communication equipment for Colombo Municipal
Council has lapsed due to delays in obtaining Cabinet consideration of the bid evaluation for the
equipment.



- 2-
6.    The project's estimated final financial position is as indicated below, including  the
anticipated remaining payments and disbursements.
Table 1
US$ Million
Planned     Estimated
Final
Category of Expenditure
Urban Management & Policy                  2.9           4.4
Financial Management                       3.0           2.1
Service Delivery                           5.8           3.2
Base Mapping                               3.3
Human Resource Development                 2.4           2.2
Administration Costs                       0 1            '
Sub-Total                                17.5          15.1
Contingencies                             2.7
TOTAL                                   20.2         15.1
Financed by
GOSL                                  7.2           4.4
IDA                                   13i0          10.7
TOTAL                                 20.2          15.1
1/ Includes Governnent Staff costs.
7.    There are two major variations between original expenditure plans and estimated final
expenditure. The expenditure category Service Delivery included more extensive civil works
than were eventually undertaken. The pilot demonstration civil works schemes were mainly
deferred and only implemented in Phase IV, following Government's decision to concentrate
during Phase III on operation and maintenance. Base mapping was not completed as originally
intended due to operational difficulties, and because base mapping for 24 towns was also
included as a component of a project supported by Asian Development Bank. Existing maps for
urban areas were, however, adapted and utilized for recording basic details such as location of
utilities. As of May 31, 1995, the remaining undisbursed balance of the Credit is US$4.4
million. This amounit includes disbursements yet to be made, and also reflects US$:SDR
exchange rate movements.



-3-
8.    The Government is not proposing to retain the UPU in its present form, but instead
intends to create a small cell within the Ministry. In order to complete project administration,
to assist prepare the ICR and Operational Plan, and to hand over project outputs and activities,
a core staff from UPU will be retained for a transition period. The core staff include a
consultant Project Coordinator, the accountant, computer personnel and support staff. It was
agreed with the Ministry that the cell would follow up actions required to consider and act upon
key studies prepared during Phase IV of the project, and in particular the following:
(a)  Provincial Councils (PC) establishment of a revised grant structure for local
authorities;
(b)  creation of rating and valuation units at PCs;
(c) strengthening internal audit in local authorities;
(d)  preparation of local authority projects for donor consideration;
(e)  determining the future of the Local Loans and Development Fund; and
(f)  promotion of the stormwater drainage manual, including a pilot project.
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
9.   The mission discussed with Government the preparation of an ICR for the project,
including providing advice and support to the Government for preparing its contribution to the
ICR, and agreed the timing for respective inputs. Work is underway to prepare the remaining
statistical data and to draft Government's section of the report.
10.  In the mission's view, the major part of project activities have been satisfactorily
completed. Benefits from the project include an increased capability at Provincial and local
councils levels, the creation of a database about local council performance, and the establishment
of improved practices and training systems. Nevertheless, the achievement of project objectives
has been hindered during the period 1989-1992 by civil disturbances in Sri Lanka and the
disruption caused by structural changes (especially the reorganization of sub-national government
and creation of PCs). The effects of the structural changes were compounded by ensuing
uncertainties about the extent of political commitment to devolving power to local authorities.
11. The Government considers that the project as a whole has been able to achieve the
objectives for which it was established. Results -would have been more far-reaching if the
project was implemented without any break or interruption.
OPERATIONAL PLAN
12. An Operational Plan was discussed and agreed with Government officials and is attached
as Annex 2. The plan identifies the responsibilities of Government, of PCs and of local
authorities. It also includes indicative performance indicators. The unit within the Ministry
would be responsible for follow-up of the Phase IV studies' recommendations; for information
gathering and dissemination; for monitoring PCs' performance with regard to local authorities'
development; for specialist training and training coordination; and, to the extent possible, for
policy analysis, policy coordination, technical assistance and studies.  PCs would remain
responsible for planning and delivery of training; for information collection; and for continuing



- 4 -
the local authority performance improvement programme. Local authorities would provide
information, and, in larger local authorities, keep a designated post with responsibility for
training coordination.
PROJECT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND AUDIT REPORTS
13.  The mission received a full copy of the financial statements and audit reports for 1992 and
1993, and agreed the following schedule for receipt of the outstanding 1994 reports:
(a) financial statements to be submitted for audit by August 15, 1995; and
(b) 1994 audit report to be submitted to IDA by November 15, 1995.
AGREED ACTIONS
14. The following actions were agreed with Government:
(a) submission of remaining tables for draft ICR, by July 31, 1995;
(b) IDA's confirmation of Aide Memoire, by July 31, 1995;
(c) 1994 accounts submitted for audit, by August 15, 1995;
(d) draft ICR sent to GOSL by IDA, by August 31, 1995;
(e) GOSL final evaluation report sent to IDA by September 30, 1995;
(f) final disbursement applications submitted to IDA by October 31, 1995; and
(g)  1994 audit report to be submitted by November 15, 1995;
(h) final revision of ICR prepared by IDA, by November 30, 1995.



ANNEX I
PHASE IV REPORTS
Phase IV Consultancy
Institutional Development of Provincial Councils and Local Authorities System:
- Final Report;
- Central Province;
- North Central Province;
- North-East Province;
- North Western Province;
- Sabaragamuwa Province;
- Southern Province;
- Uva Province; and
- Western Province.
Training Programs conducted for Local Authorities under Phase IV
Management Information System for LAs, PCLGs, and UPU
Studies
Lending Arrangements for Local Government Development and Restructuring of the Local Loan
and Development Fund
Streamlining, Improving and Updating Auditing Systems and Review of the Long Term Auditing
Requirements of Urban Local Authorities
Establishment of Rating and Valuation Units in Provincial Councils
Design of Simple Storm Water Drainage System for Technical Officers in Local Authorities
Formulation of Projects for Donor Funding
Feasibility Study of Pipeline Projects



ANNEX 2
OPERATIONAL PLAN FOR CONTLNTTING WORK STARTED UNDER
MUNICIPAL MIANNAGEMENT PROJECT
Purpose of the Plan
1.   The purpose of the plan is to identify how the following objectives, as stated in the Credit
agreements and the amendments to the project incorporated into Phase IV can be sustained and
developed:
-    to strengthen the Ministry responsible for local government organization in sector
development;
-    to improve the managerial, financial and service delivery performance of the urban
local authorities (ULAs);
-    to strengthen the Provincial Councils (PCs) capacity to guide and assist local
authorities to carry out their function; and
to improve the capabilities of all local authorities (including the Metropolitan and
Urban Local Authorities and the Pradeshiya Sabhas) to plan, organize and manage
the delivery of services within their jurisdiction.
2.   The plan identifies the organizational arrangements for the transfer of the role previously
undertaken by the Urban Programme Unit (UPU), specifically policy advice, special studies,
technical advice, training development and implementation and monitoring to the planned unit
within the Ministry of Cooperatives, Provincial Councils, Local Government and Indigenous
Medicine (the Ministry) and PCs and through other arrangements as the opportunities permit.
Functions of the Different Levels of Government
3.   To continue the work started under Credit Number 1697-CE, each level of government
has specific interests and responsibilities. These are:
For the Ministry Core Unit:
local govemment policy analysis and' coordination (as far as is possible within
available resources);
follow-up on implementation of recommendations of the project;
information gathering and dissemination, including the maintenance and up-dating
on a regular basis of the information base started by the UPU;
monitoring of PC activities and performance with regard to local authorities;
monitoring at a provincial level, the performance of local authorities as specified in
MMP "Management Information and Reporting System" report, June 1995; and
special training, training coordination, technical assistance and studies within the
means available.



For the Provincial Councils and PCLG:
-    establishment, coordinated by MDTU, of a Training Committee in PC;
-    designation of a training coordinator for local authority training;
-    preparation and implementation of a training plan for local authorities;
-    collection of data on LAs' performance as specified in MMP "Management
Information and Reporting System";
-    transmission of compiled data from LAs to the Ministry; and
-    continuation of the performance improvement programme for local authorities.
For the Local Authorities:
-    keep designated post for training coordinator filled in specified local authorities;
-    continue to implement improved practices as introduced by MMP;
-    continue efforts to meet standards as established in MMP, through development of
PIPs;
-    provide promptly performance data as required by PC; and
-    cooperate in implementation of training programs.
Performance Indicators
4.   The performance indicators that need to be developed will be used to assess the
effectiveness of the action taken to continue to achieve and sustain the objectives of the project.
The proposed performance indicators, which are selected to be easily measurable, are:
-    the establishment and staffing of a Unit at the Ministry, with budget appropriation;
-    taking action on reports and recommendations emanating from MMP;
-    the completion of the institutionalization of the training responsibilities for local
authorities of the Provinces;
-    the approval of a budget and training plan for annual local authority training plan
for each province;
-    the supply of data required for monitoring by all LAs and PCs to the Ministry; and
-    the publication of comprehensive and complete local authority performance data at
local, provincial and national level.
M:\gI\'zinp\bto\jn95amLx. am



Appendix B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLMTION REPORT
SRILAK
MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1697-CE)
Borrower's Evaluation



PROJECT EVALUATION REPORT
MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT (IDA CREDIT 1697CE)
INTRODUCTION
The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) in furthering its programme of decentralisation
through Local Authorities as units of devolution sought to strengthen them in order to enable
them to perform the functions entrusted to them effectively. Several steps were taken to
strengthen them in terms of:
(a)   Powers and functions
(b)   Fund availability
(c)   Personnel to man responsible positions, and
(d)   Providing machinery, equipment etc.
Government passed new legislation and amended the existing legislation with a view to
empower Local Authorities, Heads of Local Authorities and senior staff to make their status
strong enabling them to decide on and to carry out programmes of development and service
delivery without any hindrance, i.e. the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance (Amendment)
Act No.24 of 1977 and amendments to the MC and UC Ordinances.
Local Authorities (Special Provisions) Act No.42 of 1979 provided for increased fund raising
by Urban Local Authorities. Ceilings fixed by the MC and UC Ordinances on taxes and
duties and other revenues were subject to review and were raised appreciably. In addition the
Government grants scheme in force was re-structured to provide rewards for good
performance.
With a view to provide efficient and qualified staff for Local Authority positions the Local
Government Service Commission was re-established under the provisions of the Local
Government Service (Amendment) Act No.10 passed in 1985. The Local Government
Administrative Service was expanded and strengthened to provide for qualified personnel-to
man all ULA Chief Offices so that they were served with necessary guidance. This was
followed by the expansion of the Local Govermnent Accountants Service and TOO Service
(MLTO)
The Government also launched a programme of assisting Local Authorities with the supply
of necessary machinery and equipment for Local Authority construction and maintenance
work through making use of votes of the Department of Local Government (DLG), i.e. for
road improvement and maintenance programme steam rollers were imported and distributed
among the ULAA. Loan facilities were provided for Local Authority commercial projects.
Aid programmes through twinning of cities in other countries were encouraged for mutual
assistance and support under which some Local Authorities have received donations of fire
1



machines, ambulances etc.
With all the assistance and support provided by the Government to Local Authorities the
impact on the delivery of services and the development work was less. In fact the ULAA
were lethargic and sluggish in implementing their programmes. Complaints on the neglect
of service and infrastructure development increased. Amount of criticism levelled against
the Local Authorities regarding neglect of services was such that the attention of the
government was focussed on improving the status of Local Authorities. This made the
GOSL to invite the World Bank to make a study of the Urban Sector as to the causes for this
state of affairs and recommend remedial measures to overcome them.
The World Bank in response to the GOSL's request arrived in 1985 and carried out an Urban
study with the assistance of a counterpart team. This urban study with reference to ULAA
revealed that:
(a)   The delivery of Urban services was at sub-standard level
(b)   The collection efficiency of revenue was very low and the amount in arrears was
increasing
(c)   Most ULAA passed deficit budgets, and
(d)   Generally the management was poor.
This joint team recommended an urban strategy designed to concentrate the responsibility of
improving the urban services on Urban Local Authorities. The accomplishment of improved
urban services delivery was to be achieved in conjunction with improved ULA management
which focussed on planning, budgeting, resources mobilization, expenditure and control,
operations and maintenance.
2.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The objectives of the Phases II and III were to:
(1)   Strengthen the organisation of the Ministry of Local Government, housing and
Construction in sector development, and
(2)   Improvement of the Managerial, Financial and Service deliver performance of ULAA,
but latter has to be accomplished through:
(a)   design of improved systems of budgeting and resources mobilisation and the
integration of improved systems into operation, and
(b)   improvement in resource mobilisation through increased efficiency and
effectiveness of delivering urban services including their operation and
maintenance.
In terms of the stated objectives of the initial phases the Urban Programme Unit had two
clients to serve, i.e.. the Mlinistry of Local Government, Housing and Construction and the
Urban Local Authorities (ULAA).Project operation experienced during initial phases reveals
that there was no support from the Department of Local Government (DLG). Although DLG
2



was responsible for promoting local government statutorily it was seen more appropriately
to strengthen the LGD Which is the executive agency rather than the Ministry which decides
the policy matters.
Considering the objectives of the project it had been pointed out that much prominence
should have been given to improvement of service delivery systems in the field rather than
routine matters confined to indoors.
Rationalising of the Grant Scheme has not received the attention of the Project although
grants comprise and important source of revenue for Local Government Phase IV.
Objectives are fundamentally similar to those of the preceding l;two phases, but devolution
to the provinces of the subject of Local Government resulted in drawing up additional
objectives. The objectives of Phase IV are as follows:-
(1)   Review the structure, systems and procedures for the Provincial Councils (PCs) to
exercise devolved powers in relation to Local Government and recommend
improvements.
(2)   Assess and improve the existing capacities of PCs in regard,to development of
managerial, financial, engineering, planning and human resource development
functions of Local Authorities and develop the necessary strategies to guide and assist
them, and
(3)   Assess the existing capacities of the ULAA  and Pradeshiya Sabhas (PSS) to
implement devolved functions and to provide AA and training required to devolve
responsibility.
Specific objectives translated into tasks and sub-tasks formed the basis for the TO programme
and development of work plan. Achievement of the objectives in respect of some tasks such
as amending the legislative Acts and Ordinances, application of Management Information
System (MIS), planning exercises etc., were delayed due to inadequate project appreciation.
Other programmes in terms of the objectives under Phase IV have been successfully
completed.
3.    PROJECT DESIGN
The UNDP and the world Bank with IDA credit agreed to fund the Municipal Management
Project (MMP) for the improvement of performance. The Urban Programme Unit was
established under the Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Construction in 1985 and
was put in charge of the implementation of the Project.
The Municipal Management Project consisted of four phases. They are:
Phase I - the preparation of a Feasibility Report based on the study
carried out by the Joint Team.
Phase II- -establishment of a technical assistance and training programme.
PhaseIl- Implementation of the technical assistance and training programme.
Phase IV-   expansion of the technical assistance programme and extension of
same to include newly established Pradeshiya Sabhas.
3



Project execution as stated earlier was made the responsibility of the Urban Programme Unit
with the support of the consultants provided. The Urban Programme Unit was headed by
a Director appointed by the Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Construction and
was supported by two Senior Assistant Secretaries in charge of Administration and training
and technical assistance.
During the Phases I and II UPU Technical Assistance Programme was supported by a team
of expert Advisors from Grant Thornton of US based Management Consultancy and Financial
Services Company comprising of a Chief Advisor and senior Advisors on management
Management Financial Resources mobilisation and engineering. The other consultancy
services were provided by T.P.P. Sullivan and Partners (US), Tata Consultancy Services
(India), Resources Development Consultants (Sri Lanka), University of Birmingham (UK)
A project cell consisting of the Director,UPU, Project Co-ordinator, Team Leaders of
Technical Assistance and Training, representatives of related agencies such as Local
Govermnent Department, Local Government Services Department, National housing
Development AuThority (NHDA), Urban Development Authority (UDA) and National Water
Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB). The project cell functioned as a Co-ordinating body
and helped to resolve issues generated between UPU and the Agencies. Later this was
developed as a Progress Review and Co-ordinating meeting of the UPU.
The UPU Management Cell is convened bi-weekly to promote overall Project co-ordination
At this meeting Senior Advisers and the local counterparts were given the opportunity of
assisting the UPU Management in matters of Project execution. This Management Cell
carried out the monitoring and the implementation and reviewing the progress against
programmes.
A Steering Committee headed by the Secretary of the Ministry was set up to bring about
inter-ministerial coordination and to deal with policy matters.
Phase IV of the Project was executed to implement a programme under a new Terms of
Reference. On calling for bids and after evaluation the technical proposal submitted by M/s.
Teams (Pvt) Ltd., was accepted as the best proposal.  Project commenced its operations in
July 1993. In addition to technical assistance and training on General Management, Financial
Management and Engineering, physical Planning was introduced as a vital area. However,
several new relationships had to be developed and established since Local Government as a
subject was fully devolved to the Provincial Councils created in 1988 with the 13th
amendment to the Constitution and passing of the Provincial Councils Act No.42 of 1987.
In addition to the Urban Local Authorities serviced by the UPU newly created rural Local
Authorities - Pradeshiya Sabhas - numbering 257 had to be covered by the Project.
UPU in the execution of project activities during Phase IV extended its consultancy
programme to a large number of Local Authorities. It had to decentralise its operations to
the Provinces leaving a nucleas in Colombo. A sub-unit of the UPU with a Provincial
Consultancy Team was established in each of the provinces and the Provincial Commissioner
of Local Government (PCLG) was designated the Provincial Director of UPU and was
charged with the responsibility of supervising and monitoring the project implementation.
4



The nucleas in Colombo comprised the Director, Project Coordinator and the Project Team
comprising Chief Technical Adviser and Specialists on General Management, Financial
Management, Engineering, Training, Physical Planning and Health.
4.    IMPLEMENTATION
The TA Programrnme developed for improving Local Authority performance was implemented
through:
(a)   Rendering guidance and advice to Local Authorities on one to one basis. Every ULA
was visited by a consultancy team. Frequency of visits depended on the Local
Authority status and performance standard. On this basis weak ULA were visited
frequently,
(b)   Developing systems for use by Local Authorities such as Manuals, Hand Books and
"How To" papers of all functional areas,
(c)   Training of Local Authority staff and elected personnel in the use of systems was
introduced,
(d)   Providing incentives for good performance by means of a Local Authority
Performance Improvement competition and award of cash prizes, and
(e)   Establishing minimum standards of performance for Local Authorities.
Rendering of technical assistance was based on a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP)
formulated by the ULAA themselves on the assistance and guidance provided by the UPU.
Performance improvement strategy in Phase IV had to be changed to suit the structural
changes that ensued. These changes are:
(a)   Decentralisation of the TA delivery and training system to the provinces through
Provincial UPU Teams mentioned earlier. It was necessitated to work through the
Provincial Councils and to integrate with their programmes. The PCLG was made
responsible for the integration of the programmes and coordination of the efforts
towards improvement of performance in Local Authorities.
(b)   The Provincial Councils became a UPU client, in that, the Project has a mandate to
strengthen the PCLG office and improve the relationships with other provincial level
institutions.
(c)   The Ministry, on the other hand, became another client of the UPU with the
provision of policy, advice and training etc., as there was no outfit at the centre to
undertake them.
5



The PIP or the Action Plan in respect of Local Authorities and PCLG offices were prepared
after conducting a problem-tree exercise. The implementation of Action Plans and their
progress was reviewed by the Local Authorities themselves. A large number of newly
created Pradeshiya Sabhas were exposed for the first time to such an exercise designed to
identify their problems and they did it with much interest on it.
5.    OPERATION EXPERIENCE
MMP implemented through UPU formed the first ever project undertaken by the GOSL to
enhance the capacities of Local Authorities. During the initial stages of the project launching
the heads of ULAA and staff did not show much interest since it did not confer any direct
benefit in the form of grant or equipment. Many LAA considered that UPU programme was
a necessary burden on them. In fact they identified UPU as another authority issuing
instructions as there was lack of coordination between the UPU and the DLG.
In Phase IV the situation was different as:
(a)   the Ministries of Local Government and Departments of Local Government in the
PCC were partners in the project implementation.
(b)   integration of the programmes of the UPU and those of the provinces with regard to
performance improvement in local authorities.
(c)   the acceptance of the competence of the consultants both from the UPU and the firm.
They had prior experience in the field of Local Govern-ment, especially, working with
Local Authorities.
During the early phases when expatriate consultants were deployed the transfer of skills and
knowledge caused to be a problem as some of the Local Authority personnel are not
conversant with the language. This difficulty did not exist in Phase IV as the project
deployed the services of a Sri Lankan firm with limited expatriate Consultant inputs. The
support of the provincial DLG staff was forthcoming land it turned out to be a team effort
of the UPU consultancy team land the LG staff.
Realisation of objectives of the project depended much on the interest and the enthusiasm of
the Local Authorities. The heads of Local Authorities provided the leadership for the council
and the staff and steered the Local Authority in the right direction. Some good Local
Authorities provided inspiration for other Local Authorities which were lagging behind. The
Local Authorities Performance Improvement competition served to create the team spirit and
to compete with each other to reach higher levels of performance. However, in the case of
certain PCs the UPU had to take steps to mark the concept and to educate the provinces of
their responsibility, especially, with the policy makers and top officials. Matters such as
PCLG office structure. PCLG cadre, cadres of Local Authorities. Filling of vacancies had
to taken up with Provincial Authorities and remedial action was taken.
6



The Project also faced with difficulties due to frequent adjustments and changes in the
Ministry to which the UPU belonged resulting in the UPU being thrown to different
ministries from time to time, from Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Construction
to finally the Ministry of Co-operatives, Provincial Councils, Local Goverrnent and
Indigenous Medicine D(5th Ministry).
During the Project period several elections were conducted from the Local Authority
elections to Provincial elections. Project implementation suffered during elections ;including
the period of campaign and their aftermath. As a result the Councillor training and all other
training programmes as well as technical assistance visits had to be postponed. However,
in the implementation of the Project activities the Ministry and the Provincial Councils as
well as central agencies were helpful to a great extent.
6.    COST AND BENEFITS
The feasibility study in Phase II of the preparation of the report was funded by the UNDP.
The loan provided by the IDA Credit 1697 CE Agreement in 1986 was SDR 11.3 million
(equivalent to US $ 14.2 million in 1994) Out of this total the US $ 2.7 (approximately) are
considered as unallocated. Total disbursement is approximately US $ 11 million. This
includes payments made to Colombo Municipal Council for the purchase of solid waste
equipment and other payments made to the National Water Supply and Drainage
Board(NWSDB) and the Ministry of Rehabilitation. These disbursement in the three phases
are as follows:-
COST ANALYSIS
US $ ('000)
Phase I                        UNDP Funded
Phase II & III                 7.618
Phase IV                       2.534
Total         US S    10.152
7.    ASSESSMENT OF PERFORMANCE
A Ministry Evaluation Committee has reported that Local Authorities have immensely
benefitted out of the project but that the UPU system is costly. However, it was noted that
costs are inevitable as expatriate consultants or experts had to be deployed as per World Bank
Project Implementation Design.
7



Evaluation of the Project performance has been carried out at regular intervals centrally at
the UPU as well as in the provinces.  Levels of performance have been measured
quantitatively and also expressed qualitatively against levels prevailing at the time of the
baseline survey in 1993. Measurement was carried out in relation to the large number of
performance indicators developed by the UPU under each item falling within various
functions such as General Management, FM, Engineering, Health etc.
Finally in May,1995 evaluation meetings were conducted and Heads of Local Authorities
have expressed their utmost satisfaction with regard to the consultancy and the achievements
they have made through consultancy inputs.
8.    BENEFITS
Benefits to the UPU
Benefits accrued to the UPU as a consultancy unit by the Management and the consultants
have been assessed in relation to:-
(a)   Project implementation  experience  as regards the project cycle  including
identification, preparation, execution, reporting, evaluation etc,
(b)   Financial transaction with the World Bank and the Treasury,
(c)   Procurement procedures of the World Bank,
(d)   Skills acquired in report writing, presentation and training,
(e)   Use of computers,
(f)    Development of a data base for Local Authorities, and
(g)   Acquisition of new knowledge of management and training techniques.
The project also offered opportunities for the management and consultants to get a first-hand
knowledge in the operation of Local Authorities in UK and countries in the region. Degree
courses for four UPU consultants in UK have helped the UPU to improve its team out-put.
Benefits to the Provincial Councils
Provincial Councils during Phase IV received the UPU Consultancy support in organising
the PCLG office through reviewing and recommending structures, processes and systems in
the discharge of their duties.
The PCLG office structure based on a developed model has been streamlined with adequate
cadres for the approval of which the UPU had to contribute in a big way. Monitoring units
were set up in PCLG offices to monitor the performance of local authorities in regard to
revenue, service delivery. disbursements, grants and other activities. The MIS developed by
the UPU would be useful in improving the monitoring function further.
8



The PCLGs, ACLGs, Investigating Officers, CDOs and Technical Officers attached to the
Provincial Local Authority offices have been trained to enable them to perfonn better. They
have also been given the opportunity of witnessing local authorities in operation in India
through study visits and short courses offered by the UPU. All the staff level officers in the
PCLG office have been given the skill required to conduct training courses for local authority
staff. A model grant structure has been recommended by the UPU to be adopted by the
Provincial office in the allocation of grants to local authorities.
Benefits to Local Authorities
ULAA have been benefitted immensely during Phases II and III consultancy services which
were continued to be provided to them during Phase IV. The systems which had been
introduced were put into effect under UPU guidance and training.
During Phase IV the most benefitted were PSS numbering 232 (25 PSS are inaccessible) PSS
in the NEP are inaccessible. Proper office organisation with office systems have been
introduced and improved. New management practices have been installed. Revenue collection
has been improved. Keeping of accounts on a regular basis and preparation of final accounts
have been brought up to date.
In all the local authorities service delivery levels have been raised in spite of funding
constraints and inadequacy of staff. Technical officers have been trained by the UPU ON
surveying, levelling, contract administration, concrete practice, timber selection etc to enable
them to carry out delivery of services efficiently.
A successful programme to train TOs on the basis of demonstration projects is popular
among the local authorities. Such projects are jointly funded by the UPU, Provincial
Councils, and the Local Authorities. Through the execution of the project, the technical
officers in the nearby LAA, i.e. about 20 for each project have been trained on various
stages of construction and road development or any other work. Peoples' contribution is by
way of participation in the form of free labour which is abundantly available. 22 such
projects have been implemented successfully.
9.    BANK'S PERFORMANCE
The UPU since its inception maintained cordial relations with the Bank which offered advice
and guidance on various matters of project implementation. Supervisory/Review Missions
visited during the project period took a keen interest on the disbursement position and the
progress made and through aide memoire given. The Bank assisted in all the possible ways
to realise the objectives of the tasks on to target. Any delays on the part of the UPU in
regard to reporting were pointed out and action recommended by the Bank to eliminate
delays.
There also have been delays on the part of the Bank. These delays seriously affected the
continuity of the project and the progress made. At the commencement of Phase IV there
was a delay of about 2 1/2 to 3 years in approving the Terms of Reference. As a result the
project period had to be extended up to 10 years from 1985 to 1995, but World Bank funding
for the Project was available for little more than 5 years. At the Country fortfolio meeting
9



held in Colombo in 1993 this was pointed out. MMP was graded as No. 1 problem project.
The Task Manager of the project, after the initiation of Phase IV was instrumental in the
transformation of the project with his close guidance and assistance into an upgraded one
within a short period of time. Adherence to the guidelines and dedicated efforts by the UPU
to clients such as PCs and LAA worked well to make the performance excellent leading to
an extension of the project by a further year.
The Bank's advise to follow various procedures laid down such as procurement procedures
had helped the purchase of vehicles and other office equipment at a favourable price. The
success of the project much depended on the Bank's performance as per conditions in the
agreement.
10    LESSONS LEARNT
With the passage of the total project period UPU management was able to make a few
notable lessons out of the experience and relationships with the World Bank and other
International organisations. The UPU has found that if the Bank's guidelines are followed
carefully the delays in passing through the project cycle could be reduced to a minimum.
Project appreciation has been satisfactory. The consultancy Firms had not devoted adequate
time to study and understand the objectives. As a result the technical proposals submitted
have displayed shortcomings.
The preparation of the Terms of Reference for a project of this nature needs to be done by
those having a wide knowledge in the relevant subject and allied fields. The Terms of
Reference formed otherwise have found to be inadequate and the objectives of the project
could not be achieved in full.
The project implementation should lay down the right strategy for successful implementation.
This will lead to realisation of the objectives at lesser costs and reduced time.
11    PLAN FOR OPERATIONAL PHASES OF THE PROJECT
As the IDA credit ends on 30th June, 1995 the UPU has prepared and submitted a Project
Proposal for a Local Government Development Project (LGDP) which is essentially designed
to assist the local authorities to raise funds. The preparation of a TOR for this purpose had
been built in to Phase IV tasks.
This project proposal has 3 components:-
(a)   Development Fund - The existing Local Loans and Development Fund would be
restructured and strengthened with additional seed capital so that local authorities
would be able to obtain loans for infrastructure, commercial and income generating
projects.
(b)   Planning and development -  This involves community based planning to be
undertaken by local authorities. The planning function has to be introduced to local
10



authorities as a means of optimum utilisation of all their available funds with the
support of the community participation.
(c)   Consultancy, training and research - This involves necessary research into local
government development, planning processes, consultancy through Local Authorities
and Provincial Councils and provision of training.
However, Provincial Councils have already instituted action to run a small unit in each
province on the model of the UPU from July onwards as a measure to continue to provide
guidance to Local Authorities.
11


















IMAGING
Report No.:          16503
Type:     ICR



