OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTSj
CREDIT NUMBER 1697 CE
Development Credit Agreement
(Municipal Management Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1697 CE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                 , 1986, between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST R2U3LI     F SR   LANKA (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the    context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective  meanings   therein  set   forth  and   the  following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MLGHC" means the Ministry of Local Government, Housing
and Construction of the Borrower;
(b) "ULAs" means the Urban Local Authorities of the
Borrower;
(c) "UPU" means the Urban Program Unit within MLGHC; and
(d)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eleven million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 11,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or
such later date as the Association shall establish   The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to


﻿-3-
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1996, and ending May 15,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 15, 2006 shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) For the purpose of carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose selection,
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall


﻿-4
be selected in accordance with the principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
(b) The Borrower shall cooperate fully with such consul-
tants in the performance of their services for the Project and
make available to them all information relevant to the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall cause such consultants promptly to
furnish to the Association copies of the documents prepared by
them for the Project, including reports and drafts thereof,
plans, designs, specifications, work schedules and estimates of
costs, in   such  detail  as  the Association   shall reasonably
request.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall maintain and operate the
UPU with staffing, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to
the Association. The Borrower shall cause the UPU to prepare
semiannual reports on the overall progress of the Project and
furnish them to the Association, for comments by the Association,
within 30 days following the end of each reporting semester.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with an Operational Action Plan satisfactory to the
Association. To that effect, the Borrower shall: (i) prepare
annual work programs; (ii) furnish such programs to the Associa-
tion for comments; (iii) carry out such programs taking into
account the Association,'s comments thereon; and (iv) keep the
Association informed of the progress of their implementation.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) maintain and monitor the system of grants to ULAs based
on performance criteria; and
(b) without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a)
above: (i) by June 30 of each year of Project execution, commenc-
ing in 1988, carry out, in consultation with the Association an
annual review of the performance based system of grants to UCAs;
and (ii) promptly after each annual review introduce such changes
thereto as shall be agreed with the Association.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Special Account for
each  fiscal year audited, in     accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For ell expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credi\ iccount were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, th,- Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain,   until   at  least  one  year   after  the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was   made,   all  records   (contracts,   orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;


﻿-6-
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance and
Planning of the Borrower, is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka
Colombo, Sri Lanka
Cable address:                       Telex:
SECMINFIN                          21232 FORAID CE
Colombo                            21409 FINMIN CE


﻿-7-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By 4/
Authoried Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  440,000        20%
(2) Equipment and              2,300,000        100% of foreign
vehicles                                   expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Consultants'               6,200,000        100% of foreign
services and                               expenditures
studies
(4) Overseas                     610,000        100%
fellowchips
and training
(5) Unallocated                1,750,000
TOTAL               11,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for


﻿-9-
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen t-ie MLGHC's
organization in sector development and to improve the managerial,
financial and service delivery performance of ULAs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part 1:   Urban Management and Policy
(a) Urban Program Unit: Provision of technical assist-
ance and carrying out studies for strengthening
management of the UPU, and further developing its
capacity in policy formulation, investment pro-
gramming, monitoring performance of ULAs and
preparation of a follow-up municipal program.
(b) General    Management:   Provision   of   technical
assistance for strengthening the administrative
organization, information systems and procedures
of ULAs, their manpower planning and development,
and improving their management capacity.
(c) Organization    and  Management   of   the  Colombo
Municipal Council: Carrying out a study for the
improvement   of  the   organizational  structure,
staffing, financial and technical management of
the Colombo Municipal Council, and assisting in
the implementation of reforms.
(d) Ministerial Organization: Provision of technical
assistance and carrying out studies for reviewing
the structure of the MLGHC and its key agencies,
developing a strategy for organizing a more
efficient   structure,   and   assisting  in   the
implementation of reforms.
Part 2:   Financial Management and Resource Mobilization
(a) Capital and Recurrent Transfer: Provision of
technical assistance for rationalizing the grants


﻿- 11 -
system, further developing    and monitoring   the
newly introduced incentive system for allocation
of funds on the basis of performance, and carrying
out a feasibility study to develop a municipal
loan fund for ULA development.
(b) Financial   Management:   Provision  of   technical
assistance and carrying out studies for stream-
lining, improving and updating the municipal
financial reporting system including a computeri-
zation study of the Colombo Municipal Council.
(c) Resource   Mobilization: Provision   of   technical
assistance and carrying out studies for improved
organization and management of local resource
mobilization in ULAs.
Part 3:   Service Delivery
(a) Infrastructure: Provision of technical assistance,
vehicles and equipment, and carrying out pilot
civil works for demonstrating more cost-effective
approaches to the planning and design, construc-
tion and rehabilitation, operation and maintenance
of infrastructure facilities in selected ULAs, and
preparation of standards, guidelines and proce-
dural manuals for implementing similar improve-
ments in all ULAs.
(b) Municipal Services: Provision of technical assist-
ance, vehicles and equipment and carrying out
pilot construction works for demonstrating more
cost-effective approaches to providing, operating
and maintaining municipal services and required
facilities  in   selected  ULAs,  preparation  of
standards, guidelines and procedural manuals for
implementing similar improvements in ULAs, and a
first phase of priority improvements in solid
waste   management  for  the   Colombo   Municipal
Council.
(c) Carrying out studies for: (i) defining ULAs' role
in shelter programs and developing a 5-year
shelter program for ULAs; (ii) municipal drainage
systems and the development of guidelines for the


﻿- 12 -
preparation of local drainage plans; and (iii)
traffic management for the Colombo Municipal
Council and guidelines for traffic management,
including management of public transport systems
in larger ULAs.
Part 4:   Mapping
Provision of technical assistance and training,
aerial   photography,  equipment,   materials  and
vehicles for the production of urban base maps,
including links to the plot registration system,
in a phased program for ULAs.
Part 5:   Human Resource Development
(a) Provision of technical assistance, equipment and
books for the establishment of a Local Government
Training Unit within the UPU and for implementing
a 5-year training program for ULAs in the man-
agerial, financial and technical areas.
(b) Provision of training fellowships and overseas
training and study tours.
(c) Carrying out a study to formulate a long-term
human resource development strategy for ULAs.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1993.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Sri Lanka
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally under procedures
satisfactory to the Association, provided, however, that mapping
and minor civil works for maintenance and rehabilitation of
municipal services and infrastructures may be carried out through
force account.
2.   Contracts for goods, which to the extent practicable cannot
be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more, may be let following local competitive bidding
procedures satisfactory to the Association; provided, however,
that goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000
up to an aggregate amount of $200,000 equivalent, may be procured
through prudent shopping on the basis of at least three price
quotations from different sources.
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in


﻿- 14 -
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.     The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c)    the term  "Authorized Allocation" means an     ailount
equivalent to SDR 700,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out or the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 16 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.    (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(iI)  the  total   unwithdrawn  amount  of   the  Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories minus the
amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eli-
gible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice have
been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.


﻿- 17 -
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association for crediting to the Credit Account) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Association into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made
such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


