Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8443
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2261-CHA/CREDIT 1347-CHA)
MARCH 6, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
China Department, Asia Region
lhb document has a rstited dstrbutIon nd may be ued by     anly In the perfomunxe of
their offi  dus Its contents ay n  otwrwie be discled         Wodd Bank authorWllo



WEIGHTS AND MASURZS
1   Meter (m)                     *    3.28 Feet (ft)
1   Kilometer (km)                 -    0.62 Xile
I   Hectare (ha)                  *    2.47 acrea
15 au
1   Kilogram (kg)                       2.2 pounds (tlb)
-    2 Chinese jin
1   Ton (t)                        -    1,000 kg
-    2,205 lb
GLSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CoB       Central General Bureau of State Farm.
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
mmfa     Economic Rate of Return
FIMO      Foreign Investment            Office
FMR       Financial Rate of Return
KGB       Heilongjiang General Bureau of State Farms
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
NOA       Ministry of Agriculture
MOFERT   Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and
Trade
PCR       Project Completion Report
SAR       Staif Appraisal Report
sma       Special Draving Rights



FrOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
T1H WOILD SANK
Washiton. D.C. 20433
U.S A.
opw_so baa^sm
March 6, 1990
NEKORAN1pDU TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report - China HeilongJiang Land
Reclamation Protect (Loan 2261-CHA/Credit 1347-CHA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report - China Heilongjiang Land Reclamation Project
(Loan 2261-CHA/Credit 1347-CHA)", prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No
audit of this project has been made by the operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
This document has a estricted dWibuion and may be ue by cipients on in th perforanen
of ther offical dutie Its contents may not othrise be dibcbsd wihot Wodd Snk authorio



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2261-CIIAZCUEDIT 134lZOA.).
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paie No
Preface                                                          i. 
Evaluation Summary                        l.                             U
PART I
Project Identity                                                1
Project Background                                              1
Project Objectives and Description.                             2
Project Design and Organization.                                3
Project Implementation.                                         4
Project Results.                                                5
Project Sustainability.                                         6
Project Impact.                                                 7
Bank Performance.                                               8
Borrower Performance.                                           9
Experience and Lessons Learned .10
Training and Technical Assistance .11
Project Documentation and Data .12
Conclusions and Recommendations .12
PARTII
Standards of the Engineering Design .15
The Necessity of the Engineering Construction .15
Main Results .16
Results and Lessons .20
Cost of the Technical Aids .23
The World Bank Performance .24
Project Office Performance .27
PART III
Table 1 - Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Table 2 - Project Timetable
Table 3 - Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
Table 4 - Project Land Development
Table 5 - Physical Quantities
Table 6 - Estimated Costs and Expenditures
Table 7 - Project Financing
Table 8 - Economic and Financial Impact
Table 9 - Sensitivity Analysis
Table 10 - Comparison of Cropped Area, Yields and Production
Figure 1 - Estimated and A.:tual/Projected Area Cultivated
Figure 2 -Estimated and Actual/Projected Yields
Figure 3 -Estimated and Actual/Projected Production
Table 11 - Status of Covenants
Table 12 - Staff Inputs
Table 13 -Missions
Table 14 -Costs
MAP - IBRD Map No. 16545R
This document has a restrted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomanc
of their officil duties. Its contents may nxt otherwise be discled without Wordd Dk authozation.



JECT COMPLTION REPORT
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLANATION PRWECT
(LOAN 2261-CHAZClEDIT 1347-CHA)
PREFACE
1.       -his is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Heilongjiang
Land Reclamation Project in China, for which Loan No.2261-CHA in the amount
of US$35.3 million and Credit No.1347-CHA in the amount of SDR41.3 million
were approved on April 19, 1983. The Loan/Credit was closed on March 31,
1989, two years and three months behind the original schedule.  The Loan
was 99.31 disbursed (including cancellatior. of US$10 mill'on on November
26, 1984) and the Credit 99.31. The last disbursement was on August 30,
1989.
2.       The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations
Division, China Department, Asia Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts
I & III), and the Borrower (Part II). Part II was prepared in Chinese and
translated by the Project Office, Heilongjiang General Bureau of State
Farms and vetted by the Central Bureau of Stata Farms, Ministry of
Agriculture, China.
3.       Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the projqet in April 1989, and is based, inter alia,
on the Staff Appraisal Report, the LoanL/Credit, and Project Agreements;
supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower;
internal Bank memoranda and the Borrower's internal project reports.



(ii)
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
(LOAN 22611CREDIT 1347-CHA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMKARY
Project Ob ectives
1.          The main objective of the project was to develop 200,000 ha of
unused wasteland for production of food grains and industrial crops (soybean
and corn): thereby helping to reduce food grain deficits in China. It would
also upgrade farm mechanization and crop technology for existing state farms
and serve aa a model for future development of large tracts of unused land in
Heilongjiang Province. (Part I, Para.3.1)
Imuplementation Experience
2.          The project was formulated according to Government's plan to
increase marketable crop surplus and it formed part of the national land
development program planned by the Central General Bureau of State Farms for
1981-86. As a first Bank-financed project, considerable effort was made by the
State Farm authorities, both at Central and Province, in project planning,
implementation and management. (Part I, Para.4.1)
3.          The project, covering 31 farms and 75 project sites, has been
successfully implemented within the basic framework designed at appraisal. A
review in 1984 replaced seven farms with three new ones with better site
conditions, reduced the area of two large farms and added a cadre college
farm, whilst maintaining the total project area of 200,000 ha. (Part I,
Para.4,2, 5.2) The investment program was somewhat curtailed due to shortage
of local funds (Y260 million approved against SAR estimate of Y300 million).
Priority was given to construction of 'drainage works and facilities required
for crop production. Some of the lateral and sub-lateral drains, field roads,
bridges and culverts, housing and communication networks were deferred to be
completed in stages later when respective farms have accumulated enough funds.
Bank funds (Credit SDR41 million and Loan US$25.1 million) were efficiently
used mainly for procurement of farm ano -onstruction machinery and equipment.
Due to keen competition and a depressed world market for machinery in 1984,
the saving made available led to cancellation of US$10 million of loan funds
requested by the Borrower and purchase of additional and new items of
machinery, equipment and vehicles. (Part I, Paras.5.1, S.3. 5.4) Funds
allocated for the technical assistance component were virtually unused. Local
expertise was largely used instead and required training was carried out
internally within the project entity or provided by suppliers through
contracts for machinery and equipment. The unused funds were subsequently re-
allocated for purchase of additional spare parts for machinery and equipment.
(Part I, Paras.5.6, 12.1, 12.2)



(iii)
4.          The project was implemented and managed by the full-time Foreign
Investment Management Office (FIMO) with guidance and technical support from
the Heilongjiang General Bureau of State Farms and assisted by project offices
established under the six project sub-Bureaus. Project management and
coordination were effective, much facilitated by the set of procedures
established for work supervision, financial management, procurement and
inspection of machinery and equipment. Project performance was monitored
through task contracts drawn up between the General Bureau, the project sub-
bureaus and farms based on annual targets and investment. (Part I, Paras.10.1-
10.3)
Results
5.          The project has achieved its main objective of producing 220,000
tons of grain of which about 702 is marketable (SO? projected at full
development in 1990). Although land reclamation and cultivated area lagged
slightly behind the SAR schedule due to initial project delay and changes, the
average yields for wheat, soybean and corn have equalled or exceeded SAR
targets. The cropping pattern in the SAR has been generally followed, but the
project authority plans to plant more soybean and less corn in response to
changing market demand and government procurement prices. (Part I, Para.6.1)
6.          Economic performance of the project is consistent with the SAR
projection. The recalculated economic rate of return (EUR) is 22?, compared to
23? in SAR. The financial rate of return (FRR) is 7.7Z which is much lower
than the cash flow projection indicated in the SAR (no FRR was calculated in
the SAR), due mainly to the low parity prices for grain and the substantial
devaluation of local currency during 1984, 1985 and 1986. FRR indicates that,
unless procurement prices for grain are substantially increased, it is less
attractive to invest in a repeater project involving reclamation of new
marginal land requiring expensive basic infrastructure than in rehabilitation
and intensification of exis*t'ng low- and medium-yield cultivated land and
value-added activities. (Part I, Para.6.2, 6.3)
Project Sustaiaability
7.          Undoubtedly the project will be sustainable during its economic
life span. As part of China's major commercial grain base the project has the
full commitment and support of the Government to succeed. This is evidenced
by the recent Government decision to invest Y450 million during 1989-90 to
expand and upgrade state farm operations in Heilongjiang Province. (Part I,
pfra. 7 .1)
8.          Each project farm is operating as an economic entity, with most of
them showing profits during the last three years. This healthy trend is
expected to continue barring any circumstances beyond their control (drop in
export prices and inflationary rise in prices of agricultural inputs).
However, the project farms are supported during emergency by the Heilongjiang
General Bureau of State Farms which has adequate resources and maintained a
good track record of performance. (Part I, Para.7.2)
9.          Arrangements have also been made to obtain an additional 5,000
tons export quota for soybean and to retain 80? of the foreign exchange
earnings exclusively for purchase of spare parts to maintain the large fleet



(iv)
of imported farm and construction machinery and equipment. This would ensure
that the machinery and equipment would be operational until their replacement
for which the farms would also steadily build up a reserve of foreign
exchange. (Part I, Para.7.3)
Findings and Lessons Learned
10.         Implementation of the project has provided the following valuable
findings and lessons to the Borrower and the Banks (Part I, Para. 11.1)
*     Adequate time should be given for project planning,
investigation and design; and provision should be included to review and
adjust project components at an early stage of project implementation;
*     A full-time management system, staffed by qualified
personnel and supported by other units, is essential for successful project
management and coordination. Work procedures and job specification should be
established;
*     Imported high-powered farm machinery and construction equipment
have been proven to be very efficient and highly productive in Heilongjiang
for large-scale land reclamation and cultivation under constraints of
limited time for growing crops and weather conditions;
*     ICB procurement of a large fleet of farm and construction
machinery and equipment based on the World Bank Guidelines for Procurement
proved to be very efficient - competitive in price and assured quality.
This requires careful preparation of bidding documents, procedures for bid
evaluation, inspection and testing of equipment; and
*     Imported machinery and equipment should be adequately
supported by logistics which would include supplies of spare parts, tools,
special oils and lubricants, servicing and repair facilities, trained
operators and maintenance technicians.
11.         The PCR mission recommends the following actions to be followed-up
by the Borrower to enhance further the success of the project: (Part I, Para.
14.4)
*     Adequate domestic funds should be provided annually to
complete the remaining drainage works at tertiary level to reduce 10-152 of
total project area still affected by waterlogging. A survey of the affected
areas should be carried out and a program prepared for upgrading or
extending the drainage works by project drainage equipment;
*     A task force should be established immediately to study
in depth the problems affecting the existing system of spare part purchase,
management, storage and distribution, and to recommend measures for
improvement; and
*     There is potential to increase soybean production
through better seed varieties, adequate agricultural inputs, better cultural
practices, minimizing waterlogging and drought during critical stage of
growth, and reduction of harvest and post-harvest losses with better



(v)
machinery. Funds should be provided to resume the study. experiments.
demonstration and extension discontinued in 1987.



cam
LAXD           NPRJECT
Pa =T CC1W 1OU 31O0r? 1L
PART I
1.    Project Identity
Project Name:            Heilongjiang Land Reciamation Project
Loan/Credit No.%         Loan 22611 Credit 1347-CHA
RVP Unit:                Asia
Country:                 China
Sectors                 Agriculture
Subsectors               Land Reclamation, Drainage and Flood Control.
.2. 
2.1         Agriculture has been a high priority sector of the Chinese economy
for more than 30 years, with special attention given to grain production in
efforts to attain self-sufficiency. Thls sector is a major source of Income
for some 190 million farm families and accounts for about 302 of the countrr's
GDP. Food grains occupy about 702 of the crop land and account for about 113
of the total agricultural output. China has been able to provide basic food
requirements of her population through intensive farming systems carried out
on her limited arable land.
2.2         The Government's long-term objectives for the agricultural sector
ares (a) to increase production of food, feed, industrial crops and animal
products to meet increasing demands created by population a-d income growth,
and (b) to raise income and living standards in rural areas. Measures taken to
achieve these objectives included restructuring and liberalizing its rural
economy under the economic reforms introduced in 1979. Dramatic results have
been achieved: annual production has increased over 102 between 1980-84
(before declining to less than 1O2 from 1985 onwards) compared with the
historical 32 growth over the last two decades, and grain production increased
steadily to a record high of 407 million tons in 1984. Further reforms
introduced by the Government (replacing compulsory procurement quotas with
voluntary contracts, adjusting procurement prices and enlarging the role of-
the market) have prompted farmers to shift production into high-valued
1/  Ths report Is boed on tho filnrips ot a PCR mlison In April 169. Mi-bue at the
mionsso were L. S. Toy Bl Si Mlngilen trm ASSAG.



2
industrial crops and livestock resulting in a drop in grain production (379
million tons in 1985, 391 million in 1986, 402 million In 1987 and 393 million
tons in 1988 with very poor weather). Government intervention to check
declines in grain production included subsidies for production inputs and
investment Incentives for establishment of grain baser.
2.3         At project inceptici, the maIor task in the agriculture sector was
to reduce import of grains and %.otton. I   The gap between domestic supply and
demand for food and fibre was widening. Met import of grains (including
soybean) in 1981 was 13.2 million tons and cotton about 570,000 tons. The
much needed Increase in food grain production and marketed surpluses would
require incentives and assistance to areas best suited to grain production.
The overnment, therefore, designated some areas, particularly the *1ortheast
Region, as grain base regions and initiated programs to increase rapidly their
grain production and marketable surplus capacities.
2.4         The Government selected Heilongjiang Province in Northeast China,
with about 1.7 million ha of unused land suitable for crop cultivation, as a
high priority agricultural development region, with mechanization and new land
development as the major program elements. This region was historically
sparsely settled and undeveloped agriculturally due to the extrqmely severe
climate (winter minima of about -50 degree C and frost-free period of only 110
days) and the great difficulty in developing and draining bog soils without
modern heavy machinery. Given the natural conditions, the Government had
little alternative but to develop such areas through the highly organized,
large-scale system of land settlement and development exemplified by state
farms. Development commenced in the area in 1950. The Central General Bureau
of State Farms (COB) within the Ministry of Agriculture (HOA) had about 0.7
million ha of unused land under its control in Heilongjiang Province, in
sizeable blocks fringing existing state farms. COB selected 200,000 ha as a
first phase of the total plan for development of the 0.7 million ha under its
responsibility In the province. The first phase project was approv.d by the
Government and included in the Bank's lending program in April 1981.
3.    ProJect Obiectives and Description
3.1         The main objective of the project was to develop 200,000 ha of
unused wasteland for production of food grains and industrial crops (soybean
and corn); thereby helping to reduce growing food grain deficits in China. As
a commercial grain base, expected to market over 80Z of production at full
development, the project would make an important contribution to Government's
efforts to increase grain supplies. It would also upgrade farm mechanization
and crop technology for existing state farms and serve as a model for future
development of large tracts of unused land in Heilongjiang Province.
2/ China bce set-.ufficl.nt in cotton starting from loe.



3
3.2         The project, covering 31 state farms in the Sanjiang Plain and
Lesser Xinganling regions, was pre-appraised in February 1982 and appraised in
MaylJune 1982. The main components of the project, as appraised, weres
*     Construction of drainage networks, flood embankments, drainage
pumping stations and ancillary structures;
*     Construction of housing, offices, stores and workshops, power and
telephone lines, roads, bridges, culverts and concrete drying
floors;
*     Provision of agricultural and construction machinery and special
tools and equipment for machinery maintenance; and
*     Provision of technical avvistance and-trainint for-upgrading-seed-.-
production and distribution systems and for improvement of
construction and agricultural technology and of management.
4.    ProJect Desian and Organisation
4.1         The project was formulated in accordance with Government's plan to
increase marketable crop surplus. It was part of the major national land
development program planned by the CGB for the period 1981-86. The national
plan called for development of 1.1 million ha of unused land for field crops,
60,000 ha for tree crops and 2.2 million ha for improved pasture at a total
estimated cost of about US$4.0 billion.
4.2         Under the guidance of the Planning Division of CGS, proposals from
each of the participating state farms were consolidated into a project plan
which was reviewd by a Bank reconnaissance mission in July/August 1981. The
project plan was further refined and consolidated (37 farms with 118
development sites reduced to 31 farms with 75 sites) for the 200,000-ha
project area. The revised plan - incorporating a modified cropping pattern and
machinery complement, and more details on engineering management and training
aspects of the project - was used as a basis for the project appraisal
completed in MaylJune 1982.
4.3         Primary responsibility for project implementation and management
was given to the Foreign Investment Management Office (FIMO) establirhed under
the Heilongjiang General Bureau of State Farms (HGB).  The FIMO was assisted
by the various departments under the HGB (finance, design, water conservancy,
procurement etc.). Project management offices were established in the
project's six sub-bureaus. A Project Coordinator at the Deputy Director-
General level in CGB in Beijing was responsible for overall direction of the
project. The project implementation and management machinery as set up has
worked well as good coordination was maintained between the various levels
within the same state farm hierarchy. Moreover, project staff were drawn from
experienced staff within the state farm system in Heilngjiang which had
successfully carried out simila. development work in the area for the last
three decades.



4
4.4         One of the innovative features of the project was the introduction
of large and modern imported farm machinery (tractors and combines) and
construction equipment (hydraulic backhoes). This machinery and equipment
proved to be more efficient than the domestic equipment in operating under
adverse weather and poor soil conditions prevailing in the project area. The
provision of seed processing equipment also proved to be efficient in insuring
quality seeds for planting.
4.5         Project features apparently not given adequate attention were
design standards of the drainage works and access roads. Design standards for
lateral and sub-lateral drains based on storms of 1 in 5 years return period
seem inadequate judging from the annual area affected by waterlogging and
flooding. The standard of access roads was low for the heavy traffic oi farm
machinery, farm produce and inputs. The problem was further aggravated by
inadequate maintenance and--frigi4d-weathe --that- -damaged- the road-aur£ace -
readily. A higher design standard could have taduced the annual crop losses
due to waterlogging and improved transportation efficiency. Research and
extension (para. 4.14 of SAR) have not been given enough emphasis in the
project design as no specific investment program and allocation had been
prepared. Dissemination of research results to production through extension
also seems weak.
4.6         The provision of grain drying floors was a misjudgment in the
project design. Although less capital intensive it uses more labor and is
totally useless during wet weather which is very prevalent at harvest. The two
grain dryers introduced later at Erdaohe Farm and Yaluhe Farm were eye-openers
for the project farms. These large capacity imported dryers were not only able
to dry grains harvested during wet weather at comparable cost, but also
ensured higher quality output. Using the model of the imported equipment
similar dry rs of smaller capacity have been manufactured locally and
installed at 10 other farms. There is now a big demand by project farms for
these grain dryers.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1         The project has been implemented within the basic framework
designed at appraisal. Due-to-funding constraints, the total budget approved
for local counterpart funds was revised to Y260 million (excluding Y67 million
deferred investment) as compared to SAR estimate of Y300 million. As a result,
the investment program was somewhat curtailed (see para. 5.3). The first
budget allocation was only received in November 1983, resulting in late start-
up of project construction by about a year.
5.2         Apparently, some of the project sites included were not adequately
investigated in terms of technical ane economic viability. A review in 1984
resulted in 7 farms being replaced by ; new ones, 2 large farms reduced in
area and a cadre college farm added, whilst maintaining the total project
reclamation area of 200,000 ha (see Part III Table 4 on Project Liand
Development). These changes, though necessary and justified, contributed to
the slow progress of land reclamation at the initial stage of project
implementation.



5
5.3         Due to shortage of local funds, priority was given to construction
of drainage works and facilities required for crop production. Investment in
some of the lateral and sub-lateral drains, field roads, bridges and culverts,
housing and communication networks was deferred until the respective project
farms have accumulated funds to complete them in stages. Details of physical
works completed are given in Part III Table S.
5.4         The main bulk of the Bank funds (Loan US$35.3 million, Credit SDR
41.3 ""Alion) were primarily for procurement of machinery and equipment, which
was ovae promptly. Due to keen competition in a very depressed international
market for machinery and equipment, the bid prices received for the first
batch of agricultural machinery and construction equipment were substantially
lower than the SAR estimates. ConsequeDcly, US$10 million of loan funds Was
cancelled in 1985 at the request of HGB. Some of the machinery and equipment
items procured exceeded the SAR estimated quantities, especially the hydraulic
backhoe excavators which proved to be very efficient in drain construction in
low-lying waterlogged areas. New items included were two sets of grain drying
equipment and 60 grain trucks.
5.5         Although spare parts, special oil and lubricants were included in
the supply contracts for the imported machinery and equipment, the quantity
and types covered were inadequate. There was no proper organized system for
ordering, stocking and distribution. Bank supervision missions alerted the
project authority to this problem at an early date and repeatedly raised the
issue in subsequent missions. Apparently, no concerted effort was made to
improve the situation .lch has now reached an acute stage. Lack of foreign
exchange to purchase the spare parts was partially relieved by reallocating
Bank loan and credit proceeds under-utilized from the technical assistance
component. Urgent measures need to be taken to remedy the situation (see para.
14.4(1i) for recoumendation by PCR mission).
5.6         The technical assistance component was virtually unused. Aside
from the high cost of expatriate consultants and the need to economize use of
foreign exchange, the project authority felt that consulting services
prescribed for training support, equipment maintenance, management and
planning, and construction operations vere unnecessary. Local expertise was
readily available within the HGB and any training required could be cariied
out internally. As for training of machine operators and maintenance,
technicians this was included in each of the major supply contracts for
machinery and equipment. In all, foreign manufacturers from seven different
countries have conducted 76 training courses in connection with their
equipment supplied to the project. For seed system development HGB managed to
obtain technical assistance from CIDA (Canada). The unused loan/credit
proceeds under the training and technical assistance component were
subsequently re-allocated to purchase of spare parts.
6.    Project Results
6.1         The project has achieved its primary objective of producing about
222,000 tons of grain (137,000 tons wheat, 86,000 tons soybean and 9,000 tons



6
maize) 13 of which about 70Z is marketable surplus (802 projected at full
development in 1990). There was no change in the objective goal during project
lMplementation. Land reclamation and cultivation area lagged slightly behind
the SM schedule, but average yields for wheat, soybean and maize have
equalled or exceeded SAR targets (see Part III Table 10 and Figure 2).
6.2         Economic performnce of the project is largely consistent with the
SAR projection. The economic rate of return (ERR) recalculated by the PCR
mission for the project is 222, only one percent lower than the SAR projection
(See Part III Table 8). Production of the project area has been delayed by
one year, but this is compensated by the more than one year delay of
investment in terms of the IRR calculation. The cropping pattern and area have
been generally in line with the SAR projection. However, HC-1 plans to plant
more soybean and less maize in response to changing market demand and
government procurement prices. This small change has been reflected in the
cropping pattern used in the calculation of the ERR.
6.3         The financial rate of return of 7.7Z calculated by the PCR mission
is less favorable,,much lower than what is indicated in the cashflow
projection of the SAR (no PRR was calculated in the SAR). 14 This less
favorable PRR is caused jointly by the low parity prices for grain and the
substantial devaluation of the local currency against hard currencies. The
official exchange rates between RMB yuan and US dollar changed from 1.75 at
appraisal in 1983, to 2.0 in 1984, 2.90 in 1985 and 3.71 from 1986 till now.
Since imported equipment and materials constitute about 60. of the total
investment costs, the devaluation of the local currency has a negative impact
on the FRR. Although financially the project is still considered viable, a
repeater project in future may not be financially attractive enough to HGB due
to high ^apital investment cost in new lands which are relatively marginal and
lacking 1- basic infrastructure, unless procurement prices for grain are
substantially increased. Projects in Heilongjiang which focus on
rehabilitation and intensification of low- and medium-yield cultivated land
and value-added activities would probably generate higher financial returns,
at least under current price ratios.
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1         There is no doubt about the sustainability of the project during
its economic life span. First, as part of China's major commercial grain base,
the Government has a full commitment to the success of the project area. This
is evidenced by the Government's recent decision to invest Y450 million during
1988-90 to expand and upgrade the state farm operations in Heilongjiang. The
3/ Production figures usd wre that of 1987 as the 1988 crops were affected by very bad
weather.
4, It is a measure of change in China's economic system over the IIfe of this project, that
a FRR calculation at appraisal would have been essentially Irrelevant, wheres today It Ts a matter
of great interest to the Individual state farms, responsible for their own profIts and losses, and
to tbLeir Individual members.



project state farms are fully supported by the H6B which has a good track
record of management, especially during the last few years.
7.2         The project target of 200,000 ha land reclamation has been
achieved. Cultivation, though lagging at 135,000 ha at the moment, is expected
to reach 197,000 ha by 1990. Average yields for wheat, soybeans and maize have
already equalled or slightly exceeded the SAR's estimates. As the newly
reclaimed areas stabilize full development production is expected to be
reached in 1991 as projected. There is also good potential for production
increase through seed variety improvement and measures to be taken to reduce
harvest and post-harvest losses through more harvesting machinery and grain
drying equipment.
7.3         Each project farm is operating as an economic entity, responsible
e,r-.4s-own-prof it--and loss  -the-overall financial performance for most of the
farms has shown profits during the last three years. This trend is expected to
continue barring any circumstances beyond their control (drop in export prices
and high price increases of agricultural inputs).
7.4         A possible risk that may affect sustainability is the lack of
spare parts for the imported machinery and equipment. Also these machinery and
equipment will need to be replaced after 10-12 years of use. Foreign exchange
will be needed and this is not readily made available. However, the Central
Bureau has just negotiated with the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and
Trade (MOFERT) for an additional 5,000 tons export quota of soybeans and the
right to retain 802 of the foreign exchange earnings to purchase spare parts
for the project area. As for the replacement machinery and equipment, the
project farms will have to build up a reserve of foreign exchange. Another
possible risk is the continued depreciation of US$ against the SDR to the
extent that it would affect the debt servicing capability of the project
farms.
8.    Project Impact
8.1         The project has created considerable Impact within and outside the
project area in terms of technology, institution building and enhancement of
local socio-economic environments. Some of the more significant impacts are
discussed belows
i)    The successful implementation cf the project and its results have
changed the pessimistic attitude towards the viability of large-
scale land reclamation for cultivation of grains with foreign
financing, especially with lands that are marginal and low-lying.
ii)   The imported high-powered agricultural machinery and construction
equipment have proved to be efficient and productive. Most of them
were able to operate under adverse conditions in which domestic
equipment has failed before. Notably, the John Deere 4450 tractors
and the 1075 model harvesting machines, and the Hitachi hydraulic
backhoes (for drainage works) are rated top performers by most of
the project farms. The imported machinery and equipment has
generated much enthusiasm within and outside the project areas. It



8
also promoted an interest among the local machinery and equipment
manufacturers to consider building larger capacity machines and to
build attachments and parts for the imported equipment.
iII)  The high productivity of imported machinery and equipment has
resulted in using less labor and many farm *orkers were able to be
re-deployed to other economic activities such as livestock
raising, vegetable growing, housing construction, farm produce
processing etc. This in turn has generated further economic
returns for the farms.
iv)   The use of imported machinery and equipment has trained a large
number of operators in machine operation, maintenance and repair
and a large number of state farm personnel in machinery and
equipment-perfozmance evaluation, their procurement and
management. These operators and personnel would be very valuable
for future expansion of large-scale mechanized cultivation into
other areas.
v)    The project housing, schools, clinics, roads, water supply and
electricity have improved considerably the working and social
environment of the farm workers compared to the workers in non-
project farms. The basic infrastructure also indirectly benefits
neighboring non-project farms.
vi)   Some of the project's successful features (project preparation,
implementation and management techniques, use of imported modern
agricultural machinery and construction equipment, seed processing
and grain drying equipment) have been adopted in the Government's
recent investment program of Y450 million for 1988-90 to reclaim
40,000 ha of wasteland, and improve and upgrade 267,000 ha of
existing low- and medium-yield cropland. Some of the FIMO staff
have been deployed to help in the planning and design of the
project.
9.    Bank Performance
9.1         As the first operation with the State Farm authority the project
required a fairly long Bank preparation effort. Moreover, the project covers
many project sites scattered over a large part of Heilongjiang Province. To a
large extent the Bank had to depend on the HGB for project supervision,
monitoring data, and reporting as Bank missions could visit only about 502 of
the proposed project sites.
9.2         The Bank carried out a total of seven supervision missions over
the period 1984-88. Earlier missions focussed mainly on procurement of
machinery and equipment and changes of project sites. Later missions stressed
quality of drainage iworks, strengthening of management, technical assistance
and the need for a system to manage a spare part inventory for the imported
machinery and equipment. Frequency of Bank missions was satisfactory but HGB
felt that timing of most of the missions was, by coincidence, outside the
period of active agricultural activities - cultivation and harvesting. As a



9
result, Bank missions were frequently not able to witness the operations of
the imported agricultural machinery. Composition of the Bank supervision
missions also lacked agriculturist input on crop production aspects of the
project. Except during appraisal, no Bank mission ever visited the Mudanjiang
Sub-Bureau, the third largest sub-bureau under the project with five farms
covering about 40,000 ha.
9.3         The technical assistance component of the project was virtually
not implemented, though largely for valid reasons. Bank non-insistence on
execution of this component was probably too lax at least in respect of
consultant services to advise on the management system for spare parts. Also,
instead of re-allocating unused funds to purchase of spare parts (which were,
however, also critical), the Bank could have advised the Borrower to use the
funds to strengthen research and extension which were apparently not
adequately addressed in the project design and not reviewed by any of the
supervision missions.
10.   Borrower Performnce
10.1        Considering the size of the project (area and investment amount),
lack of prior experience with Bank projects, and the use for the first time of
a large fleet of modern agricultural machinery and construction equipment in
Heilongjiang, the project authorities have performed well. The strengths
underpinning their success were commitment and enthusiasm shown at all levels
of the project and staff expertise and experience built up over the last three
decades in reclaiming land for agriculture.
10.2        On project management, the vertical management structure set up
within the HGB hierarchy has facilitated coordination of all levels involved
in project implementation. The FDM0, staffed by only ten persons, was able to
draw upon the support of various departments within the HGB. Full time staff
set up at the sub-bureau project management offices and project farms have
ensured successful project works construction and inspection.
10.3        To strengthen imanagement, HGB conducted a series of management
workshops to train the project staff, compiled and issued procedures on works
supervision, financial management, procurement and inspection of machinery and
equipment. Some of these procedures have been subsequently adopted by project
authorities in other Bank-financed projects. A task contract system was
adopted between HGB, the sub-bureaus and the project farms based on agreed
annual targets and investment.
10.4        There were some institutional problems. The major one was the lack
of local counterpart funds. Annual budget allocations were inadequate and not
timely, resulting in works uncompleted or started late for the year. Annual
limits set for capital investment for each project farm also hindered
progress. Works completed in excess of the annual limits were not reimbursed
and have to be either absorbed by the farms or held in account for



10
reimbursement in subsequent years. I5 The domestic funding constraint has
also affected the annual operating funds required by farms for production.
10.5        Some of the project sites were included without adequate
investigations being carried out on topographical conditions, drainage
outfall, size of area for economic operation by modern igricultural machinery,
and the resources of participating farms to implement the project. Abandoning
of major river improvement by a Central Government agency ( Qixin River in
Yuyi Farm) also rendered some of the proposed project sites technically
unviable due to lack of proper drainage outfall. Although a review of the
project sites in 1984 eliminated some of the earlier unsuitable sites, reduced
the size for some areas, and included some new areas to maintain the overall
target of 200,000 ha, delay in land reclamation was inevitable. The two new
large farms (Erdaohe and Yaluhe Farms) included were started one to two years
late. The changes in project sites have contributed to the general lag of
progress of land reclamation and cultivation behind the SAR estimate.
10.6        Procurement of agricultural machinery and construction equipment
was carried out promptly with final total quantity exceeding the SAR estimate.
However, the timing of delivery was not well coordinated with project farms'
needs. Agricultural machinery was delivered before hydraulic backhoes which
were required first to construct drainage works to enable agricultural
machinery to operate. As a result, some of the agricultural machinery could
not be used in new reclamation areas where drainage works have not been done
and have had to be diverted to other existing farms to avoid machine idling.
It is estimsted that machinery for about 102 of the reclamation area was
affected. Although there was no economic loss it is felt that allocation of
machinery could have been better planned and coordinated.
10.7        The FIMO has done well in managing and coordinating the
construction of new facilities of the project, but has not given similar
emphasis to crop production aspects -- research, extension, agricultural
inputs -- to ensure that the targeted yields would be achieved. These aspects
seemed to be left mainly to the sub-bureaus and project farms. Lack of funds,
fertilizer and agrochemicals were some of the problems cited by sub-bureaus
and project farms. Coordination by FIMO (though not its main function) in
these aspects wiould undoubtedly help to achieve higher crop yields and
production.
11.   Experience and Lessons Learned
11.1        Implementation of the project has provided the following valuable
experience and lessons to the project authorities as well the Bank in planning
of similar future projects.
i)    More time should be given to project preparation; project sites
and components should be thoroughly investigated as to their
technical and economic viability. Hastily prepared project
5/ The PCR mission learnm  that som Y16.7 m illion of construction cost was not roflected
in the account and was absorbed by project farms Involved.



11
components are not only costly but difficult to adjust after work
starts. Projects should also have flexibility to review and adjust
at an early stage those project components which prove unviable.
ii) Project management is complex, wide in scope and work intensive. A
full-time management system is required to coordinate project
issues and problems at all levels. The system should be staffed
with appropriately qualified personnel.
iii) Imported high-powered modern agricultural machinery and
attachments are suitable for use in large-scale cultivation in
Ieilongjiang. They are efficient and highly productive, especially
when agricultural operations have to be completed within a short
time due to weather conditions.
iv)   The hydraulic backhoes are excellent machines to construct
drainage works in low-lying water-logged areas, highly productive
and cost effective. The capital cost of the machine can be
recovered within three years of working in the project area.
v)    Logistics to support imported maehinery and equipment are very
important. These would include adequate supplies of spare parts,
special oil and lubricants, servicing and repair facilities,
trained operators and technicians.
vi)   Procurement of a large volume of machinery and equipment by ICB in
accordance with World Bank guidelines for procurement proved to be
very efficient - competitive in price and assured quality. This
required careful and well prepared technical specifications,
procedures for bid evaluation, inspection and testing of equipment
before acceptance. The ICB bidding process also promoted local
manufacturers' interest in competitive bidding and in upgrading
their products.
vii) A reclamation technique has been evolved from the project
reclamation work with imported machinery. The sequence of work is
very important. Drainage works must proceed first, followed by
access roads and then land reclamation and cultivation in that
order. In the past reclamation was not done in a systematic manner
with much of the reclaimed land still subject to frequent
waterlogging. This new approach will be adopted in future
reclamation work.
12.   Training and Technical Assistance
12.1        The US$2.0 million provided for training in equipment operation
and maintenance and in construction techniques, and for technical assistance
in the fields of planning, training and seed production was virtually not used
by the Borrower except for US$103,500 expended on overseas technical visits.
For seed production the Borrower obtained bilateral aid from CIDA of Canada.
Seventy six training sessions on equipment operation and maintenance were
provided by the suppliers under the equipment supply contracts. Staff training



12
in planning, management and construction techniques was conducted in-house
through 39 training courses involving 2,243 participants.
12.2        The Borrower's reluctance to use consultants was mainly due to
high cost and the need to save foreign exchange. Tn-house training facilities
were used as far as possible and training in equipment operation and
maintenance was satisfactorily provided by suppliers of equipment. It would
seem that the training and technical assistance package was over-designed
during appraisal -'thout taking into consideration the in-house training
facilities and local expertise available.
13.   ProJect Documentation and Data
13.1        No specific problems had been encountered with the provision of
the Loan/Credit Agreements during project implementation. To facilitate
disbursements, a provision of special account in the amount US$1.0 million was
later added to the Agreements. Most of the convenants specified were
generally complied with by the Borrower (see Table 11 in Part III for status
of compliance), except for the Section 3i.02 on engagement of consultants as no
consultant had been employed due to reasons stated in para. 12.2.
13.2        The SAR was translated into Chinese and closely used by the
project staff in project implementation. Detailed project data, costs and
physical work quantities were kept at all levels; however, there was very
little analysis and evaluation carried out to provide important information
for project management. Data required for the PCR preparation was derived
mainly from the basic raw data kept at project sub-bureaus and farms. They
were consolidated and compiled into appropriate formats-designed by the PCR
mission.
14.    Conclusions and Recommendations
14.1        The main bulk of the physical works as revised in 1984 has been
completed except for some lateral and sub-lateral driins, field roads,
housing, bridges and culverts and telephone lines which are 65Z-802 complete,
due to shortage of domestic counterpart funds. These outstanding works do not
affect crop production and they are expected to be to completed progressively
over the next three years. Procurement of agricultural machinery, construction
and seed processing equipment, mainly funded by the Bank loan/credit, has been
completed with the quantity of some items exceeding the SAR estimate. The Bank
loan/credit was almost 1002 expended (excluding US$10 million loan cancelled
in 1985). Domestic expenditures totaled about Y250 out of the revised estimate
of Y260 million (SAR original estimate was Y300 million). The shortfall in
local expenditures was due primarily to budget constraints.
14.2        The use of imported high-powered agricultural machinery and
hydraulic backhoes for large-scale land reclamation and crop cultivation in
Heilongjiang has been proven to be viable. This machinery and equipment was
well received by project farms and created a major impact on modernization of
agricultural machinery among the state farms in Beilongjiang. However,
logistics to support such modern machinery and equipment are very essential
and need to be strengthened urgently (para. 14.4 (ii) below).



13
14.3        The project as implemented has been a success, meeting the
Government's objectives by producing about 702 of marketable surplus in grains
and generating the socio-economic benefits expected. Land reclamation has been
fully completed at 200,000 ha and full cultivation (135,000 ha in 1988) is
expected to be reached in 1990. Average yields for wheat, soybeans and maize
have already equalled or exceeded the SAR estimates. With further completion
of drainage works and stabilization of the newly reclaimed lands there is good
potential for further increases in yield and production provided agricultural
inputs can be assured.
14.4        The PCR mission recommends the following actions, which have
significant implications for ensuring or enhancing success of the project, for
follow-up by the project authorities.
i)    Adequate domestic funds should be provided to complete the
remaining drainage works at tertiary level as soon as possible to
reduce the risk of waterlogging for 102-152 of total project area
caused by inadequate drainage. This can be rapidly achieved
through deployment of the project drainage equipment. A review of
the project sites with inadequate drainage should be carried out
to plan the necessary upgrading or expansion works.
ii)   The situation of spare parts and hydraulic oil for imported
machinery and equipment has reached an acute stage. Much machinery
and equipment has been affected by lack of spare parts, for as
long as two years. Poor management and lack of foreign exchange
has been largely responsible for this appalling situation. The
foreign exchange constraint has now been partly resolved this year
with an increased export quota of 5,000 tons soybeans approved
exclusively for the project area. A task force should be
established immediately, comprising representatives from Central
General Bureau, HGB and the major sub-bureaus, to study the
problems in depth and to strengthen the existing system to manage
the purchase, inventory, storing and distribution of spare parts
more effectively. It is further recommended that the HGB Material
Supplies Center at Jiamusi play the full-time role as a main
center. One sub-center each should be established at Jiansanjiang,
Hongxinglong and Mudanjiang Sub-Bureaus to serve the project farms
within each sub-bureau. Other farms, with lesser amounts of
machinery, can deal.directly with the main center at Jiamusi.
iii)  There is potential to increase soybean production in the project
area. Seed varieties capable of higher yields than the projected
average yield of 1.5 tons/ha are available. Factors limiting the
present yield delineated by the PCR mission include waterlogging,
drought during critical stage of growth, excessive rainfaj.l during
harvest, low fertilizer application rate, poor weed control and
eradication due to lack of weedicide (mostly imported), deficient
cultivation techniques, and harvest and post-harvest losses. It is
recommended that the results of research, extension and production
techniques be evaluated in a combined effort through pilot areas



14
and demonstration farms. The PCR mission understands that a
proposal for the above combined effort was actually started in
1986 but later discontinued in 1987 due to change of Government
investment priority.
Dated: June 28, 1989
China Agriculture Operations Division
Asia Region, World Bank



-1S -
PART II
I. Standard to the Engineering Design
According to the China Flood- Preventing Design Standard and the hydrological
law and feature In the Land Reclamation Area (LRA), the design standard to
prevent from flood and waterlogging for the project was adopted as every-five-
year's one-day storm rainwater would be drained out from the field in two
days,while the controlling capacity of the general dikes as every ten year's;
the bridges and culverts as every ten year's as Veil. The above design
standardhad been confireed by several dozens of years' flood-preventIng
exwpriencein the LRA.
2. The Necessity of the Engineering Construction
2.1 The nearly 90X of the undevelopped area of 20 thousand hectares would be
opened In the low and liable waterogging area. So It vas necessary to
construct the drainage facility, and to build the roads as the priority,
as well as the systematic bridges and cutwerts construction.
2.2 According to the meteorological feature and th special conditions of more
land with less work labor In the LRA, and the state requirement on construct-
tiag the commodity grain base, It was necessary to realize the high level
sechanization In land reclamation and farming, to make the LRA a odel In
the saro-modernization.
2.3 The original LRA agro-machinery had two weak potntssthe first was that
sore than half of machinery was overused with the technologically-worsened
condition and hi8h caintainance cost, the second was that the machinery



- 16 -
couldn't match the neid of the cultivation and harvest In the large area of
wheat and soybeman because of Its lov capacity, performance and efficiency
and high loss. So, It was necessary for the project to Introduced the
worldwide advanCed agro-machinery.
2.A when they were digged, the draining ditches would pass through some small
lakes in the low project areas, so sometimes the water couldn't flow In
these canals. It was necessary to Introduce a hatch of construction
machinery which are suitable to operating In the marsh land.
2.5 To lower the grain loss, raise the grain quality and to ensure the high grain
yield and bumper harvest, building the cement grain-drying ground, steai-
sheet granery, grain-handling facilities must be the as important part of the
project. Furthermore, to ensure the machinery power requirement and to
satisfy the basic life condition of the staff, the project mustn't lack
the power, co Munication and house construction.
3. The Main Results
3.1 The water conservation engineering that had been built released the flood
trouble and iRcreased the efficiency to fight disaster. Before the project
began, most of the area of the unopened land suffered from the disastrous
flood due to its location along the rivers and stretchment in the marsh land.
when the project was completed, the field basic construction created the
good constrt!ction to the claimed land, tue disaster-resistance has been
raised year by year. For Instance, the project area of the Gongqing farm,



_ 17 -
whicd was located In the disasterously flooded area alon3 the Dulu River,
had large stretch of wasted land confront with the flood. Only with'the dikes
built, the wasteland In the project area was opened In a safe way. Also in
the Taluhe Farm, toe 153 a rainfall In the 1985 wheat harvest tise made
30U of wheat and soybean drowned due to lacking of water conservation
englnering, while the 360 to rainfall In the 1987 wheat harvest tile didn't
hold off the normal operatlon of the machinery and the wheat yield reached
3 tons per hectare thanks to field ditches being as a complete system.
3.2 The grain handling centres which had been built Improved the grain handling
conditions and decreased the grain loss. Since a long time, drying grain
in the LRA had adopted the solar drying method, by which more labor was
employed and the production efficency was low. Especially under the contI-
nuous wet weather In the wheat harvest period, wheat drying was In very rough
condition with wheat beconing deteriorated. In 1987 and 1988, as a part of
the project, 12 traIn handling centres were built to handle grain 1O,W00
tons totally , with which 8,08 tons of grain loss vas decreased and 2,600
labor saved and 520,000 Chinese RIB Yuan saved.
3.3 Two hundred thousand hectares of waste land which had been opened expanded
the cultivated land of the LRA and Increased the grain yield in the LRA.
The 200 thousand of cultivated land opened by the project accounts for IOX



- 18 -
of the total LRA cultivated land. During the project lpleemenia'tlon period,
the grain yield In the project area kept stable Increasing, although the
waterlogging frequently appeared and the opened land were in uncompletely
cultivated condition. From 1983 to 1988, the project totally yielded 753
thousand tons of grain , of which 530 thousand tons were sold to the state.
The grain commodity rate were 7@.4L. The total profit was 35.26 oillion RHB
Yuan. The Jiansanjiang Sub-bureau In five years totally gained the profit of
12.96 million RnB Yuan, vhile the project area In this bureau gained 17.96
million RiB Yuan. If there vere not the project, the sub-bureau would have
totally lost 5 million RNB Yuan. From above, the project have played the very
important role and is In the outstanding position In the LRA agricultural
production.
3.4 The advancd technology and equipment the project Introduced promoted the
technical progress and the machinery's renewal and escalation, realizing the
intensive farming. These machinery and equipment equipped and modenized
state farms and 95 production teaas and 38 construction units, so as to
improve the renewal of the LRA's machinery and equipment and the agro-
technical refors. To fully tap the advantage of the lported agro-machinery
and to make the traditional agricultural ideal changed, and to realize the
reasonable combination of labors, technology and equipment, and to reach the
Intensive farming In a reasonable size, the project centerized step by step
the land to the skilled farming workers and the separated the workers



- 19 -
from the land to engape In the other trades. By this vay, most of vorkers have
got rid of producing grain, and the adjustment of the productive structure
has been promoted.
3.5 By the Implementation of the project, a large number of the technical bone-
backs and project managerial talented staff were raised and practised to
master modernize aachinery and equipment. In five years, 2243 people in the
project area participated In the domestically technical training, and 61
technicians were sent abroad to learn machinery operation, maintenance and
managerial skill. By equipaent procurement and porject supervation, a large
number of experts were practised in negotiation, trade profession and manage-
ment. At present, there exists a rank of staff who can handle using the
world bank loan with well-skilled profession.
3.6 The implementation of the project raised the production rate and arranged
.the workers who had been waiting for work. At present, the productive rate
in the project area has exceeded average LRA level. The 1988 final
account shows that:
per capita for whole faraing workers              project area      LRA
sewing area ( hectaro )                               13           4.5
producing grain and soybean ( ton )                   19.3         7.2
commodity grain C ton )                               13.4         3.5
productive value ( yuan )                            9856          4326



- 20 -
DurIng the project complelentat Ion, 420 workers were euployeW In the project
area and several thousand workers family aembers, graduated students and
other people had the work chance. So the productive capacity for the project
has been Increased and the social burden released.
3.7 the proJect Improved the productive and life condition. For Instance, the
whole main road In the Jlansanjlang sub-bureau are sand-stone-laId, except
in two newly-built farms. In the project area, 130 thousand square metres of
residence was built and large number of staff and workers moved Into the
new houses. The project ensured daily-used central heating, power and drink-
ing-water supply, public health, education, teleommunication etc. A stretch
of prialtive marsh land that was on the Fuyuan Delta four years before now
has become two big modernized state farms.
4. Results and Lessons
4.1 The complete fore-vork for the project. The project's basic task was to
reclal land. Before the project approved, Investigation and budget were
made on the LRA's virginal land lay-out, style, technical developing
measures, economical profit, and loan repayment, etc. In the feasibility
study, the couparatively rellable,technlcal demonstration vWas given to the
solid basis of smoothly iapleting tbe project and gaiting the profit. But
sOme part of project area was not timely kicked out, which bad unsuitable
land-reclalming conditions, due to the extra-distributed virginal land ad
so many restrictions for the project.



- 21 -
4.2 The appraisal for the project lacked the estimation on the naturaj disasters
confront of the land reclamation. The serious disasters wbicb appeared during
the project lplesentation infect the the project construction progress and
and delayeo the appraised finishing date of the project.
4.3 The final report on the project lmplee ntation proves that soae project
works, such as housins, couldn't reach the data In the appralsal report.
The ain reason was lacking estimation on the comaodity price inarease
during the project liplementation. For Instance, the price of the main
materials for the project construction Increased 67X-l38 respectively, s0
that the investment was behind the ectually need.
4.4 The construction procedure of   vater-draining first, road-building second,
land-reclaising third- was effective to the project. According to the LRA's
long-term experience to opening land and the characteristics of the project
area being along the rivers, draining vater and building the roads should be
finished before land reclaiming. Annually planning arrangement and the fund
distribution aust ensuroe the vater conservation and road-building as its
priority. The project followed the prooedure and was ensured to gain the
profIt. In the past, when the original procedure adopted, all the opened land
vould be flooded, whicb had been reclaimed In the no-flood disaster year.
4.5 Economic responsbility system was favor to the investment anagment. The
fund for the project was distributed to tollow the principle of systemtic
responsibility and of keeping promise In a way that investment would be In
line with the comodity grain, no aore fund for extra-cost, the fund saved
would be the project area's property. In accordance with the s"ste explained



above, the GBSF signed the agreement on the economic responsibility system.
By this way, the investment distribution could follow the progress of the
englneering.
4.6 Setting up and amplifying the managerial regulations. For well,janaging and
well-using the world bank loan In the project lmplegentation, the GBSF
separately formulated a dozon of managerial regulations and sethoas for
inner-GBSF Inspetion , by which the project area should strictly carry out tne
loan usage and construction schedule. The various level departments had been
inspecting the project area's account and help the accountants to amplify
the account books. Implementing the various managerial reguiations help
increasins the efficiency of intactness and operation, and Increasing the
engineering quality and profit, and raising the managerial level tor using
the vorld bank loan.
4.7 Timely adjusting the project area. In the first three years when the project
began, it was very rainy. Under the circumstance of Incomplete construction,
the part of unopened virginal land was flooded, while the complete set of
engineering that had been arranged couldn't start timely, and the Imported
agro-machinery was forCed to be Idle. For getting rid of the passive
position, the GBSP had to adjust the lay-out arrangement of the project
areas which were opened In difficulty, under the aproval of the world
tank, and transfer the imported agro-machinery to the projeCt area suitable
to the imported agro-machinery. By the adjustment, these achinery could be



_ 23 -
well-operated, and the fund veil-distributed, and pain the profit for the
project. The practice proved that following the profit-gaining to transfer
the imported equipment erfected a good result.
4.8 The leading group to the project management must be stable and skilled. The
08SF project office are responsible for the project management. Ten techni-
cally-skilled staff work in the office, of whom five staff possess the title
of senior engineer. Except one vno employed by the Kinistry of Agriculture,
ail the staff have beartedly been working to complete the project. The OBSF
staff working for the introduced equipment procurement had comparatively
high skill and Intensive and decisive level. These foreign affair staff, not
only had the talented skill and wer'e familiar to the laws and trades, but
also handle the various documents in English. The complete procureaent for
the project was successful.
5. Cost for the technical aids
5.1 The cost for the technical aids was S 103,557 ( excluding the same kind
of aids to perform the contracts), accounting for O.5X of the total loan,
much lover than data (14X)of the appraisal report. The GBSF regarded It
as necessary Inviting the foreign engineers and sending technicians
abroad to participate training. But the training should be In accordance with
the actual need of the project, other-wise the foreign exchange would be used
in an unchecked way.
5.2 The  main  reasons  of  icss- usod  technical  aids were In line vith two
principles:



24 -
(A) All the work wIth which the Chinese engineers were capable to do would
not be consulted by the foreign advisers. All the trainings which could
reach the standard frog the world bank, no technicians would be sent
abroad to study. By this way, the consultlve work and the technical aids
cost decreased.
(B) All the expenses for the project would costed In Ron Kin Bl to
save foreign exchange.
6. The World Bank performance
6.1 The Vorld Bank played an important role in establishing the project. Vhat the
vorld bank Invested In the project vas that the Hellongjlang LOA Is at the
important position In the China land reclamation production. Furthermore,
the LRA has the long-term experience in opening land and setting up the
production teams and possesses the agro-technical uthods which had been proved
effective by the practice. The necessary Investment by the world bank played
an Important role In speeding up the LRA's agricultural sodernization and
improving the LiA's economic development. The world bank expressed the
confidence to GBSF's ability in impleting the project. The cooperatIon between
the world bank and the CBSF has been satisfactory In the investigation,
discussion and appraisal on the proJect.
6.2 The world bank has been giving the project fully supervision and support,
which can be proved by the smooth process. The world bank sent 5 supervision
misslons to the project area in 5 year-iapieuentation, effectively Instruct-



- 25 -
Ing the project In loan use, project management, equipment procurement,
technology application, technical training, etc. The world bani( always
timely replied the GBSF regarding the project concerns and helped solve
the difficult problems appeared In the project implementation.
6.3 The world bank performed the technical support to the project by the various
nethods, to make the project staff learn a number of advanced experience In
technology and management and master a set of engineering sanageaent
procedure that the world bank performes. The results Pere perfect.
6.4 There Is a big difference between the appraisal data and the actual
completion, especially the price Indox. This was uneasy to predict when
the project started. The Index change was caused by the policy of the
China economic reform. Later, the GBSF revised and supiemented the primary
project design to change the original data. The world bank took considera-
tion to the GBSF's requirement and took It as reference of analysing the
project profit.
7. Project offices performance
7.1 The project Isplementation was basically In accordance with the world bank
appraisal report. The GBSF project office was responsible to the project
organization and management. Under the GBSF project office, the professional
project offices In the sub-bureaus and farms also were set up. The experien-
ced staff vere employed. The staff in the GBSF project office specialized In
planning, agronomy, water conservation, machinery, accounting. etc. of whom
some stnir participated As. .ratnings !rpensorad by the ccnirai government's
departments and sose went abroad to study to serve the project.



- 26 -
7.2 The primary project lay-out and design were finished through the cooperation
botveen the projoct offices and the other departments on the farms. The
primary design was compiled in accordance with the outlines regulated by
the GBSF, and inspected and approved by the GBSF. The land-reclaiming was
performed by the separate project area. Earth-engineering, bridges and
culverts, road building were carried out by the professional far. teams.
The congtructlon was in high efficiency, low cost and high speed, thanks to
all the construction units adopted the responsibility system. The power
lines were erected by the farm pover-transforaing departments. For the grain
handling centers, all the small ones were built by the farms theoselves,
while the big ones were constructed by the city-level equipment assembly
companies.
7.3 The project offices of sub-bureaus performed the organization, conduction,
coordination and supervation in the project Implementation, also were
responsible to the coopletion of the project components and to coordinate
the relative technical farm departments and to guide signing contracts
between the fares and construction units,and to the engineering supervatIon,
acceptance and the fund distribution.
7.4 The project audit was performed by the Hellon Jlang Audit Bureau on behalf
of the state. The Hellongjiang Audit Bureau went to the project area 12 times



_ 27 -
to fully inspect the fund usage,project progress and production profit. The
audit was accordance with the established audit principles and the loani
credit agreesent between the Chinese governsent and the Worid Bank and the
Cbina current accounting system , finance regulations and accounting
principles. The just appraisal has been made through inspecting accounting,
materials, managerial systems of the project farms. The strict supervation
from the audit department promoted strenthening the project management
structure, account control, and raising the accountants' accounting level.
7.5 The project units compiled the annual budget according to the annual Invest-
ment. The budget would be Inspected, adjusted and commanded to perform by
the GBSF. During the project'leplementatlon, the engineering acceptance vould
be carried out one to two times annually, which was sponsored by an
Inspection group staffed by the sub-bureaus' projec offices, water conser-
vation divislons, basic construction divisions, account divisions, local
construction banks and the construction units. All the engineering works
inder the standard would not be accepted and reworked at a limited time.
7.6 The project mansgement still has some weak points. For Instance, the
relative regulations for the Imported machinery and equipment has not
completely set up , although they have been managed by the certain
departments. The spare parts for the imported equlpment are kept in
insufficient stock with soectime-biockec suppiy. The maintainance and
service system has not been efficiently formed. Maintaining the damaged
machinery lacks the convenient conditions. The GBSF has mapped out the
corresponding measures to solve these problems at a short time.



28 _
7.7 After the project finishes, when the project offices whicb were the
temporary structure will non-exist, the G8SF's vWrious departments vill in
responsible to tie normal  anagement of the project area's production af
business. To ensure timely repay the world bank loan, the account depart-
ment wvii map out the annual repayment bedgot and the foreign trade depart-
sent will therefore map out and organize exporting products.
7.8 Using the world bank loan/credit to develop the China agricultural production
has been very frultful. This should be as a long-tern policy to carry out,
pecially the Hellongjlang LRA needs using the world bank
loan/credit due to locating the remote territory and the managerial level
still being in backwardness.
(r.ritten by the roreign Investment iaanagement office
of &-eilongJiang General rhureau of otate raxrms.
.rffice chief: Li .eganig.J



- 2( -
PART III
TABLES
Table 1
HEILMN9JI    LAIM  RECAMATION PROCT
Projet Comletlon Report
Rotated  ank Lon   or Credlta
ee/Creilt                Purpes             Year of         SOtat              C     _meent
Title                                   Approv l
North China Plain      Draina" Improvmnt         FY82          Proj3et       PCR.completbd.
Agri. Project          and salinity control                   Cowlete
(La.107/Cr.121-CNC)   on 200,000 ha for
crop production.
Pisblhlh Area          Improve and expend        FY             Undr          Some desi" and
Delopment Project    lrriotion, drainage,                   Iplementation    proeuremI delay.
(ln.237CIA)            NW flood control
(Cr.1006-C )           facilities to 400,000 ha
Gene I ovlncl.l        Irrigation conpoeO        FY0            Uinder            Satietory
Davelopment Projet    serves 67,000 ha                      Implementation         Progress
(Ln.2012-CHA)          for ettlemnt by
(Cr.1798-C )           15,000 familIes.
Xinjian  Agric.        Irrigation component      FY07           Under              etisfactory
Devlop_mt Project    serve 82,000 he'                       Ilemtion               Program
(Cr.1764-C )           for food and f ber
production.
Northern Irriatlon     Irrigation end drainage   FY6        Implementation    Credit only
Project                for 200,000 ha In Inner              just sOtted      effective on 1/9/89
(er.1885-A)            Mongolia and 86,200 ha
in Ningxia.



do   -. 
ill ~ -6I       i1
Ba' -            j ti gX{   W
* no
o                             g
aeegI i            i t l   ?l S | g  {|S
el £33l3 3"



-31 -
Table 3
PART III
Loan/Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursementsa/
(US$ '000)
Semester Ending      Appraisal       Actua       ActuaI as Z   Actual as 2
Estimate                     Estimate      of Total
June 30, 1983                 -              -            -              -
December 31, 1983            29.00           0.26         1.0            0.4
June 30, 1984                41.30          21.79        52.8           32.6
December 31, 1984            56.90          27.97        49.2           41.9
June 30, 1985                63.70          43.74        68.7           65.5
December 31, 1985            73.80         49.08         66.5           73.5
June 30, 1986                78.10          49.56        63.5           74.3
December 31, 1986            79.60          51.04        64.1           76.5
June 30, 1987                80.30          58.87        73.3           88.2
December 31, 1987            80.30          65.75        81.9           98.5
June 30, 1988                80.30          66.10        82.3           99.0
December 31, 1988            80.30         66.74         83.1           98.7
June 30, 1989                80.30          67.60 2/    84.2           100.0
1/  LOA data as of 12/30/88 (end 1st semester FY89)
Notet Loan Closing date has been extended (2nd extension) to March 31, 1989.
During the implementation, US$10.0 million was cancelled, retroactively
to November 26, 1984.
2/ LOA data as of 06/12/89.
LJKim: AS3AG



P1 la:P~~~~~~~~~~.A65V                             .gz~~~~~~~MLmONzMM LAN V4KAMTI                                              Table  4
Ptojact Lined Goa,olomeal C.000 ha)
sub-bureraw/Faea    Cultivrated WOO"a   project Doe.lope.at :  .-----LAMd Reclalad b7p Veer                         .  -Celtvatio                    by Year
Area    Line   Plained    Reamed :   96    1964   1l66    196        IW?    196   Total Actual :1963    196114   196    1966    lo7    Ila
Seiojin Plain Rco;on
Puj,ae                   22      11       4       10.0?      2.00    2.00    1.18    5.18    0.00    0.00       10.66 :       0    0.00    0.U1    2.80    5.18    3.80
Xi.anoyeo                so      10       7        6.00 :    1.38    2.00    1.18    0.00    1.18    0.400       6.00 :       0    0.00    2.43    3.71    5.32    8.20
Subtota              52      21      it       16.67      3 .18    4.00)   2.66    6.18    1.34    0.00     13.66 : 0.00    0.00    8.2B    6.89   10.66    9.00
Youy,                   106l     22      13        O.44      4.24    0.40    0.78    2.0?   21.00    0.00        9.4A         0    2.93    2.11    7.40    6.06    5.98
812                      74       9       7        6.78      1.18    0.66    1.18    8.40    1.18    0.67        0.78 *     0.6    2.00    1.2?    4.64    4.89    5.88
663                      54      19       a        6.00 : 2.00    0.13    0.67    2.20    0.60    0.00           6.00 :       0    0.00    0.69    1.78    8.1 5* .21
89?                      46       s1    10        10.00 : 2.00    0.1,    2.00    8.20    1.85    0.78          101.00        I    1.18   0171   8.9       6.2    72
291                      42       7       4        7.67 : 4.00    1.00    1.66    0.00    0.00    0,00           7.66         0    I100    a.      7.6      8.0    5.11
3oizion\                 25       9       2        0.00 * 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00           0.00         0    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Hnilisg xi            13       6       1        0.00 : 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00          0.00 :        0    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Reeha             ~~~     ~~~~21  14  8     4.61 :     0.00    0.67    0.47    2.00    0.00    0.67       4.61         0    0.00    0.18    0.714    1.58    1.66
Subtotal            866    101       43       46.30 : 18.67    3.65    7.25   12.08    6.78    2.12        46.49 :      0.6   8.66   11.68   25.991  80.1 8s0.66
Jianemnjine UO:
659                8~~~~~         ~~~2 82  10  2.00    0.66    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.135   0.00       2.00 :       0    0.20    0.00    0.61    1.84    1.71
sbeueoli                 18      22       8        5.18       1.67    0.00    1.20    0.46    0.00    0.00       8.18      0.46    1.69    0.72    0.91    8.00    2.00
Q.anal.ao                16    10"        7        8.18 : 0.00    0.00    0.00    1.66    0.80    0.67           6.18         0    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    2.66
Qluing                   87      20       4        4.00 :    .2      0.00    0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00        4.00         S    8.13    2.09    8.00    .8.0    3.29
Osndel I                 59    113       18        6.00 : 4.58    0.00    0.00    1.47    0.00    0.00           6.00 :       0    1.13    2.14    1.71    8.96    2.69
Qi"Oloegel.n             25       7       5        6.84 :    4.67    0.67    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00        5.34 :     4,6    5.00    3.42    8.39    3.91    8.45
Cbuarrve                 25      24       8        2.OD      2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00        2.00      0.78    1.78    1.63    1.66    2.00    2.00
Osenfeog                 13      45       7        8.82 : 0.00    0.00    0.00    2.816   0.67    0.49           8.62         0.   0.00    0.00    0.00    2.68    1.47
Ulanjie                  80      84       a        3.18      4.67    0.00    0.00    0."6   0.00    0.00         5.18 :    1.21    4.00    2.46    8.13    8.97    2.8
NM                ~~~~24   20      8        8.07       2.84    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.95    0.00       8.67          1    1.48    1.46    2.56    S.69    8.66
O&.aq?g\2                                 0        2.70       1.18    0.66    0.00    0.00    0.06    0.05       2.78  t      0    1.82    1.61    1.71    1.84    1.18
=eine\2                                   0        4.37 : 2.67    0.00    0.78    0.00    0.40    0.67           4.87         0    1.78    4.17    2.07    8.91    8.90
\rah  2                               0        19.75      0.0    0.0    4.6    :.67    8.0    8.I           19.75 :       0    0.00    1.42    6.61   11.20   10.75
yalub. \2                                 0       16.67      000    000    0.6       6.67    500    684         1.647         0    0.00    0.00    8.2    6.08    0.98
Subtotal                             18       82.51     2 U.S    1.18    8.04   20.25   10.01   14.18      62.81  :     .05   21.72   21.8    81.84   57.46   32.45
otrde ojlo U: 
854                      40      41      1.3      13.18 :    1.00    1.38    4.67    2.18    4.00    0.00       18.18  :      0    1.66    2.84    7.74   10.10   12.855 
6o6                      as      84       7        6.67      1.80    0.00    1.66    1.64    1.566    0.00       6.066      1.6    1.80    1.00    4.26    5.70    6.83
an                       22      is       7        6.67      0.00    0.00  .2.00    2.13    2.as    0.00         6.6;         0    2.80    0.Go    2.05    485s   4.26
QinfenoI                 26      12       a        6.40 : 2.56    0.00    2 .00    1.18    0.00    0.00          6.41      2.32    2.32    8.48    4.67    6.40    5.69
ICngrais 1                       41       5        4.67  : 0.00    0.00    0.73    0.67    2.47    0.00          4.67 :     0.0    0.42    0.85    2.00    2.60    3.48
Subtotal            189    146       40       87.74  : 5.96    1.33   11.25    3.66   10.86    0.00        87.78       4.92    8.37    8.29   20.92   29 XO   42.25
Cadre Col.o. \2                            0        0.84      0 OA)    0.07    0.44    0.00    0.00    0.100     0.84          0    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.01    0.61
Total Seejiang Plain.                     82      184.26     SI5.69   10.66   29.66   47.18   25.69   16.47     134.25     14.57   ZS.48   44.84   04.97  12.130  125.18
L.eaer Xingaeliuag Roglee
gunk.                    18      12       2        3.93  .    1.00    1.80    0.00    0.00    0.40    0.00       4.80         0    1.?3    2.41    1.63    1.97    1.80
Jidee \1                 16      21       1        0.00      0.00    0.000  00    0.0        0.00    0.00       0.00 .        0    0.00    0.00    0.D    0.00    0.00
t.oae\1               12     14       2        0.00  : 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.400         0.00 :       0    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01
.Uaeel..          ~~~      ~~17  4  22      1.40  : 0.00    040    0.00    0.80    0.80    0.00           1.00 . 0.64    0.00    0.46    0.90    1.10    0.00
Subtotal             78      51       7       5.18       1.00    1.70    0. to    0.80    0.70    0.00      5.80       O .64    2.28    2.57    2.65    8.07    2.66
Ji mean U:.
.liaogbieo               it      20      11        6.00 : 5.80    0.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00          6.00 :        0    5.18    4.89    3.63    8.80    5.32
SubtoUta             11      20     I11       6.00  :     .80    0.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       6.00 :     0.00    8.18    4.6     8.68    5.50    5.32
Ne~~~~~~~~~~U: ~~~~~0                    8.37       2.67    0.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00)      8.37 :     1.25    1.09    0.90)   1.34    1.90    0.01
Oreglegt                                  0        1.10      0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.10    0.00        1.10         0    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.10    0.40
Subtotal                             0        4.47 :     2.67    0.70    0.00    1.00    0.10    0.00       4.47 :     1.26    1.09    0.900    1.84    8.00    1.21
Total Lieiner Xingaiolig                   18       1.8.00     9.77    8. 10    0.00    1.80    0.00    0.00     15.77 :     1.92    C.65    0.66    7.40   11.57    9.69
TOTAL Pfl0.WT \3                       200      200.06 :    1.46   18.66   a0.46   48.46   29.49   16.47      200.00 : 16.49   47.18   53.80D  92.37  189.67  184.77
\1  Deleted undec r4wiead plain.
\2 Added uder revlined plain.
TotalW MY nOt fAMll due to rOueding Of ouuNbe'1.



-33-
Table 5
PILEZPIWn                            Q6D
ULONJIUJI L4 RECLAMATtON PROJECT
PRECT COMPLIO  REPORT
PHYSICAL qUANT?TIE
Unit     so       Rvised       -Actual 1uontl ty Competd                   As X of
EstImate    E  1_ ates 1o  8  16S4 165 19s6 1-67 1 t  9      Total Revise  sty.
. Len O.clp_n
Dikes                   *lI  s     6.26        4.15     1.66  1.56  1.68 0.92  0.15 0.14    0.16         148
Ibin Drains             *In g      5.15       18.94     6.a8  1.28 8.81  8.62  2.21 0.08   17.68         126
branc hrain.            min as     9.46       24.09     2.92 0.29 8.58 6.J8  7.17  5.91   25.17          104
V.L,/ublet. Ore.        mI as    21.60        26.84     1.48 0.28 4.58 6.21  7.79 2.80   22.54            89
Subtotal           In as    42.66      67.s2    12.29 8.85 18.20 10.80 17.82 9.08   71.49          106
Pumpil s taio              no.        24         1t         8  2.0  7.0  4.0   0.0  8.0   19.00           108
Land Cir pg             o000 he      200         200     61.5 18.7 80.5 47.5  29.5 17.4  200.10           100
Reads
Rural rod                 km        1sm0       628.0    27.0 272.7 164.9 66.7  81.0 22.4   651.7          1O0
Felld re                  km        2200      2047.0     52.7 878.7 820. 460.0  94.0 28.0  1824.0          65
Uridgee                   no.        806       197.0     82.0 57.0 64.0 66.0  84.0 14.0   26.0            185
Culveorte                 n.        2655      2261.0    808.0 828.0 515.0 227.0 451.0 162.0  2007.0        s8
euildings i Feellties
"sin A other             00'02       666         486      1.2 71.7 72.6  76.6    84 22.5   27.6            6s
Drying fl.ro             'OOlb2      569         406     56.7 116.6 46.5 97.7  152.4  18.2   485.1        104
puel dapet               to"O 0                 80          0    00.0    0         0    0      0.0          0
s *dellee              '0O0 _to       0         52.4        0    0  9.2  9.6       0    0    16.8          8s
t Iltlee
TranfodsrB   substati.na  no.         7           2         0    0  0.0    0       0    0      0.0          0
Die9    leerating stn.    no.         0            8        0    1  1.0    1       1    0      4.0        188
Poe"r lIn oe              km         406         587    s1.0  89.0 112.0 48.0   4.0  0.0   446.0          8s
Telephon  lines           km         511         67     150.6 166.6 41.0 84.5  11.0 88.5   442.8           6s
lachinery A Equipmet
Agricultural mochinery:
teported                 no.       2106        2110        0 1462 1268     0   208    0  2928.0          i89
Domestic                  ne.      8406        2011        0  567  665  466   457  208  2878.0           116
Construction mwachinery \b   no.      67         102        0  110   74    0    40    0   224.0           220
SOd Pro _ing oqpt.        set         16          81        0    0    0    2       8    0      5.0         16
Other No                  ne.                     65        0   40   82    0    12    0   140.0           147
Xe: RevisWd In 1904.
\b: InDuds vehicles use for contruction.
No: Inelude offtle, englnesring and training quipment.



N60LSMJIO LAW 85.MAK%U  628.Wr                                                  Table  6
983 blisata       fts~R&   btitau (106:   <                         -  ------------amp.andltar   fow Legal a"d Foreign      o .ta--- 
Loca    Perelaib IotaAta    Loealt  Poeignp 7e"ta6b    -1996--: -1964---; -1965----;- 6---    --9                                    --       - 160            Toa16-6
Cot Cost    Co"t      Cost   Coot    Cost  :L.C.   P.C.   ;L.C.   P.C.   ;L.C.   P.C.   IL,. C. .9p                  ; L C7    P C       LC I    P.C.;"F  LC    . Mr.-C.
OrDiatso A Cleiirift   :Cy, mln) (6 silt) (0 wa)   (V alft) (6 ala) C3 alav)  (7'NO)  (110000) :(VO0)  (6000) :(VOW)  ($-00) ;CV00)  (0'000) :(7 000)  (6000)  (7 000)  01000) ;(Y,000)  (6000)
b:kae          ;  ~~~~      ~~~6.9  1.0    4.9;  6.6   0.0    0.3:    1947         0:   106          0;   1181         0:    960        0:    193         0      255       0;   mm2          0
$%;A Dralns.              8.6      1.2    61.1      124      0.0    6.2    8an            0:   AM           0:   1677        0    866          0:   2210         0;   1077        0:  13161         0:
Srtascb0rfaio             7.3      1.0    5.2;    21.2       0.0   20.6;    2915          0;   Om6          0:   1660        0:    370         0:   475         08200             0:85-52           0:
Lat/lIvi-lat Or*!%*      10.4      1.5    7.4:    12.4       0.0    6.2        we         0:    51T         0:   686         0;    2           0:   4418        0;   116          0;  10            0;
PuspigSltatiose           1.6      0.7     k.7:      4.7     0.0    2.4:       1"         0;    190         0;    94         0:    790         0:       0       0;    206         0:   519          0;
eridgeo/Cvlaerta          6.4      2.5    6.2       12.0     0.0    6.0 ;    60           0 :257            0    gm66        0 ;4365           0     am55       0      so04       0 :14168          0
Land Cleerls             160       2.1    1. 4:    223~ .             12;     32          0:    73          0:   26          0:   582          0;   am2                 9 0       0   1776          0
Other              ~~~      ~~~~~0.0  0.0    0.0;  0.0o  0.0    0.0;    2,05       0:    OK1         0:      el        0;      0        0;.      0        0        0       0      5417       0
Subtotal  ~~~3.7       10.0   43.0 ; 91.6          0.0   45.8 ;14464           0 t 161w          0 ; 129          0 ; 1615          0    ISM95        0    7041             89011        0
Iva Road.              22.5      2.7   1*1.6 ; 20.7         0.0   10.4 : 4679           0    So8n6       0 ;  881          0 ;   97          0      W 1       0      Gm9        0     4966        0
FiladRoads                3.5      0.5    2.5;       5.5     8.0    2.8:    5s0           0;   189          0:129            0:749             0;    511         0     2"               7779        0
BridoexuClvitrt           2.7      0.7    2.2;       6.0     0.0    3.0;       see        0:16              0:   140            29 0: 2S9e0;    686             0                       4823        0-
SobtoUta           28.7      3.9   2D.3:    12.2        0.0    18.1;    665         at  OM0           0;   6100        0;   39m          0    115          0      813       0   2676          0
sqi; Idisga 
IlcuelaB          ~~~~      ~~41.8  0.0   2*1.9 ; 41.5  0.0   20.3 ;                0 ;   112        0 ;   30          0 ;6314           0 ;   394        0      49         0 92 
Office  Schoes *tc   ;   2.8       0.0    7.8;    17.5        0.0    8.8;        0        0:    52*        0;   O6m          0;   0415         0:   524          0;   276         0   3820;
Ora; a    au         ; 9.4         0.0    5.4;       2.7      0.0    1.4;        0        0:    118         0;    Ns         0;                0:   2496         0;    663              46          0;
Vorluehopa               16.8      0.0    9.6;    14.2       0.0    7.1;         0        0:2JIM            0;   2314        0:3am             0:210             0;   1we         a    11913        0;
aloctrifcteso        ;    .5       0.0    8.1;       6.2     0.0    3.1;         0        0:      64        0;   1459        0;    972         0;      70        0;      0        0     3496        0;
Telephooa                 1.0      0.0     LO;       2.1     0.0     1.1;        0        0:    66          0;    142        0;    254         0:      71        0;    116              216         0;
Subtotal   ; ~~~101.1   0.0   6(. ;   6.2          0.0   42.1 ;      m         0 ; 111           0 ;17151          0:  2861         0:  1Is8          0     SW66            701116       0
Ory'noFloor*                4.7      0.9    11.6:      6.1      0.0    3.1:      612        0;                0;    s96        0;   261          0;  2gm          0:    325               62a0        0;
Ibchi',ery 4 ea.paest
Ailricusltsrel bHeainry.   57.1   565    60.1       30.4    52.2   67.4          0        0:11491    19718    9717   17774;   2045           go0  1WM         4513    29          0   8520 426
CosatructbosIbachinery    1.1    11.0   1'.6         0.0     0.2    8.2          0        0:       0    4168        0      182;       0      116        0     16138                        0    O09
so" Pvoceee:ts to.        00       1.7    '.2        0.0     41.6    95          0        0;      0a            0            0:       0     1808        0     16         0        0        0    2410
others                      0      0.0    0.0        7.2      1.5     .          0        0;   1831      1120              665:   6436       433;t  1752    6409       274    136       OM7   lam0
Subtatal           39.0    69 2   1I. 9       37.6    71.5   90.3          0        0    12=1   2502        9717   22821    OM68      2689111 : 12110   ISM     2613    1564   4579    64948
Other
Trai2i A T.A.             0.2      1.6     17        0.0      2.0    2.0         0        0;       0       6        0       50;       0        0;I          0            0        0        0      10
Ads;a,eration             3.9      0.0   S22         1.0      0.0    1.5       200        0:   181         0      264        0;    280         0:    W6          0     116        0    2445         0
Wocalles"Sov                0      0.0    0.0        5.3      0.0    268      2679        0;       0       0        0        0:   4245         0;    606         0       8        0    7310         0
Subtofta            4.1      1.6    119        8.5      2.0    683      2879        8;   181         60      284      60:   4445         0:    665         0      1in       0:976           100
Total be"s cost    ;242. 3       548   MA 1       6.2    73.5  2356        200          0 :83=        25072    SOM0    21871 ; 599        O6m    49666    189m      1685     16    26828      so04
Pb7aial Coatiaeac.eos    2 3.2       2.2   24.9:      0.0      2.0    20-          0        0;      0        0;       0        0;       0        0:       0       0;       0        0 ~   0           0
Price Continencisae    ; 362.4    11.1    51.9:       0.0      4.5    453          0        0;      0        0;       0        0;       0        0:       0       0:       0        0        0        0
Front-esdPa Fe              0.0      0.3    ('.3;     0.0      0.3    0.3          0      262;      0        0;       0        0;       0        0;       0       0;       0        0        0      26
Total Project Cost     300.9    99.2  5171.1 :260.2    60.5  210.4    24000            262:  5GM      26071    S 6668    21571 ; 599       260                       low66 116      18  184  26805   1681
Supeadltare.                                                            CY-e) (WS'08; (Yae")  WlMS000): (laos) (3'000): (las) (W8l0000); Clesn) (lSO080); (Tope) (1l5S0110)- (Yaos) (11.`600):
lechafto. Rate                                                                  1.73          :  2.00           :2.90            ;   .71           ;   .71           ;   .71
Local1 lepeaditarii is (MS                                                               31 ;V           25114             17510             ISM61:169                           4454             815
Touta Ebpesd.cart in(S191                                                                                 06  ;            393M9 :           16390 lo         270                GM1             16665
NoConert lass *,to 1.66seine1 . *W 175.
~bCoewert baan iotao 1.  using U81610a 1.75 ia 1968, 72.00 in 19614. 72.90 fow 1965 and 78.71 for 1966481-41.



- 35 -
FILE:PCRFINC2                              CHINA
HELOOJIMN  LAIN RECLAMATION PROJECT
PROJECT COWTION REPORT                                    Table 7
PROJECT FrnuCNc
Plae_d          R.e   (106)        Final (6115/U9)
Sourc of Funds        Loan/Credit                               -      -
Agreement     Amont        x       Amount J
100/IDA
Credit 1s.1847              (SOl'001)    (SOR'000)             (SD'OOO)
Cut. It Equipment                40000       41200      10.8     40907       90.6
Cat. 2: Consltin  Svlice
and training              1800         100       0.2         75       0.2
Subtotal                41800      41800      100.0     40982      100.0
USW eqivalent             45000 \e1  4         \e2         5076 \0
Loan lo.221                 (WS'O0)    (USS'000)              (6SS'1000)
Cat. 1: Equipment               a81o1       24700       97.6     24612      90.0  810 mIlIion loan wao cancelled
Cat. 2: Coneultln Services                                                          in 165 at Borroer's request.
ad tralning                S00           0       0.0          0       0.0
Cat. 8: Pe                         268        268        1.0       268        1.0
Cat. 4: Unallocated               888T        88         1.8         0        0.0
Subtotl                  58100     25800     100.0      25075      100.0
OOMESTIC                      (Y'O00)       (Y'000)              (Y'OOO)
Central GaverAwsnt              180001      170000      65.4    170160       68.0
Neilonejlean  0. so              66000      48000       17.8     450        16.0
Sub4mro/Ifrm                    116001      46000       17.8     85025       14.0
sub$eta                884002     260000      100.0    250205     100.0
t'000 eqivalent           10859 \bl 180000 \b2              I0815 \bS
TOTAL  (USI'000)          271156      200a00               166146
\al : S10 1.0 a US51.069 eq4uvalent
\a2 : SDR 1.0 a USS1.080 q"lvalent
\s8 : SRO 1.0 * U881.186 on 6/15/90
\bl : using excd:nge rote of tJS81.0 a Y1.75
\b2 : using exchange rate of USS1.0 a Y2.00
\b8: using exch. rate of US1.0 a Y1.75 in 1988, Y2.00 in 1984, Y2.90 In 1986 and Y8.71 for 1986-68



-36-
Table 8
HEIWNGJIAG LAND RECIMATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic and Flnancial Impact
.... .......  __,_............................................    .......  ..... -----------
SAR                    PCR Re-
Estaimate                 calculation
Economic rate of return                               238                        22%
NVP(1983) discounted at 12% (million yuan)            276                        302
Fineacial rate of return                               NA                       7.7%
Underlying
Assumptions
1990  weat/soy/corn border prices
(yuan/ton)\a/                                893/1570/706               672/965/488
1990 urea/TSP/diesel border prices            982/911/1425               815/751/478
(Yuan/ton)\a/
Trade status for soybeans                     Imported                   Exported
Exchange rate (US$/RMNY)                          1.75                       3.27
Standard conversion factor                          NA                        0.7
Constant price values                         1982 values                1987 values\b/
a. SAR at 1982 constant dollar value, PCR at 1987 constant dollar value,
both are comerted to RNB at exchange rate of 3.72
b. 1987 constant values are used in the analysis, since a complete data set, in 1987
prices, was available when the PCR mission visited Heilongjiang in April, 1989.
Coments:  FRR of the project is low. However, substantial reduction of the FRR is
unlikely. This is becawse stagnation of grain production caused by low goverment
purchase prices has becoas a national problem.  It is very, unlikely that the
government will let grain parity prices drop further. As to foreign exchange
risk, the government has recently allocated an annual soybean export quota of
40,000 tons to HGB. All the foreign exchange income from soybean export under
the quota can be retained to repay the Bank's credit/loan. As a result, foreign
exchange risk to the project authority has been greatly reduced.
Considering the low borrowing costs (64% IDA, 36% IERD), the project is still
financially viable.



37 -
Table 9
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Sensitivity Analysis
(Constant 1987 values)
_.___ ......____ ...__ .................................................................... ......... .......................... ...
PCR value         Crossover      Change        Elasti-
value\c/       (%)           sity\d/
__.............................................................. .... ........._. ... *..................   ...... ..
Financial analysis
crop prices (yuan/ha.)\a/      428/784/304       479/787/340        12.0           8.3
Crop production costs               714             581.9          -18.5          -5.4
(yuan/ha.) \b/
Total investment(million yuan)      523             382.8          -26.8          -3.7
Economic analysis
Crop prices (yuan/ha.)\a/      731/776/546       586/622/437       -19.9           5.0
(428/747/341)     (325/568/259)     (-24)         (4.2)
crop production costs(yuan/ha.)     679               954          +40.6          -2.5
(yuan/ha.) \b/                    (485)             (713)          (+47)        (-2.0)
Total investment(million yuan)      592               969          +63.7          -1.6
(543)           (1,038)          (+91)        (-1.1)
a. Parm gate prices for wheat, soybean and corn at full development.
b. Weighted average of costs for wheat, soybeans and corn at full development.
c. Value of variable tested at which net present value of project costs and
and benefits (discounted at 12%) is reduced/increase to zero.
d. Percent change in net present value (discounted at 12%) due to a 18 change
in the variable.
Numbers in parenthesis refer to SAR values.



_ 38 -
Table 10
FILEPCHTOTS                                   CHINA
HEILONOJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
PROJECT CMIPLETION REPORT
COMARISON OF aCP   AREA, YIELDS AlD PROUCTION %I
19      1984    1905    1966    1907    106    1is"           1090     1001-
2018
Culti. Area ('000 he)
SM Estimates:
W_.t                  1i       25       51       s0      117      112      107     102       98
Soybens               10       19       46       04       74       74       74       74      74
Noise                  0        0        0        4        9       14       19      24       28
Total             28       44       90      148      200      200      200     200      200
Actual/Projected:
_het                   7       19       26       45       65       47      60       a6      1O
Soybeans               9       27       25       ?7       es       78       80      80       80
maize                  0        1        1        6        8        2       10      15       20
Total             16       47       62       07      134      127      170      160     200
Difference:
Wheat                 -6       -6      -26      -85      -62      -8      -27      -17        2
Soybeans              -1        8      -20.  -27          -8        4       6        6        6
Malze                  0        1        1        1       4       -12      -9       -9       -6
Total             -7               -44      -61     -86       -73     -30      -20        0
Yield (tons/he)
SM Estimate:
wheat                1.5      1.6      1.6      1.7      1.6      1.9     2.0       2.0     2.1
Soybeans             1.2      1.2      1.2      1.3      1.8      1.4      1.5      1.6      1.6
Maize                0.0      0.0      0.0      2.5      2.7      8.0     8.2       8.6     8.9
Actual/Projected:
_hat                 1.6      1.8      2.0      2.1      2.1      2.1      2.2      2.2      2.8
Soybeans             1.0      1.0      1.2      1.6      1.3      1.2      1.5      1.6     1.6
maize                0.9      0.9      8.8      2.4      8.1      2.0      8.0      8.6      8.9
Difforence:
Whet                 0.1    -0.2       0.4      0.4      0.8      0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2
Soybeans            -0.2    -0.2       0.0      0.2      0.0    -0.2       0.0      0.0     0.0
Maize                0.9      0.9      8.8    -0.1       0.4    -1.0    -0.2       0.0      0.0
Productions ('00  tons)
SMR Estimtes:
Wheat                 20       a8       82      136      211      213     214      204      206
Soybeans              12       28       54       68       96      104     111      l11      116
Maie                   0        0        0       10       24       42      61       86      100
Actual/Projected:
Whet                  11       25       52       95      187       99      176     167      280
Soybeans               9       27       8o       So       s6       94      120     120      128
Maize                  0        1        3       12        9        4      30       64       78
Difference:
Whet                  -8      -18      -30      -42      -74    -114      -38      -17       24
Soybeans              -a        4      -24      -28      -10     -10        9        9       10
Maize                  0        1        3        2      -15      -a8     -81      -82      -81
Note \1: Annual cropped area of other cereals, potatoes, sugar beet have not bea included In above.



,1                                            -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
Ia                .U,                             1't FIL  1a
3;"                       .2iot                         1;
0 !  s| E 2 |      X Xg t t1    t                                              Ii 1  
|~~~I |       .                                   t         . .                                Aa    w  



- 40 -
PART III                                         Table 12
Use otf uak Resources
Statf Input
Stag  of             Plnne         Reied            Final
Projwet Cycl-         Hll Field      Hl Field        HQ Fi-ld    Cmma"
Through Appraisal                                             80.8       Slh W  Hl  Fel-d
Appaleal through
loard Approval                                                60.6       Ditto
loard Approvel
through
Eftoftivenes                                                   1/       Ditto
Supervision                                                   90.9      Ditto
TOTAL                                                  252.2 2/
1/ The tim  Recording System doee not capture the stag  ategory 'Board
appoval throgh  effectivesees. Curntly, any inputs made after
tie board pr.etlmtioan I1 captue  as "*Supervislon.0
2/ The total oucludes a 7.2 SW of LOP and 1.6 SW of PAD Inputs.
KJKiutASSAG



- 41 -
Table 18
Uih ot Bonk Re4ourcen
Mislon
Pertor-
0etwc    Types
Stage of        Month/              Dnys in   Spebialization   Rating    of
Projoct Cycle    Ytnr       Perrons  Flld       Representwe      Stu    Problem
Rbcnnaisae                 8/81           4       19    DC, A.Egr,           -        -
Ag. E"n, Egr.
Vo Ilow-up (mne.ge-
Ir tassessment)           11/61           1       21    Ag. En.              -        -
Preapreisal                2/82           6       15    As. Egr, Ear,
Ag. Mach, Ecn       -        -
Appraiha1                  5/12           6       25    Ag.E#r,Ag.lach,
Efg, Sed Spec.      -        -
Supervilion 1             11/12           2       15    AS. Egr, DC          1        T
Supervision 2              6/84           2       14    AS. Mach, DC         -        -
Supervislon 8             11/84           1       19    Seed Spec.           -        _
Sue-rvislon 4              6/08           a       17    Ag. Eon, Ag.
Mcbh, Egr.          2        T
supervision C              9/60           4       12    Agri., Eon.,
Ag. M*ch, Egr       2        t
supervision 6             10/87           2        8    Egr, Ag. Ecn         2        M
Supervision 7             10/88           1        6    Eor                  2        i
PCR                        4/89          .2       14    Ear, Pn               -       -



- 
*E IX
ii~i
qlEt.S I 



Heilongjiang Land Reclramation Project t
1*"*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
E*mated onJ Actual/Pm). AJ   a Q.,--J-t'c
x~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~mx
Cl-                 /1'~~i   ht*BA  tt                     c"11mjco
t:]   <  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
O   hobat  SIR 36k.        0 Soybean ActtutllProjected
E  ?tXIe 841 Bet,          V Katie AcetualIProjecteA



Yegw 2
Heilongjiang Land Reclamratioin Project
Etmat@d and Actual Prductior
24'-
22') -
/              ~~~WEAT
21< -t
1  )-                                 . /.                          ________
-s*-. - -    /                          -                       A|S
t¢Rs,3  1sS  1Se     19N  ~'rwr19e7      I4f       1S        1W        t-
U  IIabet BAR Rat.        * w.t AceuaIIv:qj.ct.d
~~~~4  Syb.m 8JUt Rt.                 0 Seb  Acttua.1/roJect.d
t  liise BAR ISt.         V Ntaie oActual/Prolected



Figure 3
Heilonyjiang Land Reclamatiorn Project
Ettimnctad qnd Act-jal/prq - . T; i
_                                 -ei4- -S                                                                 ,.oi
,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~- _    ..
.                    ~~~~~~.                / 
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
.~~~~~I                                                             -*- -t-*T --- -*;-*-t-----r~--- - 
I  /    ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~       
l~~~~~ ,r".                1     /S 1          - 1    1s' .-- '  1 9> *9.. ¢ 
I- -
a    Wheat $AR get.            + Wheat Actual/Projected
1                            4   80~~~~~~~Sybean $aR gat.   04 &oybeon Actual/Projected
.                X      Rise  M  get. 9W Miss CtUal/Projected



IBRD 1l4Rl
CHINA
U.S.S.R.                                                      HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
U. S. S.R.                          (     w     r             
A   STATE FARMS IN PROJECT
*  GENERAL BUREAU HEADQUARTERS
*  SUB-BUREAU HEADQUARTERS
.....SUB-BUREAU BOUNDARIES
-   ROADS
- RAILROADS
RIVERS
-   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                             -
-. INTERNATONAL BOUNDARIES
/ <= * _; _ > > C >1 * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MLES  ol                                         s          lO
*1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W 
J                     NEI MFAONGOL                                         .'                  *                                                     ,.
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
M O N G O L I A \ { & P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ng                                                                                  ay
t.                                                                                   2. 8
Puy853
MONGOLIA    \                                    >/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~6.597
- U         I.(~~~~~~~~~~~            1~~0. Raohe
Il. 859
Ara ofMAfp                                                                                                                    1SIZ=IiI
14. QiingIghn
17. ChuangVe
f                                                                                                      18.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I Qlanfeng  45-
~~~~~~~~~  i/o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19. Qianjin
MONGOLIA~    I                                                                                                                                         20. Hongwei,
22. 856
431                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~23. 858
of                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24. Oingfeng
.~~~~~~sII1nv4l   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"'                    1 ~~~~~~~~~~~27. Jlnhe
-~~~~                   1/               Suifen a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~28L Lonaen
7                                                                  '.                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~29. lanse
\;:~~~~~~(jz).~~~~~~~~/~~~~  ~~~  *#o.~~~~~~~~~ -  ~~~~~~;  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .  4 ~~~~30. Jaba
~~~~~~~.~~~~.
-e'w chw,o Si..
IAAROi 1990



