Document of                       |Fi   PY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  P-3503-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $35.3 MILLION
AND A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 41.3 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
March 31, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of June 1982)
Y1    =   $1.75
$1     =   y0.59
ABBREVIATIONS
CGB   - Central General Bureau of State Farms and Land Reclamation
H-1GB - leilongjiang General Bureau of State Farms and Land Reclamation
FIMO - Foreign Investment Management Office
MAAF - Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Loan/Credit Project Summary
Borrower:          People½s Republic of China
Amount:            Loan:  $35.3 million (including capitalized front-end fee)
Credit: SDR 41.3 million ($45.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Loan:  20 years, including 5 years of grace, with variable
interest rate initially at 10.97% p.a.
Credit: Standard
Project
Description:    The project would develop some 200,000 ha of virgin land in
Heilongjiang Province for the production of food grains and
soybean. Principal features of the project would be drain-
age works; larger and more modern agricultural machinery for
full mechanization of farming operations; construction
equipment; and provision of roads, housing and supporting
infrastructure. Training in equipment operation and main-
tenance and in construction techniques would be provided
together with technical assistance (78 man-months of consul-
tant services) in the fields of planning, training, and seed
production. The project would produce more than 440,000
tons of grain and soybean annually, and thereby help reduce
China's food grain deficit. It would serve as a large-scale
trial and demonstration of techniques applicable to an
additional 470,000 ha of uncultivated land and some 2 mil-
lion ha now cultivated by state farms in Heilongjiang. The
project faces no significant technical or administrative
risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Local Foreign Total
---$ million---
Estimated Cost:
Civil works                    102.4    14.7   117.1
Agricultural machinery          32.6    56.5    89.1
Construction machinery           0.6    11.0    11.6
Seed processing equipment        0.5      1.7      2.2
Technical assistance              0.1     1.6      1.7
Administration                   2.2      0.0      2.2
Base Cost                 138.4    85.5   223.9
Physical contingencies          12.7      2.2    14.9
Price contingencies             20.8    11.1    31.9
Front-end fee                    0.0      0.3      0.3
Total /a                  171.9    99.1   271.0
Financing Plan:/a
IDA                              0.0    45.0    45.0
Bank                             0.0    35.3    35.3
Central Government              55.5    18.8    74.3
Ileilongjiang General Bureau   49.1       0.0    49.1
Participating Farms             67.3      0.0    67.3
Total                     171.9    99.1   271.0
Estimated                Bank/IDA FY  1983   1984    1985    1986         1987
Disbursements:                      ----------- $ million --------------
Annual               0.0   41.3    22.4    14.4        2.2
Cumulative          0.0   41.3    63.7    78.1        80.3
Rate of Return:   23%
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 4159-CHA, dated March 31, 1983
/a Import duties are normally levied by the Government on imported equipment
and would amount to about Y 40 million. They are excluded from the above
cost summary.



REPORT AND RECOMMENTATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF TiE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE>CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A HEILONG7JIANG LANSD RECLAMATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
and credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance a Heilongjiang
Land Reclamation Project. The loan, for $35.3 million (including a front-
end fee of $0.3 million), would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years
of grace, with a variable interest rate initially at 10.97% p.a. The credit,
for the amount of SDR 41.3 million ($45.0 million equivalent), would be on
standard IDA terms.
PAR T TI TIE ECONOMY
2.        An introductory economic report, entitled "China:  Socialist
Economic Development" (No. 3391-CHA), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 1, 1981. A country economic memorandum, entitled "China:
Recent Economic Trends and Policy Developments" (No. 4072-CHA), is being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Country data are given in
Annex I.
Development Objectives and Performance
3.        China-s economic system reflects in large measure the institutional
changes that took place in the 1950s, inclujding land reform and the eventual
establishment of communes in rural areas and the extension of state ownership
to cover almost all of the modern sector. But the system has evolved since
then and is continuing to change as a result of the Government-s program of
economic reform. The rural economy consists in the main of people's communes,
about 53,000 of them each with about 3,500 households. The commune itself
is a multi-level management system with about 30-40 households making up
a team, 7-8 teams making up a brigade and 13-15 brigades making up a commune.
The division of responsibility for economic and social activities among these
levels varies with the locality and is now undergoing major change. But
everywhere land remains collectively owned. Enterprises owned by the state
make up much of the rest of the economy. Traditionally, such organizations
have enjoyed little independence but this is gradually being changed as a
result of recent reforms. Urban collectives employ about one-fifth of the
urban labor force and the self-employed are a small but rapidly growing part
of the Chinese economic system.



- 2 -
4.        Development efforts over the past three decades have been directed
toward two main objectives: first, industrialization, and in particular
development of a heavy industrial base; second, elimination of the worst
aspects of poverty. Chinese development strategy has also been shaped by
two major constraints: first, an extreme shortage of cultivable land in
relation to population; second, a high degree of international isolation.
5.        These two constraints have sharpened the conflict between the
two objectives. The prospective returns to investment in agriculture (the
principal source of income for the poor) have been limited by land scarcity
and by the fact that the easiest advances in intensive cultivation have
already been made. Similarly the inevitable competition for capital and
skilled manpower between industrialization and other means of poverty
reduction was for a long period aggravated by reliance entirely on domestic
resources and technology.
6.        The Chinese response to this dilemma was to approach the two
objectives in two different ways. Following an initial phase of institutional
change and property redistribution, poverty reduction - mainly through rural
development and the provision of basic health and education services - was
based largely on local resources and initiative. Industrialization, by
contrast, was based mainly on a massive infusion of centrally mobilized
resources, with little concern for cost effectiveness, and using largely
Soviet technology of the 1950s.
7.        Tension between these two approaches contribute!d to sharp policy
oscillations, as has a continuing debate on the role of political criteria in
economic decisions and on the most appropriate degree of centralization. The
country is only now recovering from the latest political upheavals - the
Cultural Revolution (1966-76) - during which extreme leftist views often
predominated, and egalitarianism and ideology were emphasized at the expense
of economic efficiency.
8.        Notwithstanding these policy swings, which have engendered some
dramatic economic fluctuations, there has been substantial progress toward
the two main objectives. Industrialization has been very rapid, largely as
the result of an unusually high rate of investment, virtually all of which
has been financed by domestic savings. The share of industry in GDP (around
44%) is currently similar to the average for middle-income developing
countries. However, agriculture still accounts for 35% of GDP and over 70%
of employment - similar to the average for low-income developing countries.
Around 85% of the population still lives in rural areas.
9.        Over the whole period 1949-81 the population expanded at a little
under 2% a year. Despite the tightly constrained agricultural sector, rapid
expansion of industrial output has caused national income per person to grow
fairly fast. With adjustments for international comparability, per capita GNP



- 3 -
appears to have grown at an annual rate of 2.0-2.5% in 1957-77 and (because of
a spurt in recent years) 2.5-3.0% in 1957-81. Even the former rate is signi-
ficantly above the average for other low-income developing countries (1.6% in
1960-78) - though the latter is still well below the average for middle-income
developing countries (3.7%) and has not been high enough to pull China out of
the low-income group.
Strengths and Weaknesses
10.       China has clearly displayed an outstanding capacity to mobilize
domestic resources - material, human and financial - in pursuit of compara-
tively well-defined national objectives. Given the shortage of land and
initially high yields, agricultural growth since 1949 has been quite impres-
sive. Yields of the major crops are now among the highest in the world though
labor productivity remains low. Agricultural growth, at about 3% a year, has,
however, been eclipsed by industrial growth at an average rate of more than
10% per year. Although a large minority of the population (around 200 million
people) remains very poor, low income groups in China have been made better
off in terms of employment, nutrition, health and basic education than their
counterparts in most other poor countries. Partly as a result, but also
through an intensive political campaign in the 1970s, the population growth
rate has been reduced in recent years to a remarkably low level (1.4% in
1981). Life expectancy - whose dependence on many other economic and social
variables makes it probably the best single indicator of human welfare in a
country - is (at 68 years) outstandingly high for a country at China's per
capita income level.
11.       The outstanding weakness of China-s economy is inefficiency - in
converting inputs into outputs, in matching supply with demand, and in invest-
ment decision making. This is partly the result of technological backward-
ness, caused by two decades of international isolation. But it also reflects
the virtual absence of medium-term planning from 1958 until recently, the lack
of economic criteria in investment analysis, and serious weaknesses in the
economic system - in particular, inadequate contact between producers and
users, insufficient use of markets and price incentives, inadequate linkage
between effort and rewards, and an overstaffed and cumbersome bureaucracy.
Recent Developments
12.       To address the underlying weaknesses and imbalances in the economy
and ensure rapid growth and improvements in living standards, the Government
initiated a program of adjustment and reform in 1979.  Structural adjustment
is aimed at speeding improvements in living standards. It has involved
readjusting the relative shares of consumption and investment in national
income, some sectoral and subsectoral readjustments and an emphasis on foreign
trade. Economic reform is aimed at improving the overall efficiency of the
economic system and involves: (a) restoring and improving the quality of



central planning and policy coordination; (b) devolving more decision-making
authority to lower level units in the economic system; (c) establishing more
direct links between incomes and the performance of economic units and
individuals; and (d) placing more reliance on market mechanisms and economic
instruments, less on administrative directives, to influence economic
activity. In 1981 problems of inflation and large budgetary and current
account deficits resulted in short-term stabilization temporarily receiving
the highest priority, but by 1982 the Government was again pushing ahead
rapidly with adjustment and reform.
Economic Reform
13.       Reforms in the system of economic management have now affected all
sectors of the economy and institutions from the central government down
to production teams and rural households. A major reorganization of the
central government has strengthened the core planning and management agencies
(especially the State Planning Commission and the State Economic Commission)
and reduced the total number of commissions, ministries and agencies under the
State Council from 98 to 52. A reorganization of departments and divisions
within ministries and of provincial and local governments is underway.
Economic management has also been decentralized: provincial and local planning
commissions and banks have been given more autonomy in investment
decision-making and there has been an increased use of credit to finance
investments; provincial and local governments have been granted greater
budgetary flexibility and more incentives to expand revenues and/or economize
on expenditures; and the powers of ministries, new territorially based trading
companies and, in some cases, enterprises to engage directly in foreign trade
have been substantially increased.
14.       Reforms of the economic system have been greatest in rural areas.
The most important and fundamental change has been the introduction of various
types of "production responsibility system" which give lower level collective
units, groups and households more autonomy in production arLd investment
decisions and link incomes directly with output. By the end of 1982, 92% of
production teams in China had implemented some form of production
responsibility system; 73% of teams had implemented some form of household
responsibility system, wqhich involves retaining collective ownership of farm
land and major equipment but contracting out plots of land to individual
households. In many cases households can farm the land as they wish and
retain whatever they produce beyond their obligations to the state (in the
form of taxes and compulsory deliveries at fixed prices) and to the collective
(for welfare and other expenses). These obligations now account on average
for about one third of a household's production. In recent years there has
also been an increase in the number and types of rural markets at which
households can freely trade commodities.
15.       Economic reform has not proceeded as far or as fast in urban areas,
but significant systemic changes have still taken place. Management of state



- 5 -
enterprises has been affected by a number of changes and experiments aimed at
improving incentives, including the introduction of profit retention schemes
and more flexible payment and employment practices. There has been experimen-
tation with different types of state enterprise organization, a greater
variety of marketing channels, some price flexibility and adjustment of rela-
tive prices, and greater autonomy for state enterprises in production
decisions. The scope for collective and individual economic activities has
also been enlarged.
16.       Many economic reforms, especially those in rural areas, have
already had a positive impact on efficiency, while others will take longer to
have a significant effect. There are also some emerging issues with economic
reform that the Government will need to address.  In rural areas for example
there is the issue of the potential conflict between enhanced economic
incentives and equity in income distribution as well as preservation of some
of the strengths of the commune system in terms of provision of basic needs
and other services and mobilization of labor for construction and maintenance
of community infrastructure. In the state enterprise sector, many units still
do not have to take full responsibility for their decisions (commercial units
buy whatever they produce and there is no risk of being closed down) and are
therefore still inclined to overinvest and overproduce. Substantial
decentralization of decision making without reforms in the pricing system has
also caused lower level units to make some inappropriate investment and
production decisions. More use is being made of the market, but information
and transport systems are still weak, markets are fragmented and competition
is limited. It has also been difficult to develop effective indirect fiscal
and monetary policy instruments. During 1982 the Government reviewed such
issues and concluded that weaknesses and inconsistencies in reform should be
overcome not by backtracking on reform but by carrying out more careful
studies and experiments and speeding up the reform process.
Adjustment, Stabilization and Growth
17.       During the past four years the Government has followed a strategy of
setting relatively modest targets while pushing ahead with economic and
administrative measures that would contribute to adjustment and stabilization
as well as to economic growth. The various measures have included: major
increases in agricultural procurement prices; strict controls on many other
prices; rationing and other administrative measures to improve efficiency of
resource use; changes in the amount and composition of state capital
construction; various fiscal measures designed to limit the budget deficit;
increases in and a rationalization of interest rates; moderation of currency
and credit expansion; and the introduction of an internal settlement rate for
foreign exchange transactions and other measures to encourage exports and
economize on imports.
18.       These economic and administrative measures have combined with
systemic changes to play an important role in the impressive performance of



- 6 -
the Chinese economy in recent years. They have contributed to structural
adjustment by helping to reduce the share of investment in net material
product (NMP) from 36% in 1978 to 28% in 1981, by stimulating agricultural
production and by shifting the emphasis from heavy to light industry. In
several ways they have also been critical in restoring economic stability in
1981 and 1982. First they helped to lower the rate of inflation (prices of
nonstaple foodstuffs and some other goods have been increasing quite rapidly
but the overall level of retail prices rose by only 2.4% in 1981 and an
estimated 2% in 1982 compared with 6% in 1980). Second they helped to reduce
the budget deficit (adjusted to eliminate financing items) from 7% of NMP in
1979 and 5% in 1980 to less than 2% in 1981 and 1982.. Finally they helped
to convert the $2.4 billion current account deficit of 1980 into a $2.0 bil-
lion surplus in 1981 and an estimated $4.4 billion surplus in 1982. Through-
out the period the various policy measures and reforms have also been
important in ensuring a satisfactory overall rate of economic growth: gross
agricultural and industrial output at constant prices has grown by 6.9% per
year between 1978 and 1982 and NMP at constant prices by an estimated 5.3%.
In the period 1978-81 net investment appears to have stagnated or even
declined in real terms while material consumption grew in real terms by over
8% p.a.
19.       The combination of structural adjustment, rapid overall economic
growth and a low population growth rate (1.3% p.a. between 1973 and 1981) has
led to rapid increases in per capita incomes in recent years. In urban areas,
general wage increases and higher bonuses have more than offset the increase
in the cost of living index, and real per capita incomes increased by 4.8%
p.a. between 1978 and 1981. The number of urban unemployed has been reduced
dramatically and, with government encouragement, urban self-employment has
grown rapidly. Even more impressive, however, has been the increase in rural
incomes. After a long period of stagnation, rural per capita incomes
increased in money terms by 16-18% p.a. between 1978 and 1981; the real
increase in incomes was 10-12% p.a. About 60% of this dramatic increase is
due to increased production and the remainder to shifts in the terms of trade
in favor of rural producers. WVhile areas and households that were already
relatively well off may have benefited the most and income differentials at a
local level may have increased, many poor areas and households have apparently
enjoyed substantial income improvements. During 1982 there were further
increases in real per capita incomes, with rural incomes continuing to grow
more rapidly than urban incomes.
20.       The high rate of investment in 1978 and the low returns to much of
this investment made a cutback in the investment rate a priority for the
adjustment program. But achieving such a cutback has proved to be a difficult
task. Decentralization of investment decision making and financial resources
without accompanying reforms in prices and enterprise responsibility has
resulted in a rapid expansion in investment financed from retained earnings or
local resources. Some of this investment has gone to priority areas including
housing but other investment appears to have been in projects that from a
national perspective are of a relatively low priority. The central government
has found it difficult to control such investment, even through administrative



- 7 -
regulations. Meanwhile state budget investment has been constrained by the
need to restore fiscal stability. As a result most of the cutbacks in
investment have had to be in large centrally financed projects and in 1981
even the priority sectors of energy and transportation were affected. Some of
these high priority projects were revived later in 1981 and during 1982, but
appropriate planning techniques and incentive systems still need to be
developed that will ensure a more optimal level and composition of investment.
21.        The introduction of "production responsibility systems" in rural
areas, the major improvement in the terms of trade for rural producers and
reductions in the quantity of grain and other products farmers are obliged to
provide to the state at fixed prices have all contributed to a very strong
performance of agriculture. Gross agricultural output at constant prices
increased by 6.0% p.a. between 1978 and 1982; however real value added in
agriculture has not been growing as rapidly. There has been a substantial
diversification of the sector, with production of cash crops including
oilseeds, cotton and sugar expanding rapidly and large increases in livestock
and sideline production (including brigade and team industry). Grain
production has also done well, increasing by about 2.8% p.a. during 1978-82
as a result of significant yield improvements (the area planted to grain has
actually fallen). However, domestic grain consumption appears to have
increased more rapidly, and net imports of grain have risen to about 15
million tons (4% of total domestic consumption). Emphasis is now being
placed on providing the incentives (including price incentives) and other
assistance that will further stimulate agricultural production and ensure an
appropriate balance between grain and nongrain agriculture.
22.        The industrial sector has also performed well in recent years: gross
output at constant prices has increased by 7.2% p.a. during 1978-82 (heavy
industry by 3.3% p.a. and light industry by 11.8% p.a.).  Both the overall
growth rate and the pattern of industrial production have been affected by
the energy situation. Due to the stagnation of energy production and
continued exports of energy products, domestic consuTmption of energy has grown
by less than 2% p.a. during 1979-82, while NMP has risen by nearly 5% p.a.
This has been possible largely because of the changing structure of industry:
heavy industry consumes about four times as much energy per unit of output as
light industry and heavy industry grew very slowly in 1980 and actually
declined in 1981 before picking up again in 1982.  The Government has been
stressing the importance of improved efficiency and energy savings within
sectors and has been pursuing energy conservation through rationing and other
administrative measures as well as a few selected price and tax changes. It
is recognized that as economic reforms proceed further, the role of pricing
in energy conservation will become more important.
23.        The restoration of fiscal stability in 1981 and 1982 has been
achieved more through expenditure restraints than through revenue growth.
Total domestic revenues have been increasing but at only half the rate of
growth of NMP, in part due to the introduction of profit retention schemes and
the shift in the composition of industrial output from heavy to light



- 8 -
industry. Among expenditure items, spending on capital construction has
fallen in every year since 1978 while subsidies (mainly on daily living
necessities) have increased dramatically from 6.6% of total expenditures in
1978 to 26.0% in 1982. However, the issue of subsidies is more a pricing and
income distribution issue than a fiscal issue. Because of the Government's
concern about open inflation, many of the increases in agricultural procure-
ment prices have been financed by subsidies rather than being passed on to
urban consumers, but without such subsidies the Government would probably have
been obliged to permit larger wage increases and hence lower profit
remittances (which are a major source of government revenue), leaving the
fiscal situation largely unaffected.
24.       The improvement in the balance of payments in 1981 and 1982 has been
much greater than anticipated. The performance of merchandise exports has
been very impressive with real growth averaging over 15% p.a. during 1978-82,
mainly because of a rapid growth in manufactured exports which has been
encouraged by the decentralization of foreign trade and the introduction of
the internal settlement rate. However, some of the growth appears to have
resulted from excessive competition among provinces and organizations and from
exports of basic consumer and producer goods that are in short supply
domestically. To address such problems the Government introduced various
export quotas and export duties during 1982. The real growth rate of exports
has been declining steadily since 1978, reaching an estimated 8% in 1982.
Export prices have also declined and the nominal value of exports in 1982
increased by only 3%. Meanwhile the volume of imports declined in both 1981
and 1982, due in part to the lagged effect of contract cancellations and
suspensions (which resulted in a 50% drop in the value of imports of complete
plants and sets of equipment in 1982), but also to delays in delivery of
equipment already ordered and to problems in obtaining high technology goods.
A substantial increase in imports is expected in 1983 and 1984 as China
endeavors to take advantage of its strong balance of payments position to
import more machinery and equipment and expand its investment program,
especially in the priority sectors of energy and transport.
25.       A major consequence of the Government's conservative trade and
balance of payments strategy has been a much reduced need for foreign
borrowing. In 1980 and 1981 the Government cut back sharply on interbank
borrowing and in 1981 and 1982 took advantage of the unexpectedly strong
current account position to repay commercial bank and other loans. In 1981
China's debt service ratio was 7.8%, due in part to accelerated loan repay-
ments. At the end of 1981 total reserves (excluding gold) were $5.0 billion
or 3 months of 1981 f.o.b. imports; by the end of the third quarter of 1982
they had increased to $9.4 billion.
Medium Term Prospects
26.       During the remainder of the 1980s the Government s efforts to
improve the living standards of the Chinese people should be helped
considerably by the continuation of a relatively low population growth rate;
by opportunities to make greater and more efficient use of foreign technology



- 9 -
and capital; and by the possibilities for improving efficiency through
economic reform. Rapid and equitable economic development is constrained
by a number of factors, however, some of long-standing and others of more
recent origin. There are serious shortages of skilled manpower and current
enrollment in both universities and technical and vocational schools is one
quarter of the average for other developing countries. The performance of
agriculture in recent years has been very good; but with no possibilities for
expanding the cultivated area and with cropping intensities and yields already
quite high, the growth rate for agriculture (excluding brigade and team
industry) is unlikely to average more than 3-4% p.a. during the 1980s.
Efforts also need to be made to ensure that all areas and regions participate
in agricultural growth. Energy availability will continue to constrain indus-
trial growth during the remainder of the decade, and there are capacity
constraints in the transport and commercial sectors. Large investments will
be required in energy and transport at a time when competing demands from
other sectors, especially housing, are very great, domestic revenues have not
been growing rapidly and decentralization and reform have resulted in the
central government having relatively little control over large parts of the
investment program. To address some of these problems and maintain relatively
rapid growth and improvements in living standards, further reform and
adjustment measures will be required including price reform and greater use of
foreign imports and capital.
27.       In recognition of these problems and issues the Government's Sixth
Five Year Plan (published in December 1982 but covering the period January
1981 - December 1985) emphasizes continuation of the program of "adjustment,
reform, consolidation and improvement of the national economy." The period
1981-85 is essentially viewed as an interim period during which important
readjustments and reforms of the economy will occur. These will lay the
foundation for more rapid economic development during subsequent plan periods.
Modest targets are set for production and income growth (the target growth
rates for gross agricultural and industrial output and for NMP are 4%), con-
sumption is expected to grow faster than investment, prices will be kept
basically stable, the budget deficit will be kept low and a significant
expansion in foreign trade is forecast, with imports growing more rapidly than
exports. In all sectors of the economy the priority will be on policy and
institutional measures to improve efficiency rather than on maximization of
output, but the Government expects that most of the production targets of the
Sixth Plan will be surpassed, as they have been in the first two years of the
plan.
28.       The Government has also announced that, in order to encourage
efficiency improvements, reform implementation will be speeded up during
the next three years. Rural reforms are to be broadened and strengthened,
with production responsibility systems extended to new spheres of activity,
new types of organization including joint ventures between rural and urban
units encouraged and the administrative functions of communes separated from
their economic functions. In state-owned industry, schemes for replacing



- 10 -
profit remittances with taxes will be greatly expanded, the system of
industrial administration will be revamped and streamlined and greater
efforts will be made to close down inefficient enterprises. 'Reform of the
commercial system will receive special attention during the next three years
and the development of collective and individual commerce, particularly in
rural areas, will be promoted. In the area of investment planning the
Government is emphasizing more effective implementat:ion of existing
administrative regulations, but improving the structure and efficiency of
investment will be a long and difficult process, dependent very much on
progress on other aspects of reform. Of particular importance are measures
to introduce formal economic analysis (including use of shadow prices) into
investment decisions and to decentralize decision making not just to
administrative units but also to producing units which can be made more
economically and financially responsible for their decisions through
appropriate pricing and incentive schemes. Price reform itself is critical.
The Government recognizes this but, in view of the complexities and
magnitude of the changes that will be required, has decided that it will not
be possible to implement comprehensive price reform until after 1985.
However, appropriate upward or downward adjustments in the mcost distorted
prices can and will be made, and the prices of many minor commodities will
be allowed to fluctuate according to market conditions. These will be
important steps forward in what is likely to be a gradual process of reform
that will need to take account of the scope for "unfreezing" of prices and
how state determined prices should relate both to domestic costs and to
world prices.
29.       During the remainder of the 1980s China's development and
modernization programs are expected to result in a rapid expansion in
imports of capital and intermediate goods. By the late 1980s some imports
of energy also appear to be necessary before new production capacity is
established. As a result of this expansion in imports China"s temporary
situation of current account surpluses is expected to change quickly to one
of moderate current account deficits and its requirements for foreign
capital to finance development and modernization are expected to increase
greatly. But the overall rate of import expansion, the size of the current
account deficits, and the magnitude of foreign borrowing requirements are
very sensitive to assumptions about economic trends (including overall
growth rates and the performance of manufactured exports) and the effective-
ness of government programs. For example, even a slight acceleration of
economic growth without significant improvements in efficiency, especially
energy efficiency, could result in large current account deficits and debt
management difficulties by the end of the l980s. In fact, a relatively high
rate of economic growth of 6-7% p.a. during the rest of the 1980s (which is
the growth rate used in the projections in Annex 1) will probably only be
feasible if major improvements in energy efficiency continue to be achieved.
In view of the sensitivity of the balance of payments to relatively small
changes in key variables, the Government will need to monitor developments
closely and remain quite cautious in its import and foreign borrowing
strategy.



- 11 -
30.       China's access to concessionary capital to finance its development
and modernization program is limited: apart from what it might obtain from
the Bank Group, concessionary capital is only likely to come from Japan and
a few other bilateral donors and will likely average only $500-600 million
a year during the 1980s. Quantitative projections show that if China is to
maintain a reasonable growth rate while keeping debt service payments at a
manageable level it will need to obtain the necessary foreign capital at an
average interest rate below the market rate. China also has a strong claim
to concessionary lending because it is still one of the poorer countries in
the world.
31.       For China, as for many other developing countries, the 1980s will
be a difficult decade, and one whose problems will be compounded by errors
made in the 1960s and early 1970s. But looking further ahead, China-s econ-
omic prospects appear favorable. By 1990, most new entrants to the labor
force will have received some secondary education, and the skilled manpower
deficit will have been reduced. Further progress will have been made in
tapping China's large energy potential, and in using it more efficiently.
Continuation of recent manufactured export trends should generate sufficient
foreign exchange for the Government to have more confidence in using foreign
capital and be less concerned about its terms. If the country's immense
wealth of human talent, effort and discipline can be combined with policies
that increase the efficiency of resource use, China will be able, within a
generation or so, to achieve a substantial increase in the living standards
of its people. Whether this potential can be realized, however, will depend
crucially on the success of the Government's program of adjustment and
reform in the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHINA
32.       In view of the particular circumstances of China and the economic
transition now underway, the Bank's relationship with China should have
several broad objectives. Firstly, the Bank should offer China its consider-
able development experience and institutional knowledge. Moreover, working
with the Bank represents one means for China to re-establish its position in
the world community after its lengthy isolation.  Secondly, the Bank should
assist China in removing the major constraints on development - the shortages
of energy, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and modern technology.
Even more important, the Bank should help the authorities to use these and
other inputs more efficiently, by improving project analysis and investment
control, as well as overall economic management and planning. Finally, the
Bank should help the Government identify ways of reducing China-s remaining
poverty. Since the Government has been successful in meeting the basic needs
of most of its people, these efforts should concentrate on increasing incomes
in the poorest rural areas.



- 12 -
33.       Since China-s change of representation in the Bank Group in May
1980, seven projects involving lending of about $790 million have been
approved. Two have been in education (University Development and Agricultural
Education and Research), two in energy (Daqing Oilfield Gaotaizi Reservoir
Development and Zhongyuan-Wenliu Petroleum), one in agriculture
(North China Plain Agriculture), one in transport (Three Ports), and one in
industry (Industrial Credit). Annex II contains a summary statement on these
loans and credits, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects, as
of March 31, 1983.
Economic and Sector Work
34.       The Bank's economic and sector work was initially designed to pro-
vide a basis of knowledge on the development and functioning of the Chinese
economy. This work resulted in completion of a nine-volume introductory
economic report in June 1981. A follow-up country economic memorandum
analyzing developments over the past two years is being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. In addition, the Bank is undertaking studies
in several areas important for our understanding of the Chinese system,
including rural finance and urban planning and management in Shanghai.
35.       Other economic work is designed to assist China in its present
effort to promote efficient use of investment resources, and more generally to
introduce new methods of economic management and planning. As preparation for
the Industrial Credit Project, an appraisal manual has been developed with
Bank assistance by the new financial intermediary, the China Investment Bank
(CIB). The Bank is now helping to develop a similar manual for the
Agricultural Bank of China (ABC). A program of economic research on China's
development problems, aimed at the application of advanced analytical
techniques, has begun in collaboration with Chinese economic research insti-
tutions in the areas of enterprise incentives and analysis of structural
change.
36.       Sector studies will help inter alia to identify and prepare future
investments.  Some have been included in Bank-financed projects, e.g.,
agricultural development in Shandong province under the North China Plain
Agriculture Project, containerization under the Three Ports Project, and
agricultural manpower and research under the Agricultural Education and
Research Project. A health sector review is reporting on rural health care
delivery systems and health manpower development.
Near-Term Lending
37.       Work has begun on a range of projects, with emphasis on improved
management and efficiency as well as on training. Several are in the key
sectors of energy and transportation. In energy, the Bank's efforts will
help to increase the supply of fuel and power. Future tetroleum projects
would, like the first two proiects, continue to emphasize introduction of



- 13 -
modern technology, staff training, field management and studies. Other
operations are proposed to support hydropower generation in southwest China
and the development and management of large underground coal mines in Shanxi
province and an open-pit mine in Nei Monggol. Support of transportation began
through the modernization of container and coal handling facilities
at China's three major ports. The Bank plans to finance further projects in
ports where additional capacity is needed and railway projects, particularly
to transport coal from mines in Shanxi to the east coast.
38.       In view of China's shortages of manpower with higher or technical
education, the Bank will continue its support of education, notably the TV
university, a pilot program of basic colleges, another university development
project, and a second agricultural education project.  Support of agriculture
will also continue through the proposed project to develop presently
uncultivated land in Heilongjiang province for grain production, as well as
others to develop rubber cultivation in Guangdong province, provide rural
credit in two provinces with emphasis on improved project appraisal and
institution-building, provide further assistance in agricultural research, and
assist the Government in a forestry project. Besides the Industrial Credit
Project, further loans would be made to the China Investment Bank for
modernization of light industries and export projects. The Bank may also
become involved in technical assistance and investment in support of energy
conservation in industry. In health, a project would help improve rural
health care services and medical education. Bank assistance is also planned
for a water supply project.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
39.       Agriculture in China, including crops, livestock, forestry and
fisheries, provides sustenance to nearly 1 billion people, is the source of
income for some 290 million agricultural workers and their dependents, and
accounts for about 30% of the country's GDP. China produces about 40% of the
world's annual rice harvest, 14% of the wheat, 10% of the maize and 16% of
the cotton and the tea. It also accounts for 40% of the world's swine herd.
Among the developing economies, China accounts for more than 30% of the total
farming population. The production organization for Chinese agriculture
includes collective units under the commune system (which account for 89% of
cropland and 80% of rural income), state farms (4% and 4%), and private plots
assigned to families on communes and state farms (7% and 16%).
40.       The agricultural sector is dominated by grain production, which
accounts for some 60% of total agricultural output and 80% of cropland. Of
the country's 960 million ha, only about 10.4% or 100 million ha are arable
lands available for sustained cropping. The ratio of population to arable
land is just under 10 persons per ha. Slightly less than half of China's
arable land is irrigated. In global terms, China's agricultural sector
accounts for less than 8% of the world's arable land but provides enough food



- 14 -
for about 22% of the world's population. This is possible because of the
generally high standards of crop production. Paddy yields, at about 4 tons
per ha, are nearly 50% higher than the average for all developing countries.
Sugarcane yields approach those reported for developed countries. The
national average cropping intensity is about 150%.
41.       Agriculture has been a high priority sector of the Chinese economy
for more than 30 years, with special attention given to grain production in
efforts to attain self-sufficiency. Investment in agriculture has averaged
only about 20% of total national investment, substantially less in percentage
terms than the sector s contribution to GDP, net exports, and employment.
This proportion has increased in recent years. In general, China's efforts to
develop agriculture have been broadly successful. Growth in food production
has more than kept pace with population growth and almost all Chinese now have
access to adequate quantities of food. Imports of agricultural products and
production inputs have been limited to only about 25% of all imports, and
exports of raw and processed agricultural products have contributed about 80%
of all foreign exchange earnings.
Sector Development Issues and Strategy
42.       A major task in the agricultural sector is to reduce imports of
grains and cotton. The gap between domestic supply and demand for food and
fiber appears to be widening. At the same time, efforts are needed to raise
incomes and living standards in rural areas. Main objectives of recent
agricultural policy reforms are to raise the incomes and living standards in
rural areas. In the rice-growing areas most of the relatively easy gains in
production through irrigation and the use of new high-yielding crop varieties
and fertilizers have been achieved. In northern China, where wheat, soybean
and corn are the main crops, there are prospects for increased production
through drainage, better harvesting techniques and improved seed production.
Expansion of the land base and improvement of land productivity are becoming
much harder and more expensive with the need to upgrade production in
environmentally less favorable areas.
43.       To meet these challenges, the Government has begun to implement some
new policies aimed at giving farm workers more production incentives. Acreage
quotas for particular crops have been relaxed, although minimum grain
marketing quotas are still imposed. This gives greater freedom in crop
choices and production decisions to the individual brigades and production
teams which make up communes and state farms. To encourage specialization in
crops having comparative advantage in production in particular regions, the
Government has given a guarantee to regions best suited to cash crop
production that their basic food needs will be met from government stocks,
which are to be supplied through increased surpluses and government purchases
in areas specializing in food grain production.
44.       The needed increases in food grain production and marketed surpluses
are not likely to be forthcoming without particular encouragement and



- 15 -
assistance to areas best suited to grain production. The Government has
designated some areas, particularly the Northeast Region, as grain base
regions and initiated programs to rapidly increase their grain production and
marketable surplus capacities. In mid-1980, the Government decided to
concentrate its land development and farm mechanization program in the
Northeast, especially Heilongjiang province, where labor-intensive farming is
precluded by the long winters which permit cultivation of only a single grain
crop. Since a large area of land is needed to support a family, and essential
crop operations must be performed in very short time periods, there is, in
fact, no alternative to mechanization and both the state farms and the
communes in Heilongjiang are highly mechanized.
State Farms
45.       State farms now produce only about 2% of China's grain, but with
over 35% of it marketed (about double the commune average), they provide over
4% of the marketed surplus. The Government projects that by 1985 they will
produce almost 3% of the grain crop and market 45% of production, to account
for 9% of all marketing. The 2,400 state farms would account for almost 20%
of the 35 million ton annual increase in grain production projected between
1979 and 1985. Because of their location in the drier and colder areas of the
country, state farms also tend to be well suited for production of grains that
are imported in large amounts, especially wheat. The first state farms were
mostly on virgin lands in Heilongjiang province, where the cultivated land has
grown from about 30,000 ha in 1949 to about 2 million ha now. As Heilongjiang
development proved successful, additional areas on China's borders were opened
up as state farms. At present, state farms cover 30 million ha, with 4.5 mil-
lion ha under cultivation, 4.5% of the nation's cultivated area. There are
over 3,000 state farms more than 6,000 farm-managed industrial enterprises
employing 3.8 million people.
46.       State farms have been established in areas either technically too
difficult or geographically too isolated to be developed as traditional
farming communities. These border areas comprise about 60% of China's land
area, but only a very small percentage of the land suitable for cultivation.
47.       In accordance with the Government's plan to increase the marketed
crop surplus, major land development programs have been planned by the
Central General Bureau of State Farms and Land Reclamation (CGB) for 1981-86.
The plans call for the development of 1.1 million ha of currently unused land
for field crops, 60,000 ha for tree crops, and 2.2 million ha for improved
pasture. The total estimated cost of the programs is Y 7.1 billion ($4.0 bil-
lion). Food crops would still account for the major portion of total invest-
ment, yet significant emphasis would now be given to livestock and cash crop
production, with a view to creating greater opportunities for linkage to
industry and also to increasing the meat supply.



- 16 -
48.       In addition to their land development tasks, state farms have helped
to provide rural wage employment for excess labor from agriculture and other
sectors; encouraged and managed settlement of the more economically backward
border regions; demonstrated modern farming methods; and provided technical
assistance to communes. Until recently their financial performance was poor,
but since the return of professional management in 1977 the farms have sharply
increased productivity and financial performance. Yields are generally above
those on communes in adjacent areas, and per capita incomes on state farms
averaged $255 in 1979, compared to the nationwide commune average of $83. The
higher incomes on state farms are partly explained by their lower work force
per ha, about a third of that of communes (which control virtually all of the
land suitable for high production and multiple cropping), and larger
quantities of machinery and equipment with which to work. The state farms
also benefit from Government efforts to upgrade management and labor skills.
49.       Climatic factors in the areas of major concentration for state
farms generally preclude the labor-intensive approach to agriculture charac-
teristic of most parts of China. Without heavy mechanization of field
operations in areas like Heilongjiang, progress in bringing land into
cultivation would have been greatly slowed. The development of these zones
has thus been considerably influenced by China-s capacity to produce an
appropriate volume and range of agricultural equipment and machinery. While
much success in this regard has been achieved, the design standards and
efficiency of local manufacture still leave considerable room for improve-
ment. The Government is taking steps to upgrade the design and manufacture
of farm machinery. Smaller and less efficient producers are being closed down
and a higher degree of specialization introduced. Also, advanced technology
is being acquired through licensing agreements and joint ventures with
foreign farm equipment manufacturers; recent agreements are for diesel
engines and combine harvesters. The proposed project would support the
Government's objective of modernizing farm mechanization by providing a
large number of farm managers, operators and technicians with experience in
the use of modern farm machinery.
50.       Further improvement in state farm development is also expected from
a number of other approaches now being studied and implemented. Among
innovations are decentralized decision making with most decisions on manage-
ment and investment now being left to individual farms, increased mechaniz-
ation, and an expansion of private plots. Tillage techniquess are being
revised to reduce soil disturbance, conserve moisture, and promote decay of
crop residues.  The farms are also seeking to expand sideline processing and
manufacturing in order to absorb new labor force entrants and workers released
as machinery used in agricultural operations is upgraded. Continued efforts
are required to: further increase worker incentives; adjust output mixes and
levels to the new price relationships and less restrictive quotas; identify
economically appropriate levels and modes of mechanization; improve crop
management, particularly through greater use of improved plant varieties and



- 17 -
other modern inputs; and improve training of workers for agriculture and the
rapidly expanding sideline industries. The proposed project would help to
meet some of these objectives.
Organization and Management
51.       Central General Bureau.  As one of four general bureaus in the
Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries (MAAF), the Central
General Bureau (CGB) has overall responsibility for policy determination,
production planning, administration, investment and material supply of the
state farms. Some activities in the spheres of planning, research, reporting
and education have formally been transferred to separate offices within MAAF.
CGB has five subsidiary organizational levels: provincial, sub-provincial,
farm, sub-farm and brigade.
52.       Heilongjiang General Bureau.  In Heilongjiang province, the state
farm organization consists of a Heilongjiang Provincial General Bureau of
State Farms and Land Reclamation (HGB), 9 sub-bureaus and 109 farms covering
about 2 million ha under cultivation. Within the larger farms, sub-farms
exist either as free-standing production units or as management links between
the brigades and the farm. HGB is technically a part of the provincial
government under the authority of its Standing Committee, but is also
responsible to CGB. In principle, allocation of personnel, production
quotas and sales and working capital are determined by the provincial
government. Also, in principle, profits of state farms belong to the
provincial government, but in practice HGB has considerable independence
in their use. Although total investment funds are determined by the central
or provincial governments, their disposition is the responsibility of HGB.
53.       Sub-Bureaus.  Administrative and agricultural support services are
largely concentrated at the sub-bureau level. Sub-bureau headquarters,
situated on railheads, are on the scale of market towns. The sub-bureau
directors and their staff of engineers, agriculturalists and other technical
and management specialists, exercise general supervision over farm management
and investment planning and execution by the farms with which they are in
day-to-day communication.
54.       Farms.  Farms over 5,000 ha in the project area are usually divided
into sub-farms, with much of the farm management conducted at the lower level.
Farms smaller than 5,000 ha are not so subdivided; the brigades answer
directly to the farm. Alternatively, on a few farms there are no brigades and
the sub-farms are the lowest level of management unit. Farms and their
sub-units are run by professional managers, supported by a specialized staff
and advised by an elected workers council. The basic unit of management is
the brigade, currently comprising 70-80 families responsible for a cultivated
area averaging some 1,000 ha, about 7.3 ha per farm worker.



- 18 -
Financial Management
55.       Historically, financial management of the state farms has been
highly centralized, with the Government receiving all profits, absorbing
losses, and making most financial decisions. However, beginning in 1979 a
"work responsibility" program was implemented under which a high degree of
financial autonomy was conferred on subordinate organizational units. This
program has been fully implemented in Hleilongjiang, where H1GB retains all of
its profits, and the central Government does not automatically absorb its
losses.  However, the Government continues to provide funding for infrastruc-
ture, training and research on state farms.
56.       Prior to 1979, the state farms had continuously run at a loss, with
about Y 200 million of the annual losses attributable to various quasi-
governmental social expenditures and to the support by state farms of large
numbers of unemployed youth. The price reforms of 1979 restored a measure of
profitability and by 1980, annual after-tax profits of the state farms had
reached Y 659 million, of which 55% was attributable to HGB.
Bank Group Lending for Agriculture
57.       The Bank-s strategy for lending in China's agricultural sector is to
support the Government's efforts to raise agricultural production through the
more efficient use of land and water resources and improvements in the support
services such as research and agricultural education. Projects are also being
selected for their demonstration and catalytic impact in addition to immediate
income generation. Suitable opportunities are likely to be found among a wide
range of activities and locations. The first Bank Group operation in the
agricultural sector will provide irrigation and drainage for 200,000 ha of
the North China Plain and will be the first large-scale attack on soil
salinity and waterlogging in China. A second project will support agricul-
tural education and research. Other projects for possible future Bank Group
financing include a rubber project to assist in new planting of about
20,000 ha and replanting of some 15,000 ha with high-yielding clones; a rural
credit project to include assistance in agriculture, livestock and poultry,
tree crops, and agro-industrial processing and with numerous opportunities for
technology transfer, improved project appraisal and employment creation; and
a forestry project that might include commercial forestry in northeast China,
forestry education and research.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
58.       The project was prepared by CGB.  A Staff Appraisal Report
No. 4159-CHA, dated March 31, 1983, is being distributed separately. Supple-
mentary project data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in
Washington from March 7-11, 1983, with a Chinese delegation led by
Mr. Ge Fucun, Director, External Finance Department of the Ministry of
Finance.



- 19 -
Project Scope and Design
59.       The proposed project would be located in Heilongjiang province, the
northeastern most province of China. It would develop some 200,000 ha of
unused land for production of food grains and soybeans; 182,000 ha are on
25 existing farms i-n the Sanjiang Plain Region in the northeastern part of the
province, and 18,000 ha are on 5 farms in the Lesser Xinganling Region in the
northwest (Miap IBRD 16545). The lands to be developed consist of 75 indivi-
dual blocks rangirg from 1,000 ha to 10,000 ha. Land development would entail
construction of a system of surface drains and access roads. HGB has success-
fully developed similar lands covering some 900,000 ha in Heilongjiang. The
project plan, prepared by HGB, was reviewed by several Bank Group missions
and the details of the proposal were refined, particularly the agricultural
machinery and construction equipment package, and the technical details of the
drainage works. Also, a component was added to provide seed processing and
storage equipment.
60.       The project would include innovations that are expected to have a
significant impact on land already cultivated in the province, as well as on
land still to be brought into production. Farm machinery, of a more advanced
design than presently used in Heilongjiang, would be introduced to improve
techniques for land preparation, planting, cultivating, and harvesting; most
of this equipment would be imported. HGB has already pioneered the use of
imported machinery on two state farms with considerable success. The project
would also introduce improved construction methods, particularly the use of
imported hydraulic backhoe excavators, some mounted on amphibious
undercarriages, for drain excavation; the present practice of excavation by
bulldozers is slow and costly.
Principal Project Features
61.       The project would include:
(a)  development of 200,000 ha of uncultivated land through drainage
and land clearing, including construction and improvement of about
2,100 km of main and branch drains, 7,800 km of lateral and
sublateral drains, 370 km of flood embankments, and 24 drainage
pumping stations;
(b)  construction of about 1,500 km of rural roads and 2,200 km of
farm roads;
(c)  construction of sub-farm and brigade headquarters, including
housing for about 8,000 families, community facilities, offices,
workshops, stores and utilities;



- 20 -
(d) construction of drying floors and grain stores;
(e) procurement of agricultural machinery to permit full
mechanization of farm operations in the project area;
(f) procurement of earthmoving equipment for drain and dike
construction;
(g) procurement of seed processing equipment;
(h) technical assistance in the fields of planning, training,
equipment maintenance, construction operations, and seed
production; and
(i) overseas training and study tours.
Civil Works
62.       Drains would be constructed in nearly all of the 75 blocks of
land to be developed. Pumping stations would be required for about half of
the project area where gravity flow would be prevented by high river levels in
the flood season. Land clearing would involve removing the natural
vegetation, mostly reeds and grasses; no land levelling would be required.
About 1,500 km of rural roads would be constructed linking the sub-farms and
brigades to the state farm headquarters. Farm roads would be constructed
along most of the laterals. Housing, community buildings, offices, stores and
workshops would be built for the 18 sub-farms and 57 brigades responsible for
farming project hectarage. Electricity for the new communities would be
supplied in part from power plants owned by the state farm system and in part
from the national grid. About 400 km of 6.6 kV distribution line would be
built together with seven 1000 kVA substations. The existing telephone
network would be expanded by construction of 560 km of line. Drying floors
sufficient to permit sun-drying of the entire grain crop and storage facili-
ties for half the crop on project land would also be constructed.
Agricultural Machinery
63.       The basic sources of draft power in Heilongjiang at present are
55 to 75 hp crawler tractors. They are used for virtually all plowing,
harrowing and planting and also for towing combines. The tractors have a low
working speed of less than 4 km/hr and low fuel efficiencies. The combination
of these tractors and the rather primitive implements currently used leads to
poor land preparation, seeding and cultivation. Most of the combines present-
ly in use are out-of-date and lack special heads for soybeans and maize. As a
result, harvesting losses are significant. In general, with their fleets of
slow, small units, the farms do not have the capacity to speed up operations



- 21 -
when land preparation or harvesting is delayed by weather conditions.
Increasing the numbers of machines would be only a partial solution to these
problems and the Government has therefore embarked on a long-term moderniza-
tion program. Initially, this has to be based on imported equipment since
domestic production of more advanced designs is some years away.
64.       On the basis of a detailed study of cropping patterns and farming
operations, a total of 500 tractors of 125-140 hp would be provided under the
project. Imported tractors in this power range have been in service for four
years on the Youyi State Farm and have been highly effective.  A total of 200
self-propelled combines in the 150-170 hp range with appropriate headers would
be provided to ensure timely harvesting along with smaller tractors for
transportation, smaller combines, and other farm machinery.
Construction Machinery
65.       At present drains and roads are constructed using 75 hp crawler
tractors fitted with bulldozer blades, for want of alternative construction
machinery. These machines are slow and inefficient, particularly on saturated
or flooded land; their use leads to excessive absorption of land by drains and
poorly constructed roads. The project would provide backhoe excavators, a
portion of which would be mounted on amphibious undercarriages, as well as
scrapers, compactors and graders for road construction. This equipment would
improve productivity, fuel efficiency, and the standards of drain and road
construction.
Seed Processing Equipment
66.       To improve seed development and production for Heilongjiang's state
farms, HGB has recently established a Seed Company and is carrying out an
overhaul of the entire seed research, production and distribution system. The
company supervises experiment stations and/or pure strain forms as well as
seed multiplication brigades located on each state farm. Under the project,
eight seed processing plants would be installed at seed multiplication
brigades in or near the project areas. Imported equipment would include seed
dryers and cleaners, bagging machines, scales and seed treatment machines.
Receiving and surge bins and seed storage bins would be purchased locally.
The eight plants would serve the project areas plus an additional 200,000 ha.
Technical Assistance
67.       Training.  Throughout the HGB system, there are about 35,000 techni-
cal personnel, of whom 6,300 have the equivalent of college-level training,
and 16,000 have secondary or technical school level training. HGB maintains
an extensive educational and training system, including one university, eight
postsecondary technical schools, and 275 secondary schools, of which 39 are
technical schools. The state farms run an extensive training program during
the winter with main emphasis on elementary crop husbandry and machinery



- 22 -
operation and maintenance. In recent years, courses in livestock and
agro-industry have been introduced. The project would support and strengthen
the training programs by providing 24 man-months of assistance from short-term
external experts, and also a series of overseas study tours for selected
personnel.
68.       Seed System Development.  The project would support the upgrading of
the seed breeding, production and distribution system by providing 24 man-
months of consultant assistance in plant breeding aind in the organization and
management of the seed production and distribution system. Provision would
also be made for importation of new seed stock, particularly for maize, and
for training of Chinese personnel at foreign universities and research
centers.
69.       Equipment M4aintenance.  The contracts for the supply of imported
farm machinery and construction equipment would provide for training of state
farm personnel in equipment maintenance. To be effective, this would have to
be integrated into a maintenance system encompassing all farms under the
control of H-GB. Such a systea with ample capacity already exists and
standards of equipment maintenance are good, but it would need to be expanded
and strengthened to handle a wider variety of equipment including types
unfamiliar to the state farms.  About 12 man-months of consultant services
would be provided to assist HGB to upgrade its equipment maintenance and spare
parts control system including training of personnel.
70.       Management and Planning.  The project would provide six man-months
of consultant assistance to CGB and I1GB and the sub-bureaus in techniques of
financial planning, accounting, and economic and financial analysis.
Provision would also be made for purchase of computers and computer software
and training in their use.
71.       Construction Operations.  Most excavation of drains and construction
of roads would involve equipment new to the state farms. Its effective use
and the timely completion of project works would require a more systematic
approach to construction planning than current practice. About 12 man-months
of consultant services would therefore be provided to assist the IIGB staff in
construction planning.
72.       Consulting Services.  Consultant assignments would be mostly
short term and extend over three years from the second half of 1983. Total
estimated consultant input is 78 man-months.  The estimated overall man-month
cost for specialists would be about $13,000 inclusive of salaries, overhead,
overseas allowance, travel, and living expenses while in China. Assurances
were obtained that all consultants engaged under the project would be employed
in accordance with the Bank-s Guidelines on Consultants (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.02).



- 23 -
Project Management and Execution
73.       A Deputy Director-General of CGB would be the Project Coordinator.
CGBs Planning Office would exercise an oversight function and its Foreign
Affairs Office would retain primary responsibility for liaison with the Bank.
Primary responsibility for design, procurement and construction supervision
would rest with HIGB. Project headquarters would be located in Jiamusi, where
the Foreign Investment Management Office (FIMO) has been established to manage
this and other externally financed projects. The Manager of FIMO reports to
the Director-General of HGB. FIMO would be staffed initially by 13
specialists. An assurance was obtained that FIMO would be maintained during
project implementation and adequately staffed with experienced and qualified
personnel (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.06).
74.       Specialized construction teams responsible to HGB and located in
the sub-bureaus where most of the work would be undertaken would be equipped
with machinery provided by the project. Together with a special bridge
construction team, they would be responsible for major works. Buildings and
minor works would be built by each participating state farm. Construction of
major works would be supervised by HGB and sub-bureau engineers, who would
also review periodically the work of farm engineers in supervising buildings
and minor works. Maintenance of drains, pumping stations and roads would be
the responsibility of the state farms, supervised by the sub-bureaus and HGB.
Implementation Schedule
75.       Detailed drainage studies have been carried out and the capacity and
alignment of all major works have been determined and quantity estimates for
them prepared. Sublateral drains, roads and buildings would follow standard
designs. Technical specifications for farm machinery and construction
equipment were finalized in March 1983. The project would be implemented over
a four-year period beginning in April 1983. A detailed work plan for the
first year has been prepared by HGB. About 20,000 ha of land would be
developed in early 1983 in areas with minimum drainage needs, and about
60,000 ha would be developed in each of the following three years. An
assurance was obtained from the Government that, by October 31 of each year
until project completion, a work program and financing plan for the project
for the following year would be prepared for Bank review (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.05). Procurement actions for imported and local farm
machinery would begin in early 1983 with first deliveries in late 1983.
Equipment deliveries would be completed by June 1986.
Cost Estimates
76.       The total project cost in end-1982 prices is $271.0 million, with a
foreign exchange component of $99.1 million or 37% of the total cost. Unit
prices for civil works and buildings are based on similar works recently
completed near the project area. Prices for local equipment are based on data
provided to HGB by local suppliers. For imported equipment, costs are based



- 24 -
on list prices obtained from foreign manufacturers. Import duties are
normally levied by the Government on imported equipment and would amount to
about Y 40 million, but are excluded from the project cost. Physical
contingencies of 15% have been applied to civil workcs and 10% to buildings.
Expected price increases amount to 13% of the base cost plus physical
contingencies and are based on annual escalation rates for both foreign and
local components (excluding local machinery) of 8% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7%
in 1985, and 6% in 1986. The Government plans to hold prices for farm
machinery at present levels for the next two or three years.
Financing
77.       Bank Group financing of $80.3 million would consist of an IDA
credit of SDR 41.3 million ($45.0 million) and a Bank loan of $35.3 million
(including a front-end fee of $0.3 million), and would cover 30% of project
costs. The balance of $190.7 million, or Y 334 million, would be provided by
a central government grant of Y 130 million, a contribution of Y 86 million
from HGB and Y 118 million from participating state farms. These local
funds would be pooled in a single account not allocated to specific project
components. The proceeds of the loan/credit would be devoted to equipment
procured almost entirely through international competitive bidding (generally
equipment of advanced design not commonly manufactured in China) and the
services of foreign consultants.
Procurement
78.       International competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines would be the procedure followed in the procurement of almost all
the relatively sophisticated equipment to be financed out of the loan and
credit, including: agricultural machinery (total to be financed $63 million),
construction equipment ($12 million) and seed processing equipment ($2 mil-
lion). Items of equipment estimated to cost individually not more than
$100,000 and aggregating not more than $2.5 million would be procured on the
basis of three price quotations under procedures satisfactory to the Bank and
the Association. Domestic manufacturers would receive a margin of preference
of 15% or the customs duty, whichever is lower, in bid evaluation. It is
expected that the agricultural equipment would be procured in four main
contracts, two covering the self-propelled combines and two the tractors and
remaining equipment. Other equipment, such as small tractors and combines,
vehicles and primary tillage implements ($38 million), together with
construction materials used in civil works would be procured under local pro-
cedures which have been reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank. Civil
works ($74 million), buildings ($59 million), and drying floors ($4 million)
would be constructed by units already established in the sub-bureaus and state
farms.



- 25 -
Disbursements
79.       Disbursements for the list of equipment to be procured through ICB
would be at a rate of 100% of the foreign exchange cost of imported equipment
or 100% of ex-factory bid price of local equipment; and 100% of total costs
for consultant services and overseas training and study tours. No disburse-
ment would be made for civil works, buildings or materials. The loan/credit
would be allocated as follows: equipment $74.7 million; technical assistance
and overseas training and study tours $2 million; unallocated $3.3 million;
and front-end fee $0.3 million. It is estimated that disbursements would be
completed by June 1987.
Accounts and Audits
80.       HGB currently maintains detailed financial accounts from the farm
level up covering capital construction and production. There are mandatory
cross-checks at each administrative level against parallel accounts maintained
within the banking system, and thorough audits are conducted in the event of
significant discrepancies. An assurance was obtained that HGB would maintain
separate project accounts and that they would be audited annually by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Pending the establishment and staffing
of a separate audit authority, such an audit is expected to be carried out by
the Ministry of Finance. Audited accounts will be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the close of each financial year (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.01).
Environmental Effects
81.       The swamp lands between the Heilongjiang and the Wusuli rivers are
rich in wild life. While reclamation of some swamp lands would reduce the
size of the habitat, the Chinese authorities have set aside large areas to
remain undeveloped. Five major wildlife reserves encompassing 230,000 ha have
been established within and adjacent to the Sanjiang Plain. Areas developed
for agriculture many years ago, in the general area of the proposed project,
have proved to be environmentally stable. The thick top soils with a high
organic content are resistant to wind erosion, and the very flat slopes do not
present any erosion problems from rainfall. HGB is aware of the potential
environmental hazards from the use of agricultural chemicals, including ferti-
lizers, and seeks to minimize the possible damage through careful selection of
chemicals and a program of periodic monitoring of soils and water. Environ-
mental protection officials at both the provincial and national levels have
reviewed and approved the project proposal. A program of environmental moni-
toring would be included in FIMO's work plan.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
82.       Each farm would make monthly progress reports to HGB which would
make quarterly in-field inspections. On-site engineering work by state farm
staff would be supervised and monitored by sub-bureau and HGB engineers. Crop



- 26 -
statistics and data on the physical and financial progress of the project
would be collected from the state farms by FIMOTs M&E staff, who would prepare
half-yearly progress reports to be submitted to the Bank within one month of
the end of each half-year.
Other Agricultural Support Services
83.        Research.  IIGB maintains an extensive and reasonably well-equipped
research network consisting of the Heilongjiang Farming and Land Reclamation
Research Institute with broad functions at Jiamusi, seven partially
specialized sub-institutes (one at each sub-bureau) and farm level research
stations that emphasize the practical aspects of cultivation, seed testing,
and chemical fertilizer experiments.
84.        Fertilizer and Agrochemicals.  Chemical fertilizer use has grown
rapidly since 1979. Experimental results for the project area indicate that
marginal response rates are high at least for maize and soybeans. In the past
H1GB has had priority in the supply of fertilizer, and no problem is expected
in meeting future project requirements. Pesticides are readily available in
the project area. Domestic production would be sufficient to meet project
requirements.
Agricultural Production and Yields
85.       On lands adjoining the project areas, wheat occupies nearly 60%o7 of
the area, soybeans just over 30% and maize around 10%. Wheat is planted in
mid-April and harvested in early August. Soybeans and maize are sown in May
and harvested in late September or early October. The most common three-year
rotation is wheat/wheat/soybean, with a wheat/soybean/maize rotation also
practiced to a limited extent. At full development, the area under each crop
is expected to be: wheat, 100,000 ha (50%); soybeans 75,000 ha (37.5%); and
maize 25,000 ha (12.5%). Yields at full development are expected to be
2.1 ton/ha for wheat, 1.6 ton/ha for soybeans, and 3.9 ton/ha for maize.
Average yields on lIeilongjiang's state farms are presently 1.6, 1.3 and
2.5 ton/ha respectively. However, some sub-farms and brigades have consis-
tently exceeded the estimated full development yields. Total project
production at full development would be 210,000 tons of wheat, 120,000 tons of
soybeans, and 110,000 tons of maize.
Markets, Farm Incomes and Cost Recovery
86.        China-s production of the crops grown in the project area is
insufficient to meet domestic consumption requirements. Imports of these
crops have grown in recent years and are expected to continue at about the
same levels throughout the 1980s. The incremental output from the project,
440,000 tons of grains and soybeans at full development, would be easily



- 27 -
absorbed by the market, since it represents only about 3% of current imports
required to meet domestic demands.
87.       The traditional concept of farm income derived from an individually
operated plot is not applicable in the project area, where the land is owned
by the state and managed by state farms employing wage labor. The typical
basic production unit in the project area would be a production brigade or
sub-farm with about 300 workers and staff farming about 4,000 ha of land.
This has been taken as the scale for a notional farm budget analysis.  At full
development, the typical 4,000 ha unit would have an annual before-tax income
of about Y 1.3 million. After-tax income would be Y 1.2 million, of which
Y 0.7-0.8 million would go to HGB as the unit-s contribution to the HGB-
administered pool of investment funds and to debt service on the Bank loan.
After completion of loan repayments in the year 2000, payments to HGB would
fall to Y 0.5 million annually, leaving Y 0.7 million for use by the produc-
tion unit and its parent state farm. Based on the budgets for a typical unit,
estimated after-tax income annually generated by the project and accruing to
the participating state farms and HGB would be Y 59 million ($34 million).
88.       The staff and workers on a typical 4,000 ha production unit would be
drawn from about 160 families, with an average of 4.5 family members and
1.9 persons fully employed. The annual incomes of these families at full
development would average Y 2,175: Y 1,175 from wages and bonuses for farm
and sideline activity work, Y 350 from private plots and Y 650 in housing and
other subsidies provided by the farm. Thus, per capita incomes would be about
Y 485 ($275), 31% more than the present average of Y 370 ($210) in the project
area.
89.       Cost recovery for the project would have two elements.  Farms would
pay annual agricultural taxes of Y 8.4 million on project lands at full
development, and would make payments to the Government through HGB to cover
debt service on the loan/credit, averaging Y 8 million annually (at the
Y 2.8/$ internal settlement rate). These direct charges would represent 44%
of project rents at full development. The Government would contribute
Y 130 million of project expenditures and, using a discount rate of 12%, the
cost recovery index for this investment plus the loan/credit would be 69%, and
the rent recovery index 67%. In addition, the Government would indirectly
benefit from low-cost quota procurement of at least 43,000 tons of grain
annually, worth Y 7.5 million (using the difference between quota and
above-quota prices). The proceeds of the project would more than meet HGB's
debt repayment obligation, except in the years 1983-85 due to taxes and the
front-end fee and commitment charges on the loan/credit. Iiowever, for
1983-86, HGB and participating farms have budgeted Y 135 million for project
investment from reserves and retained earnings, which more than covers the
projected deficit.



- 28 -
Benefits, Justification and Risks
90.       Wheat, soybean and maize grown on the 200,000 ha of land developed
by the project would increase China's annual grain and legume production by
433,000 tons, 90% of which would be a marketable surplus. The cost would be
less than $1,400 per ha developed. At full development, about 15,000 new
full-time jobs would be created, relieving the unemployment and underemploy-
ment within the state farms in Heilongjiang. The project would serve as a
large-scale trial and demonstration of up-to-date mechanized farming techni-
ques applicable to both an additional 470,000 ha of uncultivated land and some
2 million ha now cultivated by state farms in Heilongjiang. The seed compo-
nent would also contribute to a general increase in crop yields on existing
farms.
91.       The project's main objective is to produce a marketable surplus;
therefore, its direct effect on income distribution would be limited.
However, it would have two indirect distributive effects which could be
significant but cannot be quantified. First, the marketable surplus would
reduce procurement at quota prices elsewhere in China, benefiting marginal
producers in poorer areas by allowing increased sales at market prices.
Second, the improvements in farming practices, seed production and seed
quality resulting from the project are likely to carry over to the communes in
Heilongjiang province.
92.       Assuming a 30-year project life, the project's economic rate of
return would be 23%. At a discount rate of 12%, the estimated opportunity
cost of capital in China, its net present value is Y 276 million ($158 mil-
lion).  No single assumption proved crucial to the estimated rate of return.
Failure of crop yields to surpass the present average for HGB would reduce the
rate of return to 16%. Project returns are not very sensitive to assumed
yields, crop prices, production cost, or construction cost.
93.       The project faces no significant technical or administrative risks.
The implementing agency has considerable experience in land development and
management of mechanized farming. The innovative features of the project
would be the introduction of larger and more modern types of farm machinery
and construction equipment than presently used. The basic skills for
efficient operation and maintenance of such equipment already exist and would
be strengthened through further training.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
94.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of China and the Association, the draft Loan Agreement between the People's
Republic of China and the Bank, the Recommendation of the Committee provided



- 29 -
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Sec-
tion 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
95.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness is the approval by China's
State Council of the Development Credit and Loan Agreements.
96.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
97.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 31, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 30 -                                                  ANEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
CHINA. PEoPLE-S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA *                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV5RAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                                                -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            9561.0                                             MOST RECENT      LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULT.URAL    3184.0                    1960  /b    1970 /b       ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                           ..             ..          290.0              261.4                   890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)            559.9          434.9          733.6/c           448.7                   701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    672865.0          815253.0       976735.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)          ..           12.0           13.2               17.3                   32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                   1245.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                     1570.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                                2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                             70.4            85.3          100.9             158.1                   255.9
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTLRAL LAND          211.8           253.7          302.9             355.9                  1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                                  ..             ..           32.3              36.8                    39.9
15-64 YRS.                                  ..             ..           63.7              59.7                    56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                           ..             ..            4.0               3.5                     3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    2.0             1.9            1.8/d             2.0                     2.3
LRaBAN                                     ..             ..            2.8               3.3                     3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)            40.1/e, g      39.6/g         21.1/g            29.3                    31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)            13.6/e, B       9.6/g          7.8/g            11.0                     9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                      ..             ..            1.47g              2.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)              ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)           ..             ..             ..              19.3                    36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)                   ..         100.0           117.0             108.1                   115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                         86.0/e            ..          103.0              97.3                   106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                58.0oe            ..           62.6              56.9                    54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE                ..             ..           26.0              20.0                    13.9
ChILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE              ..             ..            4.5/h            10.9                     6.7
HEALTH
LIPS EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)             ..             ..           64.0/h            57.8                    59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                    ..             ..           56.0/h            89.1                    63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                      ..             ..             ..              32.9                    32.0
URBAN                                      ..             ..             ..              70.7                    51.9
RURAL                                     ..              ..             ..              22.2                    20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                      ..             ..             ..              18.1                    37.7
URBAN                                      ..             ..             ..              72.7                    65.7
RURAL                                      ..             ..             ..               4.7                    24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                3009.8/e,i    1709.1/i         1096.2/i          3297.8                  8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           2847.1/e,f       538.8/f        483.2/f         14929.3                  4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 2142.5/e        737.8           492.8            1100.4                  1047.5
URBAN                                      ..             ..          172.1             301.3                   651.6
RURAL                                      ..             ..          702.3            5815.7                  2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL SED                  ..             ..             ..                 ..                   27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                      ..             ..
LRBAN                                      .               ..                               ..
RURAL                                     ..              ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                      ..             ..
URBAN                                      ..             ..
RURAL                                      ..             ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                                              ..                  ..
'RBAN                                      ..             ..
RURAL                                      ..             ..



- 3~1 -                                                         ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
CHINA, PEOPLE'S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA *                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEjAGES
-MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-JAE
MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                     102.0          103.0          118.0              97.4                    96.2
MALE                        ..             ..          111.0/k            101.0                   99.8
FEMALE                       ..            ..          114.07o             87.8                   92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                        ..             ..           79.0              53.0                    37.6
MALE                        ..             ..           92.0               63.8                   41.1
FEMALE                       ..            ..           65.0               41.3                   34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)           ..            ..            2.4               1.7                    20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                   ..             ..           27.0              37.7                    35.5
SECONDARY                                 ..             ..           19.0              20.2                    25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)                ..            ..           66.0              52.1                    73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                ..             ..             ..               1.5                     9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                ..             ..             ..              35.4                   116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                ..             ..             ..               3.2                    37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                         ..             ..             .,              16.4                    53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA         ..             ..             ..               3.6                     2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         234602.4/e,j  339960.5/j    403163.1f.
FEMALE (PERCENT)                          ..             ..             ..              29.5                    33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                     ..             ..           71.0              70.0                    52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                        ..             ..           17.0              15.0                    17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     37.01e         41.7           41.8              40.0                    38.5
MALE                                         ..            ..             ..              51.8                    50.5
FEMALE                                       ..            ..             ..              23.8                    26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                      ..            ..            0.9               1.0                     1.1
INCOHE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..             ..             ..             133.8                   194.7
RURAL                                     ..             ..             ..             111.5                   155.1
ESTLMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..             ..             ..                ..                   178.2
RURAL                                     ..             ..             ..                ..                   164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                     ..             ..             ..              43.8                    24.4
RURAL                                     ..             ..             ..              51.7                    41.1
Not available.
Not applicable.
NOTES
*    All data exclude Taiwan, China.
/a   The group average0  for each indicator are population-weighted arithsetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c Country estimate is 644 kilogram of coal equivalent.
Td Latest estimate of annual growth of population is 1.2%.
ii   1957; /f Including barefoot doctors; /g Bank crude birth and death rate estimates for 1979 were higher
than the official data.  The official rates have been adjusted accordingly; /h Bank desographic analyses
utilize a higher estimate of the crude mortality rate than the 6.2 that is officially given. The values
of infant and child mortality shown here, based on the Bank's analyses, are thus higher than use of the
official figures would indicate; and the estimate here of life expectancy is lower than the official
figure of 68.2 years; /i Excluding traditional medical doctors.
/j   Including military personnel and those awaiting permanent jobs, most of whom are in temporary jobs; /k 1977.
H4ay, 1982



- 32-                                                                                     ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DgPI9tITIfSt IF SOCIAL LJtiCrlTflS
Notes:  Although the detoar  dr-e  fron .o.t..       ae-Ily lodged the  -os anbetiesd -eItils, it shuld also h.  oe   bnte-    a   eItr
naioaly  o     'arblehnre-   t,.he1lac  otnaoadf           defiit-ron   sod cocpts teed by different  caairte  tocietn   thed.t.  fTre dat  ae
thele..s  ..rtflto describe  reso    glooIndicat  treds, and oharactoe  certat  sajor differncs  etenc -nrt-
Thotafertuta grouptaco  (II thee  000  trygroupof olwal.jnto-ootryao d  (2) acoon..try gr-pe~ithnoe hathl-hao-rge  tnoeh-                 te-ntpr
ofclraobjentootr lncptfo              011Icm         Cii tpo-t-` grop wher  "Kiddl  Encas-  North Africa nod riddle E-lt is chose  becaus  ofstone
naontyo  rho c...n. j- ioagoo9p han dat  ton chac budlot-     toohs.nrg                    Mnocteaagth   niaosdepend  onte-oibihliny of d-t
fadA  Ichnosuod nods.)                                                      Pralailon non Inertial td - Intel. arhon, and-tasth-,Poeslatt_,          (tonsi
Toca  - foca  n-otIn-uo  noprnl    ad  -rr  oud Inland eaer;1979 data-                         uthan  andr`ral diidd h  ther   ss.iv   so            profph itL_ beds,
futfoutatal- Intuace  f aglco-tn-o  ata  -ad       ....oroily or  ar-noty                natlahet  ptll  an -d Prl,o-t  genera  nd see-oIrad hospitlj shees
forotot  -utno    uk-t  0d kftchen tarde o   o  n  follow; 1179 daa-                        la  liauo   atrn    eptial  nos e-tbllhmet   eta-tp  tf
GNP Pug CAPITA (US$) hrpo   siuanioe   ncordmre prics,ca-                                         ya care ar  no. nc ed    oclheptla'owvr,icdIhat
1910,8 end.19909data,.dedica -aIstat--- ar  niete   tcIobo  ofeP;                                                                                        -stn    no
datn' un   rod  0 limte   ro   o -i-i     d-i'sifntlnls.Fo  sius
tENfll  ClTtlfffTIOl PER CAPITA -annual co_uPtio of  oirllory(catcapupose  drn,                                           dptl   nlue58   rnta/gwelhsias
noditgtto. petrl., ofo naur          I'asad hydr...-. nucea  aod geothema  een               sd Irrlhsias   aa   raa    eyti   a    eia   n    een
trinrplin  llossnuof  oaloqolslrt pr -Plt-; 1960. 1979. and 197.etr..etlte    optl   r  itue   myn  e  toa.                                                 .I
data.P                                                                                                                h"'aepr isitlBd     ea  n-at  f dmmsea  to wedioar
fro   bsrraa dniedhythen Ine  o  beds.         -           " i'
POIIfltalIdTlbIfSTICSf-hP-Idid   b
fead-   olto.td-orlhonra     I   hll    1960l, 1970 . od 1980                            Oftt
Irhan Popolation (percent of totul)    eI  of orion to total pafotr                               oshl   oosso     ro   fldndaees  hr   tigqatr
differoo  def Jiot  ho  o               _yonarasna   ffect coprai ftryofdat                  anfhiManmasn hadro  ogrmpormynth   oldd
awougononlra;  Oil,1970.nod  961 dta-,he hons,thold for st..t. oo  poroses.                                                       1 .-j
Por-aIoo. Arjrio                                                                              nra  oatro   esorrru-oa.abs  ndma   aaaate
PoultinInyar  11   lcodr paplabo  p-Jentioa arbhnd on 1981                            e   fgroaprra   nalubn   n   ua   aatfcsetoo
toalpoultIn  y  atori  tnan  tei  nrnlryan  frcl crraes-                          wsltgt  ropntosp   telise  nrud  nn-emaantsth,ars  h
Prooccecoaonscralosanoalty _rcocmrs   ftrnlcl   su-                               nonpo    at
Ing  lforopatany orllrh luraulog  Id   oanny ' perrartoofnow              anns  otstrnt pfen  fdtlns   natal,urban, and- rural -
aud Perni ity ror do for  r01 muonporpinis                                     Ad7atd IPulottib
StaIonry  eouotoc    Ino uootoa-o ' PootonheeuongidnoaPmrynol- total, salt entoal      rnsttl  saead f_mal
mainco.ntnn-,   hI  -nohna   eyo  e  fertIlIty           ta   dcln  noorgmrtp-fol-ga peplottano  iitiral   nlue   hlrr   gd
hoe rotuonmnt len  nton In oarroroontu   ae   hnsc                               ofeuno   pests totadjad fo  diforwtlengths-0-i-lwoy   aoaw;  o
to he p-a-   Th,d an  O   ano   alnoo   anl rtr-elo-Scnayshool- - j toalIml and f-ele    Co-teda  soe;srod
nonio  -                                                                               eduatonofqi`s-a  las  tor  asa o_aprvedprsr  ia-raIi,
Pefo  i .-rIdra   ooalopraur   loeo   11lnae    fnctoa   nolen(ecn  of~"- weoadarly    nwa iln d- tostiatio
toolona   9t.191ad   97   ac.itldennhtnl  ldatil,o  ohr  rgrw  wh PIch operateh fae-nd
Pro-h--dnclot  ud-Cwor   0  hu  o   glonslcu                                              ulyu   napnmnso   sodt   gntttonts
lotion; ilil . 191, ord 1981 data-                                           Odulc 5titerat r- naIrarnenl   o- ltr te doflts (sil  to~ reds    rie
Pupolaloo Croth tno (pecent)    coto  - Yeulgtnl  otao-otldd                       asapon..r..       oftona,odpl,poplatin  oge  itpasan   r
Peculation -ron,                                                                                         ofelocoi-ubn-  oulgot   se   fura   oo  INITO
latloo   for q1911-il. `Ii P91-70 -an      kil-r --naenrConI rad                                            toooo  rooal-l-Pssae1ar   opis    ee
Cr _e.tltr  (r   boad     Ioa   oalm    pen10 ch-o-e  o  mi-oor                           Voaratoatoo       esno   ih  proshn               sabuacs   aia   n
p    _oo le;  91. 1970, cud  1979 data-inltapolcao
ropoatln; 1ff.197' o" 19t  aa-braratot  gnea  pbltpe -toan  of91 poulthw  euc                                                                                  p_daa-
k-oaagertndonn IooaaArooutrndulon   oaelhal                                              licn1ed.  r-oninreiontlsntraahoettasofa
nIol lop.Ag cacao   atnlp  lo-pu  ocnog      - audOg16 to-1*1, 1970.aud 19Sf.                sostnudotr-eTaheli-dst lIcensdng-
PatErPbonoolneror.  onalInooanol-  ooalnoIe  o  acd-        oa f.,ninrslpr-hesod                        doetolo)  by E reevesfobraato
ollpnartle   escErns lo     ga19roup.                                                       tuiti    f   ai97eoro  inteest a.see-_.detied a  a peiodica
,.P:a                                                                              -9- -f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ohlata    der -a  p dierly topreorl-jhg geea   es   t  stntse
restsd     uloadB    -Agraat  pruud -Ano.-on1 of oah cooryi Ihated o or   y..            .A-tOi PI-dStpIl-
notional anor7ga prdoe  pr9or woighto  191t.11,nd11   at-fnltheFrslhesan        cnmclymoieproo                                                           ldo
Ito day-.. boo alrn6p0 ssns197          dmetI  po'daIi9o, dmport  less                       n  coptbl;1-1-90  n   9t   aa
houshol  lotl;              -d1S    I97  and197  dat-i1911, 19 rE  -l 1t80 dataf
aloa    A_ofh   rs ,of tota  yru_ot  pe  Oa  nod 17      1.d19gnn   f  nla  and     1911.        ~        h. 191lsd181dt- rhe    are   - bae  on I -'s -bttiparto_r
poaf  rret.o -       ihI   0Ioa do                A e  noahrten-- otonu-                     elotn-aeno   tanue  fte  roa-o.  o  lo,is-r-d 
PoIsa=rtI   so   crg   o   I   ol,neor   yPni  h   hr                                  Econoic peroodoncotarieh:   P--Inr'fpouo"       a   adr1  and b-ad... w
fenrodFend broop;  9f1-fb  1970  rd 197  dt-                                    to--the total labor1 -for-ed.
Pornptnspootto nprlrfromnou5 l an p....    -Proton --olr of food do-i-lfo  f 
IlAIf 0.                                                        PIVUfE bAROn Is~~~~~~~d.iPI EE           o---)-I-
her of peple (tota. trist,Cnd rural  alifressnp.......stowt-o afordable
eater asp1y (toolsdoo trsatd surf er twiera de an -atd hut    f.on.md te     ttad    glatine         - Fon - Iwoowo tove  Y.., pee neee  - ehossa  floa
reesenablo  onove couldR i Plp nid rhohuewf o  n h     i  bsr    of th  hoshedFndRCEra-Pecnofp ullyortadtrsfs5sa   bea
towhee of peopl  (toal  urban,and-rual) seved b,e-crea dispsal a
sIts nalerifan sd dispeai, nigh  rbltisan0tewe97e, of  -o-a ingrat
1std -.tall-thles
t -alitn  a     bymila  -  osato   ivdd b,:   ,o~~j og   -rIf'eoil'gphyt-for -af                                                  tsa   eaof totstlna Lbow       _.
_ig ulftdfrw      eis   oota  an           1 toots Isp  ho-I                                                      coadcdsiss  odtojafaaHettb
Poewicelesear Ins ds Paso   -  oeaiw    iia  h                                                                    oroffatsogBy18
mits sod femeto                                                                                                                                 f         hdat-soa,eatgsinrm,peots-wrm   n
saratng onoilisrteaP.bdy-E~., ..l-  .-   -60                                                                                                0        Io  .



- 33 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Population:  989 million (mid-1981)
GNP per capita:  US$300 (1981)
CHINA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual Growth (%) at Constant Prices
1957-70   1970-77   1978   1979   1980   1981
Production
Gross Output
Agriculture                      2.2      3.4       9.0    8.6    2.7    5.7
Light industry                   8.3      7.8      10.8    9.6   18.4   14.1
Heavy industry                  11.6      9.3      15.6    7.7    1.4  -4.7
Net Material Product (NMP)         5.2      4.8      12.4    7.0    5.2    3.0
1957    1970    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Prices
Retail price index (1970-100)  92.2   100.0   102.7   103.3    105.4   111.7   114.4
NMP deflator        (1970-100)  90.7   100.0    99.1   100.5    104.5   108.7   111.9
Exchange rate       (Y/US$)       2.46    2.46    1.86    1.68       1.55    1.50    1.71
Amount
1981                  Shares of GDP (%)            Average Annual Growth (X) at Constant Prices
National Accounts            ($ billion)   1957    1979    1981    1985    1990  1957-70  1970-79  1979-81  1981-85  1985-90
/a       la
GDP                          264.3       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    5.8         5.8      4.0       6.1      7.0
Agriculture                 91.7          ..    32.5    34.7    32.4    27.9    1.6         3.2      2.3       4.3      3.8
Industry                   111.8          ..    43.5    42.3    44.4    48.1   12.1        8.9       7.2       7.4      8.7
Other                       60.8          ..    24.0    23.0    23.2    24.0    3.5         4.3     -0.2       6.3      7.8
Consumption                  189.0        76.4    68.4    71.5    73.8    76.7    2.7         5.4      5.5       7.0      7.8
Investment                    73.6        23.2    32.5    27.8    27.5    25.0    9.8         6.8     -1.3       5.8      5.0
Exports GNFS                  24.4         3.7/b   6.0      9.2     8.7      8.1    1.6/b    8.0/b   22.6        4.5      5.5
Imports GNFS                  22.7         3.57w   6.8      8.6    10.0      9.8    2.37T    9.47T    9.2       10.3      6.5
National savings               75.6       23.6/c  31.9    28.6    26.4    23.0        ..       ..      0.9       4.0      4.2
As % of GDP
Public Finance                                 1957          1979          1981
Current revenues (excluding foreign          28.7          27.4          22.6
borrowing)
Current expenditures                         16.1          17.7          14.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                  +12.6          +9.7         +8.0
Capital expenditures                         11.9          15.1           8.8
Foreign borrowing /d                          0.7           0.9           1.6
Other Indicators                             1957-79   1979-81   1981-85   1985-90
/a
GDP growth rate (%)                          5.4        4.0       6.1        7.0
GDP per capita growth rate (X)               3.5        2.7       4.8        5.8
Energy consumption growth rate (X)           8.3         ..
ICOR                                         5.4         ..       4.6        3.8
Marginal savings rate                        0.42                 0.18      0.16
Import elasticity                            0.95      2.30      1.69       0.93
/a N?P basis.
/b Goods only.
/c GDS.
/d Gross.



-34-                                           ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Population: 989 million (mid-1981)
GNP per capita:  US$300 (1981)
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                             Annual Growth Rates ('/o)
(million US$ at                         (at constant 1980 prices)
Indicator                   current prices)               Actual                          Projected
1981           1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
External Trade
Merchandise exports             22,027         10.1   25.5   16.8   15.9    7.4    1.5    3.9    3.5    3.0
Energy                         5,054           ..    ..    ..    ..    4.2  -17.2  -13.2  -20.4  -32.4
Other primary                 5,306            ..    ..    ..    ..    6.5    1.6    4.0    4.0    5.0
Manufactures                  10,533           ..    ..    ..    ,.   9.7    9.7    9.7    9.7    9.0
Other                         1,134            ..    ..    ..    ..    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Merchandise imports             20,292         32.6   21.7   16.7  -8.6  -4.0   23.3   12.2   12.4    4.5
Food                          5,340            ..    ..    ..    ..    3.0    7.0    5.0    5.0    3.0
Petroleum                          0           ..    ..    ..    ..    0          0      0      0      /a
Machinery and equipment        5,317           ..    ..    ..    ..  -11.8   33.3   15.0   15.0    5.0
Other                         9,635            ..    ..    ..    ..    4.9   28.0   14.3   14.3    4.9
Prices
Export price index (1978=100)       ..        100.0  113.3  131.3  134.9  130.0  137.7  152.7  167.7  180.9
Import price index (1978=100)       ..        100.0  119.4  139.2  145.5  139.1  148.6  164.1  179.1  192.5
Terms of trade index (1978=100)    ..         100.0  95.2   94.3   92.7   93.5   92.7   93.1   93.6   94.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (x)             Average Annual Increase (x)
(at current prices)                         (at constant prices)
1978   1979   1980   1981   1985   1990   1957-70  1970-79  1979-81  1981-85  1985-90
Exports                    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0       1.6      8.0     19.4      4.1       5.1
Energy                    13.8   19.5   25.1   22.9   10.9    0          ..       .        ..   -12.2        /a
Other primary             39.7   34.1   28.4   24.1   24.2   23.8       ..       ..        ..      4.0      5.0
Manufactures              46.5   46.4   46.5   47.8   59.5   70.9       ..       ..        ..      9.7      9.1
Other                      0       0      0      5.2    5.4    5.3      ..       ..        ..      5.0      5.0
Imports                    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0      2.3      9.4       9.9     10.5      6.3
Food                        ..    ..    ..   26.3   20.0   16.8         ..       ..        ..      5.0      3.0
Energy                     0       0      0      0      0      8.2       ..      0        0         /a       /a
Machinery and equipment   17.5   25.2   27.5   26.2   26.7   25.1        ..      ..        ..    11.7       5.0
Other                       ..    ..    ..   47.5   53.3   49.9          ..      ..        ..     15.1      4.9
Share of Trade With
Share of Trade With        Share of Trade With            Countries with Centrally
Industrial Countries (%)   Developing Countries (%)         Planned Economies (%) /b
Direction of Trade          1978            1981        1978           1981              1978           1981
Exports                   37.3            45.9        51.6           50.2              11.1            3.9
Imports                   73.3            76.8        17.5           18.7               9.2            4.5
!a  China i, expected to become a net importer of petroleum between 1985 and 1990.
/b Incl- des the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea and Mongolia.



- 35 -
ANNEX I
Page of 6 of 6
Population: 989 million (mid-1981)
GNP per capita:  US$300 (1981)
CHINA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                     Projected
Indicator                         1978    1979    1980    1981       1982    1985    1990
Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services       10,606  15,351  20,901  25,157   25,800  37,064  69,551
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.       9,607  13,658  18,492  22,027   22,812  32,110  59,684
Imports of goods and services       11,912  17,582  23,946  23,628   22,031  42,209  86,018
of which: Merchandise c.i.f.      10,745  15,619  21,243  20,292   18,631  37,298  72,684
Net transfers                           597     656     640      467      617     767   1,017
Current account balance               -705  -1,575  -2,405   1,996    4,386  -4,378 -15,450
Private direct investment                -        -      57      265      315     465      715
MLT loans (net)                       -830      822   1,756      769    1,278   3,913  16,840
Official                              ..       ..      ..             2,198   3,231   5,546
Private                                ..      .       ..              -920     682  11,294
Other capital                          822   1,362   1,082    -787   -1,500
-Change in net reserves ("-" =
increase)                            708    -609    -490  -2,243   -4,479         0 -2,105
international reserves               6,283   6,892   7,382  10,096   14,575  16,842  24,158
of which:  gold                       ..       .    5,120   5,120    5,120   5,120   5,120
Reserves as months imports             6.3      4.7     3.7      5.1      7.9     4.8      3.4
External Capital and Debt
Gross disbursements                      ..      ..
Concessional loans                    ..       ..
DAC                                 ..       ..
OPEC                                ..       ..
IDA                                  *        .
Other                               ..       ..
Nonconcessional loans                 ..       ..
Official export credits             ..       ..
IBRD                                 *
Other multilateral                  ..       ..
Private                             ..       ..
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed        ..       ..   5,441   5,696
Official                            ..
Private                             ..
Undisbursed debt                      ..       ..
Debt service
Total service payments
Interest                            ..       ..
Payments as % exports GNFS            ..       ..     5.0     7.8
Average interest rate on new
loans (%)
Average maturity of new loans
(years)



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE-S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A. STATEM4ENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1983)
Loan or
Credit                                                     Amounts ($ millions)
Number   Year       Borrower          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
2021     1981   People's Republic   University
1167               of China             Development   100.0  100.0    195.5
1261     1982   People's Republic   N. China Plain
of China             Agric.                  60.0      58.2
2207     1982   People's Republic   Ports               124.0            124.0
of China
1297     1982   People's Republic   Ag. Ed. and                 75.4      75.4
of China             Research
2226 /a  1982   People's Republic   Industrial           40.6   30.0      70.6
1313 7a            of China             Credit
2231 /a  1983   People's Republic   Daqing              162.4            162.4
of China             Petroleum
/b  1983   People's Republic   Zhongyuan          100.8    -         -
of China             Petroleum
Total                                527.8  265.4    786.9
Total now held by Bank and IDA       527.8  265.4
Total undisbursed                    527.8  259.1
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1983)
None
/a Not yet effective.
7b Loan approved on March 29, 1983, but not yet signed.



ANNEX II
Page 2
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Loan No. 2021    University Development Project $100 million loan and
Credit No.1167   $100 million credit of November 4, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness: February 4, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Good progress has been made in project implementation. Contracts
have been signed for about $65 million of equipment and bids are now being
received for the second stage of equipment procurement (worth about $50 mil-
lion). Initial disbursements for technical assistance (about $300,000) have
been made and a -najor contract for about $5 million in expert services has
been signed.
Credit No. 1261 North China Plain Agriculture Project $60 million credit of
June 23, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: October 7, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
Project civil works began immediately after credit signature and are
well under way. Progress has been especially good on excavation of the
drainage system.
Loan No. 2207    Three Ports Project $124 million loan of November 16, 1982;
Date of Effectiveness: February 2, 1983; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Tender documents for container handling equipment have been reviewed
by the Bank and are now being finalized.
Credit No. 1297 Agricultural Education and Research Project $75.4 million
credit of November 16, 1982; Date of Effectiveness:
February 2, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
Bids have been invited for the first phase of equipment procurement.
A contract for language training has been agreed and signed.
Loan No. 2226    Industrial Credit Project $40.6 million loan and $30 million
Credit No. 1313  credit of December 28, 1982; Date of Effectiveness:  Not yet
effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan No. 2231    Daqing Oilfield Gaotaizi Reservoir Development Project
$162.4 million loan of March 8, 1983; Date of Effectiveness:
Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Loan No.          Zhongyuan-Wenliu Petroleum Project $100.8 million loan
(not yet signed); Date of Effectiveness: Not yet
effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1986



- 39 -
ANNEX III
CHINA
HIEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project        : 18 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project  : Central General Bureau of
State Farms and Land Reclama-
tion
(c) Date of first presentation to
Bank, and of first Bank mission  : July 1981
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission                            : April 1982
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations : March 11, 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness        : August 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
Assistance in drafting equipment specifications.
Section III: Special Conditions
Effectiveness:
Approval by State Council of Development Credit and Loan Agreements.
Other:
(a) Project management office to be maintained and adequately staffed
(para. 73).
(b) Preparation of work and financing plans for following year by
October 31 for Bank review (para. 75).






IBRD 16545R
DEC E04ER 1982
115-                                   120.                                    125-                                   130~                                     35Y
C>                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~CHINA
1e~~~~ A
/                                                              HEILONOJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
U. S.S. R.
STATE FARMS IN  PROJECT
Ii              0  ~~~SUB-BUREAU  HEADQUARTERS
tS   8   /-  <..-|          SUB-BUREAU  BOUNDARIES
Jr'           <- < \< \4 ROADS
-   RAILROADS
[            ~~~~~~~RIVERS
PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                                                  5
_ .---INTERNATIONAL   BOUNDARIES
/  t   /   4                                     .       o      t                           KILOMEIERS °,  40  80  120 1KO  0
/- <   S        ,)                                      0  . '       ,      W                      MCI1S     o        50 -      D0 -5
K                  IN NEI/\ MON G GGOLZ                               A           usarf
MONGOL~~IAN R\ ONOZA
',cc'aP-ap  I  C                                                                                                             855~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c n-, 
/onoov  N                                                                                                                                               Di.xing,aa
egan                                           853~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dan o
h                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I'ao.h e
854
N.                     .-.t                      :056|                                                            M   * t    /Su  X                                  i _                  Xibh.
8                     .,                                                                                                855~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,n 
---  f-            -s             -|      PERR  d cc -!esde.n Mufl/ tdanpZeo                                                     n      el-nnbsa dng  , 5                                 XiOKIh
M , >- f S r +                /    O R FA f.NOr n G Aa                                                                                                                            8  4o k e
v .>  80fl84*To    U -                                                                                                                                             -  1~~~~~~~~~~5-8118
~~ Ty~~cn~~s~~M  4  Ecr,C.8,cn                 Thnccce0c,r.ce,~~~~~I  ZIc0cNee  Lrec,ng0ec0d,e  10



