Document of
The World Bank                            JZI'
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4159-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
March 31, 1983
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
US$1.00  =  Y 1.75 (at time of appraisal)
Y 1.00   =  US$0.59
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)               =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)            =  2.47 acres
1 million cubic meters  =  810 acre-feet
1 ton                     =  1,000 kilograms (kg)
= 2,205 pounds
1 kilogram (kg)           =  2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
MAAF  -  Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fishery
CGB   -  Central General Bureau of State Farms and Land Reclamation
HGB   -  Heilongjiang General Bureau of State Farms
FIMO  -  Foreign Investment Management Office
hp    -  horsepower
kw    -  kilowatt.
kV    -  kilovolt
kVA   -  kilovolt-amps
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  1
Introduction .1...  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  I
The Agricultural Sector. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          1
Sector Development Issues and Strategy . . . . . . . . . .          3
State  Farms.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  4
Project Formulation.                                                6
Bank Group Lending for Agriculture . . . . . . . . . . . .          7
II.  THE PROJECT AREA   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           8
Location   .    .    .  .    .  .    .    .  .    .   .  .    .   .    .   .    .    .    .  .  .    .    .  .    .  8
Climate                                                             8
Topography, Soils and Drainage.9
Population .10
Infrastructure .10
Agriculture .11
Mechanization .12
III. THE PROJECT .13
Project Description .13
Project Works .14
Agricultural Machinery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         16
Construction Machinery .17
Seed Processing Equipment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         17
Technical Assistance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         18
Status of Engineering. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         19
Implementation Schedule. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         19
Cost Estimates .20
Financing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  21
Procurement .21
Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         21
Accounts and Audits .22
Environmental Effects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         22
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission
comprising T.E. Daves and T.B. Wiens (Bank), D.A.N. Hopkins, W.R. Johnston
and J.K. Wang (consultants) in February 1982; and an appraisal mission
comprising T.E. Daves and T.B. Wiens (Bank), L.J. Clarke, R.C. McGinnis,
and L.S. Tay (consultants) in May/June 1982.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- il -
Page No.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General Bureau of State Farms and Land Reclamation . . . .     22
Financial Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
Project Management and Execution . . . . .  . . . .  .  . .    26
Monitoring and Evaluation. . . . . . . . . . . .27
Agricultural Support Services. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
Consulting Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    30
V.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    30
Cropping Patterns ................. .                          30
Farming Practices  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    30
Yields and Production  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31
Drying, Storage and Processing . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    32
Subsidiary Production  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    32
VI.  MARKETS, PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY  . . . . . .    33
Market Prospects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    33
Prices ..                    .        .         .        .  ....33
Farm Incomes . .....    34
Cost Recovery ......   35
VII.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    37
VIII.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . .    40
TABLES IN TEXT
2.1  Agricultural Machinery Use   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     12
2.1  Degree of Mechanization by Operation   . . . . . . . . . . .     13
3.1  Drain Dimensions   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     15
3.2 Cost Summary.0 . . . .                           . . . . . . 
4.1  Receipt of Government Funds by State Farms, 1980   . . . . .     24
4.2  Profits and (Losses) of the State Farms  . . . . . . . . . .     25
4.3 Disposition of Profits in 1980   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
6.1  Crop and Input Farmgate Prices   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
6.2 Rent and Cost Recovery   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    36
ANNEXES
1. Project Land Development
2. Project Costs
3. Prices and Crop Budgets
4. Economic Analysis
5. Related Documents and Data Available in Project File



- iii -
LIST OF FIGURES
3.1 Implementation Schedule
4.1 Organizational Structure - Ministry of Agriculture, Animal
Husbandry and Fisheries
4.2 Organizational Structure - General Bureau of State Fanns
4.3 Organizational Structure - General Bureau at Jiamusi,
Heilongjiang Province
4.4 Typical State Farm Organization Chart
5.1 Proposed Cropping Calendar
MAP
IBRD 16545R - Reclamation Areas






CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01      The Government of China has requested Bank Group assistance in
financing the Heilongjiang Grain Base Project in Northeastern China. The
project would develop some 200,000 ha of virgin lands in Heilongjiang
Province for production of wheat, maize and soybeans, and be implemented by
the General Bureau of State Farms and Land Reclamation in the Ministry of
Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fishery.  The primary objectives of the
project would be to help reduce China's growing foodgrain deficit and to
increase the supply of marketable surplus grain for sale to the urban
population. It would also provide experience in upgrading mechanized crop
production which would be applicable to about 2 million hectares now
cultivated by state farms in Heilongjiang and would serve as a model for the
development of other uncultivated land in the province. Principal features
of the project would be the drainage works needed to bring the land into
cultivation; agricultural machinery for full mechanization of farming
operations; additions to the existing fleet of construction equipment and
provision of roads, housing and supporting infrastructure. Training in
equipment operation and maintenance and in construction techniques would be
provided. The project would also include technical assistance in the fields
of planning, training, equipment maintenance, construction operations and
seed production.
The Agricultural Sector /1
1.02      Agriculture in China, including crops, livestock, forestry and
fisheries, provides sustenance to nearly 1 billion people, is the source of
income for some 290 million agricultural workers and their dependents, and
accounts for about 30% of the country's GDP. China produces about 40% of
the world's annual rice harvest, 14% of the wheat, 10% of the maize and 16%
of the cotton and the tea. It also accounts for 40% of the world's swine
herd. Among the developing economies, China accounts for more than 30% of
the total farming population. The production organization for Chinese
agriculture includes collective units under the commune system (89% of
cropland and 80% of rural income), state farms (4% and 4%) and private plots
assigned to families on communes and state farms (7% and 16%).
/1 For details on China's agricultural sector see "Annex C: Agricultural
Development" in China: Socialist Economic Development, Report No.
3391-CHA.



1.03      The agricultural sector is dominated by grain production, which
accounts for some 60% of total agricultural output, and 80% of cropland. Of
the country's 960 million ha, only about 10.4% or 100 million ha are arable
lands available for sustained cropping. The ratio of population to arable
land is just under 10 persons per ha. Slightly less than half of China's
arable land is irrigated. In global terms, China's agricultural sector
accounts for less than 8% of the world's arable land but provides enough
food for about 22% of the world's population. This is possible because of
the generally high standards of crop production. Paddy yields, about 4 tons
per ha, are nearly 50% higher than the average for all developing countries.
Maize yields are up to 50% higher than those in Thailand and three times
those in the Philippines. Sugarcane yields approach those reported for
developed countries. The national average cropping intensity is about 150%.
1.04      Agriculture has been a high priority sector of the Chinese economy
for more than 30 years, with special attention given to grain production in
efforts to attain self-sufficiency. Investment in agriculture has averaged
about 20% of total national investment, and this proportion has increased in
recent years. In general, China's efforts to develop agriculture have been
broadly successful. Growth in food production has more than kept pace with
population growth and almost all Chinese now have access to adequate quan-
tities of food. Imports of agricultural products and production inputs have
been limited to only about 25% of all imports, and exports of raw and
processed agricultural products have contributed about 80% of all foreign
exchange earnings.
1.05      The Government controls the marketing and pricing of agricultural
products and inputs. It fixes production quotas for the major crops:
grains, oilseeds, cotton and sugar, which are purchased and distributed by
state-managed procurement agencies at predetermined prices. A portion of
the production in excess of the quotas, the amount of which is determined
before each harvest according to projected yields, is sold to the Government
at above-quota prices which are also pre-determined. The rest of the sur-
plus production can be sold to the Government at negotiated prices or on the
free market. Production quotas are also established for a range of cash
crops and livestock products. Minor crops, such as vegetables and other
products grown in household plots, are sold in rural markets at prices
regulated either by the provinces or counties. This marketing and pricing
system has been maintained since the 1950s, although the importance and
scope of free markets have varied over time. Policy reforms since 1976 have
expanded the operation of free markets. The two most important marketing
agencies for agriculture are the Bureau of Foodgrains of the Ministry of
Commerce, which procures and distributes grain and oilseed crops, and the
All China Federation of Supply and Marketing Cooperatives, which purchases
most cash crops and distributes some agricultural inputs and tools, and
consumer goods in the rural areas. Some products, such as sugar, rubber and
pigs for slaughter, are purchased by specialized branches of the Ministry of
Commerce.



- 3-
Sector Development Issues and Strategy
1.06      A major task in the agricultural sector is to reduce imports of
grains and cotton. The gap between domestic supply and demand for food and
fiber appears to be widening. Net imports of grains, including soybeans,
reached 13.2 million tons in 1981, slightly more than in 1980, 3.3 million
tons more than in 1979 and 8.5 million tons over the 1976-78 average. Most
of the imports are wheat, which reached 12.7 million tons, and maize at 1.2
million tons. Cotton imports were about 570,000 tons in 1981, about 200,000
tons less than in 1979 and 1980 but more than 60% above the 1976-78 average.
At the same time, efforts are needed to raise the incomes and living stand-
ards in rural areas.  In the rice-growing areas most of the relatively easy
gains in production through irrigation and the use of new high-yielding crop
varieties and fertilizers have been achieved. In Northern China, where
wheat, soybean and maize are the main crops, there are prospects for
increased production through irrigation and drainage, better harvesting
techniques and improved seed production. Expansion of the land base and
improvement of land productivity are becoming much harder and more expensive
with the need to upgrade production in environmentally less favorable areas.
1.07      To meet these challenges, the Government has begun to implement
some new policies aimed at giving farm workers more production incentives.
Acreage quotas for particular crops have been relaxed, although minimum
grain marketing quotas are still imposed. This gives greater freedom in
crop choices and production decisions to the individual brigades and
production teams which make up communes and state farms. In 1979, the
purchase prices of most agricultural products were increased by an average
26% for grains but somewhat less for most other products. One result of
these actions, coupled with generally favorable weather and heavier inputs
of chemical fertilizer, has been a sharp increase in agricultural production;
agricultural output grew by almost 9% in 1978 and 1979, 2.7% in 1980, and
5.7% in 1981. To encourage specialization in crops having comparative
advantage in production in particular regions, the Government has given a
guarantee to regions best suited to cash crop production that their basic
food needs will be assured from government stocks, which are to be supplied
through increased surpluses and government purchases in areas specializing
in food grain production. The policy of easing requirements for regional
and local food self-sufficiency is likely to result in an increase in the
proportion of the food grain supply that needs to be marketed. Currently
about 20% of food grains are purchased by the Government to supply the urban
population, cash crop areas, chronically deficit regions, and to provide for
emergency stocks.  The marketed percentage has fallen slightly since the new
policies began in 1977; reversing this trend, therefore, is a major task
facing the Government.
1.08      The needed increase in food grain production and marketed sur-
pluses are not likely to be forthcoming without particular encouragement and
assistance to areas best suited to grain production. The Government has
designated some areas, particularly the Northeast Region, as grain base
regions and initiated programs to rapidly increase their grain production



-4-
and marketable surplus.  The Government is also giving high priority to
irrigation, drainage and saline land reclamation in the North China Plain.
To further enlarge available financial resources, the state farms, which
have the primary responsibility for new lands development, will now be
allowed to retain for reinvestment all operating profits earned up to 1986
on newly developed land. In mid-1980, the Government decided to concentrate
its land development and farm mechanization program in the Northeast,
especially Heilongjiang province, where labor-intensive farming is precluded
by the long winters which permit cultivation of only a single grain crop.
Since a large area of land is needed to support a family, and essential crop
operations must be performed in very short time periods, there is in fact no
alternative to mechanization and both the state farms and the communes in
Heilongjiang are highly mechanized.
State Farms
1.09      State farms now produce only about 2% of China's grain but with
over 35% of it marketed, about double the commune average, they provide over
4% of the marketed surplus. The Government projects that by 1985 they will
produce almost 3% of the grain crop and market 45% of production, to account
for 9% of all marketing. The 2,400 state farms would account for almost 20%
of the 35 million ton projected annual increase in grain production between
1979 and 1985. Because of their location in the drier and colder areas of
the country, state farms also tend to be well suited for production of grains
that are imported in large amounts, especially wheat.
1.10      The General Bureau of State Farms and Land Reclamation, which was
recently incorporated into the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and
Fishery, was founded as the Ministry of State Farms and Land Reclamation
in 1956. However, the first state farms date back to the 1940s before the
founding of the PeopleTs Republic when the revolutionary armies established
and operated farms to supply themselves with foods. These farms were mostly
on virgin lands in Heilongjiang province, where the land cultivated by state
farms has grown from about 30,000 ha in 1949 to 960,000 in 1959 and now to
about 2 million ha. As Heilongjiang development proved successful, additional
areas on China's borders were opened up as state farms. Between 1957 and
1965 the cultivated area in all provinces expanded from one to three million
ha, with another million ha brought into production since 1970. At present,
state farms cover 30 million ha, with 4.5 million ha under cultivation, 4.5%
of the nation's cultivated area. There are over 2,000 state farms and more
than 6,000 farm-managed industrial enterprises employing 4.8 million people.
Farms specializing in the production of food and cash crops number 990; rubber
and other tropical tree crops, 160; livestock, 425; fruit and tea, 288; and
ginseng and deer farms, 83.
1.11      State farms concentrate on areas that are either technically too
difficult or geographically too isolated to be developed as traditional
farming communities. In the more fertile and densely populated areas of
China almost all land suitable for cultivation has long since been developed
and occupied. Most communes are located on these lands, which account for



over 90% of all cultivated land in China. State farms, by their nature, are
mostly located in less-developed "border" regions, such as: Heilongjiang,
Nei Monggol, Ningxia, Gansu, Xinjiang, Qinghai, Xizang, Yunnan, and Hainan
Island. These border areas comprise about 60% of China-s land area, but
only a small percentage of the land is suitable for cultivation.
1.12      In accordance with the Government's plan to increase the marketed
crop surplus, major land development programs are planned by the General
Bureau of State Farms and Land Reclamation for the period 1981-86. The
plans call for the development of 1.1 million ha of currently unused land
for field crops, 60,000 ha for tree crops, and 2.2 million ha for improved
pasture. The total estimated cost of the programs is Y 7.1 billion (US$4.0
billion). Food crops would still account for the major portion of total
investment, yet significant emphasis would now be given to livestock and
cash crop production, with a view to creating greater opportunities for
linkage to industry and also to increasing the meat supply.
1.13      In addition to their land development tasks, state farms have helped
to provide employment for excess labor from agriculture and other sectors;
encouraged and managed settlement of the more economically backward border
regions; demonstrated modern farming methods, and provided technical
assistance to communes. Until recently their financial performance was poor,
but since the return of professional management in 1977, after the Cultural
Revolution, the farms have sharply increased productivity and financial
performance. Yields are generally above those on communes in adjacent areas
and annual per capita incomes on state farms averaged US$255 in 1979, compared
to the nationwide commune average of US$83. The higher incomes on state farms
are partly explained by their lower work force per ha, about a third of that
of communes (which control virtually all of the land suitable for labor-
intensive production and multiple cropping), and larger quantities of
machinery and equipment with which to work. The state farms also benefit from
government efforts to upgrade management and labor skills.
1.14      Climatic factors in the areas of major concentration for state
farms generally preclude the labor intensive approach to agriculture
characteristic of most parts of China. Without heavy mechanization of field
operations in areas like Heilongjiang, progress in bringing land into culti-
vation would have been greatly slowed. The development of these zones has
thus been considerably influenced by China-s capacity to produce an appro-
priate volume and range of agricultural equipment and machinery. While much
success in this regard has been achieved, the design standards and effi-
ciency of local manufacture still leave considerable room for improvement.
The Government is taking steps to upgrade the design and manufacture of farm
machinery. Smaller and less efficient producers are being closed and a
higher degree of specialization introduced. Also, advanced technology is
being acquired through licensing agreements and joint ventures with foreign
farm equipment manufacturers; recent agreements are for diesel engines and
combined harvesters. The proposed project would support the Government's



- 6 -
objectives of modernizing farm mechanization by providing a large number or
farm managers, operators and technicians with experience in the use of
modern farm machinery.
1.15      Further improvement in state farm development is also expected frorr
a number of other approaches now being studied and implemented. Among these
are decentralized decision making with most decisions on management and
investment now being left to individual farms, increased mechanization, and
an expansion of private plots. Tillage techniques are being revised to
reduce soil distubance, conserve moisture, and promote decay of crop resi-
dues. The farms are also seeking to expand sideline processing and manu-
facturing in order to absorb new labor force entrants and workers released
as machinery used in agricultural operations is upgraded. Continued efforts
are required to further increase worker incentives; adjust output mixes and
levels to the new price relationships and less restrictive quotas; identify
economically appropriate levels and modes of mechanization; improve crop
management, particularly through greater use of improved plant varieties and
other modern inputs; and improve training of workers for agriculture and the
rapidly expanding sideline industries. The proposed project would help to
meet some of these objectives.
Project Formulation
1.16      About 1.7 million ha of uncultivated land in Heilongjiang Province
is suitable for agriculture if provided with roads and drains. Of this area,
the Heilongjiang General Bureau of State Farms (HGB) controls 700,000 ha,
and the remainder consists of small tracts adjacent to excisting communes.
The proposed project would develop 200,000 ha of the area controlled by t1he
11GB. The lands to be developed consist of 75 individual blocks ranging from
1,000 ha to 10,000 ha on 30 existing state farms (Annex 1). Land develop-
ment would entail construction of a system of surface drains and access
roads. No land levelling would be needed and clearing would be a simple
matter of removing weeds and grasses. The HGB has successfully developed
similar lands covering some 900,000 ha in Heilongjiang.
1.17      The project plan, prepared by the HGB, was reviewed by a Bank
mission in August 1981. During this mission and subsequent missions
(preappraisal February 1982 and appraisal June 1982) the details of the
proposal were refined, particularly the agricultural machinery and con-
struction equipment package, and the technical details of the drainage
works. Also, a component was added to provide seed processing and storage
equipment.
1.18      Although there is a long history of land development and mechan-
ized farming in Heilongjiang, the project would include a number of innova-
tions which are expected to have a significant impact on land already
cultivated in the province, as well as on land still to be brought into
production. Farm machinery, of a more advanced design than presently used
in Heilongjiang, would be introduced to improve techniques for land
preparation, planting, cultivating, and harvesting; most of this equipment



- 11 -
would be imported. The HGB has already pioneered the use of imported
machinery on two state farms with considerable success. The improvement in
crop management coupled with the seeds component, are expected to lead to
crop yields significantly higher than currently achieved in the province.
The project would also introduce improved construction methods, particularly
the use of imported hydraulic backhoe excavators, some mounted on amphibious
undercarriages, for drain excavation; the present practice of excavation by
bulldozers is slow and costly. Also provided by the project would be
technical assistance to help the HGB in (a) implementing its planning and
training programs, (b) strengthening equipment maintenance and spare parts
control, (c) planning and executing construction operations, and (d)
improving seed quality.
Bank Group Lending for Agriculture
1.19       The Bank-s strategy for lending in China's agriculture sector is to
support the Government's efforts to raise agricultural production through the
more efficient use of land and water resources and improvements in the support
services such as research and agricultural education. Projects are also being
selected for their demonstration and catalytic impact in addition to immediate
income generation. Suitable opportunities are likely to be found among a wide
range of activities and locations. The first Bank Group operation in the
agricultural sector, a $60 million IDA credit for the North China Plain
Agriculture Project (Credit 1261-CHA), was approved by the Executive Directors
on June 15, 1982. This project will provide irrigation and drainage for
200,000 ha covering parts of nine counties and be the first large-scale attack
on soil salinity and waterlogging in China. Work is proceeding in all nine
counties and progress has been especially good on excavation of the drainage
systems. A second project, the Agricultural Education and Research Project
(Cr. 1297-CHA) for $75 million, was approved by the Executive Directors on
November 2, 1982. This will support the Government's program for
strengthening higher education and research in agriculture. In addition to
the proposed Heilongjiang Grain Base Project, other projects for possible
future Bank Group financing are a Rubber Development Project in Guangdong
Province and a Rural Credit Project focussing on Guangxi and Hubei Provinces.
The Rubber Project is expected to assist in new planting of about 20,000 ha
and replanting of some 15,000 ha with highyielding clones. The Rural Credit
Project is expected to include assistance in agriculture, livestock and
poultry, tree crops, and agro-industrial processing and would offer numerous
opportunities for technology transfer and employment creation.



-8-
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
2.01      The proposed project would be located in Heilongjiang Province,
the northeastern most province of China, which takes its name from the river
forming its northern border, the Heilongjiang, which is one of the world-s
great rivers. The province is bordered by Nei Monggol Province, in the
west, the USSR in the north and east and Jilin Province in the south. Two
major tributaries of the Heilongjiang are the Songhua, which flows across
the province, and the Wusuli, which forms its eastern border. Most of the
province is flat to rolling plain with large areas of swamps and marshes
especially along the rivers. The land slopes to the northeast with low
mountains along the south, southeast and western borders. The project would
cover a total area of 200,000 ha of which 182,000 ha are on 25 existing
farms in the Sanjiang Plain Region in the northeast part of the province,
and 18,000 ha are on 5 farms in the Lesser Xinganling Region in the
northwest (Map IBRD 16545).
Climate
2.02      Nearly all of HeilongjiangIs state farms are distributed across
the northern third of the province and are subject to a temperate-to-cold
continental climate. The area is affected by Siberian air currents in
winter with cold, dry conditions lingering for many months and in summer it
receives warm, moist air from the Pacific. Spring brings heavy winds and
little rain, precipitation being concentrated in the summer and autumn
months. Occasionally there are torrential rains, with sudden changes in
temperature in spring and autumn. July is the warmest month with a mean
temperature of 200 to 220C and an absolute high of 38.50C; January has aL
mean temperature of -190 to -220C, with an absolute low of -440C. The
temperature stabilizes above freezing between April 5 and 10. The frost-
free period ranges from 105 to 140 days with the first frosts in the fall
between September 15 and 20. Freeze-up begins about mid-October, with EL
solid freeze period of 150 - 200 days; the freeze depth being 1.5 - 2.5 m.
2.03      Precipitation in the project area is relatively abundant, the
annual average being 500 to 600 mm in the east and 450 to 500 mm in the
north with a maximum of 880 mm and a minimum of 330 mm. Precipitation in
the June to August period accounts for 60 to 70% of the annual rainfall.
Only 10-15% of the precipitation falls during April and May when the crops
are planted. Spring droughts are not uncommon but in general the rainfall
regime is favorable for crop production. Annual evaporation averages 1100
to 1250 mm; in the summer relative humidity is 75% to 83% and in the spring
50% or more. In the winter, winds are westerly and northerly; in the summer



- 9 -
easterly and southerly. Average wind velocity is 3.5 to 4.5 m/s, with
maximum wind velocity being 20 to 40 m/s, occurring primarily in the spring.
The area enjoys a long period of sunshine with strong solar radiation.
April to September sunshine amounts to 1300 to 1500 hours. Annual solar
radiation is 110-120 kilocalories/sq cm, with 50-55 kilocalories/sq cm from
June to September. This is essentially the same as in the middle and lower
reaches of the Yangtze River Valley.
Topography, Soils and Drainage
2.04      The proposed project would be located in two areas in the pro-
vince, the Sanjiang Plain Region and the Lesser Xinganling Region. The
low-lying Sanjiang Plain was formed by alluvial deposits from the
Heilongjiang, Songhua, and Wusuli rivers. The Plain is between 50 m and
80 m above sea level and slopes from southwest to northeast. It is flanked
on the south by the Wanda mountain range which rises in altitude to between
300 and 700 meters above sea level. The plain is very flat with scattered
patches of swamp. Drainage and flooding problems are common, however,
river channel control and drainage projects have allowed development of
large areas for agriculture. The Lesser Xingan range of mountains runs from
the northwest to the southeast within the Lesser Xinganling Region. The
state farms in this area are located on the gently sloping foothills of the
mountain range and on the high plains, at altitudes varying between 120 and
650 meters above sea level. This was among the first of the northern
regions in Heilongjiang to be opened up, and there are now continuous,
adjoining farms throughout. Most cultivation is done on slight slopes,
hills, and in broad, flat valleys, interspersed with secondary forest areas.
The undeveloped areas are generally located adjacent to existing cultivated
land in small valleys. Most of the project areas in this region do not
require drainage.
2.05      There are five principal soil types in the project area:  white
clay soils, meadow soils, black soils, brown soils and swamp soils. The
white clay soils are the predominant type and cover about 49% of the project
area. A 20 cm layer of black, silty-clay soil with about 5-7% organic
matter content, overlays a white, sticky clay. These soils have poor
internal drainage, relatively low nutrient status and can be difficult to
work, but with drainage and adequate fertilization, have given good crop
yields. The meadow soils are the next most important type and account for
28% of the area. These are dark loams or clay loams. The surface layer of
black soil is from 50 to 100 cm deep, has very good physical qualities and
nutrient status and is relatively resistant to drought and waterlogging.
The black soils which cover 8% of the project area are deep loams with a
black surface layer up to 100 cm thick. These soils have excellent physical
properties, an organic matter content of 8-10%, very good nutrient status
and good internal drainage. These are the best soils in the project area.
The brown soils, which account for 4% of the area, have a black clayey,
surface layer of about 30 cm overlaying sandy, porous material. These soils



- 10 -
are easy to work, have good permeability, but are of low fertility. About
4% of the project area is under swamp soils. These are very deep, fertile
soils with shallow peat surface layers, which are highly productive whien
drained.
2.06      The combination of flat relief and poor internal drainage in the
soils makes the Sanjiang Plain highly susceptible to waterlogging and
surface ponding if excess water from the summer rains is not removed by
drainage. The areas along the rivers require flood embankments to keep the
land from being flooded during periods of high runoff. The Beian and Jiusan
Sub-Bureaus require no flood protection, but do need some surface drainage
to remove excess precipitation from the cultivated land. Steps have already
been taken to correct drainage problems where land development has taken
place. This has been done with surface drains to the rivers, improvement of
natural channels, and the construction of flood control dikes. Work to
upgrade the standards of the drainage systems continues on many state farms.
Population
2.07      Heilongjiang now has 109 state farms, covering some 6.7 million ha
of land, including 2.0 million ha under cultivation, 700,000 ha reclaimable
for cropping, 1.5 million ha suitable for forests, 500,000 ha of grassland,
and 200,000 ha of water surface. The present state farm population is 1.6
million, with a work force of 667,000 including 300,000 workers engaged in
agriculture of which 100,000 are agricultural maintenance workers. The
typical farming unit is a production brigade comprising 70-80 families with
about 135 workers and farming some 1,000 ha. On average, workers receive
incomes of Y 930 per annum from all sources, including wages and bonuses
from agriculture of Y 600, other collective income of Y 130, and the
remainder from private side activities. Total annual income per household
(4.5 persons) averages about Y 1,670 (US$960). The HGB estimates that about
15% of the total state farm labor force could be withdrawn from employment
without affecting production. Moreover some 93,000 middle school graduates,
belonging to state farm families, currently await permanent work assign-
ments. Although labor required by the project would be drawn from among
experienced farm workers, the latter would be replaced by members of this
pool of surplus labor, and no additional labor from outside the Heilongjiang
state farm system would be needed.
Infrastructure
2.08      Although most of the farms are situated in outlying border
regions, all are linked to the provincial transportation network. Railheads
are established at several farms in each sub-bureau, which serve as collec-
tion and distribution centers. Farms that are somewhat removed from the
nearest rail line have good road or river connections. Although tied to the
State's electrical power network, the farms have their own supplemental
power stations. There is a telephone, radio and television network directly



- 1] -
serving individual units.  The farms have their own enginletl14<, l
and water conservancy brigades, drainage and irrigation stations and equip-
ment.  There are more than 100 large and small farm machiner-w, rVi
available to repair and produce farm machinery and parts.  fhe irL
a wide range of social, health and technical educational services. lhe
state farms in the area run more than 700 industrial enterprises  .ith an
annual output value of about Y 650 million.
Agriculture
2.09      Most of the project area farms produce primarily grain and
legumes. Industrial crops and others (vegetables, fodder, green manure,
etc.) account for only about 9% of the cropped area. Wheat and soybean are
the major crops. In 1980, wheat covered 50% of the area, soybean 30%, and
corn, rice and miscellaneous grains 10%. Wheat accounted for 66% of total
grain, and soybean and other legumes 24%. In 1980, out of a total
Heilongjiang state farm production of 3.4 million tons of grain and legumes,
about 60% or 1.9 million tons, was sold to the State. The farms own 150,000
head of cattle, 650,000 hogs, 130,000 sheep and goats and 34,500 deer.
Annual production consists of 480,000 slaughter hogs, 13,000 slaughter
cattle, 20,000 tons of milk, 540 tons of wool, 5,500 kg of deer antler, and
1,000 tons of poultry. The total value of agricultural output in 1980 was
Y 1.2 billion of which 82% was from crops and 18% was from forestry,
stock-raising, sideline activities and fishing.
2.10      Because of the short growing season, farms in the project area can
only grow one crop of spring wheat, soybean or maize per year. Crop
rotations on the farms vary with climatic and soil conditions. In the old
established farms of the Sanjiang Plain Region, a three-crop equal acreage
system of crop rotation is often practiced. However, recently reclaimed
areas are regarded as unsuitable for maize, for which there is a limited
demand, hence in these areas wheat makes up 50%, soybean 30%, and miscel-
laneous grains, mainly maize, no more than 20%. Farms in the Lesser
Xinganling Region produce almost no maize due to the shorter frost-free
period, and devote the bulk of their land to wheat. Most farm operations
are fully mechanized. Recently cultivation techniques have tended toward
reduced tillage, to conserve moisture and, on reclaimed land, to accelerate
the decay of surface vegetation. Organic fertilizers are little used in the
project area, however measures are now being considered to increase their
role. One approach consists of planting fuel forests and augmenting local
coal production to release to agriculture the crop residues currently
consumed as household fuel; another consists of expanding the area planted
to green manure following wheat; a third is expanding livestock production
to increase manure sources. Chemical fertilizers are now applied on more
than 80% of the sown area, at an average rate of 68 kg/ha of nutrients. The
proportion of phosphorus to nitrogen is generally two to one. Fertilizer
requirements are estimated from field trials and from annual soil testing
now carried out on 25% of the total cropped area. However, efficient levels



- 12 -
and methods of application are difficult to achieve because of shortages of
appropriate machinery and of the most suitable fertilizer formulations. The
area to which herbicides are applied has greatly increased in the last few
years. Virtually all wheat is treated with herbicides, while some 80% of
the soybean area and somewhat less of the maize is also treated,
supplemented by mechanical weed control.
2.11      Crop yields for wheat currently average about 1.6 t/ha, soybean
1.3 t/ha, and maize 2.5 t/ha. The highest average yields recorded for the
Heilongjiang state farms are 2.1 t/ha for wheat, 1.4 t/ha for soybean, and
2.9 t/ha for maize. Some state farms and brigades have regularly achieved
yields exceeding 3 t/ha, 2 t/ha and 4 t/ha for wheat, soybean, and maize,
respectively. The gap between average and advanced performance suggests
considerable yield increases could be achieved with adequate drainage,
improved seeds, and proper management.
Mechanization
2.12      Agricultural machinery is widely used by the state farms in
Heilongjiang (Table 2.1).
Table 2.1: AGRICULTURAL MACHINERY USE
Cultivated
Machine type                    Quantity       area/machine
(ha)
Crawler tractors (55-75 hp)    12,530              170
Wheeled tractors (28-55 hp)       7,560            280
Combines (60-105 hp)             10,650            200
Implements                      114,800              -
Trucks (65-180 hp)                6,190            350
Trailers                         11,940            180
Fuel tankers                        330          6,490
The degree of mechanization (1.4 hp/ha) is high by Chinese standards, with
100% of the major tillage operations being carried out with tractors, ploughs
and harrows. Hand labor is used mostly for the lighter work such as
spraying, but is also employed in cultivating and harvesting crops like
maize for which local 'equipment designs are not suitable. Moreover, the
nature of the Chinese equipment is such that labor requirements for even
mechanized operations are high.



- 13 -
Table 2.2: DEGREE OF MECHANIZATION BY OPERATION
Operation                                % of area mechanized
Plowing                                          100
Harrowing                                        100
Planting                                         93
Cultivating                                       82
Harvesting                                        85
Spraying                                          50
Fertilizing                                       84
The standard power unit for all tillage operations is the 75 hp crawler
tractor, which is also used with the planting equipment, swathers, and
trailed combines. Much of the equipment in use is obsolete by modern
standards but steps are being taken to improve designs. Also, demonstration
farms using a broad selection of imported farm machinery have been operating
in the project area for the last four years
2.13      The production brigades own and operate the standard agricultural
machinery, while the state farms retain ownership of the larger construction
machines such as bulldozers and ditchers and carry out land development.
Each production brigade is responsible for routine maintenance of its
equipment, but intermediate repairs are handled at the sub-farm level and
major overhauls at the farm level. Service facilities are well-equipped,
staffed with experienced and well-trained mechanics, and quality of work is
good. There would be few problems in servicing and repair of imported
machinery, assuming training programs are conducted and spare parts
provided.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Description
3.01      The project would develop some 200,000 ha of unused land for
production of food grains and soybeans in Heilongjiang Province. By
introducing modern agricultural machinery on a large scale the project
would support the Government s program to upgrade mechanized farming
techniques throughout the province. The main features of the project
are:
(a) development of 200,000 ha of uncultivated land through drainage
and land clearing including construction of about 2,100 km of
main and branch drains, 7,800 km of lateral and sublateral



- 14 -
drains, 370 km of flood embankments, and 24 drai-   L; pi,--.,
stations;
(b)  construction of about 1,500 km of rural roads anr  320a km ;
farm roads;
(c)  construction of sub-farm and brigade headquarters including
housing for about 8,000 families, community facilities, officas,
workshops, stores and utilities;
(d)  construction of drying floors and grain stores;
(e)  procurement of agricultural machinery to permit full
mechanization of farm operations in the project area;
(f)  procurement of earthmoving equipment for drain and embankment
construction;
(g)  procurement of seed processing equipment; and
(h)  technical assistance in the fields of planning, training,
equipment maintenance, construction operations, and seed
production; and
(i)  overseas training and study tours.
Project Works
3.02      Drainage and Land Clearing.  Drains would be constructed in nearly
all of the 75 blocks of land to be developed. The basic system consists of
sublaterals at a spacing of 400 m which discharge into laterals at 1,000 m
spacing. The laterals flow into the main and branch drains which in turn
discharge into the rivers. Most of the rivers which would receive outflow
from the project areas have already been deepened, widened and provided with
flood embankments. However, about 110 km of existing embankments would be
improved and 260 km of new embankments constructed. The drains would be
designed to remove in 48 hours the runoff from a five-year storm (80 mm in
24 hours and 120 mm in 72 hours). The embankments would be designed to
contain floods with a return period of 20 years. Pumping stations would be
required for about half of the project area where gravity flow would be
prevented by high river levels in the flood season. Sluice gates would,
however, be constructed on all main outlets to allow gravity flow at low
river levels. Altogether 24 pumping stations with a combined capacity of
11,000 kw would be constructed. Pump motors at 13 of the stations would be
electric and the remainder would be diesel. Further details of the drainage
are given in Table 3.1. The terrain is flat and no land leveling would be
required. Some low spots in the fields would have to be filled in using
soil from drain excavation and covered with topsoil taken from drain and
road alignments. The natural vegetation consists of reeds and grasses and
would be burnt and plowed in.



- 15 -
Table 3.1: DRAIN DIMENSIONS
Type of drain         Spacing        Depth         Bed width       Length
-------------- (meters) -------------         (km)
Main                   4,000         2.5-3.5          4-12           700
Branch                 2,500         1.5-2.5          3-6          1,400
Lateral                1,000         1.0-1.5        1.0-1.5        3,900
Sublateral               400        0.7-1.0           0.5          3,900
3.03      Roads.  About 1,500 km of rural roads would be constructed linking
the subfarms and brigades to the state farm headquarters and the railway
system. Individual sections of road would be 20 to 30 km in length and fit
into the existing road system. They would be designed and constructed to
the Ministry of Communication's Grade IV (single lane) Standard. This is
the lowest grade road in MOC's technical design standards and is used where
traffic is less than 200 vehicles per day. Traffic on these roads will be
highly seasonal and reach a peak during the harvesting season. Road embank-
ments, generally 1 to 1.5 m high, would have a top width of 6.5 m. A 3.5 m
pavement would be provided consisting of a 20 cm crushed rock sub-base and a
10 cm surface layer of compacted gravel. Bridges would be double lane with
a width of 7 m. About 2,200 km of farm roads, about 5 m wide, would be
constructed along most of the lateral drains. They would consist of
compacted earth excavated from the drains.
3.04      Drying Floors and Grain Storage.  Heavy rains can occur during the
harvesting period and this creates a large demand for drying (para. 5.06).
Sun drying has proved to be feasible in areas adjacent to the project.
Therefore, about 500,000 sq m of drying floors would be constructed. In
general, these would be reinforced concrete about 15 cm thick and they would
be cambered to shed rainwater. A reinforced section some 20 cm thick and 4 m
wide would run down one side to carry trucks and trailers. Grain stores
would be constructed at each drying floor. These would be galvanized metal
steel frame structures with capacity to store four to five week's output
from the drying floor.
3.05      Housing and Buildings.  Housing, community buildings, offices,
stores and workshops would be built for the 18 sub-farms and 57 brigades
responsible for project hectarage (para. 4.05). In general, schools,
offices, and housing would be in two- or three-storey buildings. All public
buildings would have wood or coal-fired hot water central heating and
domestic water supply systems. Central sewage systems and central heating
for residences would be available only at the sub-farm complexes. Housing
would be grouped around a core of public facilities such as shops, health
centers, bath houses, nurseries, schools, library, and office spaces



- 16 6
surrounding a central square. North of each residential area would be a
sports field, a drying floor, grain and farm equipment storages and repair
shops. To the south would be orchards and tree nurseries and land reserved
for private plots where families would raise vegetables and other cash
crops. Windbreaks would be planted to the north and west. About 30 ha
would be used for subfarm headquarters and 15 ha for brigades. Housing and
social and commercial buildings would use about half the space, the rest
would be for production related facilities, orchards, and private plots.
Subfarms would have more space in public buildings than brigades since they
would function as centers for administration, cultural affairs and
production related services. Electricity for the new communities would be
supplied in part from power plants owned by the state farm system and in
part from the national grid. About 400 km of 6.6 kV distribution line would
be built together with seven 1000 kVA substations. Several remote brigades
would be served initially by diesel generators. The existing telephone
network would be expanded by construction of 560 km of line.
Agricultural Machinery
3.06      The basic sources of draft power in Heilongjiang at present are
55 to 75 hp crawler tractors. They are used for virtually all plowing,
harrowing and planting and also for towing combines. The tractors have a
low working speed, less than 4 km/hr, and low fuel efficiencies. The
combination of these tractors and the rather primitive implements currently
used leads to poor land preparation, seeding and cultivation. Most of the
combines presently in use are of an out-of-date design and lack special
heads for soybeans and maize. As a result, harvesting losses are
significant. In general, with their fleets of slow, small units, the farms
do not have the capacity to speed up operations when land preparation or
harvesting is delayed by weather conditions. Increasing the numbers of
machines would be only a partial solution to these problems and the
Government has therefore embarked on a long-term program of modernization in
areas where farming is heavily mechanized such as Heilongjiang. Initially,
this has to be based on imported equipment since domestic production of more
advanced designs is some years away.
3.07      An important consideration in equipment selection is the size of
the tractor. If the same machine is used for tillage, seeding and cultiva-
tion, a high tractor utilization rate can be achieved. A suitable tractor,
which would have enough power to carry out tillage operations quickly and
efficiently and yet be small enough to perform well in inter-row cultiva-
tion, would be a wheeled tractor in the range of 125-140 hp./l Imported
tractors in this power range have been in service for four years on the
Youyi State Farm and have been highly effective. A detailed study of
cropping patterns and farming operations shows that a total of 500 tractors
/1 PTO hp.



- 17 -
would be needed for the project area.  Of these, about 350 would have
four-wheel drive to provide added traction, save fuel, and reduce tire wear.
All tractors would have dual rear wheels. A total of 200 self-propelled
combines in the 150-170 hp range would be required to ensure timely
harvesting. A flexible header and a pick-up header would be provided with
each combine, and corn headers would be provided for about one-third of the
combines. Other equipment to be procured for the project would include
65 hp wheeled tractors, mainly for transportation, 120 hp self-propelled
combines, disc harrows, swathers, sprayers, trailers, and grain trucks.
An equipment list is shown in Annex 2.
Construction Machinery
3.08      The present practice is to construct drains using 75 hp crawler
tractors fitted with a bulldozer blade. This is a slow and inefficient
process because material is handled many times before it is finally moved
outside of the drain cross-section. The problem is compounded by the fact
that most of the uncultivated lands are saturated or flooded during much
of the construction season. Bulldozers are used for excavation in
Heilongjiang because very few backhoes or other types of excavator have
been produced in China. The project would provide a 62-unit fleet of 130-
140 hp backhoe excavators, 2 of which wouuld be mounted on amphibious
undercarriages.  Such equipment would be more productive and fuel efficient
than bulldozers and has several other advantages.  The side slopes of the
drain could be much steeper (1.5:1 to 2:1 depending on soil type and depth
of drain) compared to the flat slopes (usually flatter than 2.5:1) resulting
from bulldozer excavation; this would reduce excavation quantities and the
amount of land taken up by drains. It would also be possible with
amphibious excavators to construct one or two main drains in each block,
through to their outfalls; this would help to drain much of the surplus
water from the blocks before starting work on the remaining drains. Other
equipment to be procured would include self-propelled elevating scrapers to
replace bulldozers in road construction, together with compactors and motor
graders. Provision would also be made for purchasing several items of
specialized equipment, such as ditchers to be used to excavate sublaterals
(Annex 2).
Seed Processing Equipment
3.09      Eight seed processing plants would be installed at state farm seed
multiplication brigades in or near the project areas. Imported equipment
supplied to each plant would include two complete seed dryer and cleaning
lines, bagging machines and scales and a seed treatment machine. Receiving
and surge bins and seed storage bins would be purchased locally (Annex 2).
Each plant would have a total capacity of 6 tons/hr for wheat, 5 tons/hr for
soybeans and 4 tons/hr for maize, and would process enough seed over a 200
day operating season to plant about 50,000 ha. Thus, the eight plants



- 18 -
would serve the project areas plus an additional 200,000 ha.  These plants,
together with five somewhat smaller plants now under construction on other
Heilongjiang state farms, would provide improved seed processing for about
30% of the state farm land in the Province.
Technical Assistance
3.10      Training.  The Heilongjiang state farms run an extensive training
program during the winter. Since 1979, about 5,000 farm managers have
received training in farm management and agronomy, and about 70% of them are
expected to take refresher courses in the next four years.  In addition,
about 25% of the workers on each farm obtain some form of training each
year. The main emphasis is on elementary crop husbandry and machinery
operation and maintenance. In recent years courses in livestock and
agro-industry have been introduced. The project would support and
strengthen the training programs by making provision for 24 man-months of
consultant service to allow for visits by short-term external experts. The
training component of the project would also include provision for a series
of study tours for selected personnel. A group of plant breeders and
agronomists would vist Canada and the USA to study plant breeding, seed
production, processing and distribution in areas climatically similar to
Heilongjiang Province. A second group of agronomists and farming system
specialists would study production practices for wheat, maize and soybeans
in Canada and the USA, with particular emphasis on tillage methods, timing
of herbicidal applications and harvest and pest-control practices. A third
group would visit some ongoing Bank-financed agricultural projects in other
countries to study approaches to project management.
3.11      Seed Development.  In order to improve seed quality for
Heilongjiang's state farms, HGB has recently established a Seed Company and
is carrying out an overhaul of seed research, production and distribution.
The project would support this effort by providing 24 man-months of consult-
ant assistance in plant breeding and in the organization and management of
the seed production and processing system. Provision would also be made for
introduction of new varieties particularly for maize, and for training of
Chinese personnel at foreign universities and research centers.
3.12      Equipment Maintenance.  The contracts for the supply of imported
farm machinery and construction equipment would provide for training of
state farm personnel in equipment maintenance. To be effective, this would
have to be integrated into a maintenance system encompassing all farms under
the control of the HGB. Such a system already exists and standards of
equipment maintenance are good, but it would need to be expanded and
strengthened to handle a wider variety of equipment including types
unfamiliar to the state farms. About 12 man-months of consultant services
would be provided to assist the HGB to upgrade its equipment maintenance and
spare parts control system including training of personnel.



- 19 -
3.13       Management and Planning.  The project would provide six man-months
of consultant assistance to the Central and Heilongjiang General Bureaus,
and the sub-bureaus in techniques of financial planning, accounting, and
economic and financial analysis. Provision would also be made for purchase
of computers and computer software and training in their use.
3.14       Construction Operations.  Most of the excavation of drains and
construction of roads would be carried out using equipment which is new to
the state farms. The effective use of this equipment and the timely
completion of the project works would require a more systematic approach to
the planning of construction operations than is currently the practice.
About 12 man-months of consultant services would therefore be provided to
assist staff of the HGB in construction planning.
Status of Engineering
3.15       Detailed drainage studies following uniform design standards
(paras. 3.02) have been carried out by the sub-bureau engineers for all
development units, and the capacity and alignment of all main, branch and
lateral drains, the alignment of flood embankments, and the location and
capacity of drainage pumping stations have been determined. Detailed
quantity estimates for excavation and structures have been prepared for the
above elements. Sublateral drains have not yet been laid out in detail but
would follow a standard layout and design which would provide a basis for
quantity estimates. A fairly high degree of accuracy is possible in
estimating earthwork quantities for drainage works because of the very flat
terrain. The alignments of access roads have been selected and the designs
for the sub-farm and brigade headquarters have been completed. Quantity
estimates for roads and buildings are based on standard designs. Technical
specifications for farm machinery and construction equipment were finalized
in March 1983 and general conditions of contract for equipment to be
provided through ICB follow closely the document used for the University
Development Project. A complete set of bid documents for imported equipment
will be finalized by early January 1983.
Implementation Schedule
3.16       The project would be implemented over a four-year period beginning
in April 1983 (Figure 3.1). Construction of drains, roads, and buildings
would be carried out by construction units already established in each of
the sub-bureaus and state farms involved in the project (para. 4.12).  These
units would use their existing equipment to start work in 1983 and imported
equipment would be introduced in 1984. For the first year, work would be
concentrated on main and branch drains, flood embankments, and the installa-
tion of temporary pumps to reduce flooding and improved working conditions
for future years. Some sections of access road would also be built to
facilitate movement of equipment and materials. A detailed work plan for
the first year has been prepared by the HGB. About 20,000 ha of land would
be developed in early 1983 in areas with minimum drainage needs, and about



- 20 -
60,000 ha would be developed in each of the following three years. An
assurance was obtained from the Government that by September 30 of each year
a detailed work program and financing plan for the following year would be
prepared for Bank review. Procurement actions for imported and local farm
machinery would begin in early 1983 with first deliveries in late 1983.
Equipment deliveries would be completed by June 1986.
Table 3.2: COST SUMIARY
For-                    For-            Fcreign
Local  eign   Total   Local  eign   Total  exchange
--- (Y million) ---   -- (US$ million) --    (%)
Drainage works                  41.3   13.7   55.0    23.6    7.8   31.4          25
Land clearing                   16.3    3.6   19.9        9.3    2.1   11.4       18
Roads                           28.8    6.8   35.6    16.4    3.9   20.3          19
Buildings                       88.1    0.0   88.1    50.4    0.0   50.4           0
Drying floors                    4.7    1.6    6.3        2.7    0.9    3.6       25
Agricultural machinery          57.1   98.8  155.9    32.6   56.5   89.1          63
Construction machinery           1.1   19.2   20.3        0.6   11.0   11.6       95
Seed processing equipment        0.9    3.0    3.9        0.5    1.7    2.2       77
Technical assistance             0.2    2.8    3.0        0.1    1.6    1.7       94
Administration                   3.8    0.0    3.8        2.2    0.0    2.2        0
Base Cost                242.3  149.5  391.8   138.4   85.5  223.9          38
Physical contingency            22.2    3.9   26.1    12.7    2.2   14.9          15
Expected price increases        36.4   19.4   55.8    20.8   11.1   31.9          35
Total                    300.9  172.8  473.7   171.9   98.8  270.7          36
Front-end Fee                    0.0    0.5    0.5        0.0    0.3    0.3    100
Total Project Cost /a  300.9  173.3  474.2   171.9   99.1  271.0            37
/a  Import duties are normally levied by the Government on imported equip-
ment and would amount to about Y 40 million.  Since this is not a cost
to the Government it is excluded from the above cost summary.
Cost Estimates
3.17       The total project cost in end-1982 prices is US$271 million
with a foreign exchange component of US$99.5 million or 37% of the total
cost. Unit prices for civil works and buildings are based on similar
works recently completed in the vicinity of the project area. The prices
were applied to quantity estimates derived as explained in para. 3.15.
Prices for local equipment are based on data provided to the HGB by local
suppliers. For imported equipment, costs are based on list prices
obtained from foreign manufacturers. Physical contingencies of 15% have
been applied to civil works and 10% to buildings. Expected price



- 21 -
increases amount to 13% of the base cost plus physical contingencies and
are based on annual escalation rates for both foreign and local components
(excluding local machinery) of 8% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7% in 1985, and
6% in 1986. The Government plans to hold prices for farm machinery at
present levels for the next two or three years. Details of the project
costs are given in Annex 2 and a cost summary is shown in Table 3.2.
Financing
3.18       Bank Group financing of US$80.3 million would consist of an IDA
Credit of SDR 41.3 million (US$45 million) and a Bank Loan of US$35.3 million
(including a front-end fee of $0.3 million), and would cover 30% of project
costs. The balance of US$191 million, or Y 334 million, would be provided by
a Central Government grant of Y 130 million, a contribution of Y 86 million
from the HGB and Y 118 million from the state farms participating in the
project. These local funds would be pooled in a single account and would not
be earmarked for an; specific pro'ect component. The procecds of the
loan/credit would be devoted to equipment procured almost entirely through
international competitive bidding (generally equipment of advanced design not
commonly manufactured in China) and the services of foreign consultants.
Procurement
3.19       International competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines would be the procedure followed in the procurement of almost
all the relatively sophisticated equipment to be financed under the loan and
credit, including: agricultural machinery (total to be financed US$63 mil-
lion), construction equipment (US$12 million) and seed processing equipment
(US$2 million). Items of equipment estimated to cost individually not more
than $100,000 and aggregating not more than $2.5 million would be procured on
the basis of three price quotations under procedures satisfactory to the Bank
and Association. Domestic manufacturers would be awarded a preference of 15%
or the customs duty, whichever is lower, in bid evaluation. It is expected
that the agricultural equipment would be procured in four main contracts, two
covering the self-propelled combines and two the tractors and remaining
equipment. Other equipment, such as small tractors and combines, vehicles and
primary tillage implements (US$38 million), together with construction
materials used in civil works would be procured under local procedures which
have been reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank. Civil works (US$74 mil-
lion), buildings (US$59 million), and drying floors (US$4 million) would be
constructed by units already established in the sub-bureaus and state farms.
Disbursements
3.20       Disbursements for the list of equipment to be procured through ICB
would be at a rate of 100% of the foreign exchange cost of imported equip-
ment or 100% of ex-factory bid price of local equipment; and 100% of total
costs for consultant services and overseas training and study tours. No
disbursement would be made for civil works, buildings or materials. The loan/
credit would be allocated as follows: equipment US$74.7 million; technical
assistance and overseas training and study tours US$2 million; unallocated
US$3.3 million; and front-end fee US$0.3 million. It is estimated that
disbursements would be completed by June 1987. Estimated schedules of
expenditures and disbursements are given in Annex 2.



- 22 -
Accounts and Audits
3.21      The HGB currently maintains a detailed set of financial accounts
from the farm level on up covering capital construction and production.
These accounts are paralleled by accounts maintained within the banking
system, and there are mandatory cross-checks at each admini-strative le!vel
between the two sets of accounts. Thorough audits are conducted in the
event that significant discrepancies are detected. The HGB would maintain
a separate project account in sufficient detail to record expenditures; on
civil works and buildings, and equipment procurement. An assurance would be
obtained that the HGB would maintain such accounts and that they would be
audited annually by independent auditors.  Pending the establishment  mnd
staffing of a separate audit authority, such an audit would be carried out
by the Ministry of Finance. Audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the close of each financial year.
Environmental Effects
3.22      The swamp lands between the Heilongjiang and the Wusuli rivers are
rich in wild life. While reclamation of some swamp lands would cause a
reduction in the size of the habitat, the Chinese authorities have set: aside
large areas to remain undeveloped and left in their natural condition. Five
major wildlife reserves encompassing 230,000 ha have been established within
and adjacent to the Sanjiang Plain. About 77,000 ha of the total reserve are
part of the marshland ecosystem of the Plain. Also, because of the abund-
ance of water areas that would remain at full project development, and the
importance of small grains in the cropping system, fish and waterfowl
disturbance by the project would be low. Areas developed for agriculture
many years ago, in the general area of the proposed project, have proved to
be environmentally stable. The thick top soils with a high organic content
are resistant to wind erosion, and the very flat slopes do not present: any
erosion problems from rainfall. Environmental protection officials at: both
the provincial and national levels have reviewed and approved the project
proposal. A program of environmental monitoring would be included in the
project's work plan for monitoring and evaluation (para. 4.13).
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General Bureau of State Farms and Land Reclamation
4.01      Central General Bureau.  As one of four general bureaus in the
Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fishery (MAAF), the others
being Animal Husbandry, Fishery, and Commune Enterprises, the Central
General Bureau of State Farms and Land Reclamation (CGB) has overall
responsibility for policy determination, planning and administration of the
state farms (Figure 4.1). Some activities in the spheres of planning,
policy research, reporting, research and education have been transferred to
separate offices within MAAF, although the extent of such transfers remains
ambiguous. In the proposed project, the CGB's Planning Office would
exercise an oversight function and its Foreign Affairs Office would retain
primary responsibility for liaison with the Bank. The organization of the
CGB is shown in Figure 4.2.



- 23 -
4.02       The CGB has five subsidiary organizational levels:  provincial,
sub-provincial, farm, sub-farm and brigade. In Heilongjiang Province, the
state farm organization consists of a Provincial General Bureau, 9 sub-
bureaus and 109 farms covering about 2 million ha under cultivation. The
Sanjiang Plain Region has 4 sub-bureaus and 52 farms with 1.25 million ha
under cultivation (64% of the total); the Lesser Xinganling Region has
2 sub-bureaus, 28 farms and 485,000 ha under cultivation (25%); and the
Songnen Plain Region, which is not included in the project, has 3 sub-
bureaus, 23 farms and 213,000 ha under cultivation (11%). Within the
larger farms, sub-farms exist as either free-standing production units or as
management links between the brigades and the farm.
4.03       Heilongjiang General Bureau.  The project would be implemented by
the Heilongjiang General Bureau (HGB), which is technically a part of the
Provincial Government under the authority of its Standing Committee, but is
also responsible to the CGB (Figure 4.3). In principle, allocation of
personnel, production quotas and sales and working capital are determined by
the Provincial Government, while the CGB is responsible for administration
of state farms, investment, material supply and production planning. Also,
in principle, profits of state farms belong to the Provincial Government,
but, in practice the HGB has considerable independence in their use.
Although the total amounts of investment funds are determined by the Central
or Provincial Governments, disposition is the responsibility of the HGB.
Disposition of these funds must be reported to the CGB or the Provincial
Government but does not require their approval. Under the leadership of a
director and six deputy-directors, the HGB maintains divisions and offices
responsible for overall leadership of the diverse activities conducted on
state farms, and direct administration of major institutions and enterprises
serving the entire system. The HGB's administrative role extends to such
governmental functions as provision of health, education, research, and
cultural services.
4.04       Sub-Bureaus.  Delivery of administrative and agricultural support
services is largely concentrated at the sub-bureau level. Sub-bureau
headquarters, situated on railheads, are on the scale of market towns and
provide an extensive infrastructure in support of a group of subordinate
farms. The sub-bureau directors and their staff of engineers, agricultural-
ists and other technical and management specialists, exercise general super-
vision over farm management and investment planning and execution by the
farms, with which they are in day-to-day communication.
4.05       Farms.  Farms in the project area are organized in three tiers,
the state farm, the sub-farm and the brigade (a typical farm organization
is shown in Figure 4.4). Farms over 5,000 ha in area are usually divided
into sub-farms, with much of the farm management conducted at the lower
level. Farms smaller than 5,000 ha are not subdivided into sub-farms; the
brigades answer directly to the farm. Alternatively, on a few farms there
are no brigades and the sub-farms are the lowest level of management unit.
Farms and their sub-units are run by professional managers, supported by a
specialized staff, and advised by an elected workers' council. The basic
unit of management is the brigade, comprising 70-80 families responsible for



- 24 -
a cultivated area averaging some 1,000 ha, about 7.3 ha per farm worker, but
on land developed by the project it would average 4,000 ha, with over half
the area to be worked by sub-farms averaging some 10,000 ha in size and
having no brigade sub-units. The larger production unit size is intended to
take advantage of economies of scale by saving investment in buildings and
managerial personnel, while permitting an upgrading of quality standards in
these aspects.
Financial Management
4.06       Historically, financial management of the state farms has been
highly centralized, with the Government receiving all profits, absorbing
losses, and making most financial decisions. However, beginning in 1979 a
"Work Responsibility" program was implemented under which a high degree of
financial autonomy was conferred on subordinate organizational units. This
program has been fully implemented in Heilongjiang, where the HGB retains
all of its profits, and the Central Government does not automatically absorb
its losses. However, the Central Government continues to provide four types
of funding for state farms: the Basic Construction Fund for major invest-
ments; the Working Capital Fund, a one-time grant of about Y 400/ha for
newly developed land; the Small-Scale Farmland Capital Construction Fund for
afforestation, small water conservancy projects and road construction; and
the Administration Fund for schools, research institutes and other organiza-
tions (Table 4.1). The State Farms Basic Construction Fund is administered
by the CGB and the other Funds by the Provincial Bureau of Finance. In the
absence of major land development projects, allocations from these funds to
Heilongjiang state farms would total about Y 160 million annually.
Table 4.1:  RECEIPT OF GOVERNMENT FUNDS BY THE STATE FARMS, 1980
Central          Share of
General         Heilongjiang
Bureau         General Bureau
------- (Y million) --------
Basic Construction Fund                              615               149
Working Capital Fund                                  134                30
Small-scale Capital Construction Fund                206                60
Administrative Fund                                    61               20
Other /a                                             642                 0
Total                                         1,658               259
/a Of which Y 420 million to compensate state farms for losses; Y 179
million to subsidize grain and edible oil consumption of workers aLnd
staff; Y 43 million for other purposes.



4.07      Prior to 1979, the state farms had continuously run at a loss,
with about Y200 million of the annual losses attributable to various
quasi-governmental social expenditures and to the support by state farms of
large numbers of unemployed youth. The price reforms of 1979 restored a
measure of profitability and by 1980, annual after-tax profits of the state
farms had reached Y 659 million, of which 55% was attributable to the HGB
(Table 4.2). However, crop damage in 1981 due to flooding dealt a
Table 4.2: PROFITS AND (LOSSES) OF THE STATE FARMS
Year                                      Total        Heilongjiang
- (Y million) ------
1975                                       (379)            (98)
1976                                       (468)           (217)
1977                                       (425)           (253)
1978                                        (93)            (17)
1979                                        397             101
1980                                        659             361
1981                                        192            (346)
temporary setback to the Heilongjiang state farms. While the Central
Government received no share of profits, in 1980, a normal crop year, it
collected about Y 109 million of agricultural taxes, and Y 392 million of
other taxes, primarily commercial and industrial, from the state farms.   Of
the total taxes paid by state farms, Y 89 million (18%) was from Heilongjiang,
of which Y 48 million was from the agricultural tax and Y 41 million from
other taxes. One-third of the profits which remain for Heilongjiang state
farms are turned over to the HGB, 10-20% goes to the sub-bureaus, and the
remainder is kept by the state farms and their sub-units. Ultimate disposi-
tion of retained funds must be reported to and approved by the HGB in detail.
Use of profits is governed by the rule that 60% should go to productive
investment, 10-20% to a reserve fund, and 10-20% be distributed as bonuses
(limited to a maximum of one-sixth of the total wage bill) or otherwise used
for worker and staff benefits. Disposition of profits in 1980 is shown in
Table 4.3.
4.08      Since the 1979 management reforms, a growing proportion of financ-
ing for basic construction has come from retained profits. This trend is
expected to continue in the future, although the severe and exceptional floods
in 1981 forced Heilongjiang state farms to turn to bank lending as a tempo-
rary source of working capital. Special disaster relief of Y 18 million was
made available to the HGB by the Central Government and the Province in 1981
and 1982 to help reduce this burden.



- 26 -
Table 4.3: DISPOSITION OF PROFITS IN 198U
All state          Hei JL    a ang
Item                                 farms            state farms
---------- (Y million)
Basic construction                    350                    223
Reserves                               91                     67
Bonuses                               199                     71
Loan repayment                          19                     0
Total                               659                    361
4.09      Financing for the proposed project would not place an inordinate
burden on the HGB or its subordinate farms.  State farm contributions would
be relatively small in the first two years of the project, allowing time for
repayment of debt stemming from the 1981 floods. At least one half of total
farm contributions could be financed from profits arising from the project
before 1986. Contributions from HGB funds can draw on reserves totaling over
Y 105 million, normal annual receipts from state farms of Y 30 million, and
annual receipts from the Central Government for all investment purposes of
Y 110 million.
Project Management and Execution
4.10      The organization for implementing the project would be based on
the existing structure of the individual farms and their new decentralized
relation to the Heilongjiang and Central General Bureaus. Project staff'
would be drawn from existing sub-bureaus and offices within this system. A
Project Coordinator at the Deputy Director General level in the CGB would be
responsible for overall direction of the project, and have primary
responsibility for liaison with the Bank Group and coordination with other
Ministries. The Project Coordinator and his staff would monitor annual
budgets, arrange for procurement of equipment required by the project,
prepare applications for Bank disbursements, and exercise oversight on all
aspects of project execution. The China National Technical Import
Corporation of the Ministry of Foreign Trade would assist the CGB in
procurement by handling bid invitation, bid evaluation, and contract award.
4.11      Primary responsibility for design, procurement and construction
supervision would rest with the HGB, which was previously responsible for
project preparation. Project headquarters would be located in Jiamusi,
where a Foreign Investment Management Office (FIMO) in the HGB has been
established to manage this and other externally-financed projects. The FIMO



- 27 -
is comprised of a General Administrative Office and four sections: (a)
construction, (b) technical, (c) financial and procurement, and (d) monitor-
ing and evaluation. It would be responsible for scheduling the project-
related work of the technical, financial and administrative offices and
bureaus involved in the project. The FIMO would also prepare annual
budgets, maintain project accounts, monitor and report on project progress
and impact, assure proper operation and maintenance of project machinery and
equipment, and organize training and technical assistance. The Manager of
the FIMO reports to the Director General of the HGB, who has overall
responsibility for state farm operations in the Province. The office is
staffed by 13 specialists, including three drainage engineers, three
machinery specialists, one building construction specialist, one agronomist,
one planning specialist, two statisticians and two accountants. An assurance
would be obtained that the FIMO would be maintained during project implemen-
tation and be adequately staffed with experienced and qualified personnel.
4.12      Specialized construction teams responsible to HGB are located in
each sub-bureau. The teams in sub-bureaus where most of the work would be
undertaken (Jiansanjiang, Hongxinglong and Mudanjiang) would be equipped with
machinery provided by the project. Together with a special bridge construc-
tion team, they would be responsible for major works such as embankments,
main and branch drains, pumping stations, rural roads, and bridges. Build-
ings and minor works, such as laterals, sublaterals, and farm roads would be
built by brigades in each participating state farm. Construction of major
works would be supervised by HGB and sub-bureau engineers, who would also
review periodically the work of engineers of the farms in supervising build-
ings and construction of minor works. If, during construction, minor works
and buildings are found not up to agreed technical standards or funds are
used for purposes not agreed in an approved technical farm plan, the 1GB
would suspend disbursement to that farm until the problem was corrected.
Maintenance of drains, pumping stations and roads would be the responsibility
of the state farms, supervised by the sub-bureaus and HGB.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.13      This would be performed by staff of the FIMO (para. 4.11), assisted
as necessary by economists from the Economic Research UJnit of the CGB.
Production and income statistics and data on the physical and financial
progress of the project would be collected from state farms on a regular
basis, along with information derived from the project accounts. Special
studies would be carried out to evaluate the efficiency of imported machinery
and equipment in comparison with locally produced equipment in land
reclamation and farming; and to monitor effects of the project on the environ-
ment. The FIMO would also be responsible for preparing half-yearly progress
reports to be submitted to the Bank within one month of the end of each half-
year.
Agricultural Support Services
4.14      Agricultural Research.  The HGB maintains an extensive and
reasonably well equipped research network consisting of the Heilongjiang
Farming and Land Reclamation Research Institute at Jiamusi, seven



- 28 -
sub-institutes, one at each sub-bureau, and farm level research stations.
At the bureau and sub-bureau levels, research staff includes 675 technical
personnel with three or more years of post-secondary school training and
1,000 technicians with secondary school training. The Researcrh Institute
engages in plant breeding and varietal testing, machinery trials of foreign
eauipment, soil testing and collection of domestic and foreign publication
on agricultural techniques. The sub-institutes have equally broad functions,
but in addition specialize in particular crops or subjects. For example,
Hongxinglong Sub-bureau Research Institute is primarily responsible for maize
breeding work.  Research stations at the farm level emphasize the practical
aspects of cultivation, seed testing, and chemical fertilizer experiments.
The Research Institute also maintains close professional ties with the
Heilongjiang Provincial Academy of Agricultural Sciences at Harbin. Most
improved wheat and soy varieties planted on state farms derive from the
Academy's Keshan County Research Station. In addition, the HGB maintains an
Economic Research Institute and a Design and Planning Research Institute,
which support the work of planning offices at each level of the system.
4.15      Technical Staffing and Education.  Throughout the HGB system,
there are about 35,000 technical personnel, of whom 6,300 have the equiva-
lent of college-level training, and 16,000 have secondary or technical
school level training. To maintain and upgrade the number and quality of
technical and managerial staff, the HGB maintains an extensive educational
and training system, including one university, eight post-secondary tech-
nical schools, and 275 secondary schools, of which 39 are technical schools.
Secondary schools are organized at the farm level. Technical secondary
schools offer one year of training for ordinary secondary school graduates
or three years for non-graduates, culminating in an examination which
qualifies graduates as technical workers. Post-secondary technical schools
offer more advanced training leading to technician positions in such
specialities as land reclamation, economics, agricultural techniques, public
health, teacher training, and agricultural machinery. The August First
Farming and Land Reclamation College in Mishan County, with nationwide
selection of students, trains engineers, accountants, economists, agrono-
mists and animal husbandry specialists. The HGB maintains a Cadre Training
School at Harbin, providing one-to-two month short training courses for farm
and sub-farm chairmen. Each sub-bureau also maintains a cadre training
school, and each farm runs short training courses in specialized subjects to
upgrade their own personnel. Aside from the training system within the HGB,
higher level technical staff are commonly drawn from agricultural colleges
outside the province.
4.16      Seed.  Provision of improved seed to each production unit is the
function of the HGB's Seed Company, a recently organized unit which is just
beginning to fulfill its responsibilities. The Company maintains offices at
the bureau, sub-bureau and farm levels. Breeder seed is imported from
outside, notably from Keshan county, or obtained from the Breeding Research
Group of the Research Institute, and tested, multiplied and distributed under
Seed Company management. Each state farm has an experiment station and/or a
pure strain farm, normally occupying 1% of total farm area, which maintains



- 29 -
self-crossing parent stock for maize and pure strains of other crops.
Replication brigades multiply stock seed which is obtained once every four
years from the pure strain farm.  Production brigades obtain all seed from
the replication brigades. Seed Company personnel provide technical direction
and inspect and grade seeds. As this system is still under development and
recently introduced improved seed varieties are still in the multiplication
process, the quality of production seed falls short of the desired standard.
Moreover, seed production operations are not well equipped. The project
would provide equipment to strengthen seed processing operations, including
drying, seed cleaning and other processing equipment. Also, technical
assistance would be made available to assist in upgrading the breeding,
replication and distribution system.
4.17      Fertilizer.  Chemical fertilizer use has grown rapidly since
1979, and currently averages about 23 kg/ha nitrogen and 36 kg/ha phosphate.
Experimental results for the project area indicate that marginal response
rates to applications of chemical fertilizers are high for at least maize and
soybeans. Recommended application levels to be applied on project land would
exceed 100 kg/ha of total nutrient, with a somewhat greater proportion of
nitrogen than presently applied. Provision of fertilizer and other inputs to
the teams would be the responsibility of the Material Supply Bureau of the
HGB, suboffices of which are established at each state farm. In the past the
HGB has had priority in the supply of fertilizer, and no problem is expected
in meeting future project requirements, but the HGB is discussing with the
Government ways to increase the availability of more suitable formulations
than presently used.
4.18      Agrochemicals.  Pesticides are readily available in the project
area through the Material Supply Bureau. Domestic production would be
sufficient to meet project requirements. A variety of pre- and post-
emergence herbicides are used in the project area, several of which are
imported. The HGB is aware of the potential environmental hazards from the
use of agricultural chemicals, including fertilizers, and seeks to minimize
the posible damage through careful selection of chemicals and a program of
periodic monitoring of soils and water.
4.19      Equipment Maintenance.  The Material Supply Bureau of the HGB is
generallly responsible for importing materials and parts from outside the
project area and distributing them in accordance with orders received from
the farms annually. In addition, the Agricultural Machinery Company of the
Ministry of Agricultural Machinery and the Metal Products Company of the
Ministry of Commerce maintain county outlets which are a local source of
common materials and parts. Each state farm and each sub-bureau maintains a
farm machinery repair shop which performs complete overhauls of tractors and
other powered machinery at scheduled intervals, produces nonprecision parts,
and can produce many types of implements. Present capacity, including
personnel and machine tools, greatly exceeds requirements, and with some
upgrading of diagnostic and repair equipment and added training in repair
and maintenance of foreign machinery, these workshops would adequately
service farm and construction machinery imported for the project. The



- 30 -
project would provide technical assistance and train technicians in the
repair and maintenance of imported machinery, and upgrade the spare parts
inventory maintenance and distribution system.
Consulting Services
4.20      The HGB would employ consultants to assist in (a) the staff train-
ing program, (b) development of the seed system, (c) maintenance of the
equipment, (d) management and planning, and (d) construction operations
Consultant assignments would be mostly of a short-term nature and would
begin in the second half of 1983 and extend over three years. Total esti-
mated consultant input is 78 man-months. The estimated overall manr-month
cost for specialists would be about US$13,000 inclusive of salaries,
overhead, overseas allowance, travel, and living expenses while in China.
Assurance would be obtained that all consultants engaged under the project
would be employed in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on Consultant:s.
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
Cropping Patterns
5.01      On lands adjoining the project areas, wheat occupies nearly 60% of
the area, soybeans just over 30% and maize around 10%. Wheat is planted in
mid-April and harvested in early August. Soybeans and maize are sown in May
and harvested in late September or early October. The most common three-year
rotation is wheat/wheat/soybean. A wheat/soybean/maize rotation is also
practiced but to a limited extent. In the project areas, after they have
been developed for cultivation, little or no maize would be planted for the
first two or three years because of difficulties in establishing a suitable
seed bed. Therefore, most of the farms would initially follow a wheat/
wheat/soybean rotation. In surrounding areas, maize is not a financialLy
attractive crop at present yield levels. As seed quality improves due to
the project's seed component, and as cultural practices improve, maize would
become more profitable. At full development of the project's 200,000 ha,
the area in a typical year under each crop is expected to be: wheat,
100,000 ha (50%); soybean 75,000 ha (37.5%); and maize 25,000 ha (12.5%).
Farming Practices
5.02      The current practice on most state farms is to carry out post--
harvest moldboard plowing followed by disc harrowing in the spring prior to
planting. Recently, good results have been achieved in areas where post-
harvest plowing has been eliminated for soybeans and maize. This reduction
in tillage helps to promote decomposition of crop residues, conserve soil
moisture, reduce compaction, and lower operating costs. Wheat would stLll
be followed by post-harvest plowing because with the earlier harvest, weeds



- 31 -
would otherwise have time to grow and form seeds. In the spring, tillage of
the three crops would be performed by trailed tandem disc harrows.  Another
innovation recently introduced on a small scale is subsoiling which has
shown good results on heavy clays. On the project lands, the timing and
sequence of farming operations would follow existing practices except for
the reduced tillage for maize and soybeans mentioned above and the selective
use of subsoiling. However, with the more advanced equipment there would be
a qualitative improvement in operations and, with faster and more powerful
tractors and combines, tighter schedules would be feasible (Figure 5.1).
5.03      Wheat would be sown at a 255 kg/ha seeding rate by combination
seed/fertilizer drills with press wheels. Soybeans, 90 kg/ha, and maize,
25 kg/ha, would be planted by twelve-row precision planters with fertilizer
hoppers. Row spacing would be 15 cm for wheat, 50 cm for soybeans and 66 cm
for maize. The improved planting equipment and techniques would lead to
even planting depths, correct fertilizer placement and reduced seeding
rates. Weed control would be through a combination of herbicides and
inter-row cultivation. Pre-emergence herbicides would be applied to soybean
land prior to planting and post-emergence herbicides would be applied on
both soybean and maize fields. Cultivation with rotary hoes would be
carried out just after crop emergence. Follow-up cultivations (1-3)
would be performed as needed in conjunction with top dressing fertilizer
applications. Fertilizer use on existing farms is rather low and on the
project lands, it would be raised by about 150%. Nutrient applications per
ha would be: wheat, N 50 kg and P 70 kg; soybean, N 35 kg and P 70 kg;
maize, N 110 kg and P 60 kg.
5.04      All of the grain harvest would be handled using self-propelled
combines. Because the wheat harvest, between July 20 and August 15,
coincides with one of the wettest periods of the year the initial harvesting
would be handled with trailed swathers when the grain moisture content would
be approximately 30%. The cut wheat would be left to dry in a windrow until
the moisture content fell to 20%. To assist rapid drying a maximum swath
width of 4 to 5 m would be used. Direct combining of wheat would start
about August 1-5 when the grain moisture content in the standing crop
reaches about 20%. Thus the combines would be used with pick-up attachments
to handle the swathed wheat and standard cutter-bar heads for the standing
crop. Soybean would be harvested in September using combines fitted with a
special floating head which follows the contour of the ground with a clear-
ance of 3-4 cm without bulldozing, thus minimizing field losses by getting
below the majority of the pods. Maize would be harvested immediately after
the soybean crop using the same combine fitted with an eight-row cornhead.
For all crops a straw chopper would be fitted to the rear of the combine
giving even distribution of straw and stems back to the field.
Yields and Production
5.05      Yields at full development on the project lands are expected to be
2.1 ton/ha for wheat, 1.6 ton/ha for soybean, and 3.9 ton/ha for maize.



- 32 -
Average yields on Heilongjiang's state farms are presently 1.6 ton/ha for
wheat, 1.3 ton/ha for soybean, and 2.5 ton/ha for maize, however, some
sub-farms and brigades have consistently attained yields above the estimated
full development yields. Total production at full development would be
210,000 tons of wheat, 120,000 tons of soybean, and 110,000 tons of maize.
Drying, Storage and Processing
5.06      The increased production of grains and legumes on project farms
would necessitate increased grain drying and storage capacity. The project
would provide the needed facilities. For each of the 75 brigades and
subfarms responsible for the newly developed land, about 0.75 ha of concrete
drying floor and steel bin storage capacity for about 3,500 tons of gra-in
would be built. The drying floors and about half of the grain storage would
be located at the individual brigade or subfarm, usually no more than 4-5 km
from the farthest fields cropped by the unit. The remaining storage capa-
city would be installed at major collection points: state farm headquarters
with rail access, generally within 30-40 km of the production units. The
new drying floors would give adequate space for sun-drying of all the grain
produced on project land. The storage facilities provided would permit
storage of about 25% of the total crop at the production unit level and an
additional 25% at the collection/shipping point, thereby allowing smooth
flows of the wheat and soybean, most of which would be exported from the
project area, to the granaries and processing mills near final markets.
Existing facilities for storage and processing at final markets and for
processing grains retained for local, project area, consumption are adequate
to meet projected requirements. In addition to facilitating the flow of
commodities to final markets, the new storage capacity would provide
interseasonal storage of maize, most of which would be retained for use as
livestock feed by the specialized livestock brigades on project area farms.
Transport of grain from the production units to the nearest rail shipping
points would be by trucks to be purchased by the project. Shipment to final
markets would be by rail.
Subsidiary Production
5.07      Of the total gross value of production on project area state farms,
currently about 6% is attributable to forestry, stock-raising, sideline
industries and fishing, and 36% is industrial income (including processing,
repair shops, etc.). In addition, substantial private income is generated
through raising vegetables on private plots and hunting and gathering
activities. With the project, the new or expanded brigades and sub-farms
established on reclaimed land would add to production from these sources at
about the same rates as present farms. However, as these activities would
require added investments of unknown magnitude, their revenues have been
excluded from estimates of economic benefit.



- 33 -
VI. MARKETS, PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY
Market Prospects
6.01      ChinaTs production of the crops grown in the project area is
insufficient to meet domestic consumption requirements and imports of these
crops have grown in recent years. Net imports of grain, mainly wheat, were
estimated at 12.9 million tons and net imports of soybeans at about
400,000 tons in 1981. Imports of these crops, expected to continue at about
the same levels throughout the 1980s, have contributed to the Government's
efforts to increase supplies of basic foodstuffs in the cities and ease
procurement pressures in the rural areas. Government domestic grain procure-
ment rose only about 4 million tons from 1977 to 1980, despite a 35 million
ton increase in production. However, in the future, domestic procurements
are expected to rise at a more rapid rate to meet the growing requirements
of the large urban population and regions specializing in cash crops. The
project area in Heilongjiang is one of the Government-designated Grain Base
Regions that are expected to make major contributions to increased govern-
ment procurements of grain and legumes. The incremental output from the
project, 440,000 tons of grains and soybean at full development would be
easily absorbed by the market, since it represents only about 3% of the
imports required to meet domestic demands.
Prices
6.02      The state has a near monopoly on crop procurement, and determines
all procurement prices and production quotas. Procurement prices had
remained at about the same level for more than a decade until grain prices
were iucreascd by 26% in 1979 and soybean prices by 50% in September 1981.
Quota prices apply to the annual marketed surplus responsibility of each
brigade, which is specified in the project area as 0.45 t/ha of land
allocated to grain production. This quota level is not expected to change
in the foreseeable future. Above-quota prices, which are 50% higher, apply
to sales exceeding the quota. Soybean are not subject to quotas, but
receive a reduced price for production designated as above-plan (80% of
project soybean acreage).
6.03      A summary of the farmgate prices for 1982, 1985 and 1990 is shown
in Table 6.1, and details are given in Annex 3. The financial farmgate
prices for wheat and maize are weighted averages of quota and above-quota
prices, and for soybean, of prices for planned and above-plan production.
Newly developed land is exempt from quota for three years, therefore
financial prices of grain for 1983-85 would be above-quota prices. In the
past, crop procurement prices have been adjusted to reflect rising costs of
production only at 5 to 10 year intervals. In the financial analysis it is
assumed that all input and output prices, expressed in constant 1982 values,
will remain unchanged from end-1982 levels. This assumption reflects the
Governments commitment to maintain agricultural production incentives while
avoiding undue inflationary pressure on urban wage or food subsidy levels.
For the economic analysis of the project, farm input and output values are
based on Bank Group commodity price forecasts, adjusted for international
and domestic transport costs and expressed in end-1982 constant prices.



- 34 -
Table 6.1: CROP AND INPUT FARMGATE PRICES
(constant end-1982 values)
1982           1985           1990
- ----------------(Y/ton)----------- ----
Wheat
Financial                    501             501            465
Economic                     397             411            428
Soybean
Financial                    586             586            586
Economic                     554             657            747
Maize
Financial                    300             300            284
Economic                     285             330            341
Urea
Financial                   930              930            930
Economic                     448             473            513
Triple superphosphate
Financial                    480             480           480
Economic                     405             441            480
Diesel Fuel
Financial                    460             460            460
Economic                     604             604            695
Farm Incomes
6.04      The traditional concept of farm income derived from an indiviLdu-
ally operated plot is not applicable in the project area, where the land is
owned by the state and managed by state farms employing wage labor. The
typical basic production unit in the project area would be a production
brigade or.sub-farm with about 300 workers and staff farming about 4,000 ha
of land. This has been taken as the scale for a notional farm budget
analysis (Annex 3). At full development the typical 4,000 ha unit would
have an annual before-tax income of about Y 1.3 million net of all
production costs including labor. Net after-tax income would be Y 1.2 mil-
lion, of which about Y 0.7-0.8 million would go to the HGB as the unit"s
contribution to the HGB-administered pool of investment funds and to debt
service on the Bank loan. After completion of loan repayment in 2000, the



- 35 -
payment to the HGB would fall to Y 0.5 million annually, leaving Y 0.7 mil-
lion for use by the production unit and its parent state farm.  Based on the
budgets for a typical unit, estimated after-tax income annually generated by
the project and accruing to the participating state farms and the HGB would
be Y 59 million (US$34 million).
6.05      The staff and workers on a typical 4,000 ha production unit would
be drawn from about 160 families, with an average of 4.5 family members and
1.9 persons fully employed. The annual incomes of these families would
average Y 2,175; Y 1,175 from wages and bonuses for farm and sideline activity
work, Y 350 from private plots and Y 650 in housing and other subsidies
provided by the farm. Thus, per capita incomes would be about Y 485
(US$275), 31% more than the average of Y 370 (US$210) on farming units now
operating in the project area.
Cost Recovery
6.06      Cost recovery for the project would have two elements.  Farms
would pay annual agricultural taxes of Y 8.4 million on project lands at
full development and would make payments to the Central Government, through
the HGB, to cover debt service on the Loan/Credit, averaging Y 8 million
annually over 30 years at the Y 2.8/$ internal settlement rate. These direct
charges would represent 44% of project rents at full development. The
Central Government would contribute Y 130 million of project expenditures,
of which Y 55 million would be attributable to the provision of housing,
schools, and clinics and Y 85 million to productive investment. Using a
discount rate of 12%, the cost recovery index for total Central Government
investment in the project plus the Loan/Credit would be 70%, and the rent
recovery index would be 41% (Table 6.2). In addition, the Government would
indirectly benefit from low-cost quota procurement of at least 43,000 tons
of grain annually, worth Y 7.5 million (calculated as the difference between
quota and above-quota prices). An analysis was made to assess the extent to
which the proceeds of the project would meet the HGB's debt repayment
obligation (Annex 3). This showed a positive net flow except in the first
three years. Factors contributing to this initial cash deficit include
taxes, and the front-end fee and commitment charges on the Loan/Credit.
However, for 1983-86, the HGB and farms participating in the project have
budgeted Y 135 million for project investment from reserves and retained
earnings which more than covers the projected deficit.



- 36 -
Table 6.2: RENT AND COST RECOVERY
4,000 ha pro-
duction unit /a   Total project
(Y '000)           (Y million)
At Full Project Development
Gross value of product                      3,931
Less:  production costs /b                2,471
Equals:  Net farm income /c               1,460
Less: Imputed capital recovery on           353
HGB/Farm financed works /d
Equals: Project rent                      1,107
Project charges
Agricultural taxes                          168
Debt service                                324
Subtotal                              492
Project charges as % of project rent            44
During Project's Life /e
Project rent                                                     295
Project charges                                                  120
Rent recovery index (%)                                           41
Project costs /f                                                 171
Cost recovery index (%)                                           70
/a Estimates for a representative farming unit at full development derived
from Annex 3 with adjustments as noted below; in constant 1982 value.
/b Not including bonuses or transfer payments (such as price subsidies
or housing), which may be viewed as a sharing of project rents with the
labor force or as payments made by state farms in their quasi-government
role.
/c Excluding private plot income and other brigade income (income from
sideline activities).
/d Over 30 years at an interest rate of 12%. Farm working capital is
provided by the Government.
/e Present values discounted at 12% over 30-year project life.
7   Net of costs of housing and social facilities and of HGB/farm financed
works.



- 37 -
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01      General.  Wheat, soybean and maize grown on the 200,000 ha of
land developed by the project would increase China's annual grain and
legume production by 433,000 tons, 90% of which would be a marketable
surplus. The project would contribute to the Government's objective of
increasing the supply of commercial grain at a cost of less than US$1,400
per ha developed. At full development, about 15,000 new full-time jobs
would be created, relieving the unemployment and underemployment within the
state farms in Heilongjiang. The project would serve as a large-scale trial
of techniques applicable to the development of an additional 470,000 ha of
uncultivated land, and as a demonstration of up-to-date mechanized farming
applicable to some 2 million ha now cultivated by state farms in
Heilongjiang. The project's seed component would also contribute to a
general increase in crop yields on existing farms.
7.02      Foreign Exchange.  All tradeable components are valued directly in
foreign exchange, converted to local currency at the official exchange rate
at appraisal of Y 1.75 = US$1 and adjusted for local transport and handling.
No detailed studies of foreign exchange conversion rates for non-traded
commodities have been conducted. Therefore preliminary and tentative
estimates of local conversion factors were made and used to convert all
local input costs and project expenditures to economic prices. The factors
used were 1.06 for construction materials, 1.04 for domestic farm machin-
ery, 0.69 for road transport, 0.77 for agricultural chemicals, 0.25 for
common farm labor, and 1.50 for management and technical labor.
7.03      Farm Labor.  At full development, crop cultivation on the
200,000 ha of developed land would add 900,000 man-days annually to the
labor requirements of project area state farms. To meet peak period labor
requirements, some 9,000 additional farm workers would be employed, assuming
25 man-days/month per worker. Including management and support personnel
the project would create 15,000 full time jobs. These would be filled by
transfers from other farms and new entrants to the labor force. Given the
underemployment on the state farms, the economic cost of labor is low.  At
present the average farm worker receives about Y 2.0/day in wages and
bonuses from agriculture. This figure considerably exceeds the economic
cost of common labor and for purposes of the economic analysis labor has
been priced at Y 0.5/day. Since the project is not labor intensive, the
economic rate of return is insensitive to the price of labor.
7.04      Investment Costs.  As calculated for the economic analysis, the
total initial investment cost is US$211 million which includes physical
contingencies but excludes price contingencies. This amount excludes
expenditures of US$33 million for construction of housing, schools and
health facilities, which are regarded as self-justifying social
expenditures. The cost stream includes expenditures of US$99 million over
project years 16-19 for replacement of farm machinery. Local costs were



- 38 -
converted at the official exchange rate of US$1 = Y 1.75.  Operation and
maintenance costs of project works and facilities, about US$8.6 annuallyR
are borne by the farming units and the HGB and hence were treated as a
production cost in determining project net benefits.
7.05      Development Phasing.  Construction of project works and
procurement of agricultural machinery would be phased over the period
1983-86.  Benefits would begin as soon as drainage works are completed and
newly developed land is brought into production. Full development yields
are assumed to be reached five years after land is first placed in
production. The project would reach full development in 1991.
7.06      Production and Benefits.  Expected future yields, cropping
intensities and production with the project are discussed in Chapter 5. The
physical input requirements, unit prices and labor requirements are
presented in Annex 3, and the cost and benefit streams in Annex 4. At f-ull
development the project's annual net incremental value of production would
be US$66.3 million.
7.07      Distribution of Benefits.  The project's main objective is to
produce a marketable surplus of grain, therefore, its direct effect on
income distribution would therefore be limited. However, it would have two
indirect distributive effects which could be significant but cannot be
quantified. First, the marketable surplus would reduce procurement at quota
prices elsewhere in China; this is likely to benefit marginal producers in
poorer areas by allowing increased sales at market prices. Second, the
improvements in farming practices and seed quality resulting from the project
are likely to carry over to the farms operated by communes in Heilongjiang
Province.
7.08      Economic Rate of Return.  Using the foregoing assumptions and
discounting the project's costs and benefits over a 30-year evaluation
period, the project's economic rate of return would be 23%. At a discotnt
rate of 12%, the estimated opportunity cost of capital in China, the net
present value of the project is Y 276 million (US$158 million).
7.09      Sensitivity Analysis.  Sensitivity of the rate of return was
tested to cost overruns, delay in full development, and failure of yields to
reach projected levels, and the results are shown below. Further testing to
determine which variables would be most important to the success of the
project employed two measures of sensitivity: the crossover value and the
elasticity. The crossover value is the value of the variable tested at
which net present value of project costs and benefits discounted at 12% is
reduced to zero. The elasticity is the percent change in net present value
due to a 1% change in the variable. The results are presented in Annex 4
and discussed below.



- 39 -
Economic         Net Present
Rate of Return    Value @ 12%
Assumption                                  %            (Y, Millions)
A 20% increase in construction costs                 21              255
A combination of a 20% increase in construction
costs and a three-year delay in reaching
target yields                                     17              180
Yields at full development fail to exceed
present Heilongjiang state farms
averages                                          16               75
7.10      No single assumption proved crucial to the estimated rate of
return. Failure of crop yields to surpass the present average for the HGB
would reduce the rate of return to 16%. Analysis of crossover values
indicates that project returns are not very sensitive to assumed yields,
crop prices, production cost, or construction cost. If either crop yields
or crop prices at full development were to be 24% lower than anticipated,
the rate of return would fall to 12%. However, this would entail yields at
full development no greater than present averages on Heilongjiang state
farms, despite technical assistance and far greater investment in farm
inputs, or no major change in economic crop prices relative to end-1982
levels. Sensitivity to increases in crop production costs or construction
costs is moderate, and there is little likelihood that the crossover values,
respectively 47% and 209% above appraisal estimates, would occur.
7.11      Risks.  The project faces no significant technical or administra-
tive risks. The implementing agency has considerable experience in land
development and management of mechanized farming. The innovative features
of the project would be the introduction of larger and more modern types of
farm machinery and construction equipment than presently used. The basic
skills for efficient operation and maintenance of such equipment already
exist and would be strengthened through further training.



- 40 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      At negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government on the
following points:
(a)  by September 30 of each year a detailed work program and
financing plan for the following year would be prepared for Bank
review (para. 3.16);
(b)  the Heilongjiang General Bureau would maintain a separate
account for the project. This would be audited annually by
the Ministry of Finance and the audit report would be sub-
mitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each
financial year (para. 3.21);
(c)  the Government would ensure that the Foreign Investment
Management Office would be maintained during implementation of
the project and be adequately staffed with experienced and quali--
fied personnel (para. 4.11); and
(d)  consultants for the project's technical assistance components
would be employed in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on
Consultants (para. 4.20).
8.02      With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for an IDA
Credit of SDR 41.3 million (equivalent to US$45 million) and a Bank Loan of
US$35.3 million on standard country terms of 20 years and 5 years of grace.
The Borrower would be the People-s Republic of China.



- 41 -
ANNE X I
Table I
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Project Land Development
Project farm totals                            Units involved and areas to be development
Cultiva-  Waste-        Planned                              New                                  Existing
ted area    land    development           Subfarms              Brigades                Subfarms              Brigades
--------- ('000 ha )--------   (no.)  ('000 ha)  (no.)  ('000 ha)    (no.)  (-000 ha)  (no.)   (-000 ha)
Total                    982       758           200          5         40         12         30          13         69         45         61
Sanjiang Plain Region          893       687           182          5         40          9         25          13         69         36         48
Baoquanling SB                52        21           11           0          0          1          1           0          0          6         10
Puyang                      22        11            4          -          -          -          -            -          -          2          4
Xiangyang                   30        10            7          -          -          1          1           -          -           4          6
HongxinglonR SB              386       101           48           0          0          1          2           7         42          5          4
Youyi                      10)6       22           13          -          -          -          -            2        13           -          -
8 52                        74         9            7          -          -          -          -            1          7          -          -
8S53                        54        19            8          -          -          -          -            2          8          -          -
597                         46       15            10          -          -          -          -           2         10          -          -
291                         42         7            4          -          -          -          -           1          4          -          -
Beixing                     25         9            2          -          -          -          -           -          -           3          2
HongqilinR                  18         6            1          -          -          -          -           -          -           1          1
Raohe                       21        14            3          -          -          1          7           -          -           1          1
Jiansanjiang SB              316       421           83           5         40          7         22           0          0         16         21
859                         32        32           10          1         10          -          -           -          -           -         -
Shengli                     33        22            3          -          -          -          -           -          -           3          3
Qianshao                    16      104             7          -          -          2          5           -           -          1          2
Qixing                      57        20            4          -          -          -          -            -          -          4          4
Qindeli                     59      113            33          3         27          2          6           -           -          -         -
Qinglongshan                25         7            5          -          -          -          -           -          -           3          5
Chuangye                    25        24            3          1          3          -          -           -           -          -         -
Qianfeng                    15       45             7          -          -          2          6           -          -           1          1
Qianjin                     30        34            8          -          -          1          5           -          -          2           3
Hongwei                     24        20            3          -          -          -          -           -          -           2          3
Mudanjiang SB                139       144            40          0          0          0          0           6         27          9         13
854                         40        41           13          -          -          -          -            3        13          -          -
856                         33        34            7                     -          -          -           1           2          3          5
858                         22       15             7          -          -          -          -           1          7          -          -
Qingfeng                    26        12            8          -          -          -          -           -          -           6          8
Xingkaihu                   18        41            9          -          -1                                            5         -          -
Lesser Xinganling Region    89            71            18          0          0          3          5           0          0          9         13
Beian SB                      78        51             7          0          0          2          3           0          0          4          4
Xunke                       33        l2            2          -          -          T          T           -          -          T          T
Jinhe                       16       21             1          -          -          -          -           -          -          1          1
Longmen                     12        14            2          -          -          1          2                                 -           -
Jianshe                     17         4            2          -          -          -          -           -          -           2          2
Ji,isan SB                    11        20            11          0          0          1          2           0          0          5          9



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Details of Drainage Pumping Stations
Electric                     Total      Drainage
Catchment  No. of  motor/die-  Pumping  Unit  pumping            flow      Total
Subbureau and name of station          area      pumps   sel engine   head    flow  capacity           rate     rating
(ha)                              (m)    - (cu m/sec) -  (1/sec/ha)   (kW)
Baoquanling
Puyang S.F., Puyang River
Bridge, South Station              3,120        4      Electric      3.0    1.30       5.2         1.7        100
Puyang S.F., Brigade No. 11          2,415         3                    3.0    1.30      3.9         1.6        75
Station
Hongxinglong
Youyi S.F. Eastern Outlet
Station No. 4                      3,880        9      Diesel        4.4    0.66       5.9         1.5        400
Youyi S.F. Eastern Outlet
Station No. 5                      3,915        8                    4.2    0.68       5.4         1.4        360
Youyi S.F. Eastern Outlet
Station No. 6                      3,600        9                    4.6    0.62       5.6         1.5        400
Youyi S.F. Piaodai Station
No. 4                              4,200       10                     6.2    0.60      6.0         1.4        450
Youyi S.F. Piaodai Station
No. 2                              4,630       10                     6.1    0.65      6.5         1.4        450
Youyi S.F. Piaodai Station
No. 3                              4,140       11                    4.3    0.55       6.0         1.5        490
Youyi S.F. Eastern Outlet
Station No. 2                      4,460       11                    4.9    0.62       6.8         1.5        490
Youyi S.F. Eastern Outlet
Station No. 3                      4,460       11                    5.0    0.62       6.8         1.5        490
852 S.F. Xiao Raoli River
Outlet Station No. 1               1,505        3      Electric      3.8    0.87       2.6         1.7        365
852 S.F. Xiao Raoli River
Outlet Station No. 2               5,195        8                    4.2    1.00       8.0         1.5      1,240
852 S.F. Xiao Fusan Main
Drain Station                      1,935        3                    4.0    1.13       3.4         1.7        465
Beixing S.F. Brigade No. 11
Pumping Station                      665         5                   6.0    0.22       1.1         1.6        140
Beixing S.F. Brigade No. 14
Pumping Station                      665        4                   10.0    0.25       1.0         1.5        160
Hongqiling S.F. Xiao
Lian Ze Pumping Station            4,340        4                    7.0    1.56       6.2         1.4        620
Hongqiling S.F. Main
Pumping Station                    2,900        4                    7.0    1.03       4.1         1.4        620
853 S.F. Subfarm No. 6
Pumping Station                   10,520        8                    6.0    2.07    16.6           1.6      1,240
597 S.F. Main Drain No. 3
Pumping Station                   13,220       10                    6.0    1.92    19.2           1.4      1,550
Mudanjiang
858 S.F. Song Drain No. 3
Pumping Station                    2,665        4                    3.0    1.00       4.0         1.5        300
858 S.F. Song Drain No. 6
Pumping Station                    2,665        4                    3.0    1.00       4.0         1.5        300
Xingkaihu S.F. Pumping
Station No. 4                      4,000        5      Diesel        5.3    1.25       6.2         1.0        205
Xingkaihu S.F. Pumping
Station No. 5                      1,335        2                    5.3    1.25       2.5         1.9         80
Xingkaihu S.F. Pumping
Station No. 6                      1,335        2                    5.3    1.25       2.5         1.9         80
Total                          91,785      152                                   139.8          1.5    11,070
(average)



- 43 -                                 ANNEX 2
Table 1
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Cost
Y million             US$ million
Drainage and Land Clearing
Dikes                                                8.6                      4.9
Main drains                                         10.7                       6.1
Branch drains                                        9.1                      5.2
Lateral drains                                       7.7                      4.4
Sublateral drains                                    5.2                      3.0
Pumping stations                                     3.0                       I./
Bridges and culverts                                10.7                      b.1
Land clearing                                       19.9                     11.4
Subtotal                                         74.9                     42.8
Roads
Rural roads                                         27.4                     15.6
Field roads                                          4.4                      2.5
Bridges and culverts                                 3.8                      2.2
Subtotal                                         35.6                     20.3
Buildings
Housing                                             41.8                     23.9
Schools, etc.                                       12.8                      /.3
Grain storage                                        9.4                      5.4
Workshops                                           16.8                      9.6
Electrification                                      5.5                      3.1
Telephone                                            1.8                      1.0
Subtotal                                         88.1                     50.4
Drying Floors                                           6.3                     3.6
Machinery and Equipment
Agricultural machinery                             155.9                     89.1
Construction machinery                              20.3                     11.6
Seed processing equipment                            3.9                      2.2
Subtotal                                        180.1                    102.9
Other
Technical assistance                                 3.0                      1.7
Administration                                       3.8                      Z.2
Subtotal                                          6.8                      3.9
Total Base Cost                                 391.8                    223.9
Physical contingencies                                26.1                     14.9
Expected price increase                               55.8                     31.9
Total                                           473.7                    270.7
Front-end fee                                          0.5                      0.3
Total Project Cost                             474.2                    271.0



- 44 -                                  ANNEX 2
Table 2
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures
(US$ million)
1983      1984      1985      1986      Total
Drainage and Land Clearing
Dikes                                     0.9       2.5       1.1       0.4         4.9
Main drains                               -         1.7       2.6        1.8        6.1
Branch drains                             -         1.7       2.0       1.5         5.2
Lateral drains                            1.0       1.1       1.1       1.2         4.4
Sublateral drains                         0.8       0.7       0.7       0.8        3.0
Pumping stations                          0.4       0.4       0.3       0.6        1.7
Bridges and culverts                      1.0       1.7       2.1       1.4         6.1
Land clearing                             2.1       3.2       3.2       2.9       11.4
Subtotal                               6.2      13.0      13.0      10.6       42.8
Roads
Rural roads                               1.3       3.6       6.2       4.5       15.6
Field roads                               0.4       0.1       1.0       1.0        2.5
Bridges and culverts                      0.5       0.3       0.7       0.7        2.2
Subtotal                               2.2       4.0       7.9       6.2       20.3
Buildings
Housing                                   4.3       7.1       6.6       5.9       23.9
Schools, etc.                             0.9       2.1       2.1       2.3        7.3
Grain storage                             1.0       1.5       1.8       1.0        5.4
Workshops                                 2.4       2.4       2.4       2.4        9.6
Electrification                           0.6       1.5       0.8       0.2        3.1
Telephone                                 0.3       0.5       0.2       0.1        1.1
Subtotal                               9.5      15.1      13.9      11.9       50.4
Drying floors                               0.5       1.3       1.2       0.6         3.6
Machinery and Equipment
Agricultural machinery                   24.2      30.5      22.2      12.2       89.1
Construction machinery                    7.2       4.4       -         -         11.6
Seed processing equipment                 1.3       0.9       -         -          2.2
Subtotal                              32.7     35.8       22.2      12.2      102.9
Other
Technical assistance                      0.6       0.5       0.3       0.3        1.7
Administration                            0.5       0.7       0.6       0.4        2.2
Subtotal                               1.1       1.3       0.9       0.7        3.9
Total Base Cost                       52.2      70.4      59.1      42.2      223.9
Physical contingencies                      2.3       4.2       4.6       3.8       14.9
Expected price increase                     2.1       8.2      10.8      10.8       31.9
Total                                 56.6      82.8      74.5      56.8      270.7
Front-end fee                               0.3       -         -         -           0.3
Total Project Cost                    56.9      82.8      74.5      56.8      271.0



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Expected Price Increases
(US$ million)
1983      1984       1985       1986       Total
Local
Equipment base costs plus
physical contingencies             6.6       8.0       10.5        8.6        33.7
Expected price increases             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Other base costs plus
physical contingencies            19.0      33.5       35.7       29.2       117.4
Expected price increases             0.8        4.2        7.3       8.5        20.8
Foreign
Base costs plus physical
contingencies                    28.9       33.1       17.5        8.2        87.7
Expected price increases             1.3        4.0        3.5        2.3        11.1
Totals
Base costs plus physical
contingencies                    54.5       74.6       63.7       46.0       238.8
Expected price increases             2.1        8.2       10.8      10.8        31.9
Total                           56.6       82.8       74.5       56.8       270.7
Annual Escalation Rates (%)
Local equipment                      0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Local other                          8.0        7.5        7.0       6.0
Foreign                              8.0        7.5        7.0       6.0
Multiplier
Local equipment                     0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
Local other                         0.04       0.12      0.20       0.28
Foreign                             0.04       0.12      0.20       0.28



- 46 -                                ANNEX 2
Table 4
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD/IDA fiscal year    Cumulative disbursements   IBRD/IDA irrigation and
and semester           US$ million             %       drainage disburse-
ment profile (%)
1983
2nd                          0                 0                  0.7
1984
lst                         29.0
2nd                         41.3              51                  6
1985
lst                         56.9
2nd                         63.7              79                 16
1986
lst                         73.8
2nd                         78.1              97                 30
1987
1st                         79.6
2nd                         80.3             100                 47
1988
1st
2nd                          -                 -                 63
1989
lst
2nd                                                              77
1990
lst
2nd                          -                 -                89
1991
lst
Znd                          -                  -               97
1992
lst                                                            100



CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates - Construction
Baoquan-  Hongxing- Jiansan-   Mudan-                         Total      Unit       Total
ling       hong       jiang    jiang   Beian  Jiusan  quantity    cost            cost
(Y)     (Y mln)
Land development
Earthwork (000 cu m)
Dikes                                     1,400      2,850         900    1,150        0        0      6,250       1.38/a    8.6
Main drains                                 300        900       2,550    1,400        0        0      5,150       2.067ai  10.6
Branch drains                               700      2,000       4,650    1,950    150          0      9,450       0.96/a    9.1
Lateral and sublateral drains             1,300      6,250      11,500    2,300    300        150    21,800        0.60/a   13.0
Pumping stations (No.)                          2         17            0         5      0        0         24   125,000        3.0
Land clearing/smoothing ('000 ha)              11         48           83        40      7       11        200      99.50/b   19.9
Roads
Rural roads (km)-                             110        360          500      410      40       80      1,500    18,300       27.4
Field roads (km)                              150        240          840       750    110      110      2,200      2,000       4.4
Bridges (No.)                                  11         91          141        48      9        5        305    31,500        9.6  4-
Culverts (No.)                                234        585         974        652    113       97      2,655      1,900        5.0
Buildings and facilities ('000 m2)
Housing                                        18         79          136        66     12       18        329         127/c   41.8
Office, schools, clinics, etc.                   5        20           34        17       3        5         83        155/c   12.8
Equipment storage, repair shops, barns          8          36          62        30       5        8        149        11374   16.8
Grain storage                                   6         26           44        21       4        6       107          88/c    9.4
Drying floors                                  31        137          236       114     20       31         569         11n7     6.3
Utilities
Transformer substations (No.)                   1           1           3         2       0        0          7   190,000        1.3
Diesel generator stations (No.)                 0           2           0         0       1        3          6    15,000        041
Power lines
State farm grid (km)                          0          0         112        64      11       40        227    10,000        213
National grid (km)                           50         79            0       23      29        0        181    10,000         108
Telephone lines (km)                           54        120          152       125      14      96         561     3,250        l.8
/a  Cost per cu m.
,b  Cost per ha.
Th Cost per sq m.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Table 6
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates - Construction Machinery
Number    Unit cost            Total cost:
of      CIF Dalian       Foreign       Local
Machinery type                         units      (US$ 000)      (US$ mln)    (Y mln)
Backhoe excavator, 130-140 hp,
amphibious                              2           200          0.40          -
Backhoe excavator, 130-140 hp,
tracked                                60           100          6.00          -
Backhoe excavator, 85 hp, tracked        10            60          0.60
Self-loading scraper, 150 hp              8           100          0.80          -
Motor grader, 120-130 hp                  8            70          0.56          -
Vibrating compactor, tamping foot         3            15          0.05          -
Vibrating compactor, smooth roller        3            15          0.05          -
Tractor and low-bed trailer, 30-ton    3               60          0.18          -
Miscellaneous equipment                                LS          1.36
Subtotal                                                     10.00         -
Spare parts, tools and fittings
Imported (10%)                                                   1.00          -
Domestic (5%)                                                    -             0.5
Overland transport                                                 -             0.6
Total                                                    11.00          1.1



- 49 -                                 ANNEX 2
Table 7
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates - Agricultural Machinery
Imported          Domestic
Number  Unit      Total      Unit    Total
of    cost       cost      cost      cost
Machinery type                            units   (US$)  (US$ mln)   (Y)    (Y mln)
Tractor (125-140 pto hp, 2WD)              150    40,000       6.0
Tractor (125-140 pto hp, 4WD)              350    49,000    17.2
Subsoiler                                   76      3,000      0.2
Seed drill                                 510      9,000      4.6
Precision planter (12 r)                    61    22,800       1.4
Cultivator with fert. att.                 200      9,700      1.9
Rotary hoe                                 100      5,500      0.6
Combine harvester (150-170 hp)             200    69,000    13.8
Corn header (6 row)                         61    15,500       0.9
Flexible header                            200    11,000       2.2
Pick-up header                             200      6,500      1.3
Experimental machinery                       -          -      1.1
Field vehicles and minibuses                 -          -      0.2
Subtotal A                                           51.4
Tractor (65 hp)                            400                        15,000    6.0
Plow (4 r)                                 300                         4,000    1.2
Disc/harrow   7.4 m                        300                         7,000    2.1
Seed drill                                  90                        11,000    1.0
Sprayer                                    300                         8,000    2.4
Swather (mounted)                          200                         3,200    0.6
Swather (drawn)                            250                         3,600    0.9
Combine (120 hp)                           350                        55,000   19.2
Auger                                      200                         2,000    0.4
Trailer (5T)                               600                         6,000    3.6
Straw chopper                              100                         2,500    0.3
Fuel tanker (3.5-5T)                        16                        25,000    0.4
Grain truck (5-8t)                         300                        35,000   10.5
Subtotal B                                                             48.6
Spare parts, tools and fittings
Imported (10% of subtotal A)                                5.1
Domestic (5% of subtotals A & B)                                               6.9
Overland transport                                                               1.6
Total                                                56.5               57.1



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Table 8
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates - Seed Processing Equipment
Imported            Domestic
Number   Unit    Total        Unit       Total
of     cost      cost       cost        cost
Equipment type                         units    (US$) (US$ mln)    (Y)         (Y mln)
Seed dryer (5 t/hr continuous flow)   16    20,000    0.32
Seed grader with indents                 16    14,000    0.22
Precision grader                         16    11,500    0.18
Screen machine with aspirator            16    20,000    0.32
Gravity machine                           8    12,000    0.10
Soybean spiral                           16      1,200    0.02
Elevators and augers                  16 sets   5,000    0.08
Bagging machine, scale                   16      4,000    0.06
Seed treatment machine                    8    10,000    0.08
Subtotal A                                           1.38
Receiving and surge bins              16 sets                       25,000       0.40
Storage bins (70,000 ton capacity)        -                              -       0.24
Subtotal B                                                                  0.64
Spare parts, tools and fittings
Imported (20% of subtotal A)                            0.28
Domestic (5% of subtotal A)                                                    0.07
Overland transport                                                               0.08
Total                                                1.66                   0.79



- 51 -                           ANNEX 2
Table 9
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates - Training and Technical Assistance
Total Cost
Foreign      Local
('000 US$)   ('000 Y)
Training Support
Consulting services (24 man-months)                       300          40
Materials and equipment                                     0          50
Overseas Study Tours (30 man-months)
Seed system /a                                             50           0
Agronomy                                                   50           0
Project planning and management                            50           0
Technical Assistance
Seed System Development
Consulting services (24 man-months) /a                  300         40
Overseas training (80 man-months)   Ia                  120          20
Materials                                               100           0
Equipment Maintenance
Consulting services (12 man-months)                     150         20
Overseas training (6 man-months)                         10           5
Management and Planning
Consulting services (6 man-months)                       75          10
Overseas training (12 man-months)                        20          10
Micro-computers                                         100           0
Two-way radios                                          150           0
Construction Operations
Consulting services (12 man-months)                     150          20
Total                                               1,575         215
/a The Government in negotiating with the Canadian International Develop-
ment Agency to finance these components. If financed by CIDA, these
amounts would be reallocated to equipment.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1
Page 1
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Estimates of Farmgate Prices for Major Crops and Inputs
(Constant 1982 values)
Price/cost per ton
Wheat  Soy      Maize      Urea      TSP      Diesel
1982 Prices
Import price,
CIF Dalian ($) /a              222   312        158       227       202        331
(Y)                381   546        277      397       354        579
Plus:
Port charges                    25    25         25        25        25         25
Transport: port-
wholesalers /b                 6      6         6        13        13        1.3
Minus:
Transport: farm-
wholesalers /b               -23   -23        -23        13       13         1L3
Equals:
Economic price (Y)             397   554        285       448      405        604
Domestic price (Y) /c          501   586        300       930       480       460
1985 Prices
Import price,
CIF Dalian ($)/a               230   371        184      241       223        3:31
(Y)                403   649        322      422       390        579
Plus:
Port charges                    25    25         25        25       25         25
Transport: port-
wholesalers /b                  6     6         6        13       13         13
Minus:
Transport: farm-
wholesalers /b               -23   -23       -23         13       13         13
Equals:
Economic price (Y)             411   657        330       473      441        604
Domestic price (Y) /c          501   586        300      930       480        460
1990 Prices
Import price,
CIF Dalian ($) /a              240   422        190      264       245        383
(Y)                420   739        333      462       429        670
Plus:
Port charges                    25    25         25        25       25         25
Transport: port-
wholesalers /b                 6      6         6       13        13         13
Minus:
Transport: farm-
wholesalers /b               -23   -23       -23         13        13        13
Equals:
Economic price (Y)             428   747        341       513      480        695
Domestic price (Y) /c          465   586        288       930       480       460



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Table I
Page 2
/a  Import price estimates are based on export prices with the specifications
listed below, adjusted for ocean freight charges of US$42/ton (average
freight rate of wheat, Gulf-Japan, 1981/82 estimate).
Wheat: Canadian No. 1 Western Red Spring (CWRS), in store Thunder Bay.
Soy: US, FOB Gulfports.
Maize: US No. 2 Yellow, FOB Gulf ports.
Urea: Bagged, FOB Northwestern Europe. Domestic price is for nutrient
equivalent in local product.
Triple Superphosphate: FOB US Gulf. Domestic price is for nutrient equiva-
lent in local product.
Diesel: The diesel import price is based on the c.i.f. Hong Kong price. No
ocean freight differences between Hong Kong and Dalian are assumed.
/b  Based on rail freight charge from Dalian to wholesale point (Shenyang for
agricultural product and Jiamusi for inputs) and wholesale point to distri-
bution or storage point (on average 150 km from Jiamusi); plus truck freight
charge from/to farm (average 40 km), computed at freight rates of Y 0.20/
ton-klm for agricultural products, Y 0.28/ton-km for inputs, and Y 0.50/ton
surcharge for trips over 25 km.
/c  Domestic prices for wheat and maize are weighted averages of quota and
above-quota prices, the weights reflecting a quota of 0.45 tons/ha from
which newly reclaimed land is exempt for a period of five years. The price
of soy is a weighted average of prices for planned (20%) and above-plan
(80%) procurement. Retained grain is priced at above-quota prices, and the
difference from quota prices included in crop production costs as part of
subsidies to labor. Domestic real prices are projected to remain constant
at 1982 levels.



- 54 -
ANYT ) .3
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Physical Inputs and Unit Costs
At full development              Unit
Soy-                    costs /a.
Wheat       beans       Maize        (Y/kg)
Agricultural Inputs (kg/ha)
Seed
Wheat                                   255           -           -         0.60
Soybeans                                  -          90           -         0.70
Maize                                     -           -          25         0.36
Fertilizer
N                                        55          35         110         1.88
P205                                     70          70          60        C0.92
Herbicide
Wheat                                   2.3           -           -         3.00
Soybeans                                  -         3.8           -         6.57
Maize                                     -           -        11.8         5.09
Insecticide                               2.2         0.8         1.5         3.45
Fuel /b                                   103         102         118         0.39
Labor Inputs (labor days/ha)
Land preparation                         0.40        0.25        0.25
Sowing/planting, fertilizing             0.10        0.10        0.10
Herbicide/pesticide application          0.05        0.10        0.05
Cultivation, fertilizer                  0.10        0.15        0.20
Harvesting                               0.15        0.10        0.15
Transport                                0.10        0.10        0.15
Drying                                   3.50        1.50        4.00
Other                                    0.50        0.50        0.50
Total                                 4.90        2.80        5.65
/a Projected financial costs in 1990 prices expressed in 1982 constant values.
/b Fuel costs are for a mix of 90% light diesel oil, 4% lubricant and 6% gaso-
line.



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Financial Crop Production Costs At full Development
(Y/ha)
Wheat             Soybeans             Maize
Nonlabor Costs
Seed                                   153                   63                  9
Fertilizer                             184                  144                285
Herbicide                                 7                  25                 60
Insecticide                              8                    3                  J
Fuel                                    47                   47                 54
O&M /a                                   /0                  10                 10
Depreciation /b                         82                   82                 82
Transport                                13                  11                 18
Other direct /c                         30                   26                 41
Overhead /d                              41                  41                 41
Subtotal                            635                  512                665
Labor Costs
Wages                                    z2                  22                 zz
Salaries                                 2                    2                  2
Bonuses                                 23                   23                 23
Transfers /e                            26                   26                 26
Subtotal                             73                   73                 73
Total Production Costs              708                  585                738
/a  Repairs of farm machinery at 4% and project works and productive facilities
at 2% of original costs plus Y 5/ha operation costs for drainage pumping
stations.
/b Machinery and equipment at 6.6%, agricultural buildings and facilities at
3.3%.
/c Miscellaneous, including purchase and repair of tools and sales expense.
/d Materials expenses of farm, subfarm and brigade management.
/e Price subsidies and depreciation and repair of housing, at the farm-s
expense.



-56 -                                   ANNEX 3
Table 4
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Production Unit Budget At Full Development /a
Typical brigade
Wheat      Soybeans      Maize      Total
Crop area (ha)                               1,960         1,480         560      4,000
Yield (tons/ha)                                 2.1          1.6         3.9          -
Production (tons)                            4,116         2,368       2,184      8:,668
Income (Y-000)
Gross value of product                     1,914        1,388          629      3,931
Production costs (excluding labor)         1,245           758         372      2,375
Farm labor costs                             144           108          40        292
Net Crop Income                           525          522          217     1,264
(Net Crop Income Per Ha)                  (268)        (353)       (388)      (316)
Other income /b                                -             -           -         84
Net Income Before Taxes                   525          522          217     1,348
Agricultural tax                                 82           62          24        168
Net Income                                443          460         193      1,180
/a Using 1990 financial prices.
/b Net income from collective forestry, fishery, animal husbandry, and side
industry activities of the production unit, based on present levels per
cultivated hectare.



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Table 5
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Buildup of Crop Areas, Yields and Production
1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991-
2013
Area (-000 ha)
Wheat                13     25      51      80    117    112    107    102         98
Soybeans             10     19      45      64      74      74     74      74      74
Maize                 0       0       0      4       9      14     19      24      28
Yield (tons/ha)
Wheat               1.5    1.5    1.6    1.7    1.8    1.9    2.0    2.0    2.1
Soybeans            1.2    1.2    1.2    1.3    1.3    1.4    1.5    1.5    1.6
Maize                 -       -      -    2.5    2.7    3.0    3.2    3.6    3.9
Production
(-000 tons)
Wheat                20      40     82    136    211    213    214    204    206
Soybeans             12     23      54      83      96    104    111    111    118
Maize                 0       0     ,0      10      24      42     61      86    109



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Table 5
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Project Cash Flow /a
(Y million, constant 1982 values)
Averages
1993-  2003-
1983    1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989    1990   1991   1992  2002   2012
'ash Inflow
Benefits
Agricultural products           16.8    32.1   72.5  118.9  166.0  175.0  183.8  184.8  196.5  i96.5  196.5  196.5
Other income                     0.5     0.9     2.0    3.1      4.2    4.2      4.2     4.2     4.2     4.2    4.2      4.2
Bank loan                         50.8   48.8   29.6   10.2    1.2             -       -       -            -       -      -
Working capital fund              17.6   20.8   20.8   20.8        -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -
Sovernment grant                  20.0   40.0   40.0   40.0    -           -       -       -       -        -       -      -
Total Cash Inflow            105.7  142.6  164.9  193.0  171.4  179.2  188.0  189.0  200.7  200.7  200.7  200.7
'ash Outflow
Investment costs
Budgeted costs                  95.4  130.6  111.5   80.5    -           -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Import duties /b                15.0   16.2      6.7     2.1    -        -
Subtotal                     110.4  146.8  118.2   82.6    -            -
Operating costs
Productton costs                12.1   24.0   53.5   85.2  119.7  122.8  126.2  129.6  133.3  133.3  133.3  133.3
Agricultural taxes               -       -       -       -       -       1.0     1.8     4.0    6.2    8.4    8.4        8.4
Subtotal                       12.1   24.0   53.5   85.2  119.7  123.8  128.0  133.6  139.5  141.7  1.41.7  141.7
Debt service /c                    1.2     5.3    9.4   11.4   12.1   12.8   19.3   17.7   16.2   15.1    9.8               1.9
Total Cash Outflow           123.7  176.1  181.1  179.2  131.8  136.6  147.3  151.3  155.7  156.8  151.5  143.6
Net Cash Flow                -18.0  -33.5  -16.2   13.8   39.6   42.6   40.7   37.7   45.0   43.9   49.2   57.1
a  Changes tn cash flows to the Ileilongjiang State Farm System (HGB and the state farms) due to the project.
Negattve cash flows would be financed from HGB and farm reserves.
,  Duties on imported machinery at 20% of c.i.f. cost converted to yuan at Y 2.8/US$1.
Debt service costs estimated using standard Bank/IDA repayment terms without capitalizing interest due during
the grace periods, and assuming an 10.937 interest rate on the loan. Debt service costs are deflated to con-
stant 1982 value assuming annual inflation rates of 4.5% for domestic investment, and converted to yuan at
the internal settlement rate of Y 2.8/US$l.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Economic Costs of Production - 1982, 1985 and 1990 /a
(Y/ha)
/b
Seed   Fertilizer   Herbicide   Insecticide   Fuel   Other   Total
1982
Wheat         122       115             4             5          62      166      474
Soybeans       59        96            16             2          61      160      394
Maize           8       160            40             3          71      181      463
1985
Wheat         125       124             5             5          62      166      487
Soybeans       71       103            18             2          61      160      415
Maize          10       171            42             4          71      181      479
1990
Wheat         130       135             5             b          72      166      511
Soybeans       81       112            19             2          71      160      442
Maize          10       185            46             4          83      181      506
/a  Derived from Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2.  Conversion factors listed in para. 7
were applied as appropriate.
/b Includes O&M, transport, miscellaneous direct costs, overhead, wages and
salaries. See footnotes to Annex 3, Table 3.



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
Table 2
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Derivation of Incremental Economic Benefits
(Y million)
Gross value                 Production              Project
of production /a                cost /b               benefits
1983                       15.0                       10.2                    4.8
1984                       30.5                       19.9                   10.6
1985                       69.2                       43.5                   25.7
1986                      115.6                       68.2                   47.4
1987                      162.7                       94.2                   68.4
1988                      177.8                       95.3                   82.5
1989                      192.6                       96.6                   96.0
1990                      199.5                       97.5                  102.9
1991-2012                    213.5                       97.5                  116.0
/a Annex 3, Table 5.
/b Derived from Annex 3, Table 5 and Annex 4, Table 1. Labor costs are
included.



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
(Y million)
Year                               Costs /a                         Net benefits
1       1983                              87.5                                4.8
2       1984                             116.3                               10.6
3       1985                              98.5                               25.7
4       1986                              67.6                              47.4
5       1987                               0                                68.4
6       1988                               0                                82.5
7       1989                               0                                96.0
8        1990                              0                                102.0
9       1991                               0                               116.0
10-15   1992-97                              0                                116.0
16       1998                              47.1                              116.0
17       1999                              59.4                              116.0
18       2000                              42.7                             116.0
19       2001                              24.2                             116.0
20-30  2002-2012                             0                                116.0
Economic rate of return = 23%
NPV (1983) discounted at 12% = Y 276 million
/a Includes only investment costs: operations and maintenance are included in
production costs used in estimating net project benefits.



- 62 -
ANNEX 4
Table 4
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Appraisal         Crossover        Change       Elasti-
value            value /a          (%)        city /b
Yield at full devel-
opment (ton/ha) /c         2.1/1.6/3.9       1.6/1.2/3.0         -24          4.2
Economic crop prices
(Y/ton) /d                428/747/341        325/568/259         -24          4.2
Crop production cost
(Y/ha) /e                      485               713             +47         -2.0
Construction cost
(Y million)                    181               559            +209         -0.5
Total investment
cost /f (Y million)            543             1,038             +91         -1.1
/a Value of variable tested at which net present value of project costs and
benefits (discounted at 12%) is reduced to zero.
/b Percent change in net present value (discounted at 12%) due to a 1% change
in the variable.
/c Average yields of wheat, soybeans and maize respectively at full develop-
ment.
/d 1990 border prices for wheat, soybeans and maize adjusted to farm-gate equi-
valency, respectively.
/e  Weighted average of cost for wheat, soybeans and maize at full development.
If Including cost of replacing agricultural machinery in years 16-19.



- 63 -
ANNEX 5
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Agricultural Sector
A.1   IBRD, "China"  Socialist Economic Development," The Main Report
and Annex C: Agricultural Development, Report No. 3391-CHA, June 1,
1981.
A.2   Harvard Business School, "China's State Farms, Report 4-581-110,
1981.
B. General Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1   MAAF, "Materials Provided to the World Bank Economic Delegation,"
no date (report on the development and current status of state
farms).
B.2   HGB, "Application for World Bank Loan for Reclamation of Three
Million Mu of Wasteland: Project Specifications," July 25, 1981.
B.3   HGB "Tentative Plan for a World Bank-Financed Reclamation Project,"
January 1982.
B.4   HGB, "The Seed Situation in Heilongjiang Province," no date.
B.5   CGB, "Some Observations on the Shadow Wage Rate in Heilongjiang
Province," no date.
C.  Material Related to the Project
C.1   Report on Agricultural Mechanization by L.C. Clarke
C.2   Report on Agricultural Mechanization by D.A.N. Hopkins
C.3   Report on Drainage Systems by W.R. Johnston
C.4   Report on Drainage Systems by L.S. Tay
C.5   Report on Organization and Management by A. Schumacher
C.6   Report on Agronomy and Seeds by R.C. McGinnis
C.7   Ministry of Communications, Highway Engineering Technical Standards



- 64 -
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT                                                            Figure 3.1
Implementation Schedule
1982                   1983                   1984                   19B5                   1986
1    2    3    4       1    2    3    4       1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4          1    2    3      4
A. Detailed Design
B. Construction of Drainage System
Baoquanling
Dikes
Coliecto, Drains
Field Drains
Pumping Stations                                                                                                  _
Hongxinglong
Dikes
Collector Drains
Field Drains
Pumping Stations
Jiansanjiang
Dikes
Coliector Drains
Field Drains
Madanjiang
Dikes
Collector Drains
Field Drains
Pumping Stations
Beian
Collector Drains
Field Drains
Jiusan
Field Drains
C. Other Construction
Roads
Buildings
Power/Telephone Lines
Grain Storage
Drying Floors
D- Procurement (ICB)                                                           ad b      C           de
Construction Machinery                                          - _  _
Agricultural Machinery                                                   a   b    c           d                        e
Tractoms and Planting/Cultivation Machinery (1)                                                       a    b                  d                         e
Tractors and Planting/Cultivation Machinery (2)                        a _      t                          e                                   _
Combines                                                          e-
Seed Processing Equipment                                        _        a     bt          d
E. Training and Technical Assistance
Foreign Training Tours
Machinery
Seeds
Agronomy/Mechanization
Management
Seeds Technical Assistance (TA)                                                                                                                 _-_
Parts Centralization TA
Management/Planning TA
Machine Operator Tnaining (TA)
Short Term  Training Consultants                                                             -    -                  --
Notes on procurement: a = prequalification; b = receipt of bids; c = contract award, d  begin delivery, e = finish delivery
World Bank-24104



CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Organizational Structure -Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries
|   Minister       l
Deputy Ministers
Chinese AcademYIntegrated                   l l||General Bureau  ||||General Bureau 
|ohies Agrcultuem         |   Agr.Ind.-Comm.                General Bureau  I |        f Anima I           eeal Bureau            of Commne | |Plc  Rsac
| China Agric./    L          |     Export-Import  || Science and                                                                                                          _
|Farm Mech. Press |l                   Company       lTechnology Bureau_
.  .                                                as~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Cadre         _         _        Industrial                                                                                                         Education                                                                  Ln
School         _         _       Company                                                                                                               B ureau       _
Desnigng and                   Materials Supply                                                                                                    Material Supply _
Plansingt                         Company                                                                                                              Bureau
State Farm
_  Development                                                                                   Statistical    |_       Planning        _
Company                                                                                     DiiinBra
Shenzhen          ll                                                                                                     Foreign       L
l Company        ll                                                                                                     Affairs      l
L   Shanghai       |                                                                                                  Administrative L
Company  ll                                                                                                     Office                   
L        Marketing    lD
_   Company
0                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank-24106



- 66 -
CHINA                                      Figure 4.2
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
General Bureau of State Farms Organizational Structure
General                                   Integrated A;C
Bureau                                      Company
State Farm               Economic         Administration               Managers            Marketing
Association               Research             office                    Office            Company
Unit
China State       Forest Division              Business        Export-Import
Farm Editorial                                   Ofc                opn
Department   Tropical Crops              Aconig             Development
Design                                       Office            Company
I nstitute               C                                       I ndustry
-  LWvestock                                 Company
Cadre . 
School             InutyMaterial Supplies
Industry                        ~~~~Company
Machinery                                    Shenzhen
Company
Planning and                                   Shanghai
Capital                                     Company
Construction
|Statistics
Finance
Materials
Science and
Technology
Media
Education
and Health
Personnel
Reti red
Personnel
Salaries
Social
Serv'ices
World Bank-24103



-67 -
CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT                                                 Figure 4.3
Organizational Structure - General Bureau at Jiamusi, Heilongjiang Province
DIRECTOR
GENERAL BUREAU
DEPUTY DIRECTORS 16)
College of                                        Geneal                    Commercial
eand                                                Office                     Bureau                     Bureau
School of                                         Political                Foreign Trade            Material Supplies
Economics                                          Office                      Bureau                    Station
|  Cadre Traini    |                                    Planning                  Foodgrains
fresher courses)                                     Division                   Bureau
Cadre Training
School (secon-                                       Finance                   Educaition
dary level)                                       Division                    Division
Engineering          Meteorological              Agricultural                  Health                   seasrevention
Design 
Institute              Station                    Division                   Division                    taon
General              V                            Anina                     Transport
Hospi tai               tto                      'sadyDvso
Academy              Construction                 Forestry                     Seed
of Science             Matery                      Bureau                    Company
|  Machine   |  |  [   Agricultural                  Personnel
Machinery                 Department
Division
Certlient                 Civil,u IfokFrinIvsmt
Factory                                                                          StOtlo Maaement Ofin
Petro-                     cience and                Collective
| chemicals             | Technology                    E-conom
Factory                    Division                   DsOffnce
|  Cement       Lg     |    Civil Work     L      Foreign Investment|
Factory                         Division  l       Management Office
I Harvesting                       Water           |
|  Mach ine                  Conservation    4    4      Security
|  Factory          |         Division                    Division
Meat                                 ~~~~~~~~Community
Processing                 Materials                    Liasion
|  Factory   l      l      Bureau                     Division
1/ For young people having difficulties finding permanent jobs.
World Bank-24105



CHINA
HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
A Typical State Farm Organization Chart
Various Departments
Material Stores                   Materials
Schools
Hospitals                         Education and Health
Personnel (Wages and Salaries)                             Farm
Const. Materials Factory
Construction Brigade              Civil Works                             Manager
Water Conservancy Brigade         Planning and Finance                    Deputy Managers
Trade                                   Responsibilities:  Agriculture
Shops                             Commerce                                                 Agriculture Machinery
Food                                                     Finance
Sci. and Tech. Research Station    Science and Technology                                   Industry and Transportation
Vehicle Brigade                                                                            Civil Works Building
Food Processing Factory           Industry and Transport                                    Roads and Water Conservancy
Machinery Repair and Prod.      - Agricultural Machinery                                   Animal Husbandry
Veterinary Station                Animal Husbandry                                          Forestry
Nursery                           Forestry
Seed Prod. Station
Met. Station                  - Agronomy                                                       2
Sci. and Tech. Research Station                                                                1                                                                                                                        co
Admin. Office of Manager
Sub-FarmV
Ma nager
Deputy Managers                                             Production Section
Responsibilities:  Agriculture                              Finance Section
Agriculture Machinery                     Social Services
Animal Husbandry
Administration
Civil Works
Brigade                                   Agronomist (also Deputy Head)
Head of Brigade                                         =   Agriculture Machinery Engineer (also Deptity Head)
Deputy Heads                                           -    Livestock Specialist (also Deputy Head)
Responsibilities:  Agriculture                       S- Accountant
Agricultural Machinery               -    Cashier
Animal Husbandry                           stker
Logistics                             =   Administrator (Social Services)
World Bank-2415B



- 69 -
CHINA                           Figure 5.1
HEI LONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Proposed Cropping Calendar
Mar   Apr    May   Jun    Jul   Aug   Sep    Oct    Nov   Dec
WHEAT
Harrowing and sowing      Harvest Plowing
SOYBEAN
Harrowing    Sowing                    Harvest  Harrowing
z<L3C,~~~~~~a                                                      -iZ
MAIZE                                                                     Bk4
Ha rrowing  SoigHarvest /                          Harrowing
World Bank-24107






IBRD  16545R
1150                                          1200                                          1250                                          130                                           135D
CHINA
U.S. S.R.                                                                              \                                  HEILONGJIANG LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT
A    STATE FARMS IN  PROJECT
I                    ~~~~GENERAL BUREAU  HEADQUARTERS
0    SUB-BUREAU  HEADQUARTERS
iw.-                                                                                                        SUB-BUREAU BOUNDARIES
ROADS
------ RAILROADS
~RIVERS
f  --PROVINCIAL  BOUNDARIES                                                            550
->  -*INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS ,   4      0 820  160
7                                                                                                                                                             0         55         15509  t  ;<:   MILES    o   SD   ldoI
<   { / N NE R {, M O N G Ot / A J                      /^ lJusheng                                           Sng  t72                                    47&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ushng  uyi
(INNER MONGOLIA)
18 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~            5
MONGOLIA                                               i                                                                           5. 853ang
>   4    Jf t<T    < .< >    &--.--.Areaof/14a (..... .p                                                                                                          DongianghonglbEh                       11.dakeysdremnaetacolh  859
USSR.                                                                                                                                     1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2. Shengyan
N                                                                                                                                   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2    2,3. yQuiaha
/  (N                                                                                                                            1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4. Qix5n
-y--    (P>                                                                                                                                                  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5. 8inel
1>                              17~~~~~~~~~~~. Cehxangy
D n ang ong                ~~~~18. Qianfen45
MONGOLIA                                                                                                                                              19~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. Qixning
I ____  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"'r~~~~~~~~~~-  /                                                                                         20~~~~~~~~~~~1. Higongsanc
-'  p.  01.,  .  450                                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21. 854
,..\  -F                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22. 856
/     -'     >/B'M?       ~    ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ so~~~~5~'45                                                                                                               23. 888
-F  ~~~~~~-F   ~~~~~  ~~~~  '~~~~ 0                                          Mudanjian                                                                       24. Qingfeng~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.Qigfn
PEORERO                                                                                  ia.                                                                        2. Xi ngkk,aihu
,BSii\tta~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 ~~~~~~~  I-- ~~~~~~~~~27. Jinhe
-7                                                                                                     S~~~~~~U8I  01I  uiforene    L.,                                          28. Longmen
I) ~~~~f-.~~~~z'  ~   Y,/-F ro&Q~REA6       Th. map h-s b-oxpropa-oxhy no World Bok'                                                                                                        30t xlp  .S  . ~  Jiabian
~~.  ? ~~~~~             /      haraado~~~~~prf 005  Thx Wocotmot B.r h- sthra,o fTeWO    ndE  texIoa 
~~~r~~~~.~~~~msJ  c'                 V.        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1215'                     /                  19



