COPY                    ~~~~~~Document of
FILE COPY                                The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1890a-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
SOCIETE FINANCIERE SENEGALAISE
POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'INDUSTRIE ET DU TOURISME
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
September 7, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: CFA Franc (CFAF)
EXCHANGE RATES
Currency Unit                       Official                    Floating
as of December 31, 1974
US$1                             CFAF 230.21                  CFAF 225.00
CFAF 1,000                       US$4.20                      US$4.44
CFAF 1,000,000                   US$4,200                     US$4,444
The CFA Franc is officially valued at the equivalent of FF 0.02.
As the French franc is now floating relative to the US dollar, the US dollar/
CFAF exchange rate is subject to change. The exchange rate on December 31,
1974 of US$1   CFAF 225 was retained for conversions made in this report.
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB           African Development Bank
BCEAO          Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BNDS           Banque Nationale de Developpement du Senegal
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
IFC            International Finance Corporation
KfW            Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
SOFISEDIT      Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpement de
l'Industrie et du Tourisme
SONEPI         Societe Nationale d'Etudes et de Promotion Industrielle
Fiscal Year of SOFISEDIT
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO SOCIETE FINANCIERE SENEGALAISE
POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'INDUSTRIE ET DU TOURISME
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan of US$4.2 million to the Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Develop-
pement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT) with the guarantee of the
Republic of Senegal. US$4 million of the Loan amount would help meet
SOFISEDIT's requirements for financing the foreign exchange component of
approved industrial and tourism projects through December 1978; the remaining
US$200,000 would be passed on to the Societe Nationale d'Etudes et de Promotion
Industrielle (SONEPI) to help develop an integrated scheme for providing
assistance to small-scale Senegalese entrepreneurs. Amortization of the
proposed Loan would conform substantially to the aggregate of the amorti-
zation schedules applicable to the specific investment projects financed,
which would not exceed 18 years. Interest on the loan would be 8.90 percent
per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.         A report entitled "The Economy of Senegal" (212-SE) was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on September 10, 1973. Since then, special
missions visited Senegal to improve the macroeconomic data base, to study
migration flows, and to review the financial situation of the public sector.
The following paragraphs reflect the findings of these missions, whose con-
clusions will be included in a basic economic report to be prepared later
this year. Updated country data appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.        Senegal is situated at the extreme western part of the African con-
tinent. In the interior, the mainstay of the economy is millet cultivation
and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic consumption, and groundnut cultiva-
tion for exports. Soils are generally poor, and variations in rainfall
periodically cause severe food shortages in the months between the sowing
and harvesting of the next crop. The large river basins -- some of them
fed in the tropical rain zone -- have so far been exploited only marginally.
Land distribution is fairly even. In the western part of the country arable
land is becoming scarce, but in the extreme south-east some good land is
still available. The modern sector of the economy is concentrated in Dakar,
a well organized city of about 1 million inhabitants. The economic base of
Dakar consists of excellent port facilities, an industry which is turning
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
gradually toward exports, and a small but fast-growing tourist sector.
Senegal's per capita GNP for 1975 was estimated at $370, but average in-
come in Dakar is roughly five times as high as in the countryside.
4.        During the 1960s, the Senegalese economy experienced virtual stag-
nation as real output increased less rapidly than population, and per capita
GNP declined. Two factors were responsible for this situation. First, with
independence, Senegal lost its privileged position as the center of French
West Africa, and therefore had to adjust to reduced economic, administrative
and political circumstances. Secondly, in the latter part of the decade,
groundnut production fell due to unfavorable weather and declining export
prices. In the 1970s, a new stage in Senegal's development set in, charac-
terized by a higher rate of private and public investment. Private invest-
ments, which had hovered around 4 percent of GDP in the late 1960s, rose to
8 percent during the period 1970-75. Until 1972, public investments stayed
at around 5.5 percent of GDP, but increased to 7 percent in 1975. However,
the nation's output and income continued to be determined primarily by
weather conditions and the level of world market prices.
5.        The year 1972 brought the Sahel's most severe drought in this cen-
tury, and GDP declined. Emergency food operations were needed to avoid wide-
spread starvation in the countryside. But the modern sector in Dakar main-
tained its high level of investments, and output and exports of industrial
goods increased. Only in 1973 did industrial production experience a signi-
ficant decline due especially to lack of raw materials in the important
groundnut processing industry. After 1973, when weather conditions improved
and purchasing power of the rural population was restored, both agricultural
and industrial production shot up. The long-standing Government program to
modernize rainfed agriculture proved to be very successful in years with
better rains. In 1975/76 the groundnut crop reached a historical record of
1.45 million tons, more than double the average for the 1968-73 period;
manufacturing industry grew by aboutll percent per year between 1973 and 1975.
Total production increased in real terms by 5 percent in 1974 and 7 percent
in 1975, and the outlook for 1976 is for continued growth at the 1975 rate.
6.         Strong price increases for Senegal's major exports helped to
bring about the economic recovery. Groundnut prices tripled between 1969
and 1974, and phosphate prices quintupled during the same period, both pro-
viding strong incentives to production. However, since prices of imported
oil and food also increased at high rates, the gains in real income from
the rise in export prices were limited. Moreover, in 1975 international
prices for Senegal's exports began to fall again. These wide international
price fluctuations had serious consequences on domestic prices, public fi-
nance, and balance of payments.
Public Finance and Pricing Policies
7.        The Government responded with considerable flexibility in the
adoption of economic policies. In 1974, the Government initially tried to
maintain stable domestic prices in the face of the skyrocketing food import



- 3 -
prices. By end-1974, it became clear that the costs of this policy were
becoming excessive and that changes would need to be made, even though trans-
fers to the public sector resulting from improved groundnut production and
prices were much higher than in the preceding year. To reduce subsidies
and put public finances on a sounder footing, the Government raised the
prices for rice, sugar and groundnut oil by 40 to 90 percent, although sub-
sidies on flour have been continued. To compensate for the rapid increase
in basic food prices, Government salaries were raised on average by 16 per-
cent, with actual increases ranging from 60 percent for the lower grades to
3 percent for the higher ones. Average consumer prices rose by some 20 per-
cent in four months' time, but the Government managed to stabilize prices
almost completely thereafter. At the same time the Government also in-
creased producer prices for groundnuts to bring them closer to world
prices which were particularly high. The cost to the Treasury of this
latter step was expected to be compensated in large part by additional
revenues from the extremely profitable phosphate mine in which the Govern-
ment increased its participation while levying a 100 percent tax on the ex-
cess profits accruing from the price rise on the world market. In recent
years, Government revenues from phosphates have amounted to roughly $45
million a year.
8.        These steps led to an increase in public savings from a yearly
average of US$27 million during fiscal years 1970 to 1973, to US$64 million
during fiscal years 1974 to 1976. The higher level of public savings was
doubtless an important factor in stimulating the Government to increase
its expenditure on new investments from a yearly average of US$24 million
to US$69 million during the same two periods. In addition to the rise in
investment, average yearly participation and lending to domestic enterprises
by the Government increased from US$5 million to US$45 million, mainly be-
cause of the participation in the phosphate mine and the acquisition of
two foreign-owned public utility companies. The combined capital outlays
of the Government were thus substantially in excess of public savings, and
were financed in large part through foreign bank loans. As a consequence,
foreign debt service carried by the Central Government increased from $7
million in FY73 to $18 million in FY75, representing about 5 percent of
Central Government revenues.
Balance of Payments
9.        The balance of payments came under heavy pressure in 1973 because
of low groundnut exports and increasing imports of equipment goods, and net
foreign reserves fell to minus US$31 million. In the following years the
deficit on current transactions was brought back to satisfactory proportions,
but the outflows of private capital related to the acquisition of foreign
enterprises continued, and net foreign reserves reached a level of minus
US$62 million at the end of 1975. This was financed by US$30 million in IMF
oil facilities, and the rest by increasing indebtedness of the mostly for-
eign-owned commercial banks with their parent companies. Senegal's member-
ship in the West African Monetary Union lessens the risks usually associated
with such low foreign reserves.



10.       During the current year, 1976, the balance of payments will remain
under pressure. The state marketing board has purchased the large groundnut
crop from the farmers at the favorable prices established in 1974, injecting
massive purchasing power into the economy. Investments and economic activity
are therefore likely to continue their fast growth, and will substantially
increase the demand for imports. However, export revenues are expected to
stagnate, since groundnut prices are 40 percent below the 1974 peak, and
phosphate prices are down by 50 percent. Price declines of the same order
of magnitude have already taken place in some of Senegal's food imports,
but the net effect on the terms of trade is likely to be negative. If the
Government is to maintain investment and growth, foreign capital aid from
traditional sources is likely to be about US$25 million short of filling the
financial gap.
11.       The drop in export prices also creates a considerable problem in
public finance. The losses on groundnut transactions in the stabilization
fund will probably be compensated to a large extent by gains on the domestic
sales of rice and sugar imports, but revenues from excess profits on phos-
phate operations will disappear, and the dividend payment will be substan-
tially reduced. Even with substantial reductions in new capital participa-
tion, public savings may not suffice to support the present level of capital
expenditures. To replace the loss in phosphate revenues, the Government has
already decided to increase duties on imports from the EEC, and is actively
considering further tax increases in the framework of the general tax reform.
So far the Government has shown no inclination to solve its problems by re-
imposing a tax burden on the groundnut farmer, but is looking for ways to
increase its revenues from the modern sector and the wealthier segment of
the urban population.
Prospects and Creditworthiness
12.       The Government's long-range development strategy remains based on
promotion of agriculture and export-oriented activities. The agricultural
program calls for development of areas less affected by rainfall fluctua-
tions (Casamance and Eastern Senegal) where cash crops other than ground-
nuts can be grown. Irrigated cereal production is being developed in the
arid northern part of the country along the Senegal River. This policy
will make the country less dependent on the uncertainties of its climate
and world market prices. But since the majority of the rural poor are
involved in groundnut farming, the Government continues its efforts to
promote animal traction, treated seeds, fertilizer use, and crop rotation
to raise the productivity of farmers.
13.       Government's strategy will also gradually improve the structure
of the balance of payments. Tourism, some new export industries, and an
important expansion of phosphate rock mining will provide additional for-
eign resources, and the implementation of existing irrigation plans will
progressively diminish the need for large food imports for urban centers.
These prospects, combined with a favorable long-term outlook for groundnut
production, should result in a healthier trade balance in the early 1980's.



-5-
The favorable long-term prospects remain contingent on execution of the
investment program, most of which will have to be financed from abroad at
a rate of about US$125 million annually largely on concessionary terms.
Traditional sources of aid will probably not suffice, and it will take time
before new aid flows are developed. Part of the expected balance of payments
deficits over the next two or three years could be financed through access to
the expanded IMF facilities; but additional foreign exchange resources over
and above foreseeable project aid at a rate of about $25 million a year will
probably be needed. Assuming that additional borrowing to cover the gap is
done on Eurodollar terms, debt service would increase from 6 percent of
exports of goods and non-factor services in 1975, to roughly 10 percent by the
end of the 1970s. In view of Senegal's prospects for long-term diversification
and growth, the relatively light debt service burden, its access to short-term
financing facilities, and membership in the West African Monetary Union, the
country remains creditworthy for IBRD lending.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
14.       The Bank Group has had 28 operations in Senegal to date.     Total
outstanding lending amounts to US$151.06 million, including sixteen IDA
credits, eight Bank loans, two blends of Bank and IDA funds, three IFC opera-
tions, and one blend of Bank and IFC funds. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of July 31, 1976,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
15.       Execution of these projects, apart from the Railway Project, is
progressing without exceptional delays. The procurement for the Railway
Project has been slow due to time-consuming contract approval procedures,
but most components have now been received or ordered. Two agricultural
credits (140-SE and 404-SE) provided for technical assistance designed to
facilitate reorganization of the Office National de Cooperation et d'Assis-
tance au Developpement (ONCAD), the national marketing agency, but the pro-
grams did not achieve the anticipated results. The Government took steps
in early 1975 to strengthen ONCAD's management and financial operations, but
its overall performance has not improved (see Annex II).
16.       In view of Senegal's need for substantially higher capital inflows,
the scale of Bank Group lending is expected to increase significantly in
the future. The Bank Group share of foreign aid disbursements (including
grants) is expected to increase from about 6 percent in 1970/71 to 24 percent
over the 1974-80 period, making it by that time Senegal's largest aid donor.
The Bank Group's share of the outstanding and disbursed debt will increase
from 12 percent at the end of 1973 to about 25 percent by 1980. The Bank/IDA
share in public debt service is expected to increase from 2.2 percent in 1973
to about 8 percent by 1980.



17.       The objectives of Bank Group project lending in Senegal fall under
four main headings. Priority is being given to rural development, including
development of irrigation in the Senegal River Valley Region (e.g., the
ongoing River Polders project, and the proposed Debi Lampsar Irrigation
Development project), intensification of groundnut production and diversifica-
tion into new crops and new regions (e.g., the Sine Saloum, Terres Neuves and
Livestock projects, and the Second Sedhiou project in Casamance); as in the
past, we would expect our agricultural lending over the next few years to
exceed one-third of the total. Secondly, we have supported diversification
of the economy by lending to the growing industrial sector through SOFISEDIT,
a development finance company established with Bank Group assistance in 1974;
this diversification objective is being further assisted by the proposed
second SOFISEDIT project presented in this report, and by a proposed project
for the development of tourism infrastructure on the Petite Cote which we
appraised in December 1975. Thirdly, we have encouraged modernization and
expansion of the country's infrastructure through lending for highways,
feeder roads, railways, and the Port of Dakar; we propose to pursue this
effort through a second Dakar Port project appraised earlier this year.
Finally, Government has asked us to help re-orient and expand the country's
education system, and we are in the process of identifying a follow-up oper-
ation to our Second Education Project.
PART III: INDUSTRY, TOURISM, AND BANKING
The Industrial Sector
18.        In the years following independence, industrial enterprises in
Senegal faced problems of excess capacity due to the loss of the West African
market for manufactured products as local industries developed in the newly
independent nations. Despite this handicap, growth of the sector has been
steady, and its contribution to GDP increased from 13 percent in 1960 to
17 percent in 1970 and 20 percent in 1974; manufacturing accounted for about
12 percent of total GDP in 1974, and for almost 60 percent of value added in
the industrial sector. Overall economic growth in the country since the
early 1960s is largely attributable to the dynamic role of the industrial
sector (defined to include manufacturing as well as mining, energy, and
production of construction materials) which has grown at about 5-6 percent
annually.
19.       The growth of industry is largely explained by the textile/leather
and mechanical/electrical subsectors which accounted for almost 60 percent
of the recent increase in value, while foodstuffs and chemical industries
represented another 25 percent of the total increase. Over the next five
years, development in the manufacturing sector is expected to focus on
activities in textiles, construction materials, and fish canning.



20.       Of the estimated 350 enterprises in the modern sector, less than
10 percent are owned by Senegalese; in 1972, about 85 percent of all
industrial assets were owned by French investors, and about 80 percent of
executives and senior technicians were Europeans. The Government itself
has made several equity investments in industrial companies, and is buying
participation in key industries such as phosphate mines and groundnut oil
mills. It encourages foreign investment, but also seeks opportunities for
Senegalese-owned enterprises and joint Senegalese/foreign ventures.
21.       Government support for Senegalese entrepreneurship led to its
creating in 1969 the Societe Nationale d'Etudes et de Promotion Industrielle
(SONEPI), a predominantly public corporation which assists the development
of local enterprises, particularly small- and medium-scale companies, by
providing technical assistance, management training, and some financial
assistance.
22.       Later, to help meet the financial needs particularly of medium-
sized industries, SOFISEDIT was created in 1974 with assistance by the Bank
and IFC to provide term capital for industrial and tourism projects. In
cooperation with SONEPI, SOFISEDIT has started to provide financial assis-
tance to some small-scale Senegalese enterprises, and it is expected that
about 10-15 percent of SOFISEDIT's future lending will be to companies oper-
ating in this sector. However, since SOFISEDIT is not principally oriented
toward the small-scale sector, any involvement in this respect will have
to be undertaken in continued cooperation with SONEPI.
23.       The Government's strategy for future industrial development is
essentially as follows:
(i) stimulation of export-oriented industries particularly through
measures such as (a) the restructured Investment Code which
guarantees to foreign investors the free repatriation of their
invested capital and earnings, and which also extends the
benefits of various fiscal and customs advantages to enter-
prises of differing sizes and in several sectors; and (b) an
industrial Duty-Free Zone now being established and for which
several enterprises have already been accepted;
(ii) Government participation in the development of large agro-
industrial and mining projects;
(iii) increased Senegalese participation in management and owner-
ship, to which end industrial concerns are now required to
present plans to train local staff and place them in manage-
ment positions by 1981; and
(iv) provision of technical assistance and financial support
for small- and medium-sized industries through SONEPI and
SOFISEDIT.



-8-
24.       Government strategy is also aimed at decentralizing industry as
much as possible away from Dakar and the Cap Vert region to achieve a more
balanced geographic development of the sector. Encouragement for such de-
centralization has been provided under the Investment Code, but it is never-
theless not likely to occur on any significant scale in the near future
because of the very limited infrastructure in the interior of the country,
and the difficulty in finding skilled manpower in these regions.
25.       Particularly in view of all the activities and efforts as discussed
above, development of the industrial sector is expected to continue over the
period 1975-80 at about 7 percent annually.
26.       Bank Group involvement in the industrial sector has so far concen-
trated on improving manpower training through an industrial upgrading school
financed under the ongoing Second Education Project, and on making long-term
credit available through a combination Bank Loan/IFC investment in SOFISEDIT.
The Tourism Sector
27.       Tourism is one of the few modern sectors in which a country like
Senegal with relatively few natural resources can hope to expand in the
future. Tourism assets include a pleasant climate for most of the year
(particularly during the European winter), attractive beaches, and a rich
folklore. With its excellent international airport and strategic location
on the Europe-North Africa-America air routes, the country has begun to
realize its potential for growth in this sector. Tourism is now the third
major source of foreign exchange, after groundnuts and phosphates.
28.       Prior to 1973, hotel capacity was concentrated in the Dakar area
and other urban centers, and accommodation consisted chiefly of small estab-
lishments catering almost exclusively to business traffic. Since then,
however, following the Government's decision to give priority to tourism
development, hotel capacity tripled over 1973-75; two-thirds of this addi-
tional capacity was in large hotels in Dakar, with the remainder in vaca-
tion villages on the Petite Cote and Casamance beach areas to the south.
Most of the hotels are of high standard, and luxury establishments account
for over half of total capacity. Only a few of the smaller hotels, however,
are managed by Senegalese.
29.       About one-half of the new hotel capacity added since 1973 has been
financed by the Government, and the remainder about equally by local and
foreign private investors. Privately-owned hotels have been financed by
short- and medium-term loans which were readily available from local commer-
cial banks, and by long-term credit which, until the establishment of SOFISEDIT
in late 1974, had to be found abroad. Long-term funds for hotel construction
are also available from the Banque Senegalo-Koweitienne, though on terms
slightly less attractive than those of SOFISEDIT.
30.       Concurrent with the expansion and diversification of hotel capacity,
visitor arrivals doubled and registered bed-nights tripled over the period



-9 -
1972-74; traffic in 1974 was 14% higher than in the previous year compared
with a 3% decrease worldwide.
31.       The rapid growth in visitor arrivals during 1972-74 is reflected
in increased gross foreign exchange receipts from tourists which more than
tripled over the period; in 1974 they represented an estimated 7 percent of
total export earnings, and present forecasts indicate that by 1980 this
proportion would increase to almost 20 percent. Net foreign exchange revenues
from tourism are estimated at about 60 percent of gross receipts. About
2,800 Senegalese are employed directly in the hotel industry; a further
5,500 jobs indirectly attributable to the tourism sector involve the produc-
tion and sale of handicrafts, as well as services in agriculture, construc-
tion, and transport.
32.       The Government has only recently recognized the potential benefits
of tourism, and the 1973-77 Five-Year Plan for the first time accorded high
priority to development of the sector. Manifestations of this new priority
included restructuring of the Investment Code to provide special incentives
for hotel investors, active Government participation in financing hotel
construction, and creation of a special agency (reporting directly to
the Prime Minister) which is responsible for the general promotion of
tourism.
33.       As further evidence of this new priority, the Five-Year Plan
includes an investment program of about US$90 million equivalent for hotel
construction providing a total capacity of about 10,000 beds; the emphasis in
this development was to be directed to three areas, Cap Vert, Petite Cote,
and Casamance. Although only about half of this ambitious target will be
achieved, hotel capacity will have increased almost three-fold by the end
of the Plan period in 1977, largely because of the improved investment
climate and the Government's own participation in the sector.
34.       The Bank Group has appraised a project to develop infrastructure
for the 2,250-bed first phase of a tourism center on the Petite Cote south
of Dakar; the project will also include construction of a 250-bed pilot
hotel, restoration of Goree Island near the Port of Dakar as a historical
and tourist attraction, and technical assistance to help plan and coordi-
nate Government investments in the sector.
Banking Institutions
35.       Senegal is a member of the West African Monetary Union established
in 1962 and composed of six countries with a common central bank, the Banque
Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO). Other established finan-
cial institutions in the country include four commercial banks and seven
specialized institutions.
36.       The commercial banks have used their short-term deposits predom-
inantly for short-term lending; medium-term lending has been financed by
the small amount of term deposits, and more generally by rediscounting at



-9 -
1972-74; traffic in 1974 was 14% higher than in the previous year compared
with a 3% decrease worldwide.
31.       The rapid growth in visitor arrivals during 1972-74 is reflected
in increased gross foreign exchange receipts from tourists which more than
tripled over the period; in 1974 they represented an estimated 7 percent of
total export earnings, and present forecasts indicate that by 1980 this
proportion would increase to almost 20 percent. Net foreign exchange revenues
from tourism are estimated at about 60 percent of gross receipts. About
2,800 Senegalese are employed directly in the hotel industry; a further
5,500 jobs indirectly attributable to the tourism sector involve the produc-
tion and sale of handicrafts, as well as services in agriculture, construc-
tion, and transport.
32.       The Government has only recently recognized the potential benefits
of tourism, and the 1973-77 Five-Year Plan for the first time accorded high
priority to development of the sector. Manifestations of this new priority
included restructuring of the Investment Code to provide special incentives
for hotel investors, active Government participation in financing hotel
construction, and creation of a special agency (reporting directly to
the Prime Minister) which is responsible for the general promotion of
tourism.
33.       As further evidence of this new priority, the Five-Year Plan
includes an investment program of about US$90 million equivalent for hotel
construction providing a total capacity of about 10,000 beds; the emphasis in
this development was to be directed to three areas, Cap Vert, Petite Cote,
and Casamance. Although only about half of this ambitious target will be
achieved, hotel capacity will have increased almost three-fold by the end
of the Plan period in 1977, largely because of the improved investment
climate and the Government's own participation in the sector.
34.       The Bank Group has appraised a project to develop infrastructure
for the 2,250-bed first phase of a tourism center on the Petite Cote south
of Dakar; the project will also include construction of a 250-bed pilot
hotel, restoration of Goree Island near the Port of Dakar as a historical
and tourist attraction, and technical assistance to help plan and coordi-
nate Government investments in the sector.
Banking Institutions
35.       Senegal is a member of the West African Monetary Union established
in 1962 and composed of six countries with a common central bank, the Banque
Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO). Other established finan-
cial institutions in the country include four commercial banks and seven
specialized institutions.
36.       The commercial banks have used their short-term deposits predom-
inantly for short-term lending; medium-term lending has been financed by
the small amount of term deposits, and more generally by rediscounting at



- 11 -
39.       The Societe Nationale de Garantie et d'Assistance au Commerce
(SONAGA) gives accounting assistance and manages a guarantee fund for loans
to Senegalese-owned commercial and transport enterprises. The Societe
Nationale de Promotion de Tourisme (SNTP) manages the portfolio of Govern-
ment's minority participations in hotel companies, and undertakes feasibility
studies of hotel projects.
Credit Policy
40.       Credit distribution and interest rates charged by banks on short-
and medium-term lending are controlled by BCEAO through the discount system;
banks charge clients varying spreads over the discount rate depending on the
risk involved. Since July 1975 BCEAO has offered a priority discount rate of
5.5 percent for agricultural short-term financing, national small-scale
enterprises (with outstanding borrowings below CFAF 20 million), and loans to
individuals for housing; the discount rate was increased from 5.5 to 8 percent
for all other operations. The maximum term of discounts was increased from
seven to ten years. The on-lending rates for long-term loans from development
banks and long-term finance institutions which operate on their own resources
are indirectly influenced by BCEAO through its membership on the boards,
although the cost of their external sources is normally the major determinant
of the on-lending rate. A tax is charged by Government on internal income at
a rate of 9.29 percent, and is collected by the banks; SOFISEDIT's loans are
exempted from this tax until 1980.
41.       Prior to January 1, 1976, BCEAO determined an annual discount
ceiling for each country within the Monetary Union, and then allocated dis-
count ceilings to individual banks and enterprises. BCEAO has now introduced
a revised system whereby the individual discount ceilings to banks will
be withdrawn; instead, in agreement with Governments of each member country,
priority sectors for discounting will be determined, and a BCEAO review
committee will evaluate the suitability of a given project against these
priorities. Discounts to banks by BCEAO will not be automatic, and BCEAO may
offer only partial discounts in both term and amount depending on the sectoral
priorities of projects. BCEAO discounting limits for medium-term loans, which
are generally used to finance local costs and cover the import component of an
investment where external finance is not available, will continue at existing
levels, i.e., up to 90 percent of project cost for national small-scale
enterprises, 65 percent for industrial enterprises, and 50 percent for other
projects. There will also be a further requirement that banks must utilize
their own liquid resources for investments before seeking discounts at BCEAO.
42.       The effects of these changes in the BCEAO discounting procedures
are not yet apparent; however, it is likely that in the absence of automatic
discounts, the commercial banks will be hesitant to propose projects requiring
discountable funds for 7-10 years in case BCEAO refuses their application and
they have to use their own short-term deposits to finance the projects. This
may result in financial institutions with medium/long-term resources receiving
an increased demand for their funds. Institutions like SOFISEDIT with strong
evaluation and appraisal capability should be able to demonstrate through



- 12 -
their analyses why their projects are of high economic priority to Senegal,
thereby increasing the likelihood of their receiving discountable funds from
BCEAO.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
43.       The Government of Senegal has requested Bank assistance to help
meet SOFISEDIT's requirements for term financing of the foreign exchange
component of approved industrial and tourism projects through December 1978.
The present project was appraised in December 1975, and negotiations were
held in Washington in July 1976 with a Senegalese delegation headed by
Mr. Tidiane N'Diaye, Director of Finance in the Ministry of Planning. The
appraisal report (No. 1152a-SE) is being circulated separately to the Execu-
tive Directors. A loan and project summary is provided in Annex III.
Background
44.        SOFISEDIT was established by the Government in 1974 to meet an
urgent need for an independent institution specialized in long-term financing
of industrial and tourism projects. In this capacity, and also as a national
institution with international contacts, SOFISEDIT should become an important
promotional channel for foreign investors to contribute to the development of
industry and tourism in Senegal.
45.        The Government asked the Bank Group in 1972 to assist in the estab-
lishment and financing of SOFISEDIT. Its formation, operating policies,
management and staffing requirements, and appraisal procedures, were pre-
pared by a Working Group which included representatives of its prospective
shareholders and of SONEPI. In November 1973, a Bank/IFC mission carried
out an appraisal in close collaboration with this Working Group, and in May
1974 the Executive Directors approved a Loan of US$3 million and an IFC equity
investment of US$230,000. It is expected that the first Loan will be fully
committed by the end of 1976, at which time the proceeds of the proposed
second Loan would be needed to permit further development of SOFISEDIT's
operations.
Capital and Shareholders
46.        SOFISEDIT was incorporated in March 1974 as a "societe anonyme"
under the Senegal Commercial Code and as a financing institution subject
to the banking legislation of BCEAO. It has an authorized share capital
of CFAF 650 million (about US$3 million equivalent) subscribed by the Gov-
ernment and by Senegalese public sector institutions (34 percent), BCEAO
(12 percent), three private commercial banks operating in Senegal (7.7 per-
cent each), the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), Deutsche
Entwicklungsgesellschaft (DEG), and IFC (7.7 percent each), private Senegalese
investors (6 percent), and the Fidelity International Bank of Philadelphia
(1.5 percent).



- 13 -
Board of Directors, Management, and Staff
47.       The Board consists of 12 members, including the Chairman,
Mr. Ibrahima N'Diaye, who is also SOFISEDIT's President and Director-
General. Directors represent the Central Bank, the Mlinistries of
Finance and of Planning, the four commercial banks, and BNDS, CCCE, DEG,
and IFC. The Board meets four times a year and reviews all projects.
48.        The Deputy Director-General of SOFISEDIT is a member of the Bank's
DFC Department seconded originally for a two-year assignment; the Director
of Investments was also recruitecl by the Bank for a two-year term. The Bank
has agreed to a request by the Government and SOFISEDIT that these two experts
remain for a third year (until mid-1977) to complete training and development
of local staff. The Government will pay 80 percent of the cost of these
additional services, and SOFISEDIT the remainder.
49.        SOFISEDIT's organization includes an Investment Department respon-
sible for project appraisal, implementation and follow-up, and an Administra-
tive Services/Accounting Department supervised by the Deputy Director-General.
Total staff at June 30, 1976 was 21 persons, of whom three are managers and
six other professionals. The existing organization and staffing is considered
adequate for SOFISEDIT's current and expected level of operations, and no
additional professional staff are expected to be hired until about 1979.
Operating Policies and Procedures
50.       Rates charged by SOFISEDIT on loans for industry and tourism
projects vary between 11 and 13 percent for medium-term loans (up to and
including ten years). For long-term loans, the rate was 10.5 percent until
June 1976 when it was increased to 12 percent, a level more consistent with
prevailing short- and medium-term lending rates in the country, and which
is competitive with other long-term sources of funds, and would improve
profitability. SOFISEDIT applies an additional commitment charge of 0.85
percent on the undisbursed portion of all loans. SOFISEDIT charges an in-
terest rate of 11 percent for long-term funds to small-scale Senegalese
enterprises, in line with Central Bank policy of granting lower discount
rates on short- and medium-term loans in this sector.
51.       The first Bank Loan to SOFISEDIT has been its only foreign borrow-
ing to date, and the Government had assumed the foreign exchange risk on
all sub-loans made from the proceeds of that Loan. This same arrangement
will apply under the proposed second Loan, in view of the very limited ex-
perience of industrial investors regarding the risks involved in borrowing
foreign exchange, and also to counter the possible adverse influence on
SOFISEDIT's operations of passing on to its borrowers the risk on Bank
funds.
52.       SOFISEDIT's procedures for project appraisal, -procurement and
disbursement, and for internal accounting are considered adequate. Proce-
dures for project follow-up are now under preparation; at present, SOFISEDIT



- 14 -
makes periodic visits to its projects under construction, and the promoter is
required to keep the company informed of the status of project implementation.
With particular reference to the project appraisal done so far, there is
already recognition of the very good quality of this work, and SOFISEDIT is
seen as a sound institution by both the Senegalese Government and the banking
and business community.
53.        SOFISEDIT's accounts are presently being reviewed and audited
by Fiduciaire France-Afrique, a leading audit firm in Senegal. The quality
of the first audit of the accounts as of September 30, 1975 is satisfactory.
Current and Future Operations
54.       From its inception through June 30, 1976, SOFISEDIT approved 19
loans totalling CFAF 1.4 billion and five equity investments totalling CFAF
86.5 million. The projects range in size from total costs of CFAF 9 million
to about CFAF 725 million. Thirteen of the 19 projects approved are new
operations, five are for expansion of existing facilities, and one for moder-
nization. As regards the sectoral distribution of these enterprises, ten are
in industry, seven in tourism, one in fisheries, and one in mining. It is
estimated that these projects will create about 1,130 new jobs, and will
generate value added in production of about CFAF 2.2 billion per annum, and an
annual net gain in foreign exchange of about CFAF 1.8 billion.
55.       Under the first US$3 million Bank Loan, five projects have so
far been approved for a total amount of US$1,852,000. These included opera-
tions in manufacturingchemical plaster, for expansion of a brewery and soft
drink factory and of a textile company using locally produced cotton, and for
a new 50 double-room hotel; all show very satisfactory financial and economic
rates of return. Another project in the hotel sector (about US$530,000)
is currently under review in the Bank.
56.        For 1976 and 1977, SOFISEDIT has a pipeline of 20 projects with
total investment requirements of CFAF 6.1 billion (about US$27 million equiv-
alent); the potential SOFISEDIT investment in these projects amounts to
CFAF 1.5 billion (US$6.7 million) in medium- and long-term loans, and CFAF
96 million (US$0.4 million) in equity investments. Fifteen of the projects
will have Senegalese majority ownership; four are in the small- and medium-
scale range requiring individual total investments of less than CFAF 100
million (US$0.4 million). SOFISEDIT financial assistance to small-scale
entrepreneurs is being provided in cooperation with SONEPI, and it has
prepared and submitted to the Bank a program outlining its strategy and
the promotional activities it proposes to undertake to stimulate develop-
ment of the small-scale sector.
57.        Over the longer period from 1977-80, there are now 34 projects
in the pipeline with a total estimated investment of CFAF 14.6 billion



- 15 -
(US$65 million), of which SOFIDESIT's financing is forecast at about CFAF
3.0 billion (US$13.3 million) in loans and CFAF 200 million (US$0.9 mil-
lion) in equity investments. With such a project pipeline, SOFISEDIT con-
tinues to develop as a major source of term-financing for the industrial
and tourism sectors in Senegal. The Company's operations are expected to
increase substantially over the next five years, primarily because (i) its
fixed interest rate of 12 percent for long-term finance (above ten years)
should be competitive over the life of the proposed loan with other insti-
tutions which offer floating Eurodollar based rates: (ii) its superior
project appraisal capability will enhance the probability of its projects
receiving medium-term rediscounted funds from the Central Bank under the new
procedures; and (iii) the demand on SOFISEDIT for term funds will increase
should commercial banks become deterred from considering projects for redis-
counted term-financing of up to ten years.
58.       For its first 18 months' operation to September 30, 1975, SOFISEDIT
accounts showed a small loss of CFAF 2.5 million, due primarily to high
personnel and administrative costs and low revenues as a result of the slow
development of initial projects. There was also some loss of potential
earnings in short-term investments due to delays in payment of equity subscrip-
tions. For the period October 1, 1975 to June 30, 1976, the accounts show
a further loss of CFAF 15 million. Income from loans increased significantly
during that time, and accounted for 55 percent of total income as against 4
percent during the preceding 18-month period. Although due to high initial
overheads, SOFISEDIT is not expected to become profitable until 1977, the
institution is financially sound and creditworthy, and its earnings potential
is attractive. Net working capital at June 30, 1976 was approximately CFAF
342 million (about US$1.5 million equivalent). The forecast profitability of
SOFISEDIT through 1978 will be lower than envisaged at appraisal of the first
project, mainly due to administrative expenses which in 1976 represented a
very high 8.7 percent of average total assets, but which are forecast to
decline to about 1.8 percent by 1980.
59.       Present projections of SOFISEDIT's financial performance indicate
that the Company will exhaust its debt capacity in FY 78, under the existing
debt/equity limit of 3:1, at a time when it will have only just become profit-
able. In order for SOFISEDIT to continue to expand its operations thereafter,
either its paid-in share capital will have to be increased or its debt/
equity limit raised. If the shareholders, in particular the Senegalese
Government, are ready to finance a share capital increase in FY 78, it
will not be necessary to increase the debt limit at that time. However,
the projections in the Appraisal Report conservatively assume that share-
holders will require SOFISEDIT to operate profitably for two successive
years (FY77 and 78) before subscribing to a major share capital increase.
This issue has been discussed with SOFISEDIT's management, and the Bank
has agreed to temporarily raise the Company's debt/equity limit to 4:1
between October 1, 1977 and June 30, 1979 to allow expansion of operations.
SOFISEDIT's management has agreed to the principle of a share capital in-
crease, the amount and timing of which would be determined on the basis of
the FY78 accounts.



- 15 -
(US$65 million), of which SOFIDESIT's financing is forecast at about CFAF
3.0 billion (US$13.3 million) in loans and CFAF 200 million (US$0.9 mil-
lion) in equity investments. With such a project pipeline, SOFISEDIT con-
tinues to develop as a major source of term-financing for the industrial
and tourism sectors in Senegal. The Company's operations are expected to
increase substantially over the next five years, primarily because (i) its
fixed interest rate of 12 percent for long-term finance (above ten years)
should be competitive over the life of the proposed loan with other insti-
tutions which offer floating Eurodollar based rates: (ii) its superior
project appraisal capability will enhance the probability of its projects
receiving medium-term rediscounted funds from the Central Bank under the new
procedures; and (iii) the demand on SOFISEDIT for term funds will increase
should commercial banks become deterred from considering projects for redis-
counted term-financing of up to ten years.
58.       For its first 18 months' operation to September 30, 1975, SOFISEDIT
accounts showed a small loss of CFAF 2.5 million, due primarily to high
personnel and administrative costs and low revenues as a result of the slow
development of initial projects. There was also some loss of potential
earnings in short-term investments due to delays in payment of equity subscrip-
tions. For the period October 1, 1975 to June 30, 1976, the accounts show
a further loss of CFAF 15 million. Income from loans increased significantly
during that time, and accounted for 55 percent of total income as against 4
percent during the preceding 18-month period. Although due to high initial
overheads, SOFISEDIT is not expected to become profitable until 1977, the
institution is financially sound and creditworthy, and its earnings potential
is attractive. Net working capital at June 30, 1976 was approximately CFAF
342 million (about US$1.5 million equivalent). The forecast profitability of
SOFISEDIT through 1978 will be lower than envisaged at appraisal of the first
project, mainly due to administrative expenses which in 1976 represented a
very high 8.7 percent of average total assets, but which are forecast to
decline to about 1.8 percent by 1980.
59.       Present projections of SOFISEDIT's financial performance indicate
that the Company will exhaust its debt capacity in FY 78, under the existing
debt/equity limit of 3:1, at a time when it will have only just become profit-
able. In order for SOFISEDIT to continue to expand its operations thereafter,
either its paid-in share capital will have to be increased or its debt/
equity limit raised. If the shareholders, in particular the Senegalese
Government, are ready to finance a share capital increase in FY 78, it
will not be necessary to increase the debt limit at that time. However,
the projections in the Appraisal Report conservatively assume that share-
holders will require SOFISEDIT to operate profitably for two successive
years (FY77 and 78) before subscribing to a major share capital increase.
This issue has been discussed with SOFISEDIT's management, and the Bank
has agreed to temporarily raise the Company's debt/equity limit to 4:1
between October 1, 1977 and June 30, 1979 to allow expansion of operations.
SOFISEDIT's management has agreed to the principle of a share capital in-
crease, the amount and timing of which would be determined on the basis of
the FY78 accounts.



- 17 -
Senegalese entrepreneurs; this assistance is being provided in recognition
of the need to increase knowledge about ways to help the small-scale sector
in Senegal, in particular enterprises in the informal artisanal sub-sector.
With advice and assistance from the Bank, SONEPI will be expected to use
the funds to do the following: (i) consolidate and evaluate the results of
ongoing statistical studies of the small-scale sector now being carried out
by the Government and the International Labor Office; (ii) define alterna-
tive methods to meet the financial and technical assistance needs of local
entrepreneurs; and (iii) design and test a small pilot project to apply the
necessary inputs in a controlled environment. Given the work already in
progress in the country as stated in item (i) above, the Bank and SONEPI
estimate that a study/pilot project could be executed over two years at a
cost of about CFAF 60 million (approximately US$267,000). The Bank will
finance about three-quarters of this amount (about US$200,000 equivalent)
as proposed, with the remaining CFAF 15 million provided by the Government.
The Bank's contribution will be made available to SOFISEDIT from the pro-
posed $4.2 million Loan, and will be on-lent to SONEPI with the Government
responsible for the commitment fee, and for the repayment of principal and
interest. Details of the above arrangements have been agreed with all par-
ties concerned.
Project Benefits and Risks
66.       The proposed project is expected to produce important benefits
particularly in generating foreign exchange revenue and creating employment in
projects financed by SOFISEDIT; also, the proposed study/pilot project opera-
tion through SONEPI will extend our knowledge of enterprises in the urban
artisanal sub-sector where we hope to have a project in the future. The
proposed Loan will enable SOFISEDIT to continue to develop as a major source
of term-financing for Senegalese entrepreneurs who have so far not had suffi-
cient access to adequate financing, especially in the industry and tourism
sectors in which SOFISEDIT specializes. More generally, the project will allow
continuation of the important institution-building effort to develop SOFISEDIT.
Project risks are no greater than can normally be expected with operations of
this type undertaken by a relatively young and expanding institution.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and SOFISEDIT, the
draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Senegal and the Bank,
the Report of the Committee provided in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and the text of a Resolution
approving the proposed Loan are being distributed separately. The draft
agreements conform generally to the normal pattern for loans to develop-
ment finance companies.
68.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
69.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments:
Washington, D.C.
September 7, 1976



Page I of 1. pages
TABLE DA
LAID AREA C THOU AMO)        ~~~SENEGAL- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -SE4rGAL                                           REFERENCE CO1TORIES (19r0
TOTAL       1 96. 2                                      MOST TECENT
AGRIE.C    .                              19 60      1 970   7ST14ATE           GHANA          IVRYA CCAST     TUNISIA   -
CNFP PER CAPITA (USA)                        220.0 -----2b00         3-70.0-             340.0       3640. 0      370O. 0
PTPULATI)N ANT VITAL STATISTICS
PJP'JLATI0A ER10-YR. MILLION)               .3.4        4. 4         5.0                 S.           . 4        5.1I
POPULATION DENSITT
PER SDUARE KM.                           1f7.0       2 2. 0      25.0                3 6 .0       16.0        3 1. 0
PEq S3. K". ASAICULTURAL LAND*                       39.0          ..0.0                          30.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRuDE V I THI RATE PE0 THOUSOAD         48.0         47.6        47.6                49.8         66.1        66.7
CRUDE DEATH NATE 'E- TROUSAST1           27.5        24.4        23.9                24.6         23.1        16.9
INFAN4T I3RTALITY RATE C/THOU)             .        1 5 6.0     (5 0. 0             15 6.0          ..       125.0
LIFE EX-E:TANC0 AT RIRT9 CTRS)          35. 9        6 0.0       4 0 .0              41. 5        4 1.0       5 1.46
GROSS REP90OUCTI0N RATE                    3. .0                  0.0                 3.2          0.1         3.4
PJPJLATION1 GROWTH PATS (l)
TOTAL                                    Z.j1         2.6         2 .7                2 .6         A: 4  aS2
309 A49                                  3. 5         6. 0                              .                        .1
3696A1 'OPULA TItN CO i F TO TAL)          22. 7       2 9.0          ..28.1.                       29. 0       4 0. 0 /b
AGE STRUCTURE (Pc.RCE%T)
ITO 14 YEARS                          4Z.6        41.2           4. 6.9                        42.5         66.3 /b
15 03 6'. TEAQS                         5 3. 6       54.94 9..                           5        5i.6        S0. ? /b
65 TEARS AND OVER                        3 .          3.9S.9                           3.6         2.'          9 .5 Zi
aGE DE-ENOEN4CT -RAT'IO                     0. 9        0. 8                             I.10        2.8          1.0 /b,
E:0IOMIC OEPENADENCY 3ATI13                 1.2 L        . 2 /a                          1 .4        0.N/         1.3~'
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)               ...                      .                  0.9          .        112.2
USERS( COr0 HARRIET) WORTH)                ...                       .2 .0                          ..10.
EMLAP  PENT
TOTAL LAVOR FORCE (THOUSANO)             1900.0      (600.0           ..        -      300.0      2&O0.0       1000.0 /b
LABOR 'ORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)                .        7 3. 0         .                 56. 0       82. 0        5 7.0 lb
JI4ERPLI TED  C207- LABIR FO RCE).                      7. 0          ..5.0 /a                       6. 0        10.0 /b
INCiME 0I50N19'JTI3N
o Or PRIVATE INCORE NEC'S A3- 
HIGHE ST  51 Z O  HOUSEHOLDS             16.8 /b        ..                                                     2 3. 5
HIGHEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS                6    7?       .             .                   ..                   5554
L3WEST   201 Or HOUSEHOLDS                )2      ~    .             ..                              .42i
LOwESt   600 OF HOUSEHOLDS                 .47-        I....7. 1.
3ISVIRIUTIOt DOF LAND OWNERSHIP
t OCAE) 3Y TOP 151 OF OWNERS                 ...                       ...                                       51.   . O
Z OWA4EO 30 SMALLEST 1X01 DWNERS             ..           .           ..                   ..a
H.EALT-4 AND NUTRITION
-)PULATIO'C 'ER PHYSICIAN               22100.0 /c   166L.0.0    1651o.0o /a         12 950.0 A6  1140.0       5 950. 0
0JPULAT ION PER NURSING PERSON               ..-      2680.0      2260.               i 1o70o 7_  2680.0o /d    730.0 it
PJPIJLATIaN PEA R USPI TAL RED            830.0 /d     010.0 /A    840o00 Ia.)         76 0 .0     6900         6 10. 0 /g
'C5 CA'ITA SUPPLY OR 
CALONIES (Z OF RCQJIREHENTS)             91.0        97.0        100.0/c              96.3       103.0         96.0
PROTEIN (GQHMS PER DAY)                  66 .0       64. 0        6 5 .0/c            4 6 .0       6 0. 0      564. 0
.0' WHiICH ANIMAL AND PULSE              .         28.0 /c       I. 0. 0 Ic                     19.0 A       1 4.-0 /h
OCAYN 1ATE C/THRU) AGES 1-4                  ..           .           .                                               A.. 
Eli CA 7105
ADJUJSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PR [MARy SC'HOOL                           ..        38. 0 /d     403.0 /d            56.0 /d      7 6. 0     1 07. 0
SECODAORT SCHOOL                           ..       s95. Ia. e                         9.0  d      1.0 ot      2 0. 0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PRORIOED
(IIRST AN) SECOND LEVEL)                 13 .0       1 3.9        1 3.0               15.0        1 3. 0       11S. 0
VJCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
C?t OF SE CON4D A R Y)                      .         7. 0          ..25.0                          7.         36. 0
AGdLT LITERACY RATE (Z)                      ..         10. 0       1.o /d              2 5.0        2 :0.0
PESOS   PER ROOM CAERGE                     .5 /e.f     2. ....                                                       b
OCCUPIED 3WELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPEO WATERI (Z)                         12.0 /1.      .            .....                                      60. 0 
ACCESS tO ELECTRICITY
CI OF ALL DkELL1NGS)                     96 .0 If       .            ....                                      264-0 /b
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY Cl)                         .            ..
RADIo RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)             67.0         69. 0       6 7. 0              78.0         17.0        77.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER tHOU POP)               6.0          9. 0        8 .a                 5.0        0 0. 0       1 3. 0
ELECYRICITY CRAM/YR PER CAP)               41 .0        FO.-0       9 2 .0              33 8 .0     120.0       1 5 5.0
NEWSPRINT 1KG/YR PER CAP)                   0.1          0.1         0.1                  0.4         0.2          0.1
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



7302 ot 4 pages
NOTES
mines  therwse noed. dta fo  1960 re fer to ann year be twee  1959 end 1961 , for 19 70 boto-en 1968 and 1970l. and for 'lost Reron  F--rt-ttoe
tunisa ha  beenseleied a  an  bjentive teunry b-nause of eon  s,n1tarity Of lie non-y oilth uhe Sengalsntoon.       otluding favorble
psnO   tefr    b  deveOpMent of fisheries and tuorten
SENEGAL              1960     eRai     of pnpiatio    under1 .IIn  65 and O0cr to total lborfrs             Pplte.         /   1963.   /d  1962,
goon.. et_ hosital eerb1ish--st,        n  TIncal, urban andrua       /f1915. data ar     for tonniun  of Iakar
only and refer to RuE-pean type doellinge,,   La   Inside  -1-e
1970    I   Ratio of pupattion under1      -ISn  69 and eve  tO tota  labor forte  lb  C-ornoent hnepital nstabltnluhn-t
/c 1964-66,  Id  Lnedjuntd,     In  berseederY lev-
NIOSE RECENT ESTIMATE-    /n  19725   /b  C-o-eaen    heaplual ee;abliuho.tet     It  1969-71 a-erge ,   /d  1971
GHANA 01970                  I   Rnsiaterd only;     lb  Registsend, not all pratt,itig In the -nutry,     In  1966-68,    /d  6-15 and 16-21 -ear   of
a ge tospattivcly.
IVORY COAST          1975    I   Due to insigrt.ien, grewe   rate Is higher  ha  raeIf -a-rl Innrea...        /b  1965-79;    It  Ratio  fpplto
under 15 and 61 and ever to tersi tue      ore     d   Ceo-runet only,    Ia1964-66,      /f  12-18 year  Of  g
0Ui74l1i1970                 Is1956-66,     /6  1966,    Ic  Ratio of pepola-ls under lb and 65 aed ever Re total labor fer-.       IdInoero-
pie.t,     I  Eoeig4.5 mullen hno....es       f pioae Iaud, neuleding 0.8 nillion h-rrrn       In publIc oiorn-h,ip.
and 21 nilianheotres  f -leotio, land:    If  Pe-rsonnl In gBnesteet e-rlte     only.   La  Coor-oo
hospitaletahiulsse-      onl~y;  /    194-6     Ti   Registerd only.      i  ustenraon          gotb     tsnlvr
than rate of nature1 I_ in.ra..
RS Sug-n 10. 1976
DEPrN0TIDNS OF 3961k!, IDIfDCATRS
1,,d Are! Ith,, k,-,                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~Peeslation  Zpea-nurin  peron  Population divided by norh-r  f pruo~ti-
Totul.1    u    se-fesnna      Dn!nprsg lend  -raad tanJend inher..          .         nn     esedflasgeet             nurse, 0tund       re    tfidoure,
ARrto M.-otreI     nte luae    -faglulea       ara   ad_tea     'niy er pera-           and auxfinry pera-ne    with 'rtngosnrisnon.
noncIn fortuI       nsuu     n-ko ti bihn- garden     ern     t   aln                sslin      c   eptlbd-Pplto               ividd by   -brhr of hoepstol-
bed. snsi~ale Snp    -lnsd 7ru-te 0n       slad s-eialied hospitll
GEN? mr Ca-It a(f05      -fp eraph IS  e   t .ste  as torren  nak-t prisa .d rshbill tat_ one                     . er;  -onldes nuring hess ond -stbli.sheote
raloulatod hr ea.n .utrt     v-1he     n   ol  lank otn    (1973-75 haie) .           fresollan          rosisor
190)  19-0 and 1975 data.                                                          Par caItanpan       fclre       0o    sornun          Cernpa'.d frost
Popolautin aod vital sntietto                                                           o"pit. per day; evilable             -paples -stlre  den,entiopocur
roonutin lndmr. oilliun  - is of July firn    If ne"I  alabe                       isprte I... np-rts, u-d ohenges in stunk; net sapplon      nooudo
--orgo   f  w   ot-y-ar 1c run       960, 1973 and 0 975dat.                          outnal fend, sed,q-anitteo..cd tn food pr..OOalgudlue
ds dltribetion; rqsrsteecte were estostod by FAT Io.ssd on, pls-
eloginl nenda fee n      Isa  untietty and hesith oundertu  nouh-en-
fauv  snuy -prs      re  r   Mil-Ynor PePulatten Per equmre kila-             ..ental twsaprniure, body tesight, age sod n-  dostru~botoono ..Of Pon_
uster  19  6ntsn)of Inialura                                                         leti-, and af11-adg 10% fur nets at houshold level
Puoaund--s,ai-o      onuar iOnf erlo. land - Conp-nd au aho- for               Per oPiaspl         f rttn(re            urrdX) - Pro--' '>.t      r ofy
ag     ",,orl ad onl,.                                                        natenteepynffo.e a;rt supply of fond                     Ldn dIfll"u
11~~~~t.l  tatirtl:~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                   bove; reqer-tent    fur eli o-acrins   -n-.blhllbd by 001US  cso,
i'ntul statlrtoose                                               ~~~~~~~R.seer-hServtte  provide for a n-iioi olruu--  of 6( groo  o/ .ct40
Crude bircIrtepo      souad - A .nual Ion birch. per thntsaad of eid-                  proteian per day, and 20 gron_  fulnisdpls           rti,o       aoh1
y_a Po polao      tn-ee    arth            ..ut .urau  ndtng -n 1960 adi7,           grea9u0e,'aldionusaorot,tiuu,,.i,a                     s-      0.     -
and II ion-rer a-unraRo en-g to 1911 for nes t re..entent.st_ts                      of75 geeof toal. protein end 23 greas       of -nusu  pretet  on      - Or-
Crude deah veto per choa-and - unnua1 deetiw    per the.....d of aid-year              age for th. serld, prepu..ed by FA0 in~ the Third WorlId food lur-o.
yoy.I tt     too- -your arth  IInt  -nrgo  enig in 19611 and1978, and              Per naiaRnooeaoyfotsutledple-Prutntr nupply of food
infan nautolit rot  I 'tou)  Ouvol deths of infats oudn  one year           D-th rate )/tAo) eas    1-l4 - A-n,,.I deutho por thou.uod Ingegru      1-li
of ugnpe    tounandlir vhoErthn.                                                     yearn, te children 00 this age group; suggestd orsotdir         oro     s-
Lfnontaoat-ba th .')-Oeaeoee             of years of life   -reei-             nutritien.
la  otrh1 nul       .nyornus           oln    Ii. 1960, 1infO end 19/h
lenr:;red-ottr r-tI-ltnrge. n,hrof loon dacghsss etanwl .riiu.aneo                                  e r     tie-ernr   ec;hnol - %-reinet of all ugeno
beaOr ther o-1u     r-nrdio-t    period if she enperienosa prene.. atge-              peroen,tge of priatry' vobola      pouaIon; inrL.de. ohilde- age.d
nyoii  ortility rates; usually ftvs-ynor avrgseding la 1960,                     6-I11 years hot ud-nted for different 1engthn of pri-sry eduoution,
1/70  v O I'll  fur derniapSug noutrln.                                               e    ntnrie   rich unIver..al aducnin    -sr  1,,-n ony   -enod 1000
PParultle  or_h  _rte   _l - tota   - Cmpound astna    growth ran- of nid-              sinc  sues ...pupils  c bstoa or abov  the offiota1 sohol age.
near pepolasaoo for 1910-O60,  9~6-9  an   1970-75.                                 Adutd     neltnneni          seesd.y shool - Cunpated us Nhov-      s-r-d-
vubulot-tot       ue()-ubn -r ~      C.epotnd like growth rate ef tonal                ar   dctinrqire             eatfv     yers of apurov- pruaeay iosruo-
paPulti...; diferntde        Ot os  f urban Orson nay effec,t nparu-                  tion; pros-ides generel, ventioal er teacher trsooirg Sotut         orfu
hilitY Of 'iota ucog  eatrtee.                                                        pupils of 12 to17 yease.       g;ueepnet           nre     r    eeol
Urb-  ..Ot-     %of total) - Ratio of urban in  ota1 popolatino.;                  exluded.
di    otd     -ti       r--      r.   nay affect nop .rahility ef date              Yearn of schoollaoingrorided (first and scocnd levels) - Totu1 yenr- of
mint) -bb`        ChIldren (R-l4 ysnsastsigag           1-6    er),            shoholiasg; at secondary level, rou.tioRol   -ntruotin  nay be puti.olly
ondreta-sd;yyecr  sd over) an per...ntego   of ntid~yor popnslatinn.           Voca tionaPl enrellasent (0 of secondeny) - Vuo-tiono1 institutions i-olode
Agn dePendency -rtie - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ever to                  te,,h,innla landstairi1 or other progres  which epertet indnpnndetly
RhEr-of depsrdontyreugh -la          -                                                  r use departent   of soon.dary inatitotioun..
onoto dhepenenc    ruta     -  tt  of pnpalution under 15 und 65 and cver            Adult lit-era   rate   )-Lutrerte edulto (able to red andcrt)u
ta te lbor  orn  tooagegroup of 15-66 year.                                     p-mtigs OtrT          dut pepu.lutin aged 15 ynr- and over.
Fuatily pluooJr - ucoept...nrnltv. hu              Cnse,slatir-n.ahr of
occeptorso    birth onir     evcs    ne    apinee. of nationa   fanuly              H
pacing    Prorus aue ioetin.aeeuo)f                                                                                 kerge    unerofpero"e       errunri OFaSe
'ulypluansn               of stunted wuce) --enntgs        o   a-idTi                       tionuldsslng      i urban ures; deelltngs n      onld  or-peru  -on
0    -iffrETd- lhijigwTIm2715i-        h   use birth-    tonnrl d-vio              strutures and -nvepied pans
to all married women in sane age group.                        Recop,ied akeeMla sitbon ppe     wter (    0) -Onpisd   --vetinn..l de-11-
1 t                                                                 ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ig  i  ra  o  r armlnes sithu  inside or outsid  piped seter
Tota~l  bar ferns   thounund) - F.conoicallyucvepros          including                fAciltie     us pe-rcetage of alO    cuiddeae
1 s f       ydAecess1to egecttrInltr (5 oftall deliO                                                              ) ~ -C Covninl     elig       ith
f r... ..dat exludin            heogein-, studs.t., ettc.                  slottricity- in livig qunrsa       fene     t o  toa  d-eeli,ge ing urbn
defin itlinn In seriou  coutries   1arent ou,perable.                                  erd r-a   _rne
Tlb.rfo-erylygnoutur_() -_igriaturu             labor force (J. farsciag,              Rursl d..elitnes necnscr.d to electrinity (     C)-Cpputed as shae far rura
forestry  Itlactg end flnhing) a    ecnaeo         oa    abrfrn                         elig      ny
.ho p4 2d (%jf   l.bhe  for-p) - Intpl yd are ucunl]y defined as person
.  bI  Id  Iligto tkaha Jobn, nst of a lob on a given day,               Cos     ties
renainsd 00t 00    j ob, und ...kin,g work fa- a epo.cifled itti-a        ~           doe     i   aa5(p~garth7P-p) - All types of recivers fur rdi. brand-
p-rad cet exceeding One wnek; amy net be nonparable betwee      countries              cat.   .ener.iTi   UiEflEier tbouaad of pepulattino   ealudas u--
due to differect defin,itions of bonerloynd end enem    of data, e.g.,                 licensed receivers In neuntries and in yearns h.. registration of
esnapiyvit Offio- etatiattos, sasala survys, ooppulsery, uneloymnet                    radio eat  wee in effet; data fnr recet yearn sy net be -eeparblo
insurun.                                                                              eioo   east countries  bo1inhed licening.
Paeg r cr  (perthou pep  -Paseger cars o       rise  -o'ta  osr  sect-
ocsditriuto     - Percentage of private inneveo (both in cah and                    lagie     ha   ih     eroa     xldes sadmblonos, hearsus and
Hoid) rcive     by lichest 5%, rithest 20%, pooreat 20%, and pnorest                   silitary vehicle.        -  -
60% of households.                                                                    ati4         khY    Po   .,    hunnwl o-`ueptiontof indaatria1, ctsr
tiehY,puillc sod pri.vate electri- ty in kilowat hour    per ..pit.;
Dietributtio~n of land.onrhp-Preigeo-ladondb                     elb                     generaly based en prcdeoti-n data, without alnano        for losses in
Sent1%an ot 109       o0   f land ~owne.                                               grida hut allowing for   arprto and experts of electricity.
M_rit ~k/vr  .r .. )- Per naphin sonnl nrounuptien in ktilngranu
Health sod lstritinn                                                                     i6tiniitfdhrhndonsetin predaution pi-n net lanpert. of neesprint.
e e  rsinla)l - P'pnu'tioe divided by nunber of practicing
~iitEnpi  uaIid from e ndivu1 school at univerity leve...



ANNEX I
ECROMC flVEIfPME2T DA.TA                                             Page 3 of 4 pages
(Amounts in  Milin    of U.S. dollars)T
Actual         ~~Estimated    Projected        19 70-   19 73 -  19 75 -            17        95      18
NATIONAL ACOUT                               _2 94                12       17      198       _Q7      1975      19 80              1970_75_9
Annual data    at 19~71       Prices & Excchange Rates       Av-ergAnulGotRae                     AsPcntfGY
1. GrossDomesticProduct885.1           876.4    911.6       90.4   1,0644.1 1,221.6        -03      57        459.                     101    io.
2.  Gains fom Terms  f Trade  + 2.2      6.5     10.1        -0.7     -24.0   -23.3                            *                0.2    -0.1    -1.9
3.  Gross Domestic Income +1 T2~       EB7       lR17     927.7       97T.Y  i,02U7   ljf9ET         -0.2     5.3       4.1             100. 0   100o .0  100.0-
4.  Import (incl. NFS)                 306.5     301.8    308.6       297.4     349.5   392.6        -0.5     -0.8      5.7              34.5     30.4   32.8
5. ~fl5ffiiortc-pac      ity      261.4    241.9     246.5       271.5    308,8    349.3        -2.5     5.9       5.2              29.5    27.7    29.1
6.  Reouce Gap,      (4'3Y5) 2r   Z    73T-       Sr9   ~rT            !!7Y9    -4E7    -Z.3 ts*r9--51                                            =6      '
7.  Consumption Expenditures           815.1     807.8    844.0       862.3     908.9 1,062.4        -0.3      3.3      4.3               91.9    88.0   88.7
8.  Investment        (cina. stocka)   117.3     135.0    145.8       143.3     151.9   179.2         4.8      3.0      4.6               13.2    14.6    15.0
9.  Domestic Savinga     (8-6)          72.2      75.1     83.7       117.4     111.2   135.9         1.4     25.0      3.0                8.1    12.0    11.3
10.  National Savings                    92.4      94.6     92.7       123.9     118.1   154.5         0.8     14.0      4.5               10.4    12.6    12.9
MERCHANDISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current mc4ea                                                           As Percent of Total
1970      1973     1974        1975      1976    1980
Imports
Capital goods                     43.6      77.3     90.6       131.6     132     190          21.0     30.4      7.6              22.5     23.6    18.3.:,
Tntermediate goods (naifuals)     41.1      67.7    100.3       128.1    123       231         18.1    37.9      12.5              21.2     23.0   22.3
Fuels and related materials       10.9      23.6     64.8        70.7      77     286          29.5     70.0     32.2               5.6     12.6    27.5
(mostly crude oil)
Consumption gosds                 98.3     191.4    240.7       227.7     243     331          24.9      9.0      7.8             550.7     40.8    31.9
Toal Merob. Imports (cif)       Mh39      60.0    4gWT4       55.        M7   1,0F38         2.        48       1.                0.      0.      0
Exports
Groundnuts                        73.6      68.6    141.3       188.4     226     163          -2.3     66.0     -2.9              48.5     41.8    25.8
Phosphate                         11.9      22.2    103.7       104.2      66     165          23.2    184.0      9.6                7.8    23.1    26.1
Petroleum products                 4.2      11.4     22.1        32.4      23      72          39.7     68.5     17.3                2.8     7.2    11.3
Other                             62.2      94.6    123.7       126.0     120     233          1 5. 0   15.4     13.1               40.9    27.9    36.8
Tota1 Merch. 9Exports (fob)2,    151.9    TV.S     3T90.8       ZST.o   izr        n            9.0    52.0       7.1             ITo      T=WO    W21i
Tourism and Border. TradLe-'
Merchandise Trade Indlices                              19'1      100 (in 08$)
Export Price Index                9fl4r-    =13LF   254.9       237.5    198.0    2.58.2
Import Price Index                90.3    160.1     223.8       239.8    222.3    285.3
Terms of Trade Index             101.2     94.4     113.9        99.0     89.1     90.5
Exports Volume Index             132.7    103.9     122.3       151.6    175.0    196.0
VALUE ADDED N3Y SECTOR (at f.c.)   Ax'aral Data at 19 71-   Prices and Exchange Rates            Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of Total
Agriculture                      222.7    187.0     227.4       267.1    326      317.2        -5.7    19.5       3.5              28.5     30.3  28.8
Industry and Mining             128.9     131.8    150.2       159.9     196.3  '224.3          0.8    10.2       7.0              16.5    18.1   20.4
Service                         429.9     445.7     433.5      455.9     418    ..=.6           1.L2    1.1      4.2               55.0    51.6   5.
Total                           781.5     764.5    811.1       829        40310.1             -0.7      7.00io.0                          100.0 100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                  Fiscal Yearsa (Julv'1/June 30) in billin of current CPA Franca                         I               As Percent of GDP
(C-entral G'overnment)          1972/73    1973/74   1974/75     1975/76  1967                        o7M57/5t            08          93      17      9518
Current Receipts                 55.1      55.4      77.3        94.0     93      145       1    .                    11.1         20.3     19.9 19.6    2?T
Current Expenditures   50.8     ~4 9.7    67.5        77.0     85      135              15.3               12.3         18.4     17.5 16.5     18.5
Budgetary Savings                 4.3       5.7       9.8       17.0       8       10 
Other Public Sector Savings       2.4       7.2       0.2         3.5       .       7                                               1.8      2.3         -T . 5
Public Sector Investment         15.0      24.8     26.2        34.0      38      57              32.1               1t8            1.8      1.1   0.4    1.0
7.3      7.6   6.9     8.0
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS (Central Out.)    Actual         Prelia.    Eat.                 DETAIL ON                                    US $ million_______
(As % Total Current Expend.)             1971/72 19727       127.3/74  1974/75              PULCSCO                            hr      ln      % of Total
Education and sports                      21.9    22.4       22.9      22.1                INVESTMF24 PROGRAM                   (19 69/ 70- 19 72/ 7J
Other Social Services (Health)             8.5     8.2        7.8       7.2                Social Sectors                           24.3          11.3
Agriculture                                5.7     5.6        4.9       4.5                Agriculture62490
Other Economic Sirvices                    7.9     7.5        7.7       6.9                Industr-y and Mining                     62.4          29.0
General Servicesl/                        40.4    39.1       38.9      37.5                Water Supply2481.
Other                                    125.6    17.2       18.8      21.8                Transport and communications
Total. Current Expenditures              too.o   100.0      100.0     100.0                Other (inn. Tourism, Rousing)            ii___t
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ T otT tal EE x p e n ditures22 1 5.3   1 0 0.
SELECTED INDICATORS                                 1960-     1965-     1970-    1975 -      FINANCING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)             1965       1970      1975    19 80
Average ICON                                        4.1        10.6      4.7      3.7            Public Sector Savings                51.9          24.1
Deport Elasticity                                                       0.8       0.9           Grants and Official L.oana           125.7          58.3
Mrginal Domestic Savings RateY                                          0.3       013           Loans from Private Sources            37.           17.6
Marginial National Savings Nate A'.                               .     0.2       0.3            Total. Financing                    215.3         100.0
LABOR FORCE AND                         Total Labor Force                    _____Value Added Per Worke (1                     71-      Prices & txn. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WONKEER                InMlin              f    -Totl                              In U.S.Dollsrs      PretoAvernge
19 71               !   119 71                                                      1971i
Agriculture                      0.8                  70                                      238.8                   36.6
Industry                         0.1                   8                                    1,332.0                  284.4
Service                          0.3                  22                                    1,526.7                  234.2
Total                                                TWO                                        r.                   16Uo
not applicable         -nil or negligible       44Rgistered trade only
not available         --less than hl      h         Border made is not known separately. but is included in theadjustements mada.
smallest unit shown            ontergistered trade izr-thz& balance of Payments.
Y Tnolnudtihner Genacrl  Admiois tration, Defense, Justice and Police.
Elxcluded gains crom berss of tra8e.



page t o' t. pilee
BALANce OP PAYMENTS. ERTERNAL ASSISTANCGE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Avg. Annual
Actual                         Estlmated                      Projected                             Grouth Rats
1970     1971     1972    1973     1974         1975          1976     1977    1978      1979    1980         1970-75     1975-80
SUMKARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exporto (intl. NFS)                 236.8     230.8   333.4    355.5    603.1        645.8         659      680     722      853      962           22.3         8.3
lomorts (incl. NFS)                 276.3    -294.6  --73.3   -483.1   -690.0       -713.0        -777     -814    -Q82     -993   -1,120           20.5         9.4
Resource 8a1ancetX-M;               -39.5     -63.8   -39.9   -127.6    -87.2        -67.2        -118     -134    -160     -140     -158           11.2        18.6
Interest (not)                       -2.2      -1.7    -2.1     -4.5    -11.5        -11.6         -18      -22     -24      -27      -30           39.5        20.9
Direct Ioveotoent Incom-            -10.2     -10.7   -12.3    -16.4   -26.5         -35.9         -36      -30     -23      -26      -30           28.5        -3.6
Worbero  Remittance                  -8.4      -6.4    -9.0     -8.0     -9.6         -6.1         -10      -10     -10      -10      -10            -6.1       10.4
Current Transfers (net)              39.4      50.6    46.8     60.2     67.9         69.5          78       93     102      112      122           12.0        12.1
Balance on Current Accounts         -20.9     -32.0    -16.5   -96.3    -66.9         -51.3       -104     -161     -115     -91     -105            19.7       15.4
Priv-te Direct Invesbrmnt            -0.2      3.2      2.3    -14.8     -5,2        -14.0           4       8       15       20       30
Official Capital Granto               9.6      13.0    11.5     14.8     15.4         16.3         1.5      15       16       17       18           11.4         2.0
Public MALT Loano
Disburnements                      13.6      23.2    18.5     99.2     46.7         70.6          77      120     134      148      148           30.7        16.0
-Resavoonts                         -4.6      7.9     -8.4    -22.4    -19.4        -20.3        -25       -46     -59      -64      -65           33.0        26.3
Net Disbursements                    14.0      15.3    10.1     76.8     27.3         50.3          52       74      75       (4       83           29.2        10.5
Other MALT Loans
Di.bsorsements                     11.8      8.4     10.9     __       34.7          0.3          __       __      __       __
-Repaments                         -4 .6     -8.1    7.9     -27 .8  -28 .2         -3.0 
Net Diobur-seento                     7.2       0.3     3.0    -27.8      6.5         -2.7          --       _-      __       __       __
Capital Tranmacti.os n.e.i.          13.9     -0.5     -7.8      3.4     19.3        -14.5           5       __      __       __       __
Changc in Net Reserves              +23.6      -0.7    +2.6    -43.9     -3.6        -15.9         -28        -6     -9      +30      +26
(increaco +)-                           -       - 
GRANT ANBd LOAN COMMIaMENTS
Official Grants & Grant-like
Public 1&LT Loans
IBRD                              --         --      15.6     0.6      3.0           7:0
IDA                                2.1       7.0     11.2    23.7      --           24.0
African Dev. FPnd                           --        --      --       4.8           6.1
Other Multilateral                --         1.5      1.1     1.3      5.2           3.7
-overssoents                       4.6      10.1     14.3    59.9     41.5          39.6
Suppliers                          1.7       2.2      1.0    10.5      0.9           --
Financial Institutions            --        10.5     5.9     80.5      8.2          29.3
Bonds
Public Loans O.e.i.                --        --       --      --
8.4      31.3    49.1    176.1     63.6         109.7
Actual                     RetReated
1970      1971    1972     1973     1974          1975
DEiT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public Debt Out. b Disbursed
Interest on Public Debt              1.4       4.4     4.6      7.2     13.6           17.5
Repayments on Public Debt            4.6       7.8      8.4    22.4     19.4           20.3
Total Public Debt Service            6.4      12.2     13.0    29.6     33.0           37.8
Other Debt Service (met)             7.9       8.2      8.4    27.71/   33 1            3.7
Total Debt Service (net),           13.9      20.4     21.4    57.31/   66.1-          41.1
Burden on Enport Earnings ()
Public Debt Service                  2.5       5.3      3.9     8.31     5'511         5.9
Total Debt Servic                    5.9       8.8      6.4    161      11.1           6.4
TDS+Diret Invest. Payr.             10:2      14       10:8    21.:     155            2t0
Average Term., of Public Debt
Int. as R Prior Year DObD            1.6       4.2      3.6     5.2      6.7           7.3
A-ort. as % Prior Year DO 6D         5.2       7.6      6.7    16.1      9.6           8.4
1BbD Debt Out. & Disbursed
as % Public Debt 06D                1.6       2.2      1.8     1.7      1.4           1.4
as % Public Debt Service            4.1       3.2      3.1     1.8      1.9           2.0
IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
as % Public Debt 06D                 5.6       8.5      8.4    11.4     10.2          13.0
on a. Public Debt Service            0.1       0.5      0.7     0.3      0.7           0.7
EXTERNAL DEBT                                     Actual Debt Outetandine on Dec. 1975
EXTERNAL DEBT                                     Disbursed Dais              Percent
World Bank                                       10.2                       3.6
IDA                                              43.4                      15.1
Other Multilateral                                7.4                       2.6
Governments                                      96.6                      33.7
Suppliers                                        14.3                       5.Q
Financial Institutions                          109.7                      38.3
Bonds                                             4.9                       1.7
Public Debts n.e.i.                               __
Total Public MOLT Debt                          286.5
Other M6LT Debts                         )       80.0C/
Short-ter.n Debt (disb. only)
not applicable                                   e staff estimate
.  net available                                    - nil or negligible
. not available separaicly                        -- less than half tha
but included in total                               smsallest omit shoun
/   Includes early repayments in the frarsvork of debt someolidation and nationalistiona.



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.    Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of July 31, 1976)
Amount, less cancellation
Loan or                                                   (US$ Million)
Credit Number    Year  Borrower      Purpose            Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Three loans* and five credits fully disbursed           14.1   24.8
252-SE        1971   Senegal      Rice Development            3.7       0.3
253-SE        1971   Senegal     Technical and Agri-
cultural Education         2.0        0.2
254-SE        1971   Senegal      Settlement Scheme           1.4       0.2
835-SE        1972   Senegal      Railway              6.4              2.5
336-SE        1972   Senegal      Housing Site &
Services                   8.0        6.0
866-SE        1973   OPTS         Telecommunications   6.25              4.0
366-SE        1973   Senegal      Highway Maintenance         8.0       2.5
404-SE        1973   Senegal     Agriculture Credit           8.2        3.9
446-SE        1974   Senegal      Drought Relief              3.0        0.5
987-SE        1974   SOFISEDIT   Development Finance 3.0                 2.0
530-SE        1975   Senegal      Education                  15.0      14.6
S-18-SE       1975   Senegal      Irrigation Eng.             1.0        0.5
549-SE)       1975   Senegal     Agric. Diver-
1113-SE)                             sification         7.0    7.0       13.2
578-SE        1976   Senegal     Terres Neuves II             2.0        1.9
1221T-SE        1976   Senegal      Feeder Roads         6.6               6.6
1222-SE        1976   Senegal      Third Highway       15.0              15.0
633-SE**      1976   Senegal      Livestock                   4.2       4.2
647-SE**      1976   Senegal      Second Sedhiou              6.3       6.3
Total,                                  58.35  94.6       84.4
of which has been repaid               11.7     -
Total now outstanding                   46.65  94.6
Amount sold            3.1
of which has been
repaid                3.0               0.10
Total now held by Bank and IDA***       46.55  94.6
Total Undisbursed                       37.10  47.3       84.4
*    A loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in 1969
was cancelled on March 25, 1971.
**   Not yet effective.
*** Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of July 31, 1976)
Amount (US$ Million)
Type of                       Equity
Year     Obligor                Business           Loan      Investment  Total
1967      Societe Industri-     Fertilizer         2.45         1.01      3.46
elle d'Engrais        Plant
au Senegal
1972)     Bud Senegal,          Vegetable
1973)     S.A.                  Export                          0.87      0.87
1976)
1974      SOFISEDIT             Development Finance
Company             -         0.23       0.23
Total Gross Commitments                  2.45        2.11       4.56
Less Cancellations, Terminations,        1.84          .36      2.20
Total Commitments now held by IFC         .61         1.75      2.36
Undisbursed balance
C.   Bank and IDA
1/
Projects in Execution
Cr. 252         Casamance Rice Project; US$3.7 Million
Credit of June 18, 1971; Effective January 6, 1972
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Project progress has been satisfactory, and production targets
established at appraisal have been exceeded. The project is almost finished,
and a completion report is being prepared. A follow-up project was approved
by the Board in June 1976.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. 253         Technical and Agricultural Education Project; US$2.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1971; Effective November 30, 1971;
Closing Date: October 1, 1976
All components have been implemented despite past delays due largely
to technical problems. A cost overrun of about US$500,000 on the project as
a whole is anticipated, and the Government will finance this.
Cr. 254         Terres Neuves Settlement Project; US$1.35 Million
Credit of June 18, 1971; Effective January 31, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project's settlement program was completed in 1974 as antici-
pated at appraisal. The project has been successful in providing higher
incomes than expected for settlers, and has attracted families with more
adult workers than anticipated in 1974. 300 families have been settled as
envisaged, and there are about 2,300 people in the six settler villages.
There are enough water supply facilities and the necessary social infra-
structure is being completed. Adequate and evenly distributed rainfall
ensured good crops during the last seasons. Societe des Terres Neuves (STN)
(the State Corporation in charge of the project) is taking measures to solve
the major problems relating to financial management, audit and project moni-
toring. The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed shortly.
Cr. 314/Ln. 835      Second Railway Project:   US$3.2 Million and
US$6.4 Million Credit and Loan of June 23, 1972;
Effective December 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31,
1977
The original project was substantially modified to reduce track
renewal works in favor of funds for spare parts for track laying and mainte-
nance equipment and for locomotives. By July 1976, US$7 million had been
disbursed out of the total Loan/Credit of US$9.6 million; track renewal
had been completed, as well as procurement for workshop rehabilitation and
track equipment, and orders had been placed for locomotive spare parts;
the contract for workshop rehabilitation was recently signed and works will
start shortly. In recent months, as a result of sustained efforts by super-
vision missions, the railway has been granted financial autonomy, and steps
have been taken to strengthen technical assistance. Much improvement is still
needed however, in management efficiency and training, and this will be the
focus of a proposed Third Railway Project scheduled for appraisal towards
end-1976.
Cr. 336              Site and Services Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of
September 29, 1972; Effective August 31, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Project execution continues to be slow.    The absence of a program
of community development activities, which is considered fundamental to the
success of the project, remains a critical issue; the Sites and Services



ANNEX II
Page 4
Directorate has initiated discussions on this subject with the Direction de
la Promotion Humaine. Plot occupation is now expected to start soon after
the end of the rainy season in October. About 2,800 plots have been allo-
cated, and nearly 2,000 contracts have been signed. The Banque Nationale
de Developpement du Senegal has agreed to establishment of a housing and
materials loan program for about 2,400 households, and this should enable
house construction to begin shortly. The monitoring and evaluation team
has completed its analysis of the basic socio-economic data and housing
survey on applicants and control group, and has prepared a comprehensive
health survey. No evaluation of applicants' experience with the project
itself can begin until allottees start moving on to the site.
Ln. 866              Telecommunications Project; US$6.25 Million Loan of
December 19, 1972; Effective June 5, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976
Large cost overruns have raised the cost of this project from
US$8.9 million at appraisal to US$19.9 million according to recent estimates.
A co-financing formula was successfully worked out which included a loan
from the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) of US$4
million, new French suppliers' credits of US$4 million, and an increased
contribution from the borrower, Office des Postes et Telecommunications du
Senegal (OPTS). The new financial package and conditions of the CCCE loan
were accepted by the Senegalese Government and the agreement would enable the
project to be completed as originally appraised. However, recently OPTS has
been informed that the Government intends to levy an income tax on OPTS's
profits from operations in FY 1975 and also for previous years. OPTS has
never before been subject to tax. This change of policy towards the OPTS is
causing doubts about the financing plan drawn up at the time the CCCE loan was
negotiated. These matters are being discussed with the CCCE and the Government.
Ln. 867              Airport Project; US$3.0 Million Loan of December 19, 1972;
Effective Slay 22, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
All project work was completed, the runway in full operational
service, and the Loan fully disbursed by early 1976. A completion report has
been prepared.
Cr. 350              River Polders Project; US$4.5 Million Credit of January 9,
1973; Effective June 8, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1977
Procurement has been completed for the main components of the
project and contracts have been awarded. Construction of works is progressing
satisfactorily. The Senegalese authorities requested that the Debi Lampsar
components of the project be dropped and reformulated within the broader
framework of integrated development of the Senegal River Basin; the proposed
reformulation was agreed upon by IDA, and an engineering project for Debi
Lampsar was appraised in December 1974 and approved by the Board in April



ANNEX II
Page 5
1975.  The Credit was fully disbursed by end-March 1976.   The Credit proceeds
were not sufficient to complete the project, despite the deletion of the Debi
Lampsar component, because of the effects of price increases, currency fluctua-
tions, and additional works undertaken. However, Government is channelling
about US$2.0 million into the project, and the implementing agency SAED
(Societe d'Amenagement et d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta)
is presently seeking about US$1.0 million in supplementary financing from
Government to complete the final 500 ha of the project.
Cr. 366              Second Highway Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of April 9,
1973; Effective November 28, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The size of the proposed pavement strengthening program had to be
severely cut back from 109 km to about 44 km due to heavy cost overruns; the
works have been satisfactorily executed and are now complete. The maintenance
program is gaining momentum after serious delays in the first 1-1/2 years, but
implementation of the training program is still far from satisfactory.
Preinvestment studies covering about 222 km for the next phase of pavement
strengthening works, as well as the review of feeder road requirements, were
successfully completed by mid-1975.
Cr. 404              Second Agriculture Credit Project; US$8.2 Million Credit
of June 25, 1973; Effective November 28, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The 1975/76 campaign was good: groundnut and cereal production
reached their highest levels since 1969. Demand for short- and medium-term
credit remained stronger than anticipated, but available credit funds were
sufficient to meet requirements. Government has eliminated the subsidy on
some farm implements, and reduced the subsidy on fertilizers. The on-going
study on fertilizer applications financed under the Credit should provide a
basis for policy review. Major organizational and financial problems still
exist at ONCAD despite technical assistance provided since 1969. Steps taken
by Government in early 1975 to remedy this serious situation--maintaining
staff level, giving ONCAD management more financial autonomy, and strengthening
it with qualified accountants--resulted in some improvement, especially in
accounting. However, ONCAD's overall performance has not improved, and the
organization remains overstaffed. ONCAD credit requirements attained record
levels partly because of accumulating operating losses, but mainly because of
the large groundnut and millet stocks and prolonged prefinancing for Government's
account.
Ln. S-3              Ship Repair Engineering Loan:   US$0.6 Million Loan of
September 20, 1973; Effective February 5, 1974;
Closing Date: September 6, 1977
The project consists of carrying out the following studies to deter-
mine the feasibility of a dry dock project:.



ANNEX II
Page 6
a.   Technical studies including those of physical and
geophysical factors affecting site selection.
b.   Economic studies including a market survey, a re-
vision of the dry dock project feasibility study
and a survey formulating a training program.
The studies have now been completed; they indicate low economic and financial
returns, and a relatively high market risk. The Government is exploring pos-
sible financing and ways of reducing the market risk.
Cr. 446              Drought Relief Project; US$3.0 Million Credit of
December 7, 1973; Effective February 5, 1974;
Closing Date: January 31, 1977
The project is part of the Senegalese plan to rehabilitate people in
drought-affected areas by assisting them to redevelop and improve their farms
and lands. Operations, including strengthening of health and water supply
services, have been proceeding satisfactorily, and the project is expected to
be completed on schedule.
Ln. 987              SOFISEDIT Project; US$3.0 Million Loan of May 24, 1974;
Effective November 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978
SOFISEDIT was created by the Government in March 1974 for the
purpose of providing long-term financing for development enterprises in
industry and tourism. To recruit the initial staff and to find office space
took several months. and the company did not start operations until November
1974. From its inception until June 30, 1976, SOFISEDIT has approved 19 loans
totalling about US$6.2 million equivalent, and five equity investments total-
ling about US$384,000 equivalent. The loan to SOFISEDIT is expected to be
fully committed by the end of 1976, and a second project appraised in December
1975 is proposed in this report.
Cr. 530              Second Education Project;   US$15.0 Million Credit of
February 19, 1975; Effective April 22, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This project aims to help Senegal meet its modern sector needs
through providing replacement lower secondary schools, and creating new
vocational schools for industry and for the hotel trade. It also provides
practical training for the rural population through an experimental scheme of
30 village education centers, and plans to improve the teaching of science and
technology in lower secondary schools. A pre-investment study to be implemented
will focus on the development of primary education. The project also provides
technical assistance to strengthen education planning and management. Project
construction is about 12 months behind schedule, with delays caused principally
by the need to modify designs to meet the standards and program agreed between



ANNEX II
Page 7
the Government and the Bank. The design work is now well advanced (except for
the hotel training school and the village centers), and it is expected that
contracts for the major civil works will be awarded before end-1976. The
rural training component has been held up while Government reviewed its plans
for setting up regional rural development administrations to which the
village centers will be linked. Similarly, the proposed pre-investment study
of primary education was delayed by the need for a Government policy review
related to preparation of the next development plan. The two reviews above-
mentioned are now completed. Technical assistance personnel required to
strengthen the planning team of the Ministry of Education are expected to be
recruited over the next six months.
Cr. 549/Ln. 1113     Sine Saloum Agricultural Development:  US$7.0 Million
Credit and US$7.0 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effective October 31, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This project, which started in late 1975, aims at increasing and
diversifying agricultural production in the Sine Saloum region through the
reinforcement of SODEVA's activities. Activities under the project, includ-
ing the setting up of extension services, are underway as planned.
Cr. S-18            Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Engineering Credit, US$1.0 Million
Credit of May 22, 1975; Effective February 13, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The credit finances execution of the engineering studies needed for
implementation of the Debi-Lampsar irrigation scheme. Despite delays in
effectiveness, the studies are now well advanced and the original schedule
for project implementation will not be substantially delayed.
Cr. 578             Terres Neuves II Resettlement and Eastern Senegal
Technical Assistance Project, US$2.0 Million Credit
of August 6, 1975; Effective November 14, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project includes resettlement of 600 families, and execution
of studies and surveys for a master plan for the Eastern Senegal region. The
settler recruiting campaign and initial land clearing have been undertaken as
planned.
Ln. 1221T            Feeder Roads Project; US$6.6 Million Loan of March 31,
1976; Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of improvement and maintenance of 1,250 km
of feeder roads, purchase of highway equipment and spare parts, and tech-
nical assistance.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Ln. 1222             Third Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Loan of March 31,
1976; Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of pavement strengthening of 204 km of primary
roads, preinvestment studies for a further 260 km of roads, and technical
assistance.
Cr. 633              Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$4.2 Million Credit
of June 17, 1976; Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30,
1982.
The project consists of developing and operating a controlled
grazing scheme and providing effective animal health, extension and credit
services to some 30,000 livestock owners.
Cr.647               Second Sedhiou Project; US$6.3 Million Credit
of June 25, 1976; Not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project is the second phase of the Casamance Rice Project
(Cr. 252) initiated in 1971 in the Sedhiou district and now nearly com-
pleted. The objectives of the present project are to increase and diversify
agricultural and livestock production, and raise the incomes of about 40
percent of the district's rural population. The project would be based
on improved farm practices successfully introduced under the first operation.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SENEGAL
SOFISEDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:            Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpement
de l'Industrie et du Tourisme
GUARANTOR:           Republic of Senegal
AMOUNT:              US$4.2 million
TERMS:               Repayable substantially in conformity with the aggregate
of the amortization schedules for sub-loans and investments
for which withdrawals from the loan account are used;
interest at 8.90 percent per annum; standard commitment fee
would be charged.
RELENDING TERMS:     SOFISEDIT would relend at an interest rate of 12 percent
per annum for up to 18 years for tourism projects, and up
to 15 years for other projects. The foreign exchange risk
would be borne by the Government, which would also repay
the $200,000 on-lent to SONEPI over ten years.
PURPOSE:             US$4 million of the Loan amount would meet approximately
two-thirds of SOFISEDIT's requirements for financing the
foreign exchange component of approved industrial and
tourism projects through December 1978. The remaining
US$200,000 would be passed on to the Societe Nationale
d'Etudes et de Promotion Industrielle (SONEPI) to help
develop an integrated scheme for providing assistance
to small-scale Senegalese entrepreneurs.
FREE LIMIT:          US$250,000 for individual sub-projects; US$1.5 million
aggregate limit.
DEBT COVENANT:       Maximum debt/equity ratio of 3:1.
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:       Year ending December 31   1977   1978    1979    1980
US$ million                1.4    1.9     0.7     0.2
PROCUREMENT
ARRANGEMENTS:        Through normal commercial channels.
APPRAISAL REPORT:    Report No. 1152a-SE dated September 7, 1976
DFC Department, Africa Division.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Year to September 30           1975     1976      1977     1978     1979     1980
(Actual)   -------------(CFAF Million)-------------
Projected Commitments
Loans: Medium-term            190       403      419      482      555      636
Long-term             180      375       583      666      767      882
Equity Investments             53       119      110      120      130      140
TOTAL                       423      897     1,112    1,268    1,452    1,658
Projected Income Statement
Total Revenue                  55        69      146      262      398      537
Total Expenses                 58        89      143      227      301      368
Profit before Provisions      73)       (20)       3       35       97      169
Provisions                      0         0       (1)      (6)     (17)     (25)
Net Profit                   _2)      (20)       2       29       80      144
As a percentage of
Average Net Worth                0        0      0.3      4.5      7.8      9.9
Projected Balance Sheet
Current Assets                377      130        93       93      299       93
Portfolio (net)               241       899    1,918    3,o49    4,212    5,463
Fixed Assets                    21       17       13        9        5         1
Total Assets                639     1,046    2,024    3,151    4,516    5,557
Current Liabilities             6         6        6        6        6        6
Long-term debt                 26       413    1,389    2,487    3,122    4,019
Equity                         607      627      629      658    1,388    1,532
Total Liabilities           639     1,046    2,024    3,151    4,516    5,557
Term Debt/Equity Ratio        0.04      0.7      2.2      3.8      2.2      2.6



8                            16 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  U R ITA   N   IASPANISH SAHARAf                             rN   ALGERIA    LIBY6A
SEN       EG     A   L-                                          Podor                                                         MAUILII
----Intereationol boanoaries                      0                                       -~~~~~                MAURITANIA       j  NIGER
Reqio,al boundories                        Saao-i'SENEGAL '.~c..--                                                                 .---~ 
-------- Dep.rt-f.1 b-d.-s       ~ ~~R  E  G                                                               S v7  AMBIA::;.b  I ~ *
Depco-tental conap rres  /6                        0CN                                                       ORNPA 805IGERIAE
D aRtmetaluis                    -      \SIERRA LOE                                                                       L  COAST/
lale-teilee  nIae-s(
LIRERIA -      ~~~~-';CAMEGROON\
C'                             A//ant, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AHMY EQ GLJINEA_j j1
O..an                  GAABON
5   20   45  60  80  IS10/ 
KILOMETERS                              R'    0      0  N                 -2 
O,20 4S            0       /N                                    Unp-merf- 
MI LES           (                                                  ,  I'_q j
z         RE   0    ON              I~~~~~0    
REGION OF   T,aon0   r1 -"          D   I      U  R   B  E  L
CAP-VERT      0Ml (..~kel \
DAKAR~~~~  VT-\ H  I  E  S   I Bnney
DAKAR *              -      m'Diourbe[             -..     -\(                 '~oo 
Ocean          OM'Bo.'~~            I     )-                      -..
IiI~~~~~'-~~~~  Salaule              l~~~~~~~~~~~  E  P  (  N  0  F               \      M   A   L  I
14'                                                           6~~~~~~~~'- 
N,o,.o                             ~~~~~~~Tombaccundo  SiE  N E  G  AL-
G  A     :       >   6\K        A<M         'N   f                 n.- 
I             'N.                              O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0R  I  E  N )T__-A  L
R  E   G  I 0'N           O F      >C0 A     S  A   M  A "N   C   E           N Ij-KKOLO - -OBA
VAT/O0/AL PAPK
CAP SKISRRNG  .
G UI N EA       B I S SAU                                         G   U  I N    EA1CD



