CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1332 SE
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second SOFISEDIT Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE FINANCIERE SENEGALAISE POUR LE
DEVELOPPEMENT INDUSTRIEL ET TOURISTIQUE
Dated October 14, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 14, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and SOCIETE FINANCIERE SENEGALAISE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT INDUSTRIEL
ET TOURISTIQUE (hereinafter called the Borrower), a banking institu-
tion established and operating under the laws of the Republic of
Senegal (hereinafter called the Guarantor).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of th:e General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being herein-
after called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be
made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Invest-
ment Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan"
means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
(b) "Investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of
the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.


﻿-3-
(c) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which the
Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it
proposes to make or has made an investment.
(d) "Investment Project" means a specific development proj-
ect to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the
proceeds of a sub-loan or investment.
(e) "CFA Franc" and "CFAF" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
(f) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the cur-
rency of the Guarantor, including CFA Francs in countries where
such currency is also the national currency.
(g) "Statutes" means the Statuts of the Borrower dated
March 19, 1974, as amended to the date of this Agreement and as
further amended from time to time with the prior approval of the
Bank.
(h) "Statement of Policy" means the General Policy Regula-
tions approved by the Directors of the Borrower on March 21, 1974,
as amended to the date of this Agreement and as further amended
from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank.
(i) "General Lending Conditions" means the general conditions
applicable to medium- and long-term loans granted by the Borrower
and approved by the Directors of the Borrower on March 10, 1975,
as amended to the date of this Agreement and as further amended
from time to time.


﻿(j) "Prior Loan Agreement" means any outstanding loan agree-
ment between the Bank and the Borrower dated before the date of
this Agreement and "Prior Loan" means any loan provided for
therein.
(k) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million
two hundred thousand dollars ($4,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) An amount of the Loan not exceeding the
equivalent of $200,000 may be withdrawn from the Loan Account by
the Borrower on behalf of the Guarantor for the purposes specified
in Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement.
(b) The amount of the Loan not subject to withdrawal under
paragraph (a) of this Section may be withdrawn from the Loan Account
for amounts expended by the Borrower for an Investment Project or,
if the Bank shall so agree, for amounts to be expended by the
Borrower for an Investment Project, to finance the reasonable
cost of goods and services required under a sub-loan or investment
for the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal is
requested; provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in
respect of a sub-loan or investment unless (i) the sub-loan or
investment shall have been approved by the Bank, or (ii) the sub-
loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Bank shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account. For the purposes of
the foregoing, withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be author-
ized by the Bank in respect of the following expenditures under
a sub-loan or investment:


﻿(i) in a foreign currency for goods procured, or
services supplied from, outside the territories
of the Guarantor;
(ii) in CFA Francs on account of seventy five per cent
(75%) of the invoiced price for goods previously
imported into the territories of the Guarantor
through normal trade channels;
(iii) in CFA Francs on account of fifty per cent (50%)
of the invoiced price for goods produced in the
territories of the Guarantor to a substantial
extent from materials previously imported into
the territories of the Guarantor; and
(iv) in CFA Francs on account of forty five per cent
(45%) of the contract price under civil works
and construction contracts to be carried out in
the territories of the Guarantor;
(said percentages in each case representing the estimated foreign
expenditure component).
(b) A free-limit sub-loan is a sub-loan for an Investment
Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan which shall not exceed the sum of (i) $250,000 equivalent
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of any Prior
Loan for such Investment Project or (ii) $1,500,000 equivalent,


﻿-7-
when added to all other free-limit sub-loans financed or proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the foregoing
amounts being subject to change from time to time as determined
by the Bank following consultation with the Borrower.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures
made by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject
to the Bank's approval, or in respect of an investment, if such
expenditures shall have been made before the date of this Agreement
or more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall
have received in respect of such sub-loan or investment the appli-
cation and information required by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agree-
ment or, under a free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety days prior
to the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect of
such free-limit sub-loan the request and information required by
Section 2.03 (b).
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a
free-limit sub-loan) or an investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of the
Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and con-
ditions of the sub-loan or investment, including the schedule of
amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment to the Bank of the
amount of the Loan to be used for the investment; and (iii) such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿-8-
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-
loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of such free-limit
sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to
the Bank on or before June 30, 1979.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and ninety hundredths per cent (8.90%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
1


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date January 12, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Societ6 Financiere Sin6galaise pour le
Developpement Industriel et Touristique
70, Rue du Docteur Thhze
B.P. 2003
Dakar
RSpublique du S6negal
Cable address:
BANADESEG
Dakar


﻿@1
- 10 -
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
(d) The principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment shall be repaid by the Borrower to the Bank in twenty equal
semi-annual instalments beginning February 1, 1979.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to
the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an in- ___
vestment or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned
or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower, the Borrower
shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the
next followiag ;terest payment date, together with the premiums
specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment
thereof under Section 2,08 (a) of this Agreement, the amount with-
drawn from the Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan or invest-
mer't or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by
the Bank ,s follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the maturi-
ty or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding to the out-
standing amounts of the maturity or maturities of the sub-loan so
repaid or disposed of, and (ii) in the case of an investment, pro
rata to the maturity or maturities of the Loan reflecting am6unts
to be repaid on account of such investment.


﻿- 11 -
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.


﻿-12-
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources
in the Republic of Senegal as will contribute to the economic and
social development of the country. The Project consists in the
financing of specific development projects through loans to and
investments in productive enterprises in the Republic of Senegal,
in furtherance of the corporate purposes of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial stand-
ards and practices, with qualified -,management and personnel, and
in accordance with the Statutes, Statement of Policy and General
Lending Conditions.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be
made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written con-
tract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank
and the Borrower, including, in the case of any sub-loan and to
the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any invest-
ment, the right of the Borrower to: (i) require the Investment En-
terprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate re-
cords; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and services to be financed


﻿- 13 -
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable
price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence
of the parties rendering them and (2) such goods and services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment
Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv)
require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
-    risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (2) without any limitation upon the foregoing,
such insurance shall cover marine, transit and other hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation,
any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(v) obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise; and
(vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to
the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with the
Borrower.


﻿(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the in-
terests of the Bank and the Borrower, (ii) comply with its obli-
gations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes of
the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the In-
vestment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the sub-loans
and investments.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under agreements under which funds have been lent or other-
wise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor or its
agencies or others for relending, investment or management. The
Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which would
have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiv-
ing any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.05. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the ex-
tent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable there-
to, as though such obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Proj-
ect (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than
three months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.


﻿- 16 -
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt, such
lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien
shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any subsid-
iary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at no
cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing pro-
visions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien cre-
ated on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as se-
curity for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such
manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its debt/
equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of this
Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond the
Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reason-
able action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such
ratio within such limit.


﻿0
- 17 -
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt ol the
Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of such
debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsidi-
aries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than three
times the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and
all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or any
subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement) on the date
and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down and out-
standing pursuant to such loan contract or agreement, and (ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing
for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent
that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of CFAF debt payable in foreign cur-
rency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful rate
of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes of
servicing such debt;


﻿- 18 -
(d) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsid-
iaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and sub-
sidiaries, excluding any debt owed by the Borrower to any subsid-
iary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any other subsidiary;
and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and
subsidiaries" means the aggregate o! the unimpaired paid-up capital,
surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and subsidiaries after
excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity interests
of the Borrower in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in the Bor-
rower or any other subsidiary.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the currencies used in its lending and borrowing operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of the Borrower and its subsid-
iaries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such in-
formation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Borrower
and subsidiaries.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's represen-
tatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement and any relevant documents.
1


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Bor-ower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual in-
struments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Statutes which will
materially and adversely affect the financial condition or opera-
tions of the Borrower;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Statement of
Policy without the Bank's consent;
(d) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower; and
(e) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been cre-
ated or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial situation
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel or
the carrying out of the Project.


﻿- 20 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a), (b) or (d) of
Section 5.01 shall occur; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) or (e) of Section
5.01 shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.


﻿- 21 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date January 12, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Societe Financiere S6negalaise pour le
Developpement Industriel et Touristique
70, Rue du Docteur Theze
B.P. 2003
Dakar
Ropublique du S6n4gal
Cable address:
BANADESEG
Dakar


﻿- 22 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Andre GuS
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOCIETE FINANCIERE SENEGALAISE POUR LE
DEVELOPPEMENT INDUSTRIEL ET TOURISTIQUE
By /s/ Bayoro Diallo
Authorized Representative


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
The principal amount of the Loan withdrawn pursuant to Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement shall be repaid as provided below, and
the remainder, as provided in Section 2.08 (d).
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)**
August 1, 1980                                   150,000
February 1, 1981                                 150,000
August 1, 1981                                   216,000
February 1, 1982                                 216,000
August 1, 1982                                   216,000
February 1, 1983                                 216,000
August 1, 1983                                   216,000
February 1, 1984                                 216,000
August 1, 1984                                   216,000
February 1, 1985                                 216,000
August 1, 1985                                   216,000
February 1, 1986                                 216,000
August 1, 1986                                   216,000
February 1, 1987                                 216,000
August 1, 1987                                   216,000
February 1, 1988                                 216,000
August 1, 1988                                    66,000
February 1, 1989                                  66,000
August 1, 1989                                    66,000
February 1, 1990                                  66,000
August 1, 1990                                    66,000
February 1, 1991                                  66,000
August 1, 1991                                    66,ooo


﻿Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)
February 1, 1992                                  66,ooo
August 1, 1992                                    66,ooo
February 1, 1993                                  66,ooo
August 1, 1993                                    16,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
** To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Sec-
tion 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 25 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1.55%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                         3.15%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         5.75%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                         7.85%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                         8.90%


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the
application of such prepayment in addition to, or in sub-
stitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of Section
3.05."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03 Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any
amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days,
or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section
2.03 of the Loan Agreement no applications or requests
permitted under paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such


﻿-27 -
Section shall have been received by the Bank in respect
of any portion of the Loan, or having been so received,
shall have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an
amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan
Account, or (d) the Bank shall have received notice from
the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an
amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower
terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such appli-
cations or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice
such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


