CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1332 SE
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Second SOFISEDIT Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 14, 1976


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREE4ENT, dated October 1., 1976, between THE REPUBLIC OF
SENEGAL (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Soci6t6 Financiare Sfnfgalaise g le D6veloppement
Industriel et Touristique (hereinafter called the Borrower) the
Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan'in various currencies
equivalent to four million two hundred thousand dollars ($4,200,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obliga-
tions of the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter pro-
vided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditiods; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 2 to
the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the term "SONEPI"
means the Soci4t9 Nationale d'Etudes et de Promotion Industrielle.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth in the Loan
Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt,
which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the
creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provi-
sion to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitu-
tional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with
respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political or
administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿I
-5-
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take,
cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any of its
agencies or any agency of any such political subdivisions or any
institution which may be established to perform the functions of
a central bank exclusively for the Guarantor to take, any action
which would prevent or interfere with the performance by the Bor-
rower of its obligations contained in the Loan Agreement and will
take all reasonable action necessary or appropriate to enable the
Borrower to perform such obligations.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall guarantee any loan made by
the Borrower to SONEPI, up to CFAF 20 million.
Section 3.04. (a) The Guarantor shall cause SONEPI to carry
out a study and pilot project in the small-scale service and


﻿-6-
production sector (artisanat) under arrangements and pursuant to
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and shall provide to
SONEPI promptly as needed the funds, in addition to the amount
of the Loan withdrawn under Section 2.02 (a) of the Loan Agreement,
required for the purpose.
(b) The Guarantor shall make available to the Borrower in
advance as needed the funds required by the Borrower to pay to the
Bank when due the interest and other charges on the amount of the
Loan withdrawn pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) of the Loan Agreement
and to repay the principal amount thereof pursuant to Section 2.08
(d) of the Loan Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministere des Finances
Rue Charles Laing
Bolte Postale 4017
Dakar, Sengal
Cable address:
MINIFINANCES
Dakar
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
rent to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ Bayoro Diallo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By // Andrg Gug
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa


