Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3830 KO
                             Project Agreement
                         (Waste Disposal Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                                PUSAN CITY
                            Dated March 3, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3830 KO
                             PROJECT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated March 3, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and PUSAN CITY
(Pusan City).
    WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Korea (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to seventy five million dollars
($75,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Pusan City agrees to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in
this Agreement;
    (B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Pusan City, a portion of the proceeds
of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be
relent to Pusan City on the terms and conditions set forth in
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
    WHEREAS Pusan City, in consideration of the Bank's entering
Page  2
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
    Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 2.01. (a) Pusan City declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for Part A of the Project.
    (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and Pusan City shall
otherwise agree, Pusan City shall carry out Part A of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for Part A of the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. Pusan City shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement and Part A of the Project.
    Section 2.04. Pusan City shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, Pusan City shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or any provision thereof.
    Section 2.05. (a) Pusan City shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress
of Part A of the project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
    (b) Pusan City shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Pusan City of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                  Management and Operations of Pusan City
Page  3
    Section 3.01. Pusan City shall carry on its wastewater
operations in accordance with sound administrative,
engineering, financial and environmental practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
    Section 3.02. Pusan City shall at all times operate and
maintain its wastewater treatment plants, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and environmental practices.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) Pusan City shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Part A of the Project
and its wastewater treatment plants.
    (b) Pusan City shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                the Pusan Special Account for each fiscal year
                audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six months after the end
                of each such year, the report of such audit by
                said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                concerning said records and accounts and the
                audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                reasonably request.
    Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Pusan City shall cause its Sewerage Office to produce, for each
of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December
31, 1995, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less
than 25% of the annual average of Pusan City's Sewerage Office
capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for
that year and the three next following fiscal years.
    (b)   Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years,
commencing on September 30, 1996 and thereafter, Pusan City
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by Pusan City and
satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the
Bank a copy of such review upon its completion.
    (c)   If any such review shows that Pusan City would not meet
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for Pusan City's
fiscal years covered by such review, Pusan City shall promptly
take all necessary measures (including, without limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels of its sewerage rates)
in order to meet such requirements.
    (d)   In relation to the Sewerage Office and for the purposes
of this Section:
          (i)   the term "funds from internal sources" means the
                difference between: (A) the sum of revenues from
                all sources related to operations, consumer
Page  4
                deposits and consumer contributions in aid of
                construction, net non-operating income and any
                reduction in working capital other than cash; and
                (B) the sum of all expenses related to
                operations, including administration, adequate
                maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu of
                taxes (excluding provision for depreciation and
                other non-cash operating charges), debt service
                requirements, all cash dividends and other cash
                distributions of surplus, increase in working
                capital other than cash and other cash outflows
                other than capital expenditures;
          (ii)  the term "net non-operating income" means the
                difference between: (A) revenues from all sources
                other than those related to operations; and (B)
                expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in
                (A) above;
        (iii)   the term "working capital other than cash"
                means the difference between current assets
                excluding cash and current liabilities at
                the end of each fiscal year;
          (iv)  the term "current assets excluding cash" means
                all assets other than cash which could in the
                ordinary course of business be converted into
                cash within twelve months, including accounts
                receivable, marketable securities, inventories
                and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
                operating expenses within the next fiscal year;
           (v)  the term "current liabilities" means all
                liabilities which will become due and payable or
                could under circumstances then existing be called
                for payment within twelve months, including
                accounts payable, customer advances, debt service
                requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of
                taxes, and dividends;
          (vi)  the term "debt service requirements" means the
                aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                charges on, debt;
         (vii)  the term "capital expenditures" means all
                expenditures on account of fixed assets,
                including interest charged to construction,
                related to operations; and
         (viii) whenever for the purposes of this Section
                it shall be necessary to value, in terms of
                the currency of the Borrower, debt payable
                in another currency, such valuation shall
                be made on the basis of the prevailing
                lawful rate of exchange at which such other
                currency is, at the time of such valuation,
                obtainable for the purposes of servicing
                such debt, or, in the absence of such rate,
                on the basis of a rate of exchange
                acceptable to the Bank.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
    Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Page  5
    Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of Pusan City thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Pusan City thereof.
    Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
    Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.                82987 (FTCC)
                                                64145 (WUI) or
                                               197688 (TRT)
    For Pusan City:
          City Government of Pusan
          Construction Bureau
          Chung-GU, Pusan
          Republic of Korea
                                         Telex:
                                         Public P K53115
                                         Ext. 111
    Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Pusan City may be taken or executed
by the Mayor of Pusan City or such other person or persons as
the Mayor of Pusan City shall designate in writing, and Pusan
City shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
    Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
Page  6
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                By /s/ Russell Cheetham
                             Regional Vice President
                             East Asia and Pacific
                PUSAN CITY
                By /s/ Shin Myoung Ho
                             Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                           Procurement of Goods
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1.        Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines) , and in
accordance with the following additional procedures:
    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of
this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period
of extension sixty (60) days and (ii) any subsequent extension
of the bid validity period.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes
of the Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding
documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
1.  In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Korea may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Items or groups of items for materials and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000,
Page  7
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a) With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Pusan Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Pusan Special Account in
respect of such contract.
    (b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Pusan
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the
other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant
to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of
the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
    (c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
3.        The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                          Implementation Program
1.  In order to assist Pusan City in the supervision of the
construction of the facilities provided under Part A of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
2.  Pusan City shall adopt by June 30, 1998 and thereafter
implement an environmental monitoring program, satisfactory to
the Bank, to collect and evaluate data on Janglim plant
performance and environmental impact.   On the basis of such
data collected and evaluated, Punsan City shall, by no later
than June 30, 1999 or such later date as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its
review and comments, a plan to mitigate the potential adverse
impacts arising from the operation of the Janglim plant, and,
thereafter, taking into account the Bank's comments, implement
such plan.
3.        Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.06 of
the General Conditions, Pusan City shall:
    (a) on March 31 and September 30 of each year, commencing on
March 31, 1996, and thereafter until the completion of the
Project, furnish to the Bank semi-annual progress reports on
the carrying out of Part A of the Project, satisfactory to the
Bank, including  revised cost estimates and implementing
schedules; and
    (b) on September 30 of each year, commencing on September
Page  8
30, 1996 and thereafter until the completion of the Project,
furnish to the Bank annual reports on the financial projections
of its wastewater activities, satisfactory to the Bank.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Pusan Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Category (1) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Pusan Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of $10,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Pusan Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Pusan Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Pusan Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Pusan Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Pusan Special Account,
                the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
                for deposits into the Pusan Special Account at
                such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                the Pusan Special Account such amount as the
                Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                been shown by said documents and other evidence
                to have been paid out of the Pusan Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
Page  9
by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Pusan
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Pusan Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Pusan Special
Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Pusan Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Pusan Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Pusan Special Account (or,
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Pusan Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Pusan Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Pusan Special Account.
Page  10
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
