Page  1
                                               CONFORMED COPY
                                          LOAN NUMBER 3830 KO
                       Loan Agreement
                  (Waste Disposal Project)
                           between
                      REPUBLIC OF KOREA
                             and
            INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                       AND DEVELOPMENT
                     Dated March 3, 1995
                                          LOAN NUMBER 3830 KO
                       LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March 3, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;
     (B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by the City
of Pusan (Pusan City) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
Pusan City a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in
this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
Pusan City;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                          ARTICLE I
               General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
     "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
          under which any further withdrawals under the
          Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions
          of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's
          Articles of Agreement."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a) "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Environment;
     (b) "EMC" means the Environmental Management Corporation,
a State-owned corporation established and operating pursuant to
the Governing Laws;
     (c) "Governing Laws" means the Borrower's laws governing
the establishment and operation of EMC, including Law No. 3057
dated May 21, 1983, Law No. 3944 dated November 28, 1987, Law
No, 4183 dated December 20, 1989, Law No. 4257 dated August 1,
1990, Law No. 4264 dated March 8, 1991, Law No. 4539 dated
December 8, 1992 and Law No. 4657 dated December 27, 1993, as
amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (d) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and the City of Pusan (Pusan City) of even date herewith,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
     (e) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and Pusan City pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the term "Subsidiary Loans"
means the loan provided under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (f) "Kunsan Plant Contract" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower, through MOE, and the EMC
pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Kunsan Plant Contract;
     (g) "Pusan Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement; and
     (h) "EMC Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement
                         ARTICLE II
                          The Loan
Page  3
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of seventy five million dollars
($75,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part B of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account
(the EMC Special Account) in the Korea Exchange Bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the EMC Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account
(the Pusan Special Account) in the Korea Exchange Bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Pusan Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the
Project Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
     (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c) For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period
               ending on the date immediately preceding each
               date specified in Section 2.06 of this
               Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
               in which this Agreement is signed.
          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
               as reasonably determined by the Bank and
               expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
               outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
Page  4
               after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
               or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
               to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
               loans which may be made by the Bank after July
               1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
               otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
               this Section.
         (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
               second six months of a calendar year.
     (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
               "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
          principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
          outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
          Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
          determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
          one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
          dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
          the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
          principal amount outstanding during the preceding
          Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
          during such Interest Period."
               "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
          each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
          the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
          respect of such Quarter."
               "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
          1 in a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                         ARTICLE III
                  Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end:
          (i)  shall carry out Part B of the Project, through
               MOE, with due diligence and efficiency and in
               conformity with appropriate administrative,
               environmental and financial practices and shall
               provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
               facilities, services and other resources
               required for such Part of the Project; and
          (ii) without limitation or restriction upon any of
               its other obligations under the Loan Agreement,
               the Borrower shall cause Pusan City to perform
               all its obligations set forth in the Project
               Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all
               action, including the provision of funds,
               facilities, services and other resources,
               necessary or appropriate to enable Pusan City
               to perform such obligations, and shall not take
               or permit to be taken any action which would
               prevent or interfere with such performance.
Page  5
     (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Part B of
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c) The Borrower shall relend to Pusan City the equivalent
in Dollars (determined on the date or respective dates of
withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency
or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost
of goods for Part A of the Project to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Pusan
City, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Bank which shall include the following principal terms
and conditions whereby Pusan City shall:
          (i)  pay interest on the principal amount of the
          Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
          to time, at a rate per annum equal to the rate
          applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to
          Section 2.05 of this Agreement;
          (ii) pay a commitment charge on the principal amount
          not withdrawn from time to time equal to the charge
          applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to
          Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and
          (iii)  repay the principal amount of the Subsidiary
          Loan within 15 years, including five years of grace.
     (d) The Borrower shall, through MOE, entrust EMC with the
construction and operation of the facilities provided under
Part B of the Project under a contract to be entered into
between the Borrower, through MOE, and EMC under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
     (e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Kunsan Plant Contract in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the
Kunsan Plant Contract or any of their provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for Part B of the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Part A of the Project shall be carried out by Pusan
City pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                         ARTICLE IV
                     Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Part B of the Project
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Page  6
     (b) The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in
               paragraph (a) of this Section including those
               for the EMC Special Account for each fiscal
               year audited, in accordance with appropriate
               auditing principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year, the report of such audit
               by said auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
         (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
               concerning said records and accounts and the
               audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
               time reasonably request.
     (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
           (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in
               accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
               records and accounts reflecting such
               expenditures;
          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank
               has received the audit report for the fiscal
               year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
               Account or payment out of the Pusan Special
               Account and EMC Special Account was made, all
               records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures;
       (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
             records; and
        (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
             included in the annual audit referred to in
             paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
             of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
             auditors as to whether the statements of
             expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
             together with the procedures and internal
             controls involved in their preparation, can be
             relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
   Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall produce in the Kunsan Plant, for each of its
fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1995,
total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of the
Kunsan Plant (i) total operating expenses; and (ii) total
indirect operating expenses.
   (b)  On September 30 of each year, commencing on September
30, 1996 and thereafter, the Borrower shall, on the basis of
forecasts prepared by EMC and satisfactory to the Bank, review
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph
(a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year,
and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon
its completion.
   (c)  If any such review shows that Kunsan Plant would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the
Borrower's fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower
shall, or shall cause EMC to, promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
Page  7
structure or levels of the Kunsan Plant rates) in order to meet
such requirements.
   (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
        (i)  The term "total revenues" means the sum of total
             operating revenues and net non-operating income.
        (ii) The term "total operating revenues" means
             revenues from all sources related to operations.
       (iii) The term "net non-operating income" means the
             difference between: (A) revenues from all sources
             other than those related to operations; and (B)
             expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
             taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in
             (A) above.
        (iv) The term "total operating expenses" means all
             expenses related to operations, including
             administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
             payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
             depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate
             of not less than 4.75% per annum of the average
             current gross value of Kunsan Plant's fixed
             assets in operation, or other basis acceptable to
             the Bank, but excluding interest and other
             charges on debt.
         (v) The average current gross value of Kunsan Plant
             fixed assets in operation shall be calculated as
             one half of the sum of the gross value of Kunsan
             Plant's fixed assets in operation at the
             beginning and at the end of the fiscal year, as
             valued from time to time in accordance with sound
             and consistently maintained methods of valuation
             satisfactory to the Bank.
        (vi) the term "total indirect operating expenses"
             means all expenses debited to EMC Headquarters in
             such amounts and in such terms as shall be
             specified from time to time, but not to exceed
             25% of total revenues.
       (vii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
             shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
             currency of the Republic of Korea, debt payable
             in another currency, such valuation shall be made
             on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
             exchange at which such other currency is, at the
             time of such valuation, obtainable for the
             purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
             absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
             exchange acceptable to the Bank.
                          ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Bank
   Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
   (a)  Pusan City shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
   (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that Pusan City will
be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
   (c)  The Governing Laws shall have been amended, suspended,
Page  8
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of EMC to perform any of its obligations
under the Kunsan Plant Contract.
   (d)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of Pusan City or EMC or for the suspension of
their operations.
   Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
   (a)  any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
   (b)  any event specified in paragraph (c) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                         ARTICLE VI
                 Effective Date; Termination
   Section 6.01. The following is specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by Pusan City, and is legally
binding upon Pusan City in accordance with its terms.
   Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                         ARTICLE VII
         Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
   Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
   Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
   For the Borrower:
        Ministry of Finance
        Kwachon
        Korea
        Cable address:                Telex:
             MOF                      K23243
             Kwanchon, Korea
   For the Bank:
        International Bank for
          Reconstruction and Development
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America
             Cable address:          Telex:
             INTBAFRAD                248423 (RCA)
             Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
Page  9
                                       64145 (WUI) or
                                      197688 (TRT)
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF KOREA
                  By /s/ Shin Myoung Ho
                                    Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Russell Cheetham
                                      Regional Vice President
                                       East Asia and Pacific
                         SCHEDULE 1
           Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.      The table below sets forth the Categories of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated          % of
                          (Expressed in      Expenditures
                             Dollar              to be
        Category           Equivalent)        Financed
(1)     Equipment and           60,000,000    100% of foreign
        material under                        expenditures,
        Part A of the                         100% of local
        Project                               expenditures
                                              (ex-factory
                                              cost) and 65%
                                              of local
                                              expenditures
                                              for other items
                                              procured
                                              locally
(2)     Equipment and     15,000,000          100% of foreign
        material under                        expenditures,
        Part B of the                         100% of local
        Project                               expenditures
                                              (ex-factory
                                              cost) and 65%
                                              of local
                                              expenditures
                                              for other items
                                              procured
                                              locally
                                __________
        TOTAL                   75,000,000
2.      For the purposes of this Schedule:
   (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
Page  10
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
   (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures:
   (a)  prior to the date of this Agreement;
   (b)  under Category 1 of paragraph 1 of this Schedule until
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and Pusan City, satisfactory to the Bank, and the
Bank has been furnished with: (i) a conformed copy of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (ii) with an opinion or opinions
satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank
showing that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Pusan City and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and Pusan City in accordance
with its terms; and
   (c)  under Category 2 of paragraph 1 of this Schedule until
the Kunsan Plant Contract has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and EMC, satisfactory to the Bank, and the Bank has
been furnished with: (i) a conformed copy of the Kunsan Plant
Contract; and (ii) with an opinion or opinions satisfactory to
the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank showing that the
Kunsan Plant Contract has been duly authorized or ratified by
the Borrower and EMC and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and EMC in accordance with its terms.
4. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods, not exceeding $1,000,000 equivalent,
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.
                         SCHEDULE 2
                 Description of the Project
   The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to
improve environmental conditions in Pusan City and Chunbuk
province by: (a) reducing health hazards of surface and ground
water contamination; (b) addressing environmental,
institutional and technological aspects regarding wastewater
and specified waste disposal; and (c) promoting the reuse of
treated effluent on a major scale.
   The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
PART A: Expansion of the wastewater treatment plan at Janglim
in Pusan City, including construction of: (i) primary and
secondary treatment units; (ii) tertiary units to treat the
effluent for reuse as industrial water; and (iv) about 4.5 km
of interceptor sewers and two booster pumping units.
PART B: Expansion of the specified waste treatment plant at
Kunsan in Chunbuk province, including: (i) supply and
installation of a specified waste incineration unit; and (ii)
provision of technical assistance therefor.
                            * * *
   The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
Page  11
1999.
                         SCHEDULE 3
                    Amortization Schedule
                                       Payment of Principal
   Date Payment Due                   (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
   beginning June 15, 2000
   through June 15, 2009                   $3,750,000
   and on December 15, 2009                $3,750,000
_____________________________
*  The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
   determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
   General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                   Premiums on Prepayment
   Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
   Time of Prepayment                 Premium
                                 The interest rate
                                 (expressed as a
                                 percentage per annum)
                                 applicable to the Loan
                                 on the day of prepayment
                                 multiplied by:
Not more than three years             0.20
   before maturity
More than three years but             0.40
   not more than six years
   before maturity
More than six years but               0.73
   not more than 11 years
Page  12
   before maturity
More than 11 years but not            0.87
   more than 13 years
   before maturity
More than 13 years before             1.00
   maturity
                         SCHEDULE 4
                    Procurement of Goods
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1. Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines), and in accordance with the following additional
procedures:
   (a)  When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part C.2 (a) of
this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period
of extension sixty (60) days and (ii) any subsequent extension
of the bid validity period.
   (b)  In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes
of the Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding
documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
   (c)  Bidders for the specified waste incineration unit under
Part B of the Project shall be prequalified as provided in
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
1. In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Korea may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Review of prequalification:
   With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.1(c) hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  13
2. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
   (a)  With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the EMC Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the
making of the first payment out of the EMC Special Account in
respect of such contract.
   (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the EMC
Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the
other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant
to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of
the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
   (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
3.      The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
                         SCHEDULE 5
                   Implementation Program
1. In order to assist the Borrower in the supervision of the
construction of the facilities provided under Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
2. By June 30, 1997, the Borrower shall, through MOE, adopt and
thereafter implement an environmental monitoring program,
satisfactory to the Bank, to collect and evaluate data on
Kunsan plant performance and environmental impact.  On the
basis of such data collected and evaluated, the Borrower shall,
by no later than June 30, 1998 or such later date as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, through MOE, prepare and furnish to the
Bank, for its review and comments, a plan to mitigate the
potential adverse impacts arising from the operation of the
Kunsan plant, and, thereafter, taking into account the Bank's
comments, implement such plan.
3.      Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.06 of
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, through MOE:
   (a)  on March 31 and September 30 of each year, commencing
on March 31, 1996, and thereafter, furnish to the Bank semi-
annual progress reports on Part B of the Project, satisfactory
to the Bank, including revised cost estimates and
implementation schedules; and
   (b)  on September 30 of each year, commencing on September
30 1996, and thereafter until the completion of the Project,
furnish to the Bank annual updated financial projections of the
Kunsan Plant, satisfactory to the Bank.
                         SCHEDULE 6
                     EMC Special Account
Page  14
1. For the purposes of this Schedule:
   (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Category (2) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
   (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
   (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the EMC Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
2. Payments out of the EMC Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the EMC Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the EMC Special Account shall be made as follows:
   (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the EMC Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
   (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the EMC Special Account, the
             Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
             deposits into the EMC Special Account at such
             intervals as the Bank shall specify.
        (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
             Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
             and other evidence required pursuant to
             paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
             payments in respect of which replenishment is
             requested.  On the basis of each such request,
             the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
             withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
             the EMC Special Account such amount as the
             Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
             been shown by said documents and other evidence
             to have been paid out of the EMC Special Account
             for eligible expenditures.
   All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the EMC Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Page  15
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the EMC Special Account:
   (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
   (b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the EMC Special
Account;
   (c) if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
   (d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
   Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the EMC Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6. (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the EMC Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the EMC Special Account (or,
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the EMC Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
   (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the EMC Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.
   (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the EMC
Special Account.
   (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
Page  16
