Document of                 .   w                 X
The World Bank i
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3306-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$4.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
August 26, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Tunisian Dinar (TD)
US $1.00 - 0.538 TD
TD 1.00 - 1.859 US$
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
API       Agence de Promotion des Investissements (Investment
Promotion Agency)
BDET      Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (Tunisian
Economic Development Bank)
CEPEX     Centre de Promotion des Exportations (Export Promotion
Center)
CNEA      Centre National des Etudes Agricoles (National Center
for Agricultural Studies)
CNEI      Centre National d'Etudes Industrielles (National Center
for Industrial Studies)
ETAP      Entreprise Tunisienne d'Activites Petrolieres (Tunisian
Company for Petroleum Activities)
IAEA      International Atomic Energy Agency
MNE       Ministere de l'Economie Nationale (Ministry of National
Economy)
MOA       Ministere de l'Agriculture (Ministry of Agriculture)
MOPF      Ministere du Plan et des Finances (Ministry of Planning
and Finance)
STEG      Societe Tunisienne de l'Electricite et du Gaz (Tunisian
Electricity and Gas Company)
STIR      Societe Tunisienne des Industries de Raffinage
(Tunisian Company for Refining Industry)
UNDP      United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Tunisia
Amount:           US $4.5 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:            Payable in 17 years, including a grace period of four
years, with interest at 11.6 percent per annum.
Relending         The Government would onlend US$300,000 to Socidte
Terms.           Tunisienne de l'Electricite et du Gaz on the same
terms and conditions as those of the Bank loan.
Project
Description:    The objectives of the project would be to increase the
number and improve the quality of investment projects;
strengthen local project preparation capabilities in both
public and private sectors; provide a sound empirical
base for policy formulation in agriculture, industry and
export, and energy; and reinforce institution building
efforts in all three sectors. The project would consist
of the following components: Agriculture: Preparation
of national programs leading to investment projects for
agricultural services, and feasibility studies on
projects in Northern Tunisia and on antidesertification.
Industry and Export: Preparation of six priority
subsectoral studies to identify a minimum of 20 specific
new investment projects, feasibility and export-marketing
studies, review of the institutional environment for
export promotion, and establishment of an export
expansion system. Energy: Assessments of renewable
energy sources, energy conservation audits, plan for
handling petroleum products, geological surveys, and
power system planning.
Benefits/Risks:  The project would help prepare and promote a portfolio of
investment projects and improve local capabilities to do
so in the future. Because of their multi-sectoral
character, effective coordination of studies is
essential. The risk that this may not take place has
been minimized by appropriate institutional arrangements
in the Ministry of Planning and Finance and in the
technical Ministries and agencies.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- .1  -
Estimated Project Costs:          Local          Foreign          Total
------------US$ Mi3lion------------
Agriculture
Studies and Programs               0.72            2.13            2.85
Training                           0.01            0.01            0.02
Equipment                           -              0.19            0.19
Subtotal                       0.73            2.33            3.06
Industry and Export
Studies at CNEI                    0.20            0.58            0.78
Training at CNEI                   0.02            0.07            0.09
Equipment for CNEI                  -              0.03            0.03
Studies at CEPEX                   0.11            0.32            0.43
Training at CEPEX                  0.01            0.06            0.07
Subtotal                       0.34            1.06            1.40
Energy
Studies                            0.74            0.68            1.42
Training                           0.12            0.36            0.48
Equipment                          0.17            1.63            1.80
Subtotal                       1.03            2.67            3.70
Total Base Cost                2.10            6.06            8.16
Physical Contingencies             0.11            0.11            0.22
Price Contingencies                0.19            0.36            0.55
Total Project Cost             2.40            6.53            8.93
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan          -              0.07            0.07
Total Financing Required       2.40            6.60            9.00
Financing Plan:                        Local   Foreign   Total   Percent
------US$ Millions-----
Government                             2.40       2.10      4.50      50
Bank                                     -        4.50      4.50      50
Total                                  2.40       6.60      9.00      100
Estimated Disbursements:   Bank FY       1983    1984    1985    1986
-------US $ Millions-------
Annual                               1.80    1.40    0.80    0.50
Cumulative                           1.80    3.20    4.00    4.50
Staff Appraisal Report: None



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVWJCPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1. I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan to the Republic of Tunisia for US$4.5 million equivalent to help
finance a Technical Assistance Project. The loan, which includes a
capitalized front-end fee of 1.5 percent on the Bank loan, would be repaid
over 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent
per annum. The Government would onlend US$300,000 equivalent of the Bank
loan to the Tunisian Electricity and Gas Company (STEG) on the same terms
and conditions as those of the Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2. The last economic report entitled "Tunisia - Country Economic
Memorandum" (No.3399-TUN) was issued on September 15, 1981. Economic
missions visited Tunisia in October 1981 and March 1982 to review a draft
of the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86); this part reflects their
preliminary findings. Country Data sheets are attached in Annex I.
3. Much of Tunisia is arid or semi-arid. Only three percent of arable
land is irrigated, and areas where rainfed agriculture is possible are
subject to severe year-to-year fluctuation in rainfall. Tunisia's most
important raw materials are phosphates, petroleum, and natural gas; al-
though the known exploitable reserves of oil and gas are approaching
depletion, and those of phosphate deposits are of relatively low quality,
there are recent promising indications of new reserves, but it is too
early to assess their exact potential. There is also considerable tourism
potential, and efforts have been made during the last decade to develop it
rapidly.
4. Since independence in 1956, Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort
towards development of its human resources, paying special attention to
family welfare, education, and technical and vocational training. As a
result, the infant mortality rate declined from 150 in the early 1960s to
90 at the end of the 1970s, the adult literacy rate increased from under
15 percent to about 62 percent, and average caloric supply per capita
increased from about 80 to 115 percent of minimum standard requirements.
The sharp decrease in mortality rates was not fully compensated by the
simultaneous decrease in fertility and birth rates, despite an active
family planning policy pursued by the Government. Therefore, the annual
natural demographic growth rate decreased only slightly from 2.6 percent
in the 1960s to 2.4 percent in the 1970s. Moreover, after 1976, the net
emigration of Tunisians abroad was sharply reduced by restrictive measures
taken in the EEC countries and Libya. As a consequence, the residential
population of 6.57 million by the middle of 1981 exceeds the level projec-
ted five years earlier by 130,000.
I/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I from President's Report
No. P-3291-TUN of April 29, 1982, for a Medjerda/Nebhana Irrigation
Development Project.



-2-
5.       Agriculture still occupies nearly one out of every three Tunisians in
the labor force. To accelerate job creation, more than half of total invest-
ments of the Fifth Plan (1976-81) was allocated to directly productive sec-
tors, but the direct employment effects of the leading sectors (petroleum,
phosphate mining and processing, and tourism) are small. These sectors, how-
ever, make a vital contribution to GDP, public savings, and exports. They
provided 65 percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings in 1980 while
manufacturing activities, except phosphate-based chemicals, provided 17 per-
cent.
6.       Recent Economic Developments.  During the Fifth Plan the growth
performance differed from the impressive growth achieved from 1971 to 1976,
not so much in terms of overall growth as in terms of the underlying growth
factors: output in agriculture and in food industries has grown on average
below the demographic rate since 1976, partially as a result of bad weather
conditions; textile production and tourism development grew at a slower pace
than projected both mainly because of the slump in European markets. By
contrast, manufacturing industry other than textiles, as well as energy,
phosphate processing, construction, and construction materials, expanded at a
fast pace.
7.       In spite of the considerable increase in domestic demand, particular-
ly in investments, the balance of payments situation remained favorable from
1976 to 1981. Imports in current prices grew at a slower pace than exports,
and the terms of trade improved significantly due to sharply higher post-1974
export prices for crude oil. As a result, the resource gap remained relative-
ly small, and domestic savings financed on average over 76 percent of invest-
ment, which increased from an average of 23 percent of GDP for 1972-76 to 30
percent for 1977-81. The current account deficit averaged $450 million per
year (1977-81), and was easily financed; grant aid and private investments
(mainly for oil exploration) provided about 30 percent, while the remainder
was mainly covered by long-term foreign borrowing. Thus, during the 1970s
total foreign debt increased little relative to GDP, and the debt service
ratio dropped.
8.       The public sector has played a major role in mobilizing and re-
distributing domestic resources. Central Government revenues were equivalent
to about one-third of GDP on average for the Fifth Plan period, one of the
highest shares among middle-income countries.  Over 30 percent of these
revenues was saved, and public savings financed close to two-thirds of total
Government capital expenditures. This comfortable public finance situation
permitted a rapid increase in subsidy payments to private consumers and public
enterprises. Such tranfers including for social security accounted for 19
percent of total current budget outlays and over 7 percent of GDP in 1981.
9.       The main objectives of the Fifth Development Plan were achieved,
except for the employment target. The actual GDP growth fell short by 1.2
percentage points of the planned rate of 7.3 percent p.a., mainly because of
poor performance in agriculture, while the investment objective of $9.8
billion in current prices, or 30 percent of GDP, was fully met. Completion of
some large projects in the public sector (steel, expansion of the oil re-
finery) were, however, delayed, but private sector investments, both foreign
and national, exceeded Plan targets.



- 3 -
10.       Open and hidden unemployment is a serious problem for the Tunisian
economy at present. During 1977-81, although job creation objectives were
achieved in all non-agricultural sectors except construction, these sectors
could only absorb 90 percent of new job seekers at a time when migration to
Libya and Europe slowed down. The overall unemployment rate, estimated at
about 13 percent of the labor force in 1980, has therefore not declined.
11.      Medium-term Prospects.  The Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) was
approved by the Parliament in July 1982. The main objectives are employment
generation, export promotion, and more rapid growth in the three least
developed regions of the country (North-West, Center-West, and South).
Sectoral priority is to be given to agriculture, tourism, and electrical and
mechanical industries.
12.      The outlook for investment and growth during this period and beyond
will partly depend upon future developments in the oil and natural gas sec-
tor. Oil and gas exploration programs under way have been encouraging. Based
on known reserves, and with the possible exploitation of smaller fields that
recently became profitable, it is generally expected that domestic oil and gas
production would at best be stabilized at about its present annual level of
5-6 million tons of oil equivalent until the end of the decade.    However,
barring large new oil or gas discoveries, and given the rapid rise in domestic
demand for energy, Tunisia will have to face the consequences of a relative
decline in energy revenues. The Government considers that the situation
requires immediate policy changes and is analyzing the most urgent ones to be
included in the Sixth Plan. By introducing these changes on time, Tunisia
expects to reduce the associated economic and social strains, and avoid major
balance-of-payments problems.
13.      The Sixth Plan recommends a GDP growth objective in the range of 5.9
to 6.1 percent depending on agricultural performance. This growth rate is in
line with recent trends. Projected growth of traditional exports (tourism,
textiles, and phosphates-based chemicals) is insufficient to compensate for
the projected decline in oil export revenues; these exports should be
supplemented by new ones, in particular electrical and mechanical products.
Production diversification and export promotion will, however, take time to
bear fruit given, in particular, the depressed world market prospects. The
Plan strategy therefore rightly aims at containing domestic demand in order to
control import growth. The macroeconomic scenario assumes no improvement in
terms of trade, as was brought about by oil price rises in 1973-74 and in
1979-80. This would not only affect the external account but also result in
slower growth of domestic savings, particularly public savings.
14.      Consequently, the Sixth Plan projects a drop in the fixed investment
rate from 30 percent of GDP in 1977-81 to about 25 percent for the Plan
period. This would still imply an increase of 24 percent in constant prices
relative to the Fifth Plan investment. A major objective is to correct recent
capital intensive biases in projects by appropriate sectoral allocation of
investments. More resources would be allocated to small and medium manufac-
turing enterprises in the underdeveloped regions, in order to ease the
unemployment problem and reduce income disparities between rural and urban
areas. Since June 1981, a new set of policy measures has targeted the incen-
tive system toward this objective. The Investment Code was modified to offer
free industrial zones and direct subsidies to job creation for new projects



- 4 -
in underdeveloped zones, and a Promotion Fund for Handicrafts and Household
Workshops was created. In order to promote a more efficient technical and
financial management of the public and private modern sector, the Plan assigns
a major role in project promotion and supervision to an expanded network of
new Development Banks (two opened in 1981 and three are planned for 1982);
they are to be joint ventures with foreign investors and should alleviate the
pressure on the budget to finance too large a share of public investments.
15.      Increasing budgetary constraints will require a reassessment of the
present policies of subsidies for energy, basic foodstuffs, transportation,
and public sector enterprises. In addition, interest rate policy and a
better-adjusted fiscal system should be used to restrain final consumption and
stimulate savings. As first encouraging steps in 1981 and in early 1982,
sizeable price increases in energy and agricultural products were implemented,
and the whole interest rate structure was revised upward, rates on saving
accounts and term deposits being increased by 1.5 to 2 points. There was a
sizeable increase of the legal minimum wage (30 percent) in March 1982, mainly
to improve the low-wage earners' living conditions, but the Government recog-
nizes that overall wage and salary policies should keep labor cost increases
(including social costs chargeable to enterprises) in line with productivity
increases, particularly since Tunisia wants to stimulate tourism, and improve
its international competitiveness for exports of manufactured goods.
16.      Social Issues.  Tunisia's social performance has been impressive
since independence, and the country has come a l1 lg way towards meeting the
basic needs of its population and reducing absolute poverty. About 16 percent
of GDP is now devoted to social programs. However, unemployment among the
young and regional pockets of poverty still present serious social problems.
17.      Recently published data show that the continued attention of the
Government to poverty oriented social programs resulted in a reduction of the
ratio of people under a minimum standard income from 17 percent of the total
population in 1975 to 13 percent in 1980. During this period, the overall
number of this group declined in urban areas but remained the same in some
rural zones in the center of the country, as a consequence of poor agricul-
tural performance. Income differentials between the coast (East) and the
interior (West) widened, in part because the system of price controls and
subsidies as well as budgetary expenditures had a weak redistributive impact.
The Government is using the forthcoming Plan to focus on the largest zones of
poverty, with a view to eradicating them before the end of this century.
Reducing the demographic growth rate is considered an important factor in this
endeavor.
18.      Education expenditures rank first among budgetary outlays.  The
comprehensive education system provides free access to all students, and the
gross enrollment rate has reached 102 percent for primary education, and 25
percent for secondary education. The performance of the system could, how-
ever, be improved by expanding vocational training programs, improving their
relevance and responsiveness to labor demand, and to the special needs of the
poor and rural groups.



- 5 -
19.      Public health services are second among social expenditures, and
their overall beneficial effect is reflected in the improvement of the vital
statistics (para. 4). There remain, however, regional disparities in the
availability of hospital beds, doctors and nursing personnel; health services
have concentrated largely on curative medicine, and the medical referral
system is not functioning properly. As a result, the rural poor are often
excluded. Closely linked to nutritional deficiencies, infant mortality
remains high relative to middle-income countries.
20.      In the Sixth Plan, investment in education, health, housing and water
supply is focussed more on deprived areas, provided at lower costs (health,
shelter), and made more relevant to the needs of the economy (training). In
education, two reforms are under discussion: the first one would provide a
nine-year schooling period for all children, and the second would create
polytechnical high schools combining basic and technical education.
In health, the Sixth Plan allocates more resources to preventive medicine and
nutrition education. Finally, as regards housing, public subsidized programs
will be directed to the neediest population groups. The housing demand from
households above the minimum standard income limit will be satisfied by the
private sector.
21.      External Assistance and Foreign Debt.  As mentioned above, the growth
of foreign borrowing was modest during the second half of the 1970s, and a
growing share of foreign funds was provided by public sources at relatively
soft terms. During the 1977-80 period, foreign loan commitments averaged
about $700 million per annum, 62 percent of which in the form of official
assistance (ODA). About 65 percent of ODA commitments came from bilateral
sources, chiefly France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Canada, and some
oil-surplus countries.   About 24 percent of total ODA was committed by the
Bank Group, and some 11 percent by other multilateral sources. Borrowing
terms were favorable, averaging 5.8 percent interest and 18.5 years maturity,
including a grace period of 5 years. At the end of 1981, debt outstanding and
disbursed was estimated at about $3.4 billion, or 40 percent of GNP; debt
service was 12 percent of exports of goods and services, as compared with 17.7
percent in 1970.
22.      The external trade deficit reached $608 million in 1981, and is
projected to grow to about $1.2 billion in 1986. New loan commitments from
abroad, projected at $1.2 billion per year on average (at present dollar
exchange rates), should not be difficult to obtain, with ODA providing half of
the total. Leaving aside the possibility of major oil and gas discoveries,
external debt service would be about 13 percent of total export revenues in
1986.
23.      These relatively favorable prospects would depend on a timely
implementation of the already mentioned policy changes to curb domestic
demand, promote exports, and improve public sector savings. It should be
noted, however, that the Sixth Plan recommends a low growth scenario in order
to preserve the country's relatively high financial stability and credit-
worthiness. This objective is even more crucial if the country is to succeed
in mobilizing the large inflows of direct foreign capital assumed in the
Plan. Foreign investments were small during most of the 1970s but have gained
momentum during the last three years in line with increased activities in the
oil sector, and new incentives offered to foreign investors in manufacturing.



Such investments have increased from $50 million in 1976 to about $200 million
in 1981, and have been equivalent to 10 percent of total investments for
1977-81. The Plan's growth scenario estimates that about 15 percent of total
investment could be financed by foreign capital, equivalent to an annual
inflow of $400 million. The newly created Development Banks (para. 14) are
expected to play a significant role in this context.
24.      In conclusion, the balance-of-payments outlook can be considered
favorable in the medium term.  In the longer term, much will depend on the
policy changes to be initiated during the next few years, and on developments
in the hydrocarbon sector. Considering its long record of prudent and
skillful balance-of-payments and external debt management, there are good
grounds to assume that Tunisia will formulate and implement the necessary
policy changes and will continue to be creditworthy for future Bank lending.
The Bank's close dialogue with the Government on several policy aspects at
the macro and micro levels will be pursued in connection with the implementa-
tion of the Sixth Development Plan.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
25.      Since 1962, the Bank has committed to Tunisia fifty-two loans and
eleven IDA credits amounting respectively to $1,051.9 million and $70.0
million (net of cancellations) of which twenty-one loans and all credits have
been fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1982, and notes on the execu-
tion of ongoing projects. Project implementation is generally satisfactory.
As of June 30, 1982, overall disbursements amounted to 52 percent of appraisal
estimates, which compares favorably with other countries in the region.
Disbursement performance for irrigation, industrial finance and port projects
has generally been above the country average, while larger than average
disbursement delays have been experienced for agricultural credit, education,
highway, urban and fisheries projects, due to project specific problems that
are being addressed through supervision missions and sector discussions. In a
number of sectors, important institutional improvements have been achieved,
and autonomous agencies have been created or strengthened to ensure the
efficient management of the related sectors or subsectors.
26.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to; (a) increase employment; (b) encourage more balanced growth and
distribution of income among regions and income groups with particular
emphasis on rural areas; (c) promote export-oriented policies, technological
changes and labor productivity; and (d) provide selective support for the
development of basic infrastructure and for institution building in key public
services. An important feature of this strategy is to support the Tunisian
authorities in the timely and well-coordinated preparation of projects through
missions and advice by Bank staff, the assistance of the IBRD/FAO Cooperative
Program, and the use of the Bank's Project Preparation Facility. The Bank is
also supporting the Government in its efforts to increase the mobilization of
domestic resources, and to secure cofinancing for the projects it assists.
The latter is particularly important in view of the extent of Tunisia's
external resource needs.



- 7 -
27.      Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending for
urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage, education,
health, urban development, and the Tunis planning and public transport project
has accounted for 25 percent of Bank/IDA commitments in Tunisia since 1971.
Lending for transport, power and tourism infrastructure has accounted for 34
percent. Agriculture and fisheries have received 23 percent, and industrial
and hotel financing, mostly through the Economic Development Bank of Tunisia
(BDET), 18 percent of total commitments.
28.       In line with its lending strategy, the Bank will pursue its efforts
in key sectors of the economy that offer prospects for economic and social
development. It will also assist projects which address the needs of the
least developed regions of the country, develop research capabilities,
increase productivity, and help reduce the gap between income groups, and
between urban and rural areas. Particular attention will be paid to employ-
ment creation, institution building, and agricultural development. In addi-
tion to the proposed technical assistance project aimed at improving the
Government's capability for project identification and preparation, proposed
future lending would include projects in agriculture, industry, energy, urban
development and education.
29.      The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program; it
will be more centered in the future on the analysis of economic issues and
policies related to the necessary adaptation process from a petroleum export-
ing to a petroleum importing country. A preliminary analysis of this issue
was included in the last Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 3399-TUN of
September 15, 1981). The Plan Review Report, to be issued together with two
sector surveys on agriculture and urban development towards the end of 1982,
will deepen this analysis. Further economic and sector work will include a
review of employment issues, of incentive and pricing policies (in association
with the study on effective protection), of the long-term energy strategy and
of the education, transport, and small scale industry sectors.
30.       The Bank and IDA accounted for about 15 percent of total public
commitments to Tunisia during 1979-1980. Their share in total debt out-
standing and disbursed at the end of 1980 (including loans from private
sources) was 10 percent and their share in debt service during 1980 was
11 percent. The share of the Bank and IDA in Tunisia's disbursed external
debt is expected to increase to about 14 percent by 1986, and their share in
the debt service to about 18 percent.
31.       IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagnie Financi6re et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest
in tourism projects), in Societe Touristique et Hoteliare RYM (a large hotel
development), in Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which produces aluminum
fluoride from local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated
tourism development project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia totalled $11.3
million, as of March 31, 1982. IFC has recently arranged a $40 million loan
package to COFIT, of which about $20 million equivalent for IFC's own account,
and is looking into the possibility of loans for the expansion of a phosphoric
acid fertilizer plant and for a new cement plant in the vicinity of Tunis.



- 8 -
PART III - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
The Institutional Setting
32.      At the start of the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86), the portfolio
of well-prepared projects in agriculture and industry slated for the Plan is
insufficient to meet the sectoral targets. For only one fourth of the
agricultural projects and one third of the industrial projects intended for
the Plan, feasibility, engineering, finance, and marketing studies are com-
plete and the projects ready for implementation. This situation prompted the
Ministry of Planning and Finance (MOPF) to request technical assistance from
the Bank to help strengthen project preparation capabilities in Tunisia, to
increase the number and improve the quality of investment projects, and thus
help achieve Plan targets.
33.      This MOPF request was made in the context of existing technical
assistance activities in Tunisia by multilateral aid agencies and bilateral
aid donors, to complement such activities and bridge the gaps identified in
the present programs. To help assure the realization of Plan objectives, the
MOPF in consultations with Bank staff developed an integrative approach which
combines consultant services, staff training, performance criteria, and
follow-up procedures. The studies, training, and specialized equipment to be
financed under the proposed Project were selected on the basis of recently
completed sector reviews by the Bank. These reviews identified the con-
straints to sectoral growth and the measures to eliminate or ease such con-
straints, as well as the nature and scope of studies needed to carry out pro-
grams of national policy reform.
34.      The Government recognizes that project preparation is a continuous
and expanding process which needs to be strengthened, in both the private and
public sectors. To this effect, the MOPF has designated its Projects Depart-
ment to monitor and follow up project preparation in the public sector,
especially for large projects. The Projects Department also monitors projects
during execution through approving disbursements from the Annual Economic
Budget.
35.      Several training programs to strengthen general project preparation
capabilities in public agencies are currently being financed by multilateral
and bilateral aid agencies. The Bank's Economic Development Institute (EDI)
assisted in the preparation of a training program for Tunisian officials in
project appraisal methodology in agriculture, industry, and development
banking. A series of courses will be conducted in Tunisia over the next 18
months in these three areas. The United Nations Development Program (UNDP)
has agreed to help finance these courses, with the U.N. Department of
Technical Cooperation (DTC) as executing agency. Furthermore, the Government
has approached bilateral sources and UNDP to finance a number of experts to
work in the Projects Department of MOPF to assist and train staff in the
general methodologies of project appraisal and monitoring. The proposed
Technical Assistance Project complements these efforts by providing consul-
tants and training to strengthen local agencies specialized in agriculture,
industry, and energy to carry out both general project preparation and studies
for national and sector-wide policy reforms.



- 9 -
36.      A number of local development banks and autonomous government
agencies contribute to general and specialized project preparation. Examples
include the Tunisian Economic Development Bank (BDET), the National Center for
Industrial Studies (CNEI), the Investment Promotion Agency (API), the National
Center for Agricultural Studies (CNEA), and the technical departments in the
Ministry of Agriculture (MoA). The UNDP has participated in financing some of
these and similar efforts during the 1970s. Aid agencies of bilateral donors
have also contributed to project preparation, especially in defined sectors
with special interest for the donors. Despite increased capabilities of
public and semi-public agencies in project preparation in recent years, the
continuously rising demands for specialized project preparation services have
increased the need for consultants.  Compared to the earlier Plans for which a
major portion of project preparation was done by foreign consultants, the
orientation in the 1980s is to depend as much as possible on local consul-
tants. In highly specialized tasks, and in cases where qualified local
consultants are not available, foreign expertise is to be employed directly in
Tunisian agencies to transfer technical know-how to nationals.
Sectoral Developments, Policies and Issues
37.      The proposed Project addresses some of the key issues in three lead-
ing sectors of the Tunisian economy: agriculture, industry, and energy. In
agriculture, the principal issues are instituting an incentive system to in-
crease the profitability of agricultural investment and production, moderniza-
tion of farm operations, and maintenance and expansion of productive
resources. In industry, the central issues are broadening the production base
and achieving the objectives of maximum employment generation, export expan-
sion, and greater private sector participation. In energy, the main issue is
formulating a comprehensive plan for the development, production, and use of
energy to meet future demand for energy at minimum cost.
38.      Agriculture:  Tunisia's agriculture performed well in the 1970s
compared to that of other middle-income countries, growing at 4.4 percent per
annum in real terms. Agriculture's share in Tunisia's GDP has been declining,
and now stands at about 15 percent, compared to 24 percent in 1972.
Similarly, agriculture's share in total employment has declined to 35 percent
in 1979, from 41 percent in 1972, as has its share in commodity exports (13
percent in 1979, compared with 43 percent in 1972). The decline in the rela-
tive role of agriculture has been caused by the more rapid growth of other
sectors, particularly petroleum, manufacturing and tourism. Tunisia's rapid
GDP growth (about 7 percent per annum in the 1970s) and population growth (2.4
percent per annum) have both increased demand for food faster than supply,
causing a rapid expansion in food imports (17 percent per annum growth in
current prices during the 1970s). Supply and demand projections suggest that
expanding food imports will continue, unless the major constraints to agricul-
tural growth can be overcome and output increases accelerated. Expanded
agricultural output would at the same time contribute to Government objectives
of increased rural income, employment creation, expanded foreign exchange
earnings and savings, and economic growth.
39.      The major issues facing agriculture have been identified by a joint
Bank/Government sector mission in late 1981 and are reflected in the Sixth
Development Plan as follows:



- 10 -
(a) most agricultural prices and farm input prices are fixed by
Government from the farm gate to retail levels. Over time, the
system of fixed prices has become significantly distorted. In
many cases, farm gate prices are fixed at artifically low levels,
discouraging production of food. In some cases, production is
subsidized (mostly irrigated crops). Food price subsidies at the
retail level encourage excess consumption. The system of
subsidies and taxes on farm inputs distorts decisions with
respect to farm input use;
(b) public marketing and input supply enterprises are relatively
inefficient. Private marketing and input supply enterprises are
so closely regulated that they have not developed significantly;
(c) numerous institutions and project administrations have introduced
autonomous or semi-autonomous research, extension and credit
systems for individual crops or regions, thus hampering the
effectiveness of the Government's agricultural extension,
research, and credit services;
(d) Tunisia's land tenure system is not conducive to developing
agriculture. Most farms are extremely small (68 percent have
less than 10 ha.) and fragmented (70 percent have two or more
separated parcels). Many are owned by absentee landlords who do
not exploit the land properly. Large tracts of collectively
owned land are poorly managed and overgrazed by livestock;
(e) soil erosion and desertification are causing both rapid loss of
arable land and the silting up of reservoirs;
(f) irrigation perimeters are poorly maintained, and management
systems are inadequate; and
(g) there is considerable untapped potential for livestock develop-
ment; further introduction of "green revolution technology"
consisting of higher yielding crop varieties, fertilizers and
other chemical inputs; small scale irrigation development; and
fruit and vegetable production using improved irrigation systems,
greenhouses, and better cultivation practices.
40.      Projects and policy reforms have been identified which would
contribute to overcoming the above constraints. These require immediate
preparation if execution is to begin under the Sixth Plan. The proposed
Technical Assistance Project would facilitate the preparation of high
priority projects and lay the groundwork for policy reforms.
41.      Industry:  Growth of the manufacturing industry during the Fifth
Development Plan (10.3 percent in 1977-81) exceeded growth of GDP (6.7
percent). Total employment creation in the sector exceeded its target,
and represented 45 percent of employment creation for the Plan. The
sector absorbed only 18 percent of realized gross investments, against a
targeted 23 percent, mainly because of delays in large projects (public
and Government promoted) in chemicals and construction materials, and a



- 11 -
slowdown in tectiles. While public investments were delayed, private
investments surpassed targets. Manufacturing exports performed well,
meeting the targeted 45 percent of total commodity exports in the Plan.
42.      Despite these quantitative achievements, the share of manufac-
turing in GDP and in employment remained modest at 11 percent and 20
percent, respectively. Several issues face industrial development in the
1980s:
(a) shortage of identified industrial projects in
export-oriented activities and in the intermediate goods and
capital goods sectors;
(b) distortions in the price structure due to Government price
intervention, regulatory structure, and overprotection of
the domestic market, all of which discourage investment
either in small and medium industry, or in export industry;
(c) slow development of institutions responsible for industrial
project identification, preparation, and promotion;
(d) inadequacy of export promotion; and
(e) low labor intensity of new projects and the need to promote
labor-intensive projects.
43.      Energy:  Tunisia's economic growth during 1977-81 was financed
without excessive foreign borrowing mainly because of increased foreign
exchange earnings provided by the export of crude oil and some petroleum
products. Tunisia exports its entire production of crude oil at premium
prices because of its superior quality, and imports cheaper crude for
domestic use. In 1980, exports of crude oil and petroleum products
amounted to about 5.6 million tons compared to imports of about 2.6
million tons which provided about $573 million in net foreign exchange
earnings. However, the contribution of the energy sector to future net
foreign exchange earnings of the country is expected to decline steadily
as exports of crude oil and petroleum products level off because of the
continued growth in the domestic demand for energy and the stabilization
of annual output of the presently-proven reserves. Unless major oil and
gas fields are discovered and domestic demand for energy reduced
significantly, Tunisia is expected to become a net importer of energy
towards the end of the decade.
44.      The Sixth Plan for energy has been formulated on the assumption
that major new discoveries would not be made during the next five years.
As a result, the Plan concentrated on stemming the growth of demand for
energy and intensifying the development and exploitation of domestic
energy resources. On the demand side, the Plan calls for decelerating the
growth of demand from its level of 12.5 percent during the past five years
to about 10 percent for 1982-1986 and to 7 percent for 1987-1991, by: a)
increasing prices of petroleum products and electricity to reach parity
with their economic cost by the end of 1983; b) emphasizing
labor-intensive industries and slowly decreasing the number of
energy-intensive projects included in the Sixth and Seventh Plans; and c)
reducing the overall energy consumption of the household and industrial
sectors by placing greater emphasis on conservation. On the supply side,
the Government plans to concentrate on: a) accelerating the development



- 12 -
and exploitation of renewable energy resources to substitute where
possible for conventional energy; b) formulating an optimal strategy for
petroleum exploration and development in order to maximize the foreign
exchange earnings from the sector; and c) improving the efficiency of the
infrastructure for the production, storage, transportation and distribu-
tion of petroleum products. However, these objectives need to be
integrated into a national long-term energy plan, which in turn is to be
coordinated with the macro objectives of the Sixth and Seventh Plans. The
long term energy plan would set the targets for the various energy sub-
sectors (power, refining, exploration, etc.) and make possible the
identification of high priority projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
45.      In September 1981, the Government of Tunisia requested a Bank
loan to assist in transforming the sector-wide targets of the Sixth Plan
into pipelines of well-prepared projects. A Bank mission to Tunisia in
October 1981 identified agriculture, industry and energy as the sectors
where technical assistance was most needed. A mission in March/April 1982
appraised the project and worked out the institutional, administrative,
technical, and financial details with the executing agencies. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington in early July, 1982. The Tunisian delega-
tion was led by Mr. Mohamed Ali Souissi, Director General of Projects,
Ministry of Planning and Finance. The main features of the project are
summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III of this report.
Project Objectives
46.      The broad objectives of the project are to overcome existing con-
straints to the preparation of projects in agriculture and industry, help
improve the use of energy resources, and establish an action program for
export expansion.
47.      The specific objectives of the project are:  (a) to increase the
number and improve the quality of investment projects, especially those to
be generated in the private sector and suitable for external financing;
(b) to strengthen local project preparation capabilities in both public
and private sectors through the provision of specialized staff and train-
ing; (c) to provide a sound empirical base for the formulation of
sector-wide policies (agriculture, industry), or economy-wide policies
(energy, exports); and (d) to reinforce institution building efforts in
all three sectors.
Project Description
48.      The Project would consist of three components: agriculture,
industry and exports, and energy. Project outputs would include
feasibility studies for industrial and agricultural projects; policy
studies, training of Tunisian staff, and proposals for institutional
changes in all three sectors; and sub-sector studies in industry. The



- 13 -
outputs would also include the creation and/or restructuring of institu-
tions, and the strengthening of the export promotion system. Inputs
financed under the Project would include consultants to assist in studies,
instructors, specialized Tunisian Government staff, and equipment.
Agriculture
49.      The agriculture component, designed to address the major cons-
traints identified in paras. 38 to 40, would finance foreign and local
consultants in the preparation of studies emphasizing the identification
of investment projects as follows (Attachment 1, p.l):
(a) national research and extension program;
(b) national plan for farm input distribution (chemical inputs and
seeds);
(c) national plan for farm mechanization;
(d) feasibility study for the first phase of an extension, research,
input supply and mechanization project in Northern Tunisia;
(e) national agricultural marketing and processing program for
fruits, vegetables, milk, and fish;
(f) action program for land reform;
(g) national program of improvement of irrigation perimeters;
(h) national program of well construction and rehabilitation;
(i) feasibility study for anti-desertification and a range management
project in South-Central and Southern Tunisia; and
(j) assistance in the start-up of an agricultural promotion agency.
The project would also provide for vehicles where lack of transportation
would be a constraint to execution of the studies, and for the training of
Tunisian staff (para. 53). The studies were selected on the basis of
criteria agreed upon with the Government in the context of a recent sector
mission (para. 39). They include: (a) the significance of the constraints
to be addressed; and (b) the degree of complexity of the projects and/or
the speed with which they are to be prepared.
Industry and Export Promotion
50.      The industry and export promotion component is designed to
*           alleviate the constraints discussed in paras. 41 and 42 and would finance
foreign and local consultants to help Tunisian institutions in carrying
out the following activities (Attachment 1, p. 2):
(a) six priority subsectoral studies to result in identification of
specific new investment projects. Criteria for subsector
selection would be satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.07). Such criteria were discussed during negotiations
and would consider: export orientation, contribution to the
replacement of imports of intermediate or capital goods, relative
labor intensity, and contribution to regional development;
(b) feasibility studies, both for the projects so identified and for
others meeting the selection criteria;
(c) export-marketing studies for specific subsectors and/or products;



- 14 -
(d) training programs to improve abilities of Tunisian personnel
involved in the above activities;
(e) three related studies to aid the policy of export expansion: (i)
review of the institutional environment for export promotion of
manufacturing and agriculture, in coordination with a separate
effective protection study, to identify bottlenecks in the
existing system; (ii) development of an export promotion
strategy, and defining the role of existing institutions and the
Export Promotion Center (CEPEX) in that strategy; and (iii)
preparation of a plan of action for CEPEX with respect to its
organization, operational strategy, staffing and financial
resources;
(f) review of the institutional environment for promotion of private
industrial investments, and development of appropriate policy
measures as well as an action program for improving the
effectiveness of existing institutions in this field (Investment
Promotion Agency - API, development banks, etc.); and
(g) promotion activities for investment projects identified and
prepared through the studies carried out under (b) above.
The project would also provide micro-film equipment for information
storage and retrieval at the National Center for Industrial Studies (CNEI).
Energy
51.      The proposed energy component would strengthen Tunisia's energy
planning capabilities and provide the inputs needed by the Government to
formulate a comprehensive energy plan, and prepare projects for the Sixth
and Seventh Plans. It would help address the constraints discussed in
paras. 43 and 44 either by filling existing gaps in the Plan or by
continuing previous work undertaken by the Government. Specifically, it
would assist the Government in achieving the objectives set for the energy
sector by financing foreign and local consultants and related equipment.
The activities included under this component are designed to: (a) reduce
the industrial consumption of energy; (b) provide the tools and data
needed for formulating an optimal strategy for exploration and development
of oil and gas; (c) assist in accelerating the program for the development
of renewable energy; and (d) establish a quantitative basis for improving
the efficiency with which petroleum products are stored, transported, and
distributed.
52.           The energy component would consist of the following tasks
(Attachment 1, p. 3):
(a) energy conservation audit of ten large energy-consuming
enterprises with a view to assisting such enterprises in
preparing engineering design and bidding documents for
energy conservation works; and training of local staff in
energy conservation;
(b) assessment of geothermal resources through an analysis of
geological data and the preparation of an exploration
drilling program;
(c) analysis of the cost structure of storage, transportation
and distribution of petroleum products;



- 15 -
(d) formulation of a system for compiling electricity consumption
data for load forecasting and power systems management and
planning; training of engineers of the Tunisian Electricity and
Gas Company (STEG) in load forecasting and planning; and
provision of computer hardware and software for STEG's planning
department;
(e) installation of computer hardware and provision of software for
the Tunisian Company for Petroleum Activities (ETAP) for compil-
ing data on geology and well production for use in formulating an
optimal strategy for petroleum exploration planning and produc-
tion management;
(f) equipping of about twenty wind and solar energy data collection
stations; and
(g) demonstration of the possibilities of wind energy use for water
pumping in Tunisia through the installation of about ten wind
energy assessment units (windmills).
Training
53.      For agriculture, training would be tailored to the needs of the
staff of the Ministry of Agriculture, especially those in the Department
of Planning. A course in the fundamentals of project management and
monitoring would be designed and delivered by the National Center for
Agricultural Studies (CNEA) in two sessions lasting about two weeks each,
with potential enrollment of 12 staff members in each session. The
objective would be to help manage the selected tasks smoothly and
efficiently.
54.      For industry, four two-week training seminars in basic and
advanced project evaluation, marketing, investment promotion, and sub-
sector methodology would be specially designed by external consultants and
offered over a one-year period to about 60 professionals from CNEI and
other agencies. The objective would be to help improve the professional
standards and performance of the participants to carry out satisfactory
sub-sectoral studies and project feasibility studies. For exports,
consultants would provide training in international marketing to about 10
CEPEX staff, either through a specially designed course or, if feasible,
through courses in other local institutions.
55.      For energy, training in conservation audit techniques would be
provided to six engineers recently assigned to the Conservation Unit in
the Department of Renewable Energy of the Ministry of National Economy
(MNE). This training program would be in two phases: the first would be
a comprehensive three-month course in Paris in the techniques of energy
audit, and the second in Tunisia for about six months under the super-
vision of two expatriate instructors to prepare manuals on energy-
intensive industries suitable for investment in conservation. The train-
ing in power system planning would be provided to five engineers of STEG
by Argonne National Laboratory (U.S.) in collaboration with the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in Vienna, Austria, and would
consist of three phases: (i) assessment of the computing capabilities at
STEG and the formulation of a system for the compilation, storage, and



- 16 -
retrieval of power system data, (ii) training at Argonne Laboratory in
load forecasting and systems planning for three months in the U.S.; and
(iii) installation of the data management system and its integration with
existing computer models for load forecasting and systems planning, for a
period of about one month. Finally, training in petroleum exploration
planning would be provided to six qualified geologists and geophysicists
for two months each in Tunisia. This program would cover compilation,
analysis, and synthesis of geological data, together with preparation of
the software provided under the Project for use at ETAP.
The Administering Agencies
56.      The multisectoral nature of the Project requires the involvement
of several administrative agencies (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5). The
agricultural component will be managed by the Planning Department in the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The Planning Department performs several
functions, including planning, monitoring and evaluation of projects,
collection and preparation of statistics, and preparation of the invest-
ment budget for submission to the Ministry of Planning and Finance
(MOPF). The Department is presently staffed by about 150 employees, most
of whom are in statistical analysis and data gathering. Ten high-level
staff (agriculture engineers) are engaged in the preparation of projects
and all would participate in the Project. A senior agricultural
management and planning advisor will be hired to assist the Planning
Department to manage the Project. Seven studies will be carried out in
the technical departments of MOA. In three studies, MOA will be assisted
by the Cereals Office, the Livestock Office and CEPEX, and the Land Reform
Agency, respectively. Both the Cereals Office and the Livestock Office
are semi-autonomous agencies set up on a commercial basis under the
authority of MOA. Both have their own budgets, with independent sources
of revenue from the sales of specialized goods and services. However,
they also get some annual allocations from the State Budget. The Land
Reform Agency, although an independent entity, gets its entire budget
directly from the Ministry. The Agency has hitherto been responsible for
land reform in irrigated areas. The Project would assist this agency to
establish an action program for expanding activities to non-irrigated
areas.
57.      The industry and export component will be carried out by CNEI and
CEPEX, respectively, under the management of the Ministry of National
Economy (MNE). Both agencies are independently managed, but their budgets
are part of the Ministry's. CNEI started in 1960 as a research arm of the
Directorate of Industry in MNE. CNEI's activities became too diversified
over time and it became unable to perform any one function adequately.
During the last seven years, its management changed several times, without
much improvement. This prompted a recent reorganization, which placed its
regional offices serving small industries under API, and placed its
industrial standardization activities into a separate agency.  What
remains is an agency entrusted with project feasibility and subsectoral
industrial studies, under a new capable management, with a staff of 45
economists, financial analysts, and engineers who need special and
intensified training to improve their performance. CEPEX, on the other
hand, was established in 1973 to promote Tunisia's exports. Its achieve-
ment record is mixed. During the last two years, CEPEX has done
relatively little to promote exports. However, the new emphasis of the
Government in the Sixth Five-Year Plan on export expansion focussed



- 17 -
attention on CEPEX. Its management was changed early in 1982 to activate
the agency.   Its 10 professional staff could benefit from special train-
ing in international marketing and export promotion techniques.
58.      Except for the power system planning task, which will be carried
out by STEG, the energy component will be managed by MNE through its
Department of New and Renewable Energy. This Department would also be
responsible for the implementation of energy conservation and the
renewable energy activities under the project. The Exploration and
Production Department, responsible for all activities relating to the
exploration for oil and gas, and to the production of oil, would, with the
assistance of ETAP, implement the geological data compilation task under
the project, while the Secondary Energy Department, which is responsible
for oil refining and handling of petroleum products and for electricity,
would be in charge of the study dealing with the handling of petroleum
products.   All three departments are adequately staffed.  STEG, which is
the sole utility in Tunisia responsible for the public production, trans-
mission, and distribution of electricity and gas, has received five Bank
loans, and is a competently managed and well-staffed organization. The
Government would onlend $300,000 of the proposed loan to STEG under a
subsidiary loan agreement on the same terms and conditions as the Bank
loan. The execution of the subsidiary loan agreement would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01).
Project Implementation
59.      While the Project Department of MOFP would be in charge of the
overall coordination of the Project, specific ministries and their
agencies would be responsible for all aspects associated with the execu-
tion of each Project task, such as preparing terms of reference and hiring
and supervising consultants, according to Bank Guidelines; specific
arrangements would be made to ensure systematic training of staff. An
understanding with the Government was reached during negotiations on a
detailed implementation schedule for each task. To help ensure prompt
implementation, a monitoring system involving the agencies mentioned above
would be established. The system would be based on two processes:
quarterly reports by the executing agencies would be sent to the Bank
through MOPF starting March 31, 1983, and annual reviews would be conduc-
ted by the Projects Department of MOPF, the executing agencies, the
managing institutions and the Bank, to start by December 31, 1983 (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.04). The objective of the monitoring system would be
to assess progress achieved and to identify remedial measures, where
required. Project implementation is expected to be completed by June 30,
1986.
60.      The agricultural component is expected to be implemented in three
and one-half years. Detailed terms of reference for the various studies
have been agreed upon between the Government and the Bank. All
consultants are expected to be hired and start their assignments by the
end of 1982, and complete those assignments by mid-1985. By March 31,
1983, each institution/department participating in the Project would



- 18 -
designate a senior staff member who would coordinate with MOA's Planning
Department the implementation of the studies under his or her institu-
tion's or department's responsibility. In addition, steering committees
with memberships and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank would be
established by that date, and would be responsible for the implementation
of each task, the evaluation of the results and the provision of draft
reports on each task to the Bank for review and comment (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.05). The Planning Department of MOA would be responsible for
the management of the steering committees, and for the quarterly reporting
to the Bank, through MOPF. The various departments of MOA are adequately
staffed with qualified Tunisians who would participate in these tasks.
Consultants would thus be expected to act as catalysts as well as advisors
in getting the tasks started and completed in a timely manner. To assist
in the prompt execution and supervision of the agriculture component, a
senior agricultural management and planning advisor to the Director of the
Planning Department would be employed by March 31, 1983, with terms of
reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.02(a)(i)).
61.      The design of the agricultural component tasks would involve the
recruitment, travel, and accommodations of numerous foreign and local
consultants and thus would require complex and time-consuming logistical
support beyond what the Planning Department could normally offer. The
Planning Department, therefore, would engage the National Center for
Agricultural Studies (CNEA), which has a long experience in handling
consultants, to assist in managing logistics.
62.      The industry and export component would be implemented in three
and one-half years. Guidelines for the preparation of terms of reference
of subsector and project feasibility studies were discussed and agreed
upon during negotiations. A deputy general manager would be appointed in
CNEI to take charge of the operational management of the institution, and
specifically to carry out day-to-day monitoring and quality control of
staff work. His appointment with terms of reference and qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank would be a disbursement condition for the CNEI
part of the loan (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para 4 (ii); and Section
3.06). For about one year, he would be assisted by a senior advisor,
whose terms of reference have been agreed upon between CNEI and the Bank.
As regards exports, CEPEX would undertake a review of the institutional
environment for export promotion with a view to formulating an action
program for export promotion.
63.      The energy component is designed to be implemented in about one
year. The recruitment of consultants for training (power planning,
conservation audits, and petroleum exploration planning) would be started
shortly. A short list of the engineering consultants for the energy
audits has been compiled by the Borrower and draft terms of reference are
being prepared by the Bank. A request by the Government for proposals by
consultant engineers is currently planned for the third quarter 1982 and
selection and signing of agreements is expected to be completed by the
fourth quarter. The bids for equipment (geological exploration, power
planning, and wind energy) would be invited by third quarter 1982, and the
contracts would be awarded by first quarter 1983.



- 19 -
Project Costs
64.      Total cost of the project, excluding the front-end fee, is
estimated at $8.9 million, of which $6.5 million (73 percent) is the
estimated foreign cost. Base costs of studies are $5.5 million (67
percent of base cost), training $0.7 million (8 percent), material and
equipment $2.0 million (25 percent). The project cost estimate contains
adequate provision for contingencies. Physical contingencies ($0.22
million) are 5 percent of base cost, and price contingencies ($0.55
million) have been calculated on the basis of expected price increases of
base cost plus physical contingencies (8 percent in 1983 and 7 percent
p.a. thereafter, for local and foreign cost) for the agriculture and
industry and export components.   The cost estimates for energy contain no
contingencies since they are based on quotations for fixed-price contracts
to be signed by the end of 1982 and on works to be completed by the end of
1983. The costs in man-months are summarized below. The breakdown
between foreign and local consultants is the best estimate at the time of
appraisal. Consultants man-months were estimated on the basis of: (a)
preliminary terms of reference for each study, which define needs for
consultants; and (b) discussion with each of the executing agencies.
Costs per man-month include fees, subsistance and travel. The relatively
high cost in industry and export are explained by industry standards and,
for foreign consultants, by the fact that much of the work will be carried
out in Tunisia rather than abroad, the latter being the case for the
energy consultants.
Foreign                       Local
Man-months   $/Man-month    Man-months   $/Man-month
Agriculture               200         $11,000          133        $ 5,000
Industry and Export        69         $15,000           34        $10,000
Energy                    125         $11,000           -             -
Financing Plan
65.      The Bank loan of $4.5 million would finance about 68 percent of the
estimated foreign exchange cost of the project, or about 50 percent of total
project cost, and the front-end fee of $66,502. The balance of the project
cost would be financed by the Government. Part of the Government contribution
may be replaced with bilateral assistance or suppliers' credits, should this
become available in time to meet the timetable for project implementation. To
expedite project implementation retroactive financing of up to $450,000 for
expenditures incurred after July 1, 1982 is proposed for urgent tasks for
which the Government has entered, or will have entered before expected loan
signing, into commitments with consultants or equipment suppliers (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4 (i)). The Government contribution would
include $0.52 million representing incremental local staff costs for energy.
In addition, recurrent costs for the agriculture and industry components,
estimated at $1.9 million per year, would be provided by the Government, as
they would have been incurred by the Government regardless of the Project.
66.      In terms of the project components, the financing plan is detailed
below:



- 20 -
Bank      Government       Total
---------US $ Million----------
Agriculture
Studies                         1.31          1.54         2.85
Training                       0.02             -          0.02
Equipment                      0.19            -           0.19
Industry and Export
Studies                        0.54           0.67         1.21
Training                       0.11           0.05         0.16
Equipment                      0.03            -           0.03
Energy
Studies                        0.78           0.64 /a      1.42
Training                       0.22           0.26         0.48
Equipment                       0.83          0.97         1.80
Subtotal                       4.03           4.13         8.16
Contingencies                                 0.40           0.37         0.77
Subtotal                       4.43           4.50         8.93
Front-end Fee                  0.07             -          0.07
TOTAL FINANCING                4.50           4.50         9.00
/a   Including $0.52 million for incremental local staff.
Procurement and Disbursement
67.      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the employment
of consultants would be in accordance with Bank Guidelines (Loan Agree-
ment, Section 3.02 (b)). It is understood that consultants responsible
for training would be different individuals from those doing the studies,
to ensure proper emphasis on training.
68.      Vehicles under the project would be required at different points
in time over the life of the project. As a result, they would be pur-
chased in small lots under limited international tendering (LIT) after
receipt of simultaneous quotations from at least three manufacturers or
suppliers offering adequate guarantees of service and spare parts.
Virtually all of the remaining materials and equipment would be for the
energy component of the project and, with the exception of those for the
wind energy task, consist of relatively small computers where servicing
capabilities are particularly important, as well as of highly specialized
software, and for which LIT is also the most efficient procurement method.
The same applies to the equipment for the wind/solar energy collection
stations. The ten wind assessment units (windmills), expected to cost a
total of about $50,000, would be purchased directly from STEG, the only
local producer of this experimental-type equipment, under a negotiated
contract (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, Part A). As regards procurement for
the power system planning of the energy component, the software would be



- 21 -
provided free of charge by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).
Training in its use, however, would be done at Argonne National
Laboratory, the institution entrusted worldwide with training by IAEA.
69.      Funds from the Bank would be disbursed over 18 months for the
energy component, and four years for the industry and export and for the
agriculture components. The Bank would disburse 65 percent of the cost of
studies, training and equipment, except for vehicles, micro-film equipment
and wind assessment units where the Bank would disburse 100 percent of
foreign expenditures or 90 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory).
The Bank would disburse funds either (a) directly to consultants and
equipment suppliers upon receipt of standard documentation from executing
agencies, and authorized by them, in the proportions indicated in the Loan
Agreement; or (b) through reimbursement to the Government for expenditures
made under the Project on the basis of statements of expenditures, and in
the proportions indicated in the Loan Agreement. In the latter case,
supporting documentation would not be submitted to the Bank, but retained
for review by Bank missions at their request. It is expected that the
Bank loan would be fully disbursed within four years from signing the
Loan. Accordingly, the closing date of the loan would be December 31,
1986.
Accounts and Audit
70.      Accounts would be kept by each of the executing ministries or
their agencies, and would be monitored by the Projects Department of
MOPF. The executing ministries or agencies would be audited by the
General Financial Audit Service, an independent agency functionally
attached to MOPF, in accordance with criteria and procedures agreed upon
with the Bank. Such criteria and procedures would include the audit of
withdrawals based on statements of expenditures. Certified copies of
accounts and the auditors' annual report thereon, including a specific
report on the audit of withdrawals based on statements of expenditures,
would be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.02).
Benefits and Risks
71.      The Project would help prepare and promote a portfolio of invest-
ment projects, and improve local capabilities to fulfill these tasks
through specialized training. Provision of foreign consultants to local
institutions is designed to improve domestic skills. Policy-oriented
studies in agriculture, energy, and export promotion would lay the ground
for the careful design of action programs. In the long run, the
mechanisms set up to prepare new projects would help strengthen the
institutions involved.
72.      General risks may be faced as a result of the multi-sectoral
character of the project. To minimize such risks, arrangements have been
made under the project to ensure effective coordination of project
implementation among the ministries and agencies concerned. Most ex-post



- 22 -
studies of technical assistance projects suggest that close Bank super-
vision is needed and more than the usual manpower for that purpose
necessary, to minimize the risks associated with this kind of project. To
this end, appropriate measures have been devised. For example, in
agriculture, efforts have been made to minimize risks by defining at an
early stage the required tasks, terms of reference, consultant needs, and
institutional arrangements. Government commitment has been obtained
through careful consultation at the working level. In addition, the
project would provide for a senior agricultural management and planning
advisor to the Director of the Planning Department, and a contractual
arrangement with a suitable agency to manage the logistical support to
consultants. For the industry component, a deputy general manager at
CNEI, assisted by an experienced advisor, would be appointed to control
the quality of staff work and ensure that terms of reference for the
studies are according to guidelines provided by the Bank.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors separately. Special features of the draft Loan Agreement
are referred to in the text, and listed in Section III of Annex III. The
execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government of Tunisia
and the Tunisian Electricity and Gas Company (STEG) would be a special
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 5.01). The appointment by CNEI of a deputy general manager in
charge of quality control of staff work with terms of reference,
qualifications, experience and conditions of employment satisfactory to
the Bank would be a condition of disbursement for those parts of the
project where CNEI would be the sole executing agency (draft Loan Agree-
ment, Schedule 1, para. 4 and Section 3.06).
74.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
75.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
August 26, 1982
Washington, D.C.



-23 -
ATTACHMENT I
Page 1 of 3
TUNISIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL COMPONENT
Total Consultant and
Sub-Project              Administration in Charge /1         Equipment Costs
Us$
1. Consultant to Assist
Ministry of Agriculture          Planning Department                130,000
Planning Department to
manage Project
2.  Preparation of National    (a) Planning Department                  390,000
Research and Extension       (b) Crop and Animal Production
Program                          Departments
(c) National Research Inst.
(d) Dept. of Training
Extension, and Research
3.  Preparation of National    (a) Cereals Office                       190,000
Plan for farm input dis-   (b) Crop Production Department
tribution (chemical inputs
and seed)
4.  Preparation of National    (a) Rural Works Department               320,000
Plan for farm mechani-       (b) Crop Production Department
zation
5.  Feasibility study for         (a) Planning Department               130,000
project including first    (b) Crop and Animal Production
tranche of research,             Departments
extension, input supply    (c) National Research Inst.
and mechanization programs
in Northern Tunisia
6.  National agricultural         (a) Planning Department               500,000
marketing and processing   (b) Ministry of National
for fruits, vegetables,          Economy
milk and fish                (c) Livestock office
(d) Export Promotion Center
7.  Preparation of action        (a) Department of Land Tenure          150,000
program for land reform    (b) Agency for Land Tenure Affairs
in Irrigated Areas
8.  Preparation of national           Department of Coordination of  270,000
project for improvement          Irrigation Offices
of operation and maintenance
of irrigation perimeters
9.  Preparation of national           Department of Rural Works         110,000
program of well rehabili-
tation, creation and equipment
10. Feasibility study for             Department of Forestry and        180,000
anti-desertification/            Soil Conservation
range management project
in South-central and
Southern Tunisia
II. Consultants to assist             Planning Department              480,000
start-up of Agricultural
Promotion Institute
12. Training for Tunisian        (a) Planning Department               20,000
staff participating in       (b) Ministry of National
the Project                      Economy
13. Equipment (vehicles)         (a) Planning Department               190,000
(b) Ministry of National
Economy
Total Base Cost           3,060,000
/1 All are in the Ministry of Agriculture, except the Ministry of National
Economy and the Export Promotion Center (paras. 6(b), 6(d), 12(b) and 13(b) above).



- 24 -
ATTACHMENT 1
Page 2 of 3
TUNISIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
INDUSTRY AND EXPORT COMPONENT
Total Consultant
Administration           and Equipment
Sub-project                       in Charge                 Cost
1.  Consultants for Quality              National Center
Control and Policy Advice            for Industrial
Studies (CNEI)             180,000
2.  Subsector, Feasibility and           CNEI                        600,000
Marketing Studies
3.  Training                             CNEI                         90,000
Export Promotion
Center (CEPEX)              80,000
4.  Equipment                            CNEI                         30,000
5.  Study of Institutional               CEPEX
Environment to Promote Exports                                  220,000
6. Assistance in
Establishing an Export               CNEI and
Promotion System                     CEPEX                      200,000
Total Base Cost                        1,400,000



- 25 -
ATTACHMENT 1
Page 3 of 3
TUNISIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ENERGY COMPONENT
Sub-Project                      Administration               Total Consultant
in Charge                and Equipment Cost
1. Energy Conservation
Training                    Ministry of                     215,000
National Economy
Studies                     (MNE)                           905,000
2. Assessment of Geothermal
Resources
Study                       MNE                            310,000
3. Plan for Handling
Petroleum Products
Study                       MNE                             150.000
4. Power System Planning
Training                    Tunisian Elec-                  130,000
Equipment                   tricity & Gas                   330,000
Company (STEG)
5. Petroleum Exploration
Planning
Training                    MNE with Tunisian               130,000
Equipment and Software      Company for Petro-            1,200,000
leum Activities
(ETAP)
6. Assessment of Wind Energy
Equipment                   MNE                             330,000
Wind measurement                                        (280,000)
Windmills                                                (50,000)
Total Base Cost                                                3,700,000



- 26 -
AhNN.E I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THQUSAND SQ. F.M.)                                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)fa
TOTAL            163.6                                                      HIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      75.2                                MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA 6          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST       LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 230.0       380.0    1310.0                1253.6                  1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    165.2        289.7     589.9                713.5                   1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, KID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 4221.0       5127.0    6354.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0        43.5      51.7                 47.3                     65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      10.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        17.8
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2080
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. PH.                       25.8        31.3      37.9                 35.8                     35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     60.7        72.9      82.4                420.9                     92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.4        46.2      41.4                 44.3                     39.7
15-64 YRS.                         52.5        50.0      54.9                 52.4                     56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.2         3.8       3.7                  3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8 /c      1.9/c     2.1                  2.8                      2.4
URBAN                              3.2         3.8       3.9                  4.6                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.9         41.8      34.9                 41.2                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    21.0         14.6       9.2                 12.2                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.4         3.2       2.6                  2.9                      2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        29.2     180.9
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         10.0      21.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOPD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          97.0        96.0     132.0                100.4                   110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   83.2        88.2     115.1/d              108.5                   108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          51.8        56.6      75.ld               71.9                    66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       12.9        13.5      22.7Td               18.0                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     36.1        24.5       9.8                 15.1                     5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   48.1         54.2      60.2                 56.9                    64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                     158.9       131.3      90.0                104.3                    64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               .         49.0      70.0/e               59.1                    65.6
URBAN                               .           ..      63.07;i              83.1                    78.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      77.0OT               39.8                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        62.0        ..                   ,,                    59.3
URBAN                               ..       100.0        ..                   ..                    75 3
RURAL                               ..        34.0      60.0/e                 ..                    30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         10026.1      5934.0   3576.2                4015.5                  1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..       727.5   1167.8                1802.2                  1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            405.2       409.1     463.7                641.7                   477.4
URBAN                            277.3/f     302.8    340.7/e               538.3                   679.8
RURAL                           1040.97?    1269.3    1275.87?             2403.3                  1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        24.1      25.0/e               25.5                    27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         5.1/'
URBAN                               ..         5.1j       ...
RURAL                               ..         5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         3.2        ..
URBAN                               ..         2.77.
RURAL                                          3.6        *
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                         24.0 /
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 27 -
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                         REFeRENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE*GUS
- MOST RZCENT ESTIMATE)-
MZDDLZ INCOMZ
MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA            M MEDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST       LATIN AMZRICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
'DJUTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                66.0       100.0     102.0                  88.7                   104.3
MALE                 88.0       121.0     119.0                 104.5                   106.4
FEMALE               43.0        80.0      85.0                  72.5                   103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                12.0        23.0      25.0                  39.7                    41.3
MALE                 19.0        33.0      31.0                  49.3                    40.4
FEMALE                5.0        13.0      19.0                  29.0                    41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S OF SECONDARY) 23.5         11.1      35.0                  10.1                    33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           61.1        47.5      39.2                  34.1                    29.9
SECONDARY                         15.8        27.8      20.4                  23.7                    16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       15.5        24.0/    62.0                  43.3                    79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        10.5        13.0      18.3/1                17.8                    42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        40.3        75.7      94.8                 131.3                   270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.1        14.0      48.4                  44.1                   107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 19.0        16.0      43.8                  31.5                    63.7
CINE1A ANNUAL A7TENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0          ..       1.5/d                 1.7                     2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    1137.9       1214.8   1631.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   6.0         7.7       8.3                  10.6                    24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             56.0        50.0      34.0                  42.4                    31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                18.0        21.0      33.0                  27.8                    23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               27.0        23.7      25.7                  26.0                    33.6
MALE                                50.2        44.2      46.5                  46.2                    50.4
FEMALE                               3.3         3.6       4.3                   5.6                    16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.8         2.1       1.8                   1.9                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                         17.0/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..      42.07..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..       6.07d.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..      15.07.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    204.0/d                279.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      97.07-               178.6                   184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    193.0/d               403.6                    518.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    193.o7;[               285.6                   371.1
ESTIYATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      20.0/d               22.1
RURAL                               ..          ..      15.O7F                30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted aritlmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
Ic   Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1977; /e 1976;
/f 1962; /g 1966; /h 1975.
May, 1982



-28 -                                                                              NX
Page 3 of 6
0010FIMMON  Or 000110 2MOICATop
mot..:  Olohosgb oh. da. ato dots fts  -,attoo        ... booaly jds*dstoh. met a.1haritotlo. 04 tI.Liaok. it .h-Id1 .1.  h. 000.  tbo. Loh.  my tat ha It.-
OaloooLly oo.atobL. ht0000  of Oh. Ink 04 eOstt-4tOO   d 04otltti    .04  -004ts oo  by all 0.000oot   -orLe. Ito11oOti  th. 40t..  Tk. etoo  so..  --a
Oh.ltee, so_tl Co d... iha 0.,dae of 001000 .104d0*.t. toSts, tad oh--WtOolt otooa   .r dL!ff.or.... httei   oUO
Th.e I " bttro    top. are (L) the t    loonot  Itop of oh. oth).o oooet,y otn (20 a   oTy go.. .. tch eteobto  his. -.I*eag  L-e.   0000 the  -t t  Voop
of Lh. etbj...  =ot,j (-.01p9  ftt   "Itish Ina=   011 Oaotao" o   0940  "MIMI. Ieot  toOth Atli-. oan Oitdl. Bt..' 0.o oboe-  bm.   of oOteoe
eooa-olcralaftolloe.   0 te rtos.  lop dte  hetooost ae pputOlt  Ightod trLth-btltma.  Oar 00 .h LadL..r aet eow. oeLy  ho.-
:T,ofIt  If Ithe  .Ca to It.:    saw e dot.0o  that 10                 IL...010  the  oo. t0 -M.  f-Otin   the Lodioo...on 4.eood.  atk0   -oltbiL.y 00 data
sodItoatalot.  .00  tto  h  000   L.0 0.0oL-tOo   ot.of 0.0 ledi.aa  Wo 000 -0  Thtaooott..sttat  00.1 oafo10 L. ...Prt.heb 0010  of
t.elodootr t  o  10  nott the  otwomry tot totore..   grow..
AA"~ (.h-.otek.                                                                                tslto   a   aOta   a     oa.ora.S    .   tIrpelotLoo (-10.,
lT-L -00  ototI-fto. art  .o0pt1otog lad  tot Std 1.1S   ..0...; 1979 date.                   0t.., sad tttoM   atoltt b  thIrtottol    sheot o  heoPsta  had.
ASILoolt..o  - 1001l..010  0aotala "lt     ono  Io.osllily at p -  -  -IVt.. OflIsI. La  "oL.a tad potaS 'ott  St .,-tolalsod he-pit.4 Ott t-
to. ao.. VPeoto..... .00t. -d Mt00.0" srt,. ot to 11. floll.; 1979 tatc..                   hhLlILLtloo  -W-ro  ft.uICl. ale .etabllh.bme  o. pt            tmly  toolftd
by at 10.0  to  PhyoL.1".                    P ...oboe   14trdlt  poilaoleell  000.
GNP1 PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP pot t.pit. aotlmg. at  .o"-Co caot Petl... .. 1"                    41.1 -o:  .* toot i100.4".  a .t.t IeatOlo.he. Omoda health
coLotod by 005   ....tlO L..00t04 o0-eLd B.&k 41.. 119 7440 hoo); 19b0.                       a4 odi oal 000000  hot p- LLae.y e toatd by a pb0.10100 (baa by
19 70. atd190      LA00                                                                       id,,Ia.).l.lo   eooeo  .101.100.) .ltO  attot 10-pg.t.0tta -
190001 COSIyPTIO  itt 10114 - latal otheatOot ot  o0o100 0000 (toa      11001 7010000 ohso ho4pOele 100040IL"e   ,Ot-lptlstmt.l Oaptoela
00  1410,aale,  trase  0tyo, taceo  00  sothrm   0-1.00 ti tal p                                      atplOaa.  1001 a h  tvfoto, Ldhelto  SW:t  Sttl   St i POotol.
.010107; 10 kil.1000 ... 0  oL oSoL.Ioaet  yet oepl; 1940, 170. M0  97                         oOrc Otl.lt  hptoettL. ldod a                       Ido40  Oao.
400.                                                                                        441.0.  o  Oa-ptoo1 tot - Total ...t 00 notlolooo to or Olochatle
dra  heptoo  1040  by the osabat of  od..
7P1P'LTION AND0 VITAL. STATISTICS
ToalPolOo,11ea                 ..ohaooo) - A. of Joly L; 19460, 1970,. 00  1940           90MING4
Ir.,Posa Into ae of tItl)l     So, MID      tOat I0 0I.1aoala;A                                               MaINel  aaaet  o  0 tO   o   tltlll"h   0   10. qaer
dlffreo  laltlloo    of  rha   re.  y afeoa  aaahlity 00 dat.                         ad theta  -L' -01.  4 hAttb      r or 10460 my or my .   h  Iftladed L.
smo    -tooOl-O  1960. 1970, St 19g0 dot..the hotomhld  I.oo    ... tlatLoo    opt
Polto  rLta.laoAtnaueOoY000                                                                                         e. b:totIS     ors    tro9l-ats
Mauolf  0rs  2000 - C.oort popaL.,Iat pra).cta-   -t 10.04 on 1940                 he'fpta. ptro   01    rbt   ttt1otohdOstOa
001.1 bo         'Ylo   bya. 0.4 _.0 d StOhelo mrt01ty -ototality11   ran..               dII.0110t  to.ptoClly.  Dool1.m   otoldo oa-poraoootrOtloet-   St
Pta)o.tOlO   p-rnoer  for 0.01.1197 tO4co lowylo  at  hi.  Loll   aF                      Lat odp parts.
Its11 eeaootat  0 brchloreoIo tlt  ss.rytpt09             0a               401 .0 10 1.oOrl.o  (-...Co of doollift          - 000.1. tIbe. -A tattl 
en, At =00.10lIe  ateto   otoblllelas 007.0 ar.I             1000 POt.                10,00000000  d-11io.s  lob e1.tr10lO   0  110004 qst.rOo    00 p00.03j
moor. for lotOllty  too  aI   han 000 Che 1I.-1. oa.otI   d.olto  10                      of0000. stha. aat totL d-loeiog   OoPotlloy.
m.r 110..Y   adttIa 10.00  1._01  ott peat ftoly pl_aleg ptrlf -e..
lat  0071.Oht ._I00 good  -00 the-... nt  sdIt-ttl-o of  ItaLitoy             0091CA1TW
a,  frolty  0.40to  PtI.octe.  porpom..                                           A4(ottod Corallmot WI.1.
Statlott....yIo           . .0 0 0000.07"  OmlOly       btht   10 -0 grOh 0100              WoO.  tol-00.01   0   f0001   G- 100   0..mt.0  ft.Io
the bIrth 000  L0 eqol  Ioo.  40.00,  toe.a   010. the ago oOtsatO to-                      ooole   fal  oo0  h    rISMy  _001 0. P_ 0a a"O..                     0
aL .0000001t.  100I  0b0040 L.f toy.   41=11007 0... 4-011- .000P0007anol-    Por.1001.M                                        holoo1.y 1000L0  akIl4rot t     -11
11  aplooO 1  lovol 00- f01 _ta  r.pobol          .. whoo 0..h Sob-roa -Yaoa- boo adjaod f at dlff10000 ltteo    prOg.M                          o.'onottn; tot
P"000   orot    ..alf ooso hly.  1". o01oaypaloa  Ott  ot                             00100100010  -oLot . .40.I_-0 I.,ol.  -Y onoS  105po                   t
L0 too Y... 2000. .04 000 rota of dloola  of 100011Y1070.00 to rp%.oo1.-                 Oaa        IlyoaOl                             C 00.m. 0   .oa - "1000  .0 0000   --d0.4
-      00 -;0001..eActo  rrq o  0010                                                                                           V fa   er. of -PP.-=   plIntY   aOO-toot0;
OaarotO....l... l ...ta   1   rahed - The yea  bohsooclcayPOyslOt.                       P-Ood-o geoal   o1000    ornefO  Ir.Itgoa                          f-a.tOi   PopLI.
0100 0111 0 0.000001.                                               sotOll~~~~~~~~~~~~'_,y of 12 10 17 f7000   0;or.......  oon-    __or  *ro .0.0011
-i-- ;~D... 1y                                                                                 000 lodd.
'0000   .    01-yst  OplOt0opat oqut  4110.-0 (100 hectoohe) of                   ......    trllot  orof of eoctol - OcttOIlttotO
-W1ar.  1960. 1970 .04 197901.                                                           10004  1         L015. 10400001  orohtP-ot-  000k op.-t Wl04odt-
7.,  kt .. sooltrl1004 - 1-0.1.004 00aho. to   o,tlaolu.,a I..ad                            otoly ata.dpatoooo of   -no.aa   LooaIotl."io.
0017. 1940. 1970 St197  400.                                                           Pol-tahtral     Olt    Stts          I.040      0.  00040.0  0.0110   W
7001a100  00  troOo  . p.0....)   Thloo(-4yto,0t1goo(5                                  oat  a0   soay1.,0_odd  y00.0o  oh.e  0  Oh.
1   L1,.  960. 1970. 00d 1940 Iota.                                                  04.10 Lico..IaS rL. eotoc)-  10.0   attol   (41. t0 rot St 0,10.)
Go01c1o  0.t ltAt  (-00.)0  - 000..1 - A--ia Sro-oh 1too0 at t-n  014-A00pr000.o   0.  edoIt  noos.odo IS ytt    t 
YoOpopoloolon fsr 19566040. 1940f_-40 S 9190-60.
Cosalt 10.0  40t. )atcoLt        b..ha   - lns  0000  .00..0 of olb..  p.p-         CO0ISWT1I0V
Z-s0 01IO 9000  tool Ohoscod) - Anso1 1100 bioohe p.. b,oo Ih      .0  0d-y000               00"'0 0000-ottot.10pta                    oolldoo Stltc    -.bttt  004
CruO  oah OOt(00  h.oooed) - A.0.01 dooaho Po,t ha.oad  of MA-..L4-yor'P" 0000.                             oth kotd   t.L.ato   - I11 Ltyp.. o.  -mlooftrdIo
700510   940. 197.0.4 194  40..                                                      broeat   . 10 goooIp415p.r oksaS  00p.oote;oooe
R100    ...dton  ..-4005   So   f  ogor    rose 011  40.0 in                               1i..t roeloiteIt L. tatrI-   .0o4L 00 7t00  ohogo .oOrC"T.  at 0041
:lttOeooely   zo-etsoog     04001  14. 190,a..1.                 0                 mao  0o401hliabot  l.01g
raciyI ..i P000- A ... ot:.000  lh,aod.) - A-.OL -W",o of .,.eP,.r.                         10 toc.Io.t  (too ;theoSt00000.0  -I  000.01r00-  Oaf.,              01
of bilth--ooto  d-ooo  si-O oopLoe  -f .010.  f sly pL-.0oO    0000                         gcrg     1 ppar   h.."'d pOt .OO   0001.4.  .0100.04 TV  -met.e.
F-0.1  11  lnlo  - U-00   (0.1,  o  at       d ooo"n    eo.oo      f     '.0010              _0-0t10   St 10 1o..0 eke  -051-0t01    Of TV 0000 on La 0f.O.
0m of oIttd-b ...0   Wp(5-47011S    -  b10tb-.ocl.tI  Ortloe  to                      9000,0  CIL.o.lsoo  (00oaooa  .0001.1 c -)  *h-. 0I    -N4  01-
al  Oritd tam   L.           S-*509.                                                      10..LI00 0  'dolly &-.I00  000.,.0 00009p0.  dtf 0.04"             ..ots
Pohl lOOtloO  d000004 p0100 ITo Ia. 0041a  so-o1  O.  10 L. ooeL".dao
F009 A00D NfUILITIN                                                                             00 ho "do1y- if i0 ap-tr.0  boo.. 00. O1Into500
0.d0 of 7004 9004001.0 ot Caoll. (1961-71-10  - 1.40 olp.  0 t1.   -IoO                    Ilsom OAnoa Affl igaao .0   71.0100ot  ea     lS  0.00   cda=t of
E04100   00 o fl loot  0050410100  .         -I.. odeole  nlo     co   fotod oat1d10  tl  drtoOe  et.-10000   d Looo0 00 dtls-00   L-5
L.."0 of L.sSa) "he"h .rc  d41bl.04A .-Ca0 .L.       lt  (e... .off 00 .0d
Oeato  octLdd).  14900000  rootko  at 00h  -ttt7 L0 bated  -LAM040 0040
.00001  tsos  potta  P.t1otilghtr; 19415. 1970. oo  1950 "C0..                     10101 LabO  FIota  (the..aodi  - 9-01Ia.00lylr 0010  Pao-. 0.0.1400:
Po 001. apl,oftaorto1.00.        i1 oobl.oool-Iaoo  Fvs-'obstao   a04.L mate   bu n.  t f0001400                                       L. -OII-O  -04 .l. 00.1.
P., lop.  hotLb. tPPIlo. 000  45t.010 pro .oLow..  L.000  00                                00oa.0so  1940. 1970 St 1960 "00..
.Wpomo  St Ohoest  L. 000k.  Not ceppiot- .-L."  .0100.1fStot.                             !i rnitloesOl - sl  lo.. ,r. t             .0    otap of 000.1 labor foot..
900.1000  tOot 10 ftod p.aonte . St Lta.  10 000o.    L091.                                  soi0o.g!sl-000  o . 1  f.oheg. forsOty. hoo Us St
moto  -00  -tinOod by 740 baa.t - phyakoLgs0-L 0004  lao Oot.-I 010-                         Oohlt0   000s  If    I100  Iot. ..; 1040. 1970 St 1946 d-n
01 ty   heoLoh .-bOd-oln   -.1-eol.aSoeoo  body 0010.OS                                     0.10, l.taoo) - 000  1            L.. 10101g. tOttroltolo e. mOOtOLe
0.40d   dbotltoclo of popolott1.. -dOloo    19  W0005  f. or  .00 at                         .0   b.rtly    te  S   a               .tot." of 00001 labor toto;
,-W.0hlt 1001; 19ti414. 1970 Std 1977 4000.                                                  1940. 1970 .0d 1940 d-to
Por 000t1 eooly of 0.0.0(a..otdy   Pt.0.10. ateo of P.. ..Pi..                             PorltLa.IotL   R-0  (P.00.t,   10001. mte.n  fO.q     - PaaT1(nLa or
00  eppy  f   Stpo  dy   st oplyoffot 0  0 1t  o  ha.   a-00100  no.  00  owto tR001. ml.. Stf                                 1000000
qoIttoS. fat .11  o.atootIL   00t.10blib   by 0300 p-0014  fat..      5p.1.00  of 1t.. 1.l  Ot 01 no                                 p10Oo   f 011 040  00p0001001;
alaoo     6f~0 sr-  of 00001 P0001  p.0 40Y St 20 1t"' of .0100.  -0                  1940. 1979. .1d 194 4000.7 the o"     . booe 6 0. -U. 1.0'. LaOtIptC.1o  00000
p.10. p000010. 00  ht10  L0 grOm ohe-"  he -Ii  p000    00.   ts                           o.1o,l  0Ot0   trt.or     the Pod."U.iso. St lo.Z tnt 0St.  A
.td. ott la-  than tboo at 75 Ira   of lteIl  rtI 004 224000.o'f at0.Ot0taooIt_.101ett.
000,1I00010 t  a. Onrg -      tar the  -Ld010.  ra-4o by 14  10 th. ThIotd                                    -7.      Roll0 00 p.PelaI. t  A.adt LSt 0d5 St-4 0
OooLd  oo    ar.py;.191..  1970 St 1977 400.                                                00 the 00._I05  Iio
P., 000100 orlOWi t003, 0El   0101 Pt 001   - ft0.t.j  oopLy af loot 4.
01004 00.oon-L-. 0.4 p0100   00  05pmt4.; 190145., 1970 W0 1977 4000.                 1LN0.0. DI I   I a110
1Ch114 (00   -41 tooth tanh  _,. 1ha.-a    - A--Ia 4000000 yet th.ootd 10                   7-ot00tt of  0100  10000. (1bo  10 --2000k04  00    - loliod. by rilh..
000grop1-47000  00ohldot 1  0L0.     P a0 ..siow; 00. mtSolpo n     50.0.           0 P.t. t. 01.ft.1                                      noprot   or.O2   . .,S   P-000-  40 p.--0
trio   daa          f,10    t. lif. 0.410; 1040. 1970 St 1950 Iota.                        0   eooal
Lif0  0taIO  o. 0h   b.000) A .00. 0 S.            ,00. of y.,.f   Lito.00 000yeo           0000       Z Shoo oloto 00, 200a - oya.p.l-(00   -.r orlo p-or      04000
hot of            WE;0(001                                                                                               thn ctto.   locaalo 0l0l,ol  afrobo
.0I      091   aootIno  coo... -           toca  oOOtOot.h.    loft.  so00000Y...          ftiftted 001001      __ V000  10000 1.000  (US$ I.000010  -         :0d0 ro IL -
40t0.I 0           Ia1  to   ....lo  bor9e0aL9o   .   15 .. otoe   040000  0.1b1  0      000   p010010  L00000  L0.00   0011 t0001h   Of 0.tOpr 90
I00.190  00. thI   eret0    oaltoe.o.sha..                     a -oi) . .r-    -oLi N0000051 10.00  of oh. di.00.   00I_          wi1 --f.104           thelool  rural
10to    hte oapo  a--  V,.topaodkohet  part. of the.7  10 :-0110 -Ihe              7000".ldf                                                       M `
faclly'o 0.000 00040.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ToU
toe. t   .1 d0 00...0  (.00.0 C   1 of h000 20011 -1.101. rS    -04                                                           f IL0-
00.00 of1. popI  (1..1, Othi. -. 00b00.11000   0 000000a dlapOO-aItO                                                                                  tm v,I-   b
- 0ocoO oste at th    14 ro..0l0  pohol lb. h.-LtoO    tlo                                          l   P--coyh 1001040
the     -   ' Co -nti  Ot   Opoonl. 010k 00000ll.0    ch0. tm0 . of .inOO 0 t.00
NOn. oao-flo  byPL    Oato-1haroo obtso    bte  yo of . pl.t? ..04  10
le..o .o   100101b.10o..     1    P.too               ..t   ip.I-  
7000 1,00010001h010.j   - PoPoltlan 4101404 by -0.04   of 0lt"0001g yhyOi                                                  000-0l00  000101. 0000 2101010
P-l-  .04lm   stoAlo 000000. e loos  iltdd by. p            i.1- noot  oa-ti.t                                                              .
-00014  o001110.0100



- 29 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
.TUNISIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population; 6.5 million (mid-1981)
GNP per Capita:  $1,420 (1981)
Annual Growth Rates
Amount                                             (at 1980 prices)
(million USJ                          Actual                                             Projected
*           Indicator                      at current prices)
1981            1977    1978    1979        1980   1981        1982    1983       1484    1985    1986    1987
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
*          Gross domestic product /1              8,224.0            5.3      7.1      7.1       6.0    5.0         3.8      7.3       6.0      5.8      5.6     5.3
Agriculture                          1,111.2         -10.2      4.5    -4.8        6.1    9.0         -4.3    11.5       4.0      3.9      3.7      3.5
Industry                             2,663.6           9.8      9.0    11.9        9.9    2.1          3.9      7.5       7.3      7.0     6.7      6.4
Services                             3,329.3           5.6      7.4      8.7       3.9    6.4          6.5     6.3       6.1      5.9      5.7      5.5
Consumption                            6,350.7           10.4      5.8     4.6       9.9    7.0          7.0      4.1       7.4      6.3     4.1      5.3
Gross investment                       2,539.5            6.9    12.9      3.9       5.8    9.2         -5.0      8.8       1.1     1.0       1.8     3.1
Exports of goods and NFS               3,475.1            5.5      8.2    23.3       0.7    2.0          4.4      8.3       6.9     8.0    13.4       8.2
Imports of goods and NFS               4,141.4          16.7      9.6    14.3        7.2    8.4          4.0      3.5      6.2       5.8     7.8      6.9
Gross national product                 8,292.8            5.8      7.9     7.5       6.5    5.2          3.6      7.2       5.9      5.5     5.3      5.2
Gross national savings                 1,942.1           -7.2    14.8    21.8       -7.2   -0.8        -19.4    17.8      -2.0      0.5      7.9      4.6
PRICES
GDP deflator                                             76.0    80.1    88.3    100.0  109.7
Exchange rate                                             2.33    2.40    2.46       2.47   2.02
Share of GDP at market prices (2)                                       Average Annual Increase (2)
(at current prices)                                                 (at constant prices)
1971      1976       1981       1986       1987       1991             1971-76    1976-81    1981-86    1982-87         1986-91
Gross domestic product /1  100.0        100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0               8.8         6.1         5.7         6.0          4.9
Agriculture               18.8       18.1       13.5       13.0       12.7       12.1             .8.2         0.7          3.6         5.3 /2       3.5
Industry                  20.6       25.9       32.4       32.4       32.7       33.7             10.2         8.5         6.5          7.0          5.8
Services                  47.7       42.9       40.5       41.6       41.7       41.9              8.3         6.4          6.1         5.9          5.1
Consumption                   82.0       77.5       77.2       78.1       78.0       74.5               9.6         7.5         5.8         5.4          4.0
Gross investment              20.0       30.4       30.9       24.6       24.1       23.8              14.1         7.7         1.4         3.1          4.2
Exports of goods and NFS    23.8         29.1       42.3       44.1       45.3       46.5               5.6         7.6         8.2         9.0          6.1
Imports of goods and NFS    25.8         37.1       50.4       46.8       47.5       44.7              13.1        11.2         5.5         6.0          4.0
Gross national product        99.6       98.7      100.8       99.6       99.4       99.1               8.5         6.6         5.5         5.8          4.9
Net factor income             -0.4       -1.3        0.8       -0.4       -0.6       -0.9                -           -           -           -            -
Gross national savings        17.6       21.1       23.6       18.0       17.9       20.6               2.9         3.6         0.2         5.5          8.0
As X of GDP
(at current prices)
1971      1976       1981
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                21.4       24.2       30.0
Current expenditure                                            18.9       18.5       22.3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                      2.5        5.7        7.8
Capital expenditure                                             6.9       11.4       10.6
Foreign financing                                               3.2         1.7       1.4
1971-76         1976-81         1981-86          1982-87          1986-91
OTRER INDICATORS
GNC   growth rate (X)                                          8.4              6.6             5.5              5.8             4.9
GNP per capita growth rate (X)                                 5.4              4.0             2.8              3.1             2.2
ICOR                                                           2.7              5.5             5.2             4.8              5.3
Marginal savings rate                                         24.0            25.2             20.6            23.0             30.2
Import elasticity                                              1.51             1.84            0.96            1.0              0.82
/1 GDP at market prices and components at factor cost.
/2 This growth rate reflects the decline expected in 1982; a least square growth
rate for the same period (1982-87) is 4.9, but the long-term projections for
agriculture are better reflected in the growth rates for the individual years
shown above.
EMENA CP I1-C
July 1982



_ 30 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
TUNISIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population' 6.5 million (mid-1981)
GNP per Capita:  tl,420 (1981)
Annual Growth Rates
Amount                                                    (at 1980 Prices)
(million Ust                               Actual                                              Projected
Indicator                 at current prices)
1981               1977    1978    1979    1980    1981               1982      1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports               2,434.2                9.7      9.6    20.7      0.8      3.7             3.6     8.8      6.7      8.2    16.0      8.4
Crude oil                       1,249.7               12.4    12.8    12.4      0.2    -5.0               1.1     2.7    -1.8       1.8    -0.1      3.7
Other primary                     125.8                4.9   -15.7    25.1  -11.9    -3.3               11.6      8.7      8.8     9.0      8.9      7.7
Manufactures                    1,058.7                6.8    10.4    33.3       3.6    16.3             5.3    14.9    14.3    13.2    28.1/2  11.0
Merchandise imports               3,801.5               14.1    10.7    15.7       7.7     9.5              3.7     3.0      6.0      5.6     7.8      7.1
Food                              421.4                9.6     7.7    39.6    -6.8       9.4             2.9      1.1      2.7     5.3      5.0    -4.8
Petroleum                         756.6               13.8    15.1      9.7    13.5    13.9             18.5      0.6    11.3      8.2    21.7/2  13.8
Machinery and equipment           979.5                5.5    15.4    -2.6    -4.4    32.9              -7.1    -1.0    -0.7       0.0      0.0      7.7
Others                          1,644.0               21.6     6.5    24.9    15.3    -2.3               4.4      6.7      7.9     7.1      5.6      5.9
Price Index                                           Price Index
PRICES
Export price index                                    54.8    58.7    75.5   100.0   118.6             117.4   122.5   131.6   141.8   152.0   163.5
Import price index                                   72.6    76.6    85.3   100.0   116.8              127.4   135.6   147.6   160.2   172.2   184.3
Terms of trade index                                  75.5    76.6    88.5   100.0   101.5              92.1    90.3    89.2    88.5    88.3    88.7
Composition of Merchandise Trade (2)                              Average Annual Increase (X)
(at current prices)                                       (at constant prices)
1971    1976    1981    1986    1987    1991               1971-76    1976-81    1981-86    1982-87        1986-91
Exports                                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                  4.1         8.7         8.6         9.6          5.2
Crude oil                          24.5    40.9    53.7    36.3    35.2    30.7                  4.6          6.3         0.7         1.3        -0.1
Other primary                      19.2    13.4       5.2     5.6      5.5     5.5               -5.4       -1.2         9.4          8.6          5.8
Manufactures                       56.3    45.7    41.1    58.1    59.3    63.7                   6.4        13.6        14.9       16.2           7.7
Imports                               100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                  13.1        11.5         5.2         5.9          3.9
Food                               21.2    12.3    11.1    11.0        9.8     6.8                0.6        10.9         3.4         1.8        -5.3
Petroleum                           3.9    11.1    19.9    22.9    24.9    31.0                  29.2        13.2        11.8       10.9          8.6
Machinery and Equipment            30.1    31.9    25.8    17.9    17.9    13.2                  13.5        10.5       -1.8         1.2         -1.0
Others                             44.8    44.7    43.2    48.2    47.4    49.0                  10.6        12.9         6.3         6.6         4.8
Share of Trade with                 Share of Trade with                      Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (2)            Developing Countries (2)             Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (2)
1970     1975      1980             1970      1975      1980                  1970    1975    1980
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                   62.6     48.6       n.a.            23.4      41.4       n.a.                  14.0    10.0      n.a.
Imports                                  62.9      67.1       n.a.            33.7      25.7      n.a.                   3.4      7.2     n.a.
/1 Constant price data at 1980 prices.
/2 Increase in refining capacity.
EMENA CP 2C
July 1982



- 31 -
ASNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OP PAYMEntS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million USS at current prices)
Population: 6.5 million (mid-1981)
GNP per Capita. 51,420 (1981)
Actual /I                                              Projected
t971      1976-    1979        1980       1981            1982      1983       1986     1987        1991
BALANCE OP PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods & services                 -57.4    -417.0    -356.0    -472.6    -607.5            -934.4    -893.3  -1,171.4 -1,265.7   -1,258.7
Exports of goods & services                   469.4   1,479.5   3,137.5   3,912.3   3,902.4           4,120.5   4,680.2   7,403.0  8,546.4   13,632.1
Imports of goods & services                   526.8   1,896.5   3,493.5   4,384.9   4,509.9           5,054.9   5,573.5   8,574.4  9,812.1   14,890.8
Net transfers /2                                 52.0       52.7      61.0      100.0      36.4            32.4      32.4       24.3     24.0        24.0
Current account balance                          -5.4    -364.3    -295.0    -372.6    -571.1            -902.0    -860.9  -1,147.1 -1,241.7   -1,234.7
Direct private investment                        27.6     102.6       50.9      236.0     354.6           400.0     300.0      400.0    400.0       500.0
MLT loans (net)                                  55.3      167.9     494.2      323.9     188.0           502.0      651.0     916.3  1,010.9       994.7
Official                                       59.2     130.4      198.5     270.9      262.2           434.4     416.1      423.6    476.1       690.0
           Private                                        _3.9       37.5     295.7       53.0    -74.2             67.6      234.9     492.7    534.8       304.7
Other capital                                    13.7       55.1    -126.2    -122.4      134.2              -          -         -        -
Change in reserves                              -91.2      38.7    -123.9       -64.9    -105.7              -      -90.2    -169.2   -169.2       -260.0
International reserves                          114.8     304.5      415.5     455.7      568.6           568.6     658.8   1,087.4  1,256.6    2,176.6
Reserves as months of imports                     2.6        2.2       1.6        1.4       1.6             1.4        1.4       1.5      1.5         1.7
Actual /I                                               Projected
1971     1976       1979      1980      1981            1982       1983      1986       1987      1991
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                  35.5       50.2      50.7       41.5     26.3             32.4       32.4      24.3       24.0      24.0
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                105.2     229.5      643.8      535.1    514.9            842.9   1,048.4   1,485.1   1,689.7   2,247.1
Concessional                                     61.0      104.0     154.5      217.5    284.1            343.8     326.2      284.4     309.2      427.2
Bilateral                                      52.8      95.1      153.7      197.3    277.6            256.6     264.6      238.6     255.2      337.6
IDA                                             4.8       8.9        0.2        1.0      0.6              1.0        -          -         -          -
Other  iltilateral                              3.4       0.0        0.6       19.2      5.9             86.2      61.6       45.7      54.0       89.6
Non-concessional                                 44.2      125.5     489.3      317.6    230.8            499.1      722.2   1,200.7   1,380.5   1,819.9
Private                                        28.8      60.1      377.6     191.4    117.3             294.2     475.6      801.5-    918.7   1,080.7
Official export credits                         3.2       9.9       42.6       52.5     36.3             76.2      96.3      214.5     268.5      522.3
IBRD                                           12.2      25.3       55.4      51.1      53.5             83.6     123.2      IS5.1     159.9      173.4
Other multilateral                               -        30.2      13.7       22.6     23.7             45.1      27.1       29.6      33.4       43.0
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                  619.5   1,166.2   2,996.4   3,188.8  3,370.7            4,024.2   4,675.3   7,360.9   8,371.9  12,611.8
Official                                      440.0     971.6   1,830.7   2,024.0  2,280.3            2,76.0   3,185.2   4,423.2   4,899.3   7,422.2
IBRD                                         39.3     127.9      232.0     269.0    303.8             345.3     426.6      725.8     811.9   1,049.5
IDA                                          21.1      64.1       67.3      67.9      67.9             68.9      68.1       65.3      64.1       58.2
Other                                       379.6     779.6   1,531.4   1,687.1  1,908.6            2,352.8   2,690.5   3,632.1   4,023.3   6,314.5
Private                                       179.5     194.6   1,165.7   1,164.8  1,090.4            1,255.2   1,490.1   2,937.7   3,472.5   5,18Q.6
Undisbursed debt                                352.5   1,109.5   1,694.6   1,685.5  1,170.6            1,539.9   1,515.1   1,851.4   2,143.4   3,036.9
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                      69.8       98.6     308.8      432.7    547.6            567.6     642.4      991.5   1,177.9   2,037.2
Interest                                       19.9      36.9      159.2     221.5    220.7            226.6      245.0     422.6      499.2      784.9
Payments as 2 exports                            14.9        6.7       9.8       10.9     13.9             13.8       13.7      13.4       13.8      14.9
Payments as 7 GNP                                 4.1         2.2      4.3        5.1      6.6              6.1       5.9        6.1       6.3        6.8
Average interest rate of new Loans (2)            4.9        5.4       7.1        7.1      6.7              7.2       8.0        8.2       7.3        7.4
Official                                        4.6       4.3        5.6        6.2       -                -         -          -         -          -
Private                                         6.1       7.9        9.8      11.2        -                -         -          -         -          -
Average maturity of new Loans (years)            23.3       16.6      15.8       17.3     19.6             16.7      15.2       14.5      14.9       15.0
Official                                       26.2      20.4       19.4       19.1       -                -         -          -         -          -
Private                                        13.8       8.6        9.2       9.4        -
As 2 of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1980)
DEBT STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (2)
Amortization due within 5 years                                         36.8
Amortization due within 10 years                                        64.9
Interest structure of debt outstanding (2)
Interest due within first year                                           4.5
fl Preliminary estimstes for 1981.
/2 Including grants.
EMENA CP 2C
July 19R2



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page I of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1982) a/
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                                                Amount (less
Credit                                                                                                 AnncPllation)
Number      Year             Borrower                     Purpose                              Bank       IDA c/ Undisbursed
Thirty-two Loans and Credits Fully Disbursed                                                  2.33.9P,    69.96
937        1973      Republic of Tunisia            Urban Planning and Puhlic
Transportation                        11.00                   0.37
1068        1974      Republic of Tunisia            Irrigation Rehabilitation                 12.20                  2.62
1088        1975      Republic of Tunisia            Urban Sewerage                            28.00                   1.96
1155        1975      Republic of Tunisia            Third Education                            8.60                  4.59
1188        1975      Republic of Tunisia            Second Highways                           28.00                 16.88
1340        1976      Banoue Nationale de Tunisie  Second Agricultural Credit                  12.00                   1.99
1431        1977      Republic of Tunisia            Irrigation Development                    42.00                 13.08
1445        1977      SONEDE                         Fourth Water Supply                       21.00                  9.86
1504        1977      BDET                           Development Finance Company               30.00                  3.34
1505        1977      Republic of Tunisia            Small-Scale Industrial Project             5.00                  1.90
1601        1978      Republic of Tunisia            Rural Roads (Third Highways)              32.00                 25.78
1675        1979      Republic of Tunisia            Second Urban Sewerage                     26.50                 24.34
1702        1979      Societe Nationale
d'Exploitation d'Eau           Fifth Water Supply                       25.00                  11.16
1705        1979      Republic of Tunisia            Second Urban Development                  19.00                 17.27
1746        1979      Republic of Tunisia            Second Fisheries                          28.50                 25.70
1796        1980      Republic of Tunisia            Southern Irrigation                       25.00                 24.84
1797        1980      Office des Ports Nationaux   Third Port                                  42.50                 19.68
1841        1980      Republic of Tunisia            Fourth Highways                           36.50                 36.50
1864        1980      Societe Tunisienne de
l'Electricitg et du Gaz        Second Natural Gas Pipeline              37.00                  30.43
1885        1980      Banoue Nationale de Tunisie  Third Agricultural Credit                   30.00                 28.90
1961        1981      Republic of Tunisia            Fourth Education                          26.00                 26.00
1969        1981      Republic of Tunisia            Small-Scale Industry Development          30.00                 30.00
1997        1981      Republic of Tunisia            Northwest Rural Development              24.00                  24.00
2003        1981      Republic of Tunisia            Third Power                               41.50                 41.50
2005        1981      Republic of Tunisia            Health and Population                     12.50                 12.50
2012        1981      Republic of Tunisia            Textile Rehabilitation                    18.60                 18.60
2052        1982      Republic of Tunisia            Grain Distribution and Storage            42.00                 42.00
2108 b/d/   1982      Republic of Tunisia            Fifth Highway (Rural Roads)               35.50                 35.50
2113 b/d!   1982      BDET                           Electrical and Mechanical Industries   30.50                    30.50
TOTAL                                                                  999.38      69.96      561.79
Of which has been repaid                                                97.75       6.59
Total now outstanding                                                  901.63      63.37
Amount Sold                           14.33
of which has been repaid             13.18                              1.15
Total now held by Bank and IDA c/                                      900.48      63.37
Total Undisbursed                                                      561.79         -       561.79
a!  In addition, a loan for $30.5 million for a Sixth Water Supply Project was approved by the Board on April 27, 1982, and
signed on May 14, 1982; and a loan for $22 million for the Medjerda/Nebbana Irrigation project was approved by the Board
on May 25, 1982, and signed on June 4, 1982.
b/  Not yet effective.
cl  Prior to exchange adjustment.
di/ Signed on May 14, 1982.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of March 31, 1982) a/
Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligator                     Type of Business      Loan   Equity   Total
1962     NPK Engrais                   Fertilizers            2.0    1.5       3.5
1966     Socidtd Nat. d'Invest.        Dev. Finance Co.               0.6      0.6
(now BDET)
1969     COFIT (Tourism)               Dev. Finance Co.       8.0    2.2      10.2
1970     Socidtd Nat. d'Invest.        Dev. Finance Co.               0.6      0.6
(now BDET)
1973     Socidt4 Touristique           Tourism                1.6    0.3       1.9
et Hoteliere RYM SA
1975     Socidtd d'Etudes et           Tourism                2.5    0.6       3.1
de Ddveloppement de
Sousse-Nord
1974     Industries Chimiques          Chemicals                      0.6      0.6
du Fluor
1978     BDET                          Dev. Finance Co.               1.2      1.2
Total Gross Commitments                             14.1    7.6      21.7
Less Cancellations,                                  8.6    1.8      10.4
Terminations, Repayments,
and Sales
Total Commitments now                                5.5    5.8      11.3
held by IFC
Total Undisbursed                                    0.0    0.0       0.0
a/ In addition, IFC approved on June 17, 1982 a $40 million loan package to
COFIT of which about $20 million equivalent is from IFC's own account.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. 937:        Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project;
Cr. 432:        US 11 million loan and US$7 million credit, both of October
5, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
The undisbursed loan balance of $139,423.61 was cancelled on April
29, 1982.
Ln. 1068:       Irrigation Rehabilitation Project;  US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 18,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Irrigation rehabilitation works in the Medjerda area are nearing
completion. However, farmers are not fully using the available water
resources due to limited distribution hours, lack of on-farm development and
poor water management.   Land reform is progressing and is expected to be
completed by the end of 1984. In the Nebhana area, rehabilitation
investments have been satisfactorily completed. Credit demand for basins
and storage facilities was less than originally expected, and a grading and
packing station was not built because of lack of capacity on the part of the
cooperative which was to construct and manage it. Land consolidation in
Nebhana is expected to be completed by mid-1983. Production of off-season
vegetables under greenhouses is encouraging.
Ln. 1088:       First Urban Sewerage Project:  US$28 million loan of February
18, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing
Date: December 15, 1982.
The project suffered considerable delay as a result of a number of
factors, some beyond the control of the project entity (ONAS). As a result,
considerable cost escalation occurred, chiefly in local cost components.
However, most of the project components are now in operation, some minor
components are being finalized and project completion is expected by
mid-1982. One of the project's major benefits will be release of land for
development around the Lake of Tunis, which until now has been impossible
because of the pollution of the lake waters by untreated sewerage.
Consultants financed under the project have produced a land-use plan for the
area, and acquisition of the land by Government is in progress.
1/      These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Ln. 1155:        Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education priorities in Tunisia. The project was subsequently amended to
reduce the number of ITM centers to be equipped under the project, increase
the facilities to train teachers for ITM, and increase technical assis-
tance. The total cost of the amended project is estimated at $11.3 million
and the Bank loan has been decreased by $0.3 million to $8.6 million, rep-
resenting the full foreign exchange cost of the amended project.
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily and as planned in
the revised schedule. There was a slight delay of about three months in
construction, but the procurement of furniture and equipment is running
ahead of schedule.  The final bid documents for the extension of the five
teacher training colleges have been received and the contracts awarded. All
major covenants have been met.
Ln. 1188:        Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Civil works on the Tunis-Bizerte highway and on the Hammamet-Korba
road in Nabeul have been completed.   The remaining construction works on
other roads are well-advanced. The Sfax by-pass under Lot 8 on which there
is a difficult problem of expropriation will not be undertaken as part of
the project. All studies under the project have been completed and their
results are being implemented.
Ln. 1340:        Second Agricultural Credit Project;  US$12 million loan of
December 17, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
About 84 percent of the loan amount is disbursed and more than 100
percent is committed; amounts in excess will be financed by the Third
Agricultural Credit project. Categories 2 and 4 (subloans to commercial
farmers and agro-industrial investors) are fully disbursed. Category 1
(subloans to small and medium farmers) is expected to be fully disbursed by
the end of June 1982. Disbursements for Category 3 (subloans to farmers'
associations for the establishment of date palm plantations) have begun.
Construction of irrigation infrastructure is in progress and plantation is
also progressing satisfactorily for three of the six associations. However,
drilling of artesian wells for the remaining three associations is suffering
some delays and the category may not be fully disbursed before the Closing
Date.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Ln. 1431:       Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project; US$42 million loan of July
5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation
continues to be satisfactory. The land reform and consolidation program is
smoothly underway. The Sidi Salem dam is completed and in operation. The
first filling-up of the reservoir is progressing well. The power plant is
expected to be in operation by the end of 1982. After some initial delays,
construction of the Medjerda-Cap Bon interconnection canal is proceeding
more rapidly and completion by the end of 1983 seems possible. A 6 km
section was commissioned in June 1981, permitting the supply of additional
water to Tunis during the peak consumption period. First irrigation in the
1,400 ha Testour perimeter is scheduled for September 1982. Preparation of
works (expected to be commissioned by the end of 1983) for the safeguard of
citrus plantations in the Cap Bon area is progressing satisfactorily.
However, this sub-project is experiencing important cost overruns.
Ln. 1445:       Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The procurement process under the fourth project is now completed.
Project execution has accelerated during the last six months and the project
is now expected to be completed by the end of 1982, about six months behind
the appraisal schedule.
Ln. 1504/1505: Industrial Finance Project consisting of a Seventh Loan to
Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) and a
Pilot Project for assistance to SSI; Loans of $30.0 million
to BDET and of $5.0 million to the Government of January 25,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
Both loans are fully committed. Under the project, BDET is giving
priority in its financing to projects which are located in the least
developed regions, sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by high
labor intensity or export-orientation. Under the SSI pilot project, the
commercial banks' initial reluctance to utilize Bank funds for SSI financing
has been overcome. Considerable progress has been made by the Tunisian
authorities toward setting up a comprehensive program of Tunisian and
foreign technical assistance experts, specifically catering to the needs of
SSI, as agreed under the project. A new project approved by the Bank in May
1981 supports this program (see below Ln. 1969).



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Ln. 1601:       Rural Roads Project; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: June
30, 1984.
Road construction is now underway in all the eight provinces.
Progress on the complementary agricultural component, after an initial
delay, is now proceeding satisfactorily. The Government request to expand
the project to cover three additional provinces is being processed.
Ln. 1675:       Second Urban Sewerage Project; US$26.5 million loan of
April 13, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Consultants have been contracted and detailed design is proceeding.
Tenders have been called for the first civil works, and construction has
started.
Ln. 1702:       Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan of May 31,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The physical execution of the project is progressing well and
according to schedule. SONEDE has already approved seven urban and eighteen
rural sub-projects for a total investment cost of $23.0 million.
Procurement for the project is now completed and works under all project
contracts are proceeding rapidly.
Ln. 1705:       Second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of
May 31, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1980;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1983.
The physical works of the project both in Tunis and Sfax are
progressing satisfactorily, with about 35% of works completed. Technical
studies for the solid waste collection and disposal component are
advancing. The construction of core housing experienced cost overruns and
some delays due to technical difficulties associated with the sites in Jebel
Lahmar and to slow acquisition of sites in Saida Manoubia and in Cimer
Nord. This problem was recently solved and the acquisition of sites
completed.
Ln. 1746:       Second Fisheries Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 14, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
Port infrastructure construction is well underway at all sites and
general progress is satisfactory. Procurement of boat hulls is underway and
bid awards for boat engines have been made. Cold storage and ice making
plants for existing ports have been procured and bidding for civil works at
three new ports is underway.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Ln. 1796:       Southern Irrigation Project; US$25.0 million loan of
February 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
After a slow start in 1980, the project has gradually developed
momentum and now is progressing satisfactorily. However, delays already
experienced will set back the completion date of civil works from 1983 to
1985. Work will be underway on 11 of the 16 project perimeters before the
end of 1982.
Ln. 1797:       Third Port Project; US$42.5 million loan of February 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1985.
Civil works at la Goulette are now progressing satisfactorily.
Dredging operations are completed and the precasting of cellular caissons
started early in 1982. Some delay was experienced in the settlement of the
reclaimed area, but this should not affect the project's completion date of
June 1984. Initial concrete casting problems at Sfax are now solved and the
new quay is being erected. The area occupied by the Navy has not yet been
vacated which might reduce slightly the length of the shallow-draft berth.
Civil works there are about 5 months behind schedule and completion is
expected by September 1983. Supervision is satisfactory in both ports.
Training programs for port personnel are finalized and the implementation
phase should start soon. Terms of reference for a study on reorganization
of port workshops and maintenance procedures are ready and proposed
invitations to bid are awaited.
Ln. 1841:       Fourth Highway Project; US$36.5 million loan of May 22, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness:  November 21, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984.
Project implementation is progressing well; the 1981 construction
program is underway.   The 1982 action plan is being implemented, and
tenders have been awarded for civil works.  Road maintenance equipment is
being delivered.
Ln. 1864:       Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; US$37 million loan of
October 22, 1980 - amended on July 15, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness:  December 9, 1981; Closing Date:  December 31,
1985.
The original project scope was modified because of uncertainties
related to the purchase of gas from Algeria; the project has been redesigned
to utilize royalty gas from the Algeria/Italy intercontinental pipeline as a
substitute for premium liquid fuel products. The first branch pipeline to
Tunis has been completed and other branches will be completed during 1982.
Gas flow continues to be delayed pending resolution of international gas
pricing issues.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Ln. 1885:        Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million loan of
August 6, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will finance part of BNT's agricultural three-year
lending program for medium and long-term credit to small and medium farmers
(at the moment still being financed under the second Agricultural Credit
project), production and service cooperatives, commercial farmers and
agro-industries. The loan became effective after one extension of the
original date of April 30, 1981. Disbursements have started for Category 4
of the Loan (commercial farmers). However, because funds are available for
these farmers and for agro-industries under other programs which offer
subsidies, unlike the Bank-financed program, disbursements under this
project are smaller than expected.
Ln. 1961:        Fourth Education Project; US$26 million loan of May 18, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The implementation of this project, which is entirely devoted to
skilled worker training and apprenticeship, is proceeding satisfactorily.
The first phase of construction has already been tendered. All the final
lists of furniture and equipment have been completed and the programs
reviewed. The OTTEEFP has already reviewed proposals on the longer term
technical assistance to aid in reinforcing the management logistics and
programs of the network of vocational centers. One proposal has been
retained and is under negotiation.
Ln. 1969:        Small Scale Industry Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of May 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: July 21,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project supports the Government's comprehensive assistance
program for small-scale industries through financial and technical
assistance. $29.35 million is to be administered by the Central Bank of
Tunisia and made available to small entrepreneurs through participating
banks. The remainder of the loan ($0.65 million) would strengthen the
appraisal and SSI technical assistance capacity of the Investment Promotion
Agency responsible for screening eligible subprojects.
Ln. 1997:       Northwest Rural Development Project; US$24.0 million loan of
July 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1982; Closing
Date: September 30, 1987.
The project is designed to help finance a five-year time slice of
the Government's 15 year development program for the Northwest Region by
concentrating on the establishment of institutions which could implement the
program, and the extension, research, credit, and livestock development
services. The project would also start up specific agricultural, soil
conservation and forestry activities, together with productive
infrastructure works.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Ln. 2003:        Third Power Project; US$41.5 million loan of July 15, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: April 21, 1982; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
The project will assist Tunisia in implementing the first three
years of a five-year program for the development of rural electrification
and in rehabilitating the urban distribution systems by connecting about 990
villages in 15 Governorates to the national network and improving the supply
of electricity in about 60 towns.
Ln. 2005:        Health and Population Project; US$12.5 million loan of
July 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to support Government efforts to extend
basic health care to the whole population by 1990, through the provision of
better and more cost-effective health, family planning and nutrition
services to lower income groups in eight selected Governorates. It would
strengthen the Ministry of Public Health's management capacity, improve and
expand the basic health care delivery system and health education programs,
upgrade the training system, and train health personnel.
Ln. 2012:       Textile Rehabilitation Project; US$18.6 million loan of
October 27, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: May 7, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
The project will assist the Government in implementing the first
phase of a rehabilitation and modernization program for the public sector
textile industry. It would expand and improve production so as to enhance
competitiveness in export markets. It will also provide technical
assistance to improve operations, financial management and accounting
systems, upgrade marketing and prepare second phase investment plans.
Ln. 2052:        Grain Distribution and Storage Project; US$42.0 million loan
of October 27, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: April 2,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to strengthen grain storage capacity;
reduce congestion, handling costs, demurrage charges and grain losses at the
main Tunisian seaports and the cost of transport and handling of grain;
strengthen the technical capacity and financial management of the Office of
Cereals (OC); and lay the groundwork for further modernization of the system
of collection, storage and transport of domestic grain. After initial
recruitment difficulties, OC has now filled the new post of Director of
Planning.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Ln. 2108:        Fifth Highway Project; US$ 35.5 million loan of May 14, 1982;
Planned Date of Effectiveness:  September 13, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
The project will help the Government continue its efforts to
provide farmers with improved roads, support services, and farm credit.
Some 1,200 kilometers on about 100 road sections throughout the country will
be improved, 55 extension centers will be constructed and equipped, and
credit will be provided. Consultant services to assist the Highway
Department and the Ministry of Agriculture will also be provided.
Ln. 2113:        Electrical and Mechanical Industries Project; US$ 30.5
million loan of May 14, 1982; Planned Date of Effectiveness:
September 13, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
The Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) will
provide a $28 million credit line for supporting priority electrical and
mechanical industries and for general purpose lending to industry in
Tunisia. The remainder of this loan will be used by the Tunisian Government
to provide technical assistance in setting up a Technical Center for
Mechanical Industries and a National Institute of Standardization and
Quality Control for manufacturing industries, and in conducting a study on
effective protection of electrical and mechanical industries.



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of I
TUNISIA
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Technical Assistance Project
I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                   7 months
(b)  Identification Mission:                          October/November 1981
(c)  Appraisal Mission:                               March/April 1982
(d)  Negotiations:                                    July 1-July 2, 1982
(e)  Board Presentation Planned:                      September 21, 1982
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                   December 1982
rI.   Special Bank Implementation Action
Annual reviews of project implementation by the Project Department
of the Ministry of Planning and Finance and the Bank, starting by
December 31, 1983.
III.  Special Conditions:
(a) The Government and STEG to execute a subsidiary loan agreement
as a special condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan (para.
58).
(b) For the agriculture component: by March 31, 1983 (i) each
institution/department participating in the project to designate
a senior staff member who would coordinate with MOA's Planning
Department the implementation of the studies; (ii) MOA to
establish committees, with memberships and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, to execute and evaluate the studies;
and (iii) MOA to employ a senior agricultural management and
planning advisor to the Director of the Planning Department,
with terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 60).
(c) For the CNEI part of the industry and export component: CNEI to
appoint a deputy general manager, with terms of reference and
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, to control quality of
staff work as a condition of disbursement of this part of the
Loan (para. 62).



