~~~~C_ / ,                                  C|I( /  'I,.
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10615-BUR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
E                              JUNE 17, 1992
Africa Region
Sahelian Department
Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performrance of
their offici'al duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =          CFA franc  (CFAF)
US$ 1.00                         CFAF 272
CFAF 1 million        =           US$ 3,676
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURE: METRIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
is report is based on the findings of a World Bank mission composed of
essrs. Cadman Atta Mills (Senior Economist and Mission Leader), Ms. Tonia
arek (Nutritionist and Co-Task Manager), Mr. Abdou Salam Drabo (NGO Advisor),
d Mr. Celestin Bado (Operations Officer at the Resident Mission), which
sited Burkina Faso in January/February 1992 to appraise this project. The
ssion was held jointly with the GTZ of Germany. Further assistance was
)rovided by Mr. Albert Djigma (Local Consultant), Ms. Kate Lifanda (Consultant
an Nutrition), Mr. Yves Prevost (Consultant on Information Systems), and Mr.
'afando (Local Consultant, provided by UNICEF). Messrs. Jim Greene and J. W.
van Holst Pellekaan were peer reviewers. Mrs. Katherine Marshall is the
Department Directcr, Mr. Emmerich Schebeck, the Department Projects Advisor
and the lead advisor for this project, Mr. Frangois Laporte, the Department
Lead Economist, and Mr. Salah Darghouth, the managing Division Chief.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfBD     s    African Development Bank
AGETIP   :    Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Interet Public Contre le Sous-
Emploi (Senegalese public works executing agency)
BCEAO    s    Banque Centrale des Etate de L'Afrique de l'ouest (Central Bank
of (Francophone) West African States)
BSONG          Bureau de Suivi des ONG (in the Ministry of Finance and
Planning)
CAPU     :    Central Accounting and Procurement Unit (in the Finance and
Administration Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock)
CBC      s     Conseil Burkinabe des Chargeuro (Burkina Council of Shippers)
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique (French Development
Bank for Economic Cooperation)
CCI      s    Comite de Coordination de l'Information (an interministerial
committee headed by the Directorate of Studies--DEP--in MAE)
CEAO     s    Communaute Economique des Etats de L'Afrique de l'Ouest
(Economic Community of West African States)
CEDRES   s     Centre d'Etudes, de Documentation, de Recherche Economique et
Sociale (Center for Economic Research and Social Studies) at
the University of Ouagadougou.
CESAO    :    Centre d'Etudes Economiques et Sociales de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
(Center for Economic and Social Studies in West Africa)
CFDT     :     Compagnie Frangaise pour le D6veloppment des Fibres Textiles
(French Textile Development Corporation)
COP            Caisse Generale de P6r6quation (price stabilization board for
imported basic commodities)
CILSS    :     Comite Inter-Etats de Lutte Contre la Secheresse dans le Sahel
(Inter-State Committee to Combat the Drought in the Sahel)
CNCA     s     Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (National Bank for
Agricultural Credit)
CNCPC    s    Comite National de Coordination de la Politique Cerealiere
(National Cereals Policy Coordinating Committee)
CNLES    :    Commission Nationale de Lutte contre les Effete de la
Secheresse (National Commision to Combat the Effects of Drought
in the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs)
CRPA     :    Centre R6gional de Promotion Agro-pastorale (Regional Centers
for the Promotion of Agro-pastoral activities. There are
currently 12 "CRPA regions" which cover 30 provinces.)
CSPPA    s     Caisse de Stabilisation des Prix des Produits Agricole (Price
Stabilization Board for (export) Agricultural Products)
DIAPER   :     Systeme de Diagnostic Permanent (Permanent Survey of the
cereals and livestock sectors) financed by CILSS
DEP      s     Direction des Etudes et de la Planification (Directorate of
Studies and Planning)
EC             European Community
EPIC           E Itablissement Public Industriel et Commercali (Publicly-owned
Industrial and Commercial Establishment)
EWS      s     Early Warning Systems
FAC      s     Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Aid Agency Fund)
FAO      s     Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FEER           Fonds pour l'Equipament et l'Eau Rural (an investment fund)
FEWS     s     Famine Early Warning System ( a USAID project)
GIE      s     Groupement d'Interet Economique (Economic Association)
GMB      s     Les Grands Moulins du Burkina (Burkina Flour Mill)
GRAAP    s    Groupe de Recherche et d'Appui pour l'Autopromotion Paysanne
(and NGO Group for Research and Promotion of Participatory
Training in rural areas)
GTZ      s    German Technical Cooperation
GV       s    Groupement Villageois (village cooperative unit)
HHFSU    s     Household Food Security Unit
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



IEC            Information, Education and Communication
IFPRI    I     Internetional Food Pol' 2y Research Institute
IMF      t     International Monetary Fund
INADES   s     Institut Afric& -. pour l D6v.loppement Economique et Social
(African Institute for Economic and Social Development)
INERA    s     Institut National d'Etudes et de Recherche Agricole
(Agricultural Research Inatitute)
INSD     s     Institut National de la Statistique et de la D6mographie
(National Institute for Statistics and Demography)
LCB            Local Competitive Bidding
LIW      s     Labor Intensive Works
MACP     s    MinistAre de l'Action Coop6rative Paysanne (Ministry of
Cooperatives)
MOAL     s    Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (Minist&re de
l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage--MAE)
NGO      s    Non-Governmental Organization
NSAS     2     Fational Survey of Agricultural Statistics
OFNACER  s    Office National des C6r6ales (National Cereals Marketing Board)
ONAC     s    Office National do Commerce Exterieur  (National Foreign Trade
Agency)
ONBAH    s    Office National des Barrages et des Amenagements Hydro-
Agricoles (A state institution for sapervising dame and
irrigation schemes)
PAS      s     Programme d'Ajustement Structurel (Structural Adjustment
Program)
PASA     s     Programme d'Ajustement Sectoriel de l'Agriculture (Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Program)
PFP      s     Policy Framework Paper
PNGT(V)  t     Programme National de Gestion des Terroirs Villageois (National
Village Land Management Program)
PRSAP    :     Projet de Renforcement des Services d'Appui aux Producteurs
'Agricultural Support Services Project)
SAL            Structural Adjustment Loan
SE       s     Soci6to d'Etat  (state-owned enterprises)
SECAL    s     Sector Adjustment Loan
SEM      s     Societ6 d'Economie Mixte (Joint Venture Company)
SIM      s     Systeme d'Information our les Marches (Market Information
System)
SOFIVAR  s     Soci6te de Financement et de Vulgarisation de l'Arachide
(Grcundnuts Promotion Company)
SONACOR  s     Societo Nationale de Collecte du Rim (rice processing company:
subsidiary of CGP)
SOSUCO   :     Societe Sucriere de la Como6 (Comoe Sugar Company)
SPA            Service Provincial de l'Agriculture
SPONG    s     S6cretariat Permanent des ONG (an NGO consortium in Burkina)
SOFITEX  :     Soci6te Burkina des Fibres Textiles (mixed state cotton
company)
SSA      :     Service de Statistiques Agricoles (Agricultural Statistical
Service)
UCECB    s     Union des Coop6ratives d'Epargne et de Cr6dit Burkinabi (Union
of Savings and Loans Cooperatives of Burkina)
UCOBAM   s     Union des Cooperatives Agricoles et Maratchares du Burkina
(Union of Agricultural and Vegetables Cooperatives of Burkina)
UGPT     :     Unite de Gestion Provinciale des Terroirs (provincial
environmental management unit)
UMOA     :     Union Mon6taire Ouest Africaine (West African Monetary Union
UNDP     :     United Nations Development Programme
WFP      s    World Food Programme



BURKINA FASO
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Credit and Proiect Summarv  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . .  i
I.   BACKGRQUND . . . . . . .                     . . . .                   . .  1
A.    Introduction  . . ........ ... .... ..                  ...         1
B.    Agricultural Sector Performance and Food Inoecurity  . . .     .   1
C.    Food Security and Nutrition: Government Strategy  . . . . . . . .  S
D.    Government Institutions Dealing with Food Security  . . . . . . . 10
E.    Role of NGOo  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...          . . . . 12
F.    Links between Food Security and Nutrition and IDA Projects  . . . 13
G.    History of Bank Involvement and Sector Issues . . . . . . . . . . 14
H.    Status of Project Preparation. . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ...  15
II.  THE POPOSED PROJECT.          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
A.    Project Rationale .a.l.e.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ......  .   .  16
B.    Project Objectives and Design . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .   .  17
C.    Summary Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
D.    Detailed Project Features ....  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  19
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
A.    Costs ......  .  ..  .  ..  .   ..      . . ..   29
B.  Financing .        . . . . . ........... . 29
C.    Procurement ..  .       .  .  .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ...  .  .  .  .  .   .  30
D.    Disbursements . . . .       .. . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .     ......................... .  35
A.    Organization and Management ....  .  .   . ......  .  .     .  .  .   . 35
B.    Implementation of Project Components  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
C.    Project Monitoring and Reporting  . . . . . . . . . .. . ..  . . . 39
D.    Accounts and Audit      ..  . . . . .......... . 40
V.   BENEFITS AND RISKS .....  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..   . . . . . .  ..  .  .  ..   .  42
VI. AGREEMENTS. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
I.        Medium- to Long-Term Prospects for Growth
II.       Existing Information Systems for Food Security
III.      Links Between Food Security and Nutrition and Current IDA Projects
IV.       NGO Working Group Report
V.        Basic Statistics on the Four Selected Provinces
VI.       Existing Nutrition Education Programs
VII.      Cost Tables
VIII.     Draft Decrees: CNCPC and its Permanent Secretariat
IX.       Draft Project Key Indicators
X.        Supervision Schedule
XI.       Projected IDA Disbursements by Semester
XII.      Project Design, Criteria for Selection of NGOo and Income Generating
Activities, Implementation Arrangements and Schedule



BURKINA FASO
FOOD SECURITY AM) NUTRITION PROJECT
Credit an" Proiect Summary
Borrowert            Burkina Faso
Amount:              SDR 5.5 million (US$ 7.5 million equivalant)
Cofinancina:         Germanj US$ 2.7 million, WFP US$ 1.1 million
Terms:               Standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years
Proiect
Deecriotions       The proposed project, which will run concurrently with the
Agricultural SECAL, would extend and deepen the impact of
reforms supported by SAL I and the Agricultural SECAL on
food security and improved nutrition. The project will: at
the national level, (a) reduce the Government's response
time for reacting to national food crises, (b) improve the
targeting of food security programs to concentrate on low
income groups in drought-prone provinces, and (c) provide a
data base and logistic frame for rational decision-making on
food security and nutritional issues; and, at the household
level,  improve  household  coping  mechanisms  by  (a)
diversifying income sources of the rural poor for improved
food security and nutrition, and (b) improve the efficient
use of available household food resources to achieve better
nutritional status for children below the age of three.
The proposed project would provide assistance for^
(a)  an  institutional  focal  point  within  the  Ministry  of
Agriculture and Livestock (the Permanent Secretariat of the
CNCPC) for fcod security management;
(b)  an integrated Early Warnina Systems (EWS), and improving the
data gathering and analysis capacity of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock (MOAL) which is essential for
reducing the lead time for Emeraencv Preparedness (EP);
(c)  income-earnina opoortunities in some of the most drought-
prone provinces during the dry season and period of low
labor demand. A part of the existing WFP-supported food-
for-work program, complemented by cash-for-work, will be
redirected and focussed on poor households in drought-prone
provinces;
(d)  income aeneratina activities  directed oredominantlv  at
wgoen--essential for improved nutritional status of
children; and
(e)  a nutrition  Information.  Education Communication  JIEC)
camoaian to bring about behavioral changes in child weaning
and feeding practices.



- ii -
Estimated Rroieot fiosts and Financina Plan:
Summary of Proisect Cost Eatimates
% Total
Local    Foreign      Total    Base
(US$ Million)            Costs
A.  Institution Building              0.6          0.9       1.5       13.5
B.  Early Warning System              0.4          0.8       1.2      10.7
C.  Labor Intensive Works             2.6          1.8       4.4      39.8
D.  Income Gen. Activities            2.2          0.6       2.8      25.0
E.  Nutrition IEC                     0.6          0.4       1.0        9.5
F.  Project Preparation (PPF)         0.1          0.1       0.2        1.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                  6.5          4.6       11.1      100.0
Physical Contingencies          0.3          0.2      0.5        4.8
Price Contingencies             0.7          0.5      1.2       11.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                   52 .3                  12.8     115.9
Financing Plan By Source
Local       Foreian         Total    Percentaae
…---------…(USS Million)--------------
IDA                4.3          3.2             7.5          58.4
Germany            1.5          1.2             2.7          21.3
WFP                0.6          0.5             1.1           8.8
Government         1.1          0.4             1.5          11.5
Total              7.5          5.3             12.8         100.0
Estimated IDA Disbursements
Estimated IDA Disbursements
(USS Million)
Year:  1      2     3     4      5     6
Annual                    1.2   0.8   1.0   1.6   1.4   1.5
Cumulative                1.2   2.0   3.0   4.6   6.0   7.5



- iii -
Benefits
and1 Risks Benefit". The proposed operation would asoist poor households in
four of the most vulnerable provinces through promoting income
generating  activities.    By  increasing  and  diversifying  their
incomes, their dependence on crop production in drought-prone
provinces will  be considerably  reduced.    Nutrition  education
activities should also significantly contribute to behavioral change
and adoption of bette*  child-feeding practices.
Through assistance p.fovided in part by the proposed project, the
Government, for the first time, will establish a national focal
point (the SecretaAiat of the CNCPC) for food security issues.
Moreover, the Household Food Security Unit will enable the
Government to design, implement, and monitor programs to improve the
food security ane nutritional status of the most disadvantaged
groups. Furthermore, the capacity of the Government to deal with
Emergency  reparedness will be significantly strengthened through
the establishment of an integrated early warning system. Finally,
improved collaboration between NGOe and the Government in promoting
community-based development will reinforce the people oriented
approach of this operation.
Risks. The main risk is a possible delay in implementation due to
the newness of the Secretariat as an administrative structure. This
risk is mitigated by the fact that the proposal to create the
Secretariat was the result of a long preparatory phase and has
strong commitment by the Government.   Furthermore,  within the
current context of Burkina, there is a lot that the proposed project
can build on: as a result of significant sector work already
accomplished on food security, the dimensions and causes of the food
insecurity problem are much better known. Second, rviral communities
are much better organized and local initiativeb to deal with
environmental degradation are widespread.   Third, NGOs are very
active in Burkina and have acquired considerable experience
providing assistance to village communities and managing resources
which are channeled through them by the donor community.
mm:         IBRD 23868  and IBRD 23869



I.   BACKGROUND
A.    Introduction
1.01         In mid 1989, the Government of Burkina Faso requested IDA assistance
in preparing an agricultural sector adjustment program to modernize and diversify
agricultural production; promote food security at the national, provincial, and
household levels; and improve natural resource management. The urgency of the
natural resource and environmental management issue led to a Government/IDA
decision, early in the preparatory stage, to focus attention on natural resource
management.   The result was the Enviroramental Management Project which was
supported by an IDA credit (CR 2229-BUR) in early 1991.    The proposed food
security project was, for the most part, prepared under the agricultural sector
adJustment program which was the result of a two-year period of i-itenaive
dialogue  with  the  Government  and  other  donors  (the  French  Mir -    of
Cooperation, the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique, the GTZ of Ge uny,
and the European Community). During a joint IDA/donor appraisal mission of the
proposed agricultural sector adjustment credit, the Government and IDA decided
to separate the food security and nutrition operation from the agricultural
sector adjustment credit in order to give the Government more time to prepare
this operation. The proposed project, of which the first three years would run
concurrently with the agricultural sector adjustment program, is the result.
B.    Agricultural Sector Performance and Food Inoecuritv
Background
1.02        Burkina Faso is a landlocked country with a population of about 9
million. It lies in a transitional zone between the Sudano-Guinean region and
the Sahel. With a per capita GDP of about USS 320 in 1990, Burkina Faso is among
the poorest countries of the world.   Basic social services are relatively
undeveloped and social indicators such as life expectancy at birth (47 years) or
primary school enrollment (31%) remain among the lowest in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Burkina Faso's economy is dominated by agriculture. Agricultural production
accounts for about 30% of GDP, generates over 60% of export earnings and employs
almost 90% of the economically active population.  Traditional coarse grains
(millet, sorghum and to some extent maize) cover about 80% of the cultivated
area.  Food crops (mainly cereals) account for over 45% of agricultural GDP,
followed by livestock (about 28%). Cotton is the most important cashcrop and
provides almost 40% of export revenues. Livestock is the second most important
agricultural export (mainly to the coastal countries), accounting for about 10%
of total export earnings. Off-season vegetables are mainly cultivated on small
irrigated perimeters where they have increasingly been replacing paddy as higher
valuse added crops.
1.03        Agriculture is predominantly rain-fed. Irrigation accounts for only
1% of total cultivated area, although the irrigated surface has almost doubled
since 1982. Water and soil resources are limited and fragile. Over 50% of the
country is covered with poor ferralitic soils. Rainfall Lo low and irregular and
highly susceptible to runoff. It varies from an annual average of 350mm in the
northern Sahel to over 1000mm in the more resource rich South-West. The rainy
season is short (three to four months) between June and September, depending on
the parts of the country, and the rate of evapo-transpiration is high--more than
2,000mm/year. About 65% of the country lies between the 500 and 800 isohyets.
Surface water resources are estimated at 100 million m3, including permanent and
temporary watercourses, and are difficult to tap because of the country's flat
topography.   In recent years, Burkina Faso has beer marked by wide rainfall
fluctuations--with two major droughts in 1972-73 and in 1983-84.  The second
major drought was followed by five years of good rains.   Furthermore, research
carried out over the past twenty years on the geological and biological paleo-
envii-onments and of the Sahel has enabled scientists to establish rainfall
(drought) cycles with reasonably good predictive accuracy. Indeed the pressing



question in Burkina, as in other Satielian countries, is the timing of the next
major drought.
Performance of the Primary Sector
1.04        Despite  hostile  agro-climatic  conditions,  the  growth  of  the
agricultural sector, like the growth of GDP, has been quite remarkable over the
past 15 years, in particular in the latter part of the 1980s. While the long
term trend (1965 - 1986) shows a rate of growth of 2.6% p.a. that is below the
population growth rate of 3.3%, and a marked deterioration in the 19708 with an
annual growth rate of 1.3%, agriculture has been growing at an average annual
rate of 7.8% since the mid-800 (1984 - 89). This overall performiance is all the
more noteworthy in that Burkina experienced two years of drought (1083 and 1984)
which sharply cut cereal production. In contrast, favorable ra'nfall in recent
years (despite irregularities in interseasonal distribution) allowed Burkina to
produce record volumea, particularly of cereals. Indeed, the effect of rainfall
variations is reflected in highly variable growth rates within the 1983 - 1988
period. The composition of subsectoral growth (1983 - 88) and the more recent
trends in production are summarized below in Table 1
Table 1
Real Growth Rates in the Primary Sector
(in percent)
1983-87  l_1983-84 __1983-85_  1986-88 !1_1989 l 1990
Agriculture (crops)   7.3        -2.9      10.2        6.3      -6.7   -6.6
Livestc. k             3.6        2.6       2.7        4.2       2.9    0.0
Forestry and         i
fishing                2.7        2.5       2.5        3.0       2.9    3.1  l
Total                  5.6       -n.4       6.9        5.4      -2.9   -3.4
Source: World Bank. Bukina Paso Economic Memorandum, 1989, and Minsiare de I'Agrculture et do I'Elevage.
1.05        The growth of the primary sector over the 1983 to 1990 period has
mainly come from crops, driven by cotton and cereals.   This is, in turn,
explained partly by the expansion of the nrea cultivated (+ 5 percent) towards
the more fertile regions of the Southwest, partly by improved productivity (+ 3
percent), and the contribution of new crops, including the resumption of
groundnut cultivation and expansion into fruits and vegetables. The expansion
of cultivated area was made possible by migration into the part of the country
south of isohyst 700 (the South and the West), which had long remained sparsely
populated and underutilized because of onchocerciasis and trypanosomiasis.
Noteworthy also is the pull effect of cott n and groundnut production on cereals.
Cereals grown in rotation with cotton (icounting for about one-fourth of total
domestic cereals production) and groundnuts experience significant productivity
gains, due to the residual effects of fertilization.
Food ConsumDtion
1.06        The main sources of food in Burkina are cereals, mostly coarse
grains: millet, sorghum, and maize, and to a lesser extent rice (7-8% of total
cereals consumption) and wheat (1-2%). The other main foods are vegetables and
fruit (10-15% of total daily food intake). Except for urban areas, consumption
of meat product. is very low in the rural areas (5-7 kg per year) and consumption
of fish and tubers is insignificant. Given the fact that cereals account for 70%



-3-
of caloric intake, the overall performance of tne ceraals subsector during tte
decadc of the 1980. led to a significant improvement in cereal. availability per
capita.   Indeed, from a siturtion where only 80% to 90% of estimated cereals
neede was covered at the beginning of the decade, Burkina had reached a situation
since the mid-1980u where 100% of aggregate demand was covered, due to both the
increase in domestic prod,action and an increase in imports. In 1985/86 total net
cereal availability was 210 kg per person per year (234 kg per person in 1989/90)
which compares quite favorably with the FAO standard of 180 kg for the Sahel, and
the 190 kg objective of the Burkinabe Government. Domestic cereal production of
about 2.0 million tons (1986, 1988, and 1989) suggests an iverage per capita
cereal availability of about 195 kg. Furthermore, Burkina imports ibout 100,000
tons of rice (including food-aid), and 30,000 of wheat to satisfy cereals demand.
Extent of Food Insecurity
1.07        While the figures on the nat  nal availability of cereals supplies
and the present physical potential for domestic production suggest that the
country could provide adequate food supplies to all individuals, the cu.c;;-98t food
security situation and the short- to medium-term prospects are grim.  Firs., the
aggregate data hides dietribution and access issues. Although agg,egate demand
is covered by aggregate supply, the country is far from having achieved food
security for all, largely because of limited access to food by a large number of
households.  Thus, even in years of "normal" rainfall and adequate production,
a substantial proportion of the population is chronically food insecure.  In
1989, about 4.8 million people -iera estimated to be vultcarable to food
insecurity, of which 2.5 million are exposed to transitory food insecurity. The
low incomes of the majority of the population is one of the main factors
affecting long-term food security at household level.   Equally important,
however, is the stability of that income over time. Where rural households hakve
been successful in diversifying their sources of income by reducing thetir
dependence on crop and livestock income, their access to food markets h-s
increased.   An attempt by the USAID/FEWS (the USAID's Famine Early Wdrning
System) to synthesize various indicators of vulnerability to food insecurity and
to rank the 30 provinces in Burkina according to "a famine vulnerability index"
is presented in Annex V.
Malnutrition
1.08        Malnutrition is a serious problem in Burkina.  A number of food
consumption and nutrition surveys carried out in Burkina over the past 25 years
indicate the following:
(a) Although average calorie availability has increased, there are sharp
annual and seasonal variations. Caloric intake is also highly correlated
to levels of income with a difference of about 1,000 calories per day
between the lowest and the highest income groups;
(b) From 30% to 50% of pre-school children suffer from chronic malnutrition,
the majority of first and second degree, although severe malnutrition may
affect as many as 5% of those children. Malnutrition varies amongst age
groups, the most affected 'ieing the 6 months to 2 years old, and the
primary school attendants -nere rates reach 50%;
(c) Malnutrition follows seasonal and annual variations: rates increase
between January through May; the peaks are May (at the end of the dry
season), and August, jurt before the harvest.   The lowest point is
usually January.   AnnuaL variations are closely correlated to thc
rainfall patterns and harvest resultsl
(d) Malnutrition rates among pregnant mothers is also very high, resulting
in a 12% rate of children born with weights below 2.5 kg, delayed child



-4-
development, a hlgh morbidity rate, a high maternal death rate (6.1 per
1000), and a high infant mortality rate (152 per 1000);
(e) Regional variations are significant, with the highest rates of
malnutrition in the areas where agriculture is the main source of income
and production shortfall was siqnificanc in the previous year.
1.09        Malnutrition is linkgd to, but clearly separate from, fau:ily access
to food. Food security is a necessary but not sufficient condition for assuring
that: a) family food intake will be nutritionally adequate, since families may
choose to spend resources in rational but nutritionally suboptimal ways;
b)individual family members will conmume available food in proportion to their
nutritional needs; c) all family members will he suff isiently healthy to utilize
enough nutrients from the food they consume; and d) family members will be
knowledgeable enough to get the maximum nutritional benefits from the food that
is available to them.
Causes of Malnutrition of Children
1.10        The reasons which explain why children under five years old in
Burkina Faso are particularly prone to food insecurity and poor nutritional
status include:
-   Weanlnq Practices: malnutrition rates are the highest fcr children
between 6 months and 2 years of age, and especially those between 1 and
2 years, during which time the child is being weaned.  The first food
given to the child is often a thin non enriched porridge.  It is not
before 18 to 36 months that the child is given a diversified diet.
-   Diarrhoa; according to UNICEF, 58% of deaths due to malnutrition which
occur  Ln  nutrition  rehabilitation  centers  are  associated  with
diarrhealdehydration.  Mothers' practices for dealing with diarrhea more
often than not contribute to aggravating the problem: a conmon practice
is for mothers to substantially reduce the average number of daily meals
given to a child with diarrhea (from 2.7 to 1.6) which means that the
child eats iess o' the same non enriched porridge.
-   Parente' socio-economic level: the low incomes of the majority of the
population is one of the main factors affecting long-term food security
at household level. Income levelo in the rural areas are, on average,
about one third of the national average per capita, and the returns to
labor can be as low as US$ .72 per day. Further, the evidence suggests
a strong positive correlation between incomes earned and/or controlled
by women and improvements in a household's nutritional status.
1.11        Food insecurity and malnutrition in Burkina are so widespread that,
at this stage of Burkina's economic and social developnent, achieving food
security is inevitably a long-term goal linked to its overall development:
economic growth and a more equitable distribution cf incomes and assets. An
action plan on food security has, therefore, to be part of a larger program of
economic reforms to stimulate growth, generate foreign exchange, and generate
incomes at the household level. Such a plan must include shorter-term actions
to allow the country and individual households not only to palliate the needs of
the chronically food insecure, but also to cope with short-term crises, in
particular droughts. In Annex I, the longer-term prospects for overall economic
growth and agricultural production are presented.   The prospects suggest a
6&tisfactory overall economic growth rate of 4% over the decade of the 1990s.
However, the high agricultural growth rates of the 1980. will most likely not be
sustained in the 1990s (maximum 4% in the '90.). Thus, actions to shift income
distribution in favor of the chronically food insecure should be central to the
food security and nutrition strategy.



-5-
C.   E-od Security and Nutrition: Government Strategy
1.12        Food security has been a major theme of the past five-year plans and
other declarations of public policy throughout the '70s and '80. in part because
of the trauma of the 1972-73 drought, in part because of the increased demand for
food due to demographic pressure. Food security also now figures prominently in
the Government's Medium-term Policy Framework. In the past, however, Government
policies on food security have tended to involve interventions in markets and
investments, and Government concerns have been biased towards securing food
supplies (especially for the urban centers of Ouagadougou and Bobo Dioulasso)
rather than securing effective demand.  This section reviews the main areas of
public policy or actions pursued in the 1980s: food pricing, marketing,
stabilization and trade policy; national food security stocks and food aid
management;  and the development of information  systems,  research on  foc-
security, nutrition intervention and education.
Food Pricing. Marketing. Storage, and Trade Polices
1.13        Food  security--in  its  most  narrow  definition  of  food  self-
sufficiency--has been one of the multiple objectives of the Government's overall
marketing and pricing policy for the agriculture sector. The Government's stated
aim has been to increase the domestic availability of agricultural products (and
especially cereals) at affordable prices whil;:i mintaining producer incentives.
The implementation instruments have included a whole series of interventions:
minimum producer prices; maximum consumer prices; administered prices for agro-
industrial products; stabilization levies; marketing and stabilization funds and,
for ce'eals, market intervention sto-ks; and regulation of foreign trade.
1.14        Cereals.  For cereals, three specific objectives have been pursued
by the Government: to supply the population with low-priced food products, to
guarantee satisfactory returns on domestic production, and to prevent private
operators to profit abusively from possible oligopsonistic or oligopolistic
positions.    Besides official pricing and marketing regulations,  the main
instruments of the Government's policy have been:
(a) OFNACER.   The national cereals marketing board (OFNACER) has a dual
mandate: to guarantee official prices of coarse grains (millet, sorghum,
maize) through market interventions at the producer and the consumer
levels in normal years; and to maintain and manage a national food
security stock. To these ends, imports and exports of cereals require
prior authorization, while OFNACER maintairs stabilization and food
security stocks--constituted with local purchases and food aid--and it
intervenes at both the wholesale and retail levels. During the 1980s,
OFNACER sales averaged about 44,000 tons yearly, while purchases on the
local market amounted to about 23,000 tons yearly, the rest being secured
through imports or food aid;
(b) CGP.   The General Stabilization Fund or the CGP (Caisse G6n6rale de
p6r6quation) which has a monopoly on the imports of rice and edible oils
and (through SOSUCO and the Grand Moulins du Burkina (GHB)) on sugar, and
wheat. Wheat production in Burkina is insignificant and the domestic
price which incorporates an implicit import tax is set without regard to
the cost of local production.   The domestic price of rice is set
irrespective of world market prices and taxes on rice imports are
extremely low as they are based on a "valeur mecuriale" (minimum import
values). As a result, the CGP generally retains a significant profit
margin on these imports. The Caisse, in the case of rice, purchases all
paddy offered to it by domestic producers at a fixed (subsidized) price.
As losses incurred by the collection and processing of local paddy are
much smaller, these revenues have generally been used to finance extra-
budgetary expenditures, including uneconomic investments.



-6-
1.15        To allow for a more efficient allocation of resources and to
encourage domestic trade of cereals between surplus and deficit regions, the
Government in the context of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program, has
decided to liberalize producer and consumer prices of cereals and abolish public
attempts at stabilizing the prices of all grains. An important first step in
thie direction was taken on March 28, 1991 when the price control procedures for
locally produced goods were abolished by decree.
1.16        National  Food  Security  Stock.    Within  the  context  of  the
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program, the Government has decided that OFNACER's
role would be limited to the maintenance and management of a national security
stock of a maximum size of 50,000 tons, the management of food aid stocks and the
commercial sale of food aid. This position is strongly endorsed by IDA and the
other donors. The objective of the security stock is to stock sufficient coarse
grains to ensure adequate domestic supplies in case of drought until the arrival
of food aid and emergency imports. 50,000 tons is the amount of cereals required
to maintain a population of about 2 million (the number of Burkinabi estimated
to be at risk during periods of severe drought), at a reduced cereals consumption
of 150kg per capita per annum. The assumed reaction time (the time required for
food imports or aid to reach markets) is 60 days.
1.17        During non-drought years OFNACER's market interventions would be
limited to the purchase and sale of the quantities necessary to ensure rotation
of the security stock. As cereals can only be stocked for an average of three
years, a third of the security stock has to be renewed each year, requiring
OFNACER to sell and purchase about 16,700 tons annually. OFNACER would purchase
its cereals in surplus regions through competitive bidding, and sell mainly in
the northern deficit regions.
1.18        Cereals Marketing. The Government also realizes that fre- marketing
of cereals within the country is not only important to increase food security,
but that it is also crucial to encourage regional (intra-country) specialization
in agricultural production.   Therefore, as part of the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Program, all barriers hindering free marketing of cereals within the
country would be removed and intra-country trade would be encouraged through
regular provision of price information on markets across the country. Traders
would be granted licenses without being obliged to adhere to publicly designated
traders' associations.
1.19        The Government also recognizes the important role which the private
sector could play through imports and exports of cereals during deficit and
surplus years. Imports and exports of coarse grains would be liberalized. The
Government wishes, however, to maintain CGP's monopoly on rice imports to reduce
the possibility of import tax evasion, and because CGP can benefit from
significant scale economies and other savings through government to government
purchases.    However, CGP's "profits"  (margin) from rice imports would be
budgetized, through the introduction of an import tariff designed to protect
local rice at a nominal rate of about 35% at current international prices and
CFAF exchange rate. It is estimated that this level of protection would leave
consumer prices in the major urban areas around the current market prices (CFAF
170/kg).
Food Aid
1.20        Food aid is an important component of the Government's food import
management policy. The Government's and the population's attitudes are to limit
food aid and to value domestic food production as much as possible. Furthermore,
the Government has, in the past, strongly objected to free distribution of food.
Food aid volumes fluctuate widely depending on the rainfall pattern (from a low
of 15,700 tons in 1976 to a high of 124,200 in 1985). Since the early 1970s,
however, food aid imports have exceeded 100,000 tons in only three years: 1973-
74, 1984-85, and 1985-86.



-7-
1.21        Food aid (typically wheat flour, rice, cooking oil, and sugar) is
mainly imported (usually duty free). Until now, the monitoring of the amount of
food aid has been weak while policies on its distribution (target group,
conditions of sale, or free distribution) have been the prerogative of bilateral
donors and NGOs.  T- main institutions concerned include: the Ministries of
Finance and Planning, Commerce, OFNACER, and, at timee technical ministries;
fivo or six major donors (Germany, USAID, EC, the French Government, the WFP);
and a large number of NGOs (about 20).  Most of the food aid provided by or
channelled through NGOs is applied to projects for a very broad range of
initiatives: productive activities (especially for those NGOs working with
women's groups), cereals banks, nutrition programs (Cathwell), improved land and
conservation measures.   The WFP undertakes various types of fooc-for-work
programs.   Coordination of food aid largely reflects the multiplicity of
objective and agencies involved on the donor and recipient side. The timing,
amount, and product composition of food aid often does not match needs as a
result of the lack of coordination.
1.22        Food aid can be an iiaportant source of budgetary revenues for
Burkina. At current prices, the FOB value of a relatively small quantity of
sorghum (e.g. 30,000 tons) is more than USS 3.5 million (about 1% of the FOB
value of imports). The costs of international transport would add an additional
50% to this amount.   This fact (that food aid replaces commercial imports)
explains why food aid is sometimes accepted by the Government even in times of
adequate domestic production. However, several improvements have been made in
the management of food aid in recent years. In addition to discouraging free
dietribution of food, the Government encourages locally purchased foods and/or
financial aid to avoid disrupting local cereals markets and several donors have
responded positively. The WFP, for example, has been switching from imported
food aid to local cereals purchases. While the EC in 1987 and 1988, instead of
food aid, financed investments in cereals storage capacity costing ECU 1.54
million.    However, not all donors can do so as a result of their food aid
legislation.
1.23        The evaluation of global food aid needs is usually done in December
of each year, once the harvest results become available. For some years, a donor
committee was in place and consulted with Government to establish food aid
contributions. This practice has largely been discontinued since 1986. In the
context of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program, the Government has decided
to  resume  this  practice.    Some  donors  plan  also  to  set  up  a  joint
donor/Government food aid coneultative body to decide on the use of food aid
counterpart funds.
Information Systems
1.24        The development of information systems has retained much attention
and effort in the management of food security over the past decade in Burkina
Faso.  But as food security is a cross-sectoral concept, and the information
required to forecast food crises, and to orient emergency food aid whenever a
crisis erupts touches many different sectors as well as donors, the information
system developed is quite extensive. The system includes information on crop
production, animal production, market information, health, education and
demography. The main weaknesses of these information systems are discussed in
Annex II.   The challenge faced by the Government is to coordinate the many
distinct sources that hold relevant information and to integrate and analyze such
information in order to manage the food security concerns by regions, seasons,
and most vulnerable population groups. The proposed pro4ect would contribute to
meeting these objectives.
1.25        Providing   information   on   agricultural   production   is  the
responsibility of the Service do Statistiques Agricoles (BSA), Direction des
Etudes et de la Planification (DEP) MinistAre de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage.
The SSA has five ongoing programs:



- 8 -
1)  The national component of the Proiet de Surveillance des Ressources
Naturelles Renouvelables au Sahel. This is a regional project (CILSS)
funded by the European Community. It seeks to improve natural resource
assessments using remote sensing, with a particular emphasis on crop
nonitoring.
2) The Permanent Survey Unit. This is the basic yearly country-wide survey
of cereal production.   The current methodology was implemented with
support from the Projet Diagnostic Permanent des secteurs c6r6ales et
elevage (DIAPER/CILSS).  It is the results of the efforts by CILSS member
countries to standardize their methodologies and procedures.
3)  The  Permanent  Survey  Unit  also  supervises  a  yearly  Survey  of
Horticultural  Production,  currently  supported  by  the  Projet  de
Planification Rurale (PPR).
4) The Central Information Database (CID) Unit, established with the
technical support from DIAPER/CILSS.
5)  The Monitoring of the Agricultural CamDaian.
1.26        The Collule de Statistiques Animales was split away from the SSA in
May 1991 and directly attached to the Secretariat d'Etat a l'Elevage.   It
conducts surveys of market prices of animal Qroduce and of slaughterhouses.
1.27        The Commission Nationale de Lutte contre les Effets do la S6cheresse
(CNLES), Ministry of Health and Social Action, is in charge of Emeraencv
Preparedness and assistance. There are at present two embryos of household early
warning systems. The SystAme d'Alerts Precoce--SAP Sahel financed by OXFAM and
Save the Children Fund (U.K.) is coordinated by CNLES, but covers only three
provinces: Soum, Seno, and Ouadalan. The Suivi des Zones A Risque (ZAR), is also
conducted by CNLES.   In addition, there is the Famine Early Warning System
financed and managed by the USAID (FEWS-USAID) with CNLES as the national focal
point.  FEWS-USAID relies on available secondary data, as well as vegetation
indices published by the FAO to predict famines. Since the mid-1980s the CNLES
has acted as a focal point for various donor-funded early warning activities,
although with mixed results.
1.28        The Office National des C6r6ales (OFNACER) also monitors cereal
stocks and market prices.   It has developed a market information system for
cereals (SIM) for which its agents collect weekly data on market prices of
cereals in 12 markets.   Sharp changes in prices reveal situations of severe
cereals shortages or excess supply in given provinces. The SIM is part of DIAPER
(Systeme de Diagnostic Permanent). DIAPER financed by the European Community,
while SIM is supported by the GTZ of Germany.
1.29        The Institut National do Statistique et de Ddmographie (INSD) is
responsible for national statistics and population censuses.
1.30        The  Direction  Nationale  de  la  M6t6orologie  collects  primary
information on rainfall from a network of gauges covering the country.   The
Direction is provided decadal Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI)
images produced by Agrhymet/CILSS from their NOAA/AVHRR satellite receiving
station in Niamey. These images show the intensity of the growth season at 10
day intervals. With USAID support, the Direction is currently developing in-
house capabilities for processing NDVI digital images to monitor crop and pasture
growth and estimate their production.
Research on Food Security
1.31        over the past decade, considerable research on food security has
been carried out in Burkina. The most notable is the "Cereals Plan", in three



- 9 -
volumes, including: a cereals sector diagnosis and policy review, a diagnosis of
the management of food aid, cereals policy plan preparation, and the
institutional arrangements for the monitoring and evaluating the implementation
of the cereals plan.   But, despite the volumes of research, the research agenda
on long-term food security and nutrition issues remains considerable. The agenda
includes: household income and expenditure data, household coping mechanisms,
labor markets and income enhancement, and low cost food conservation and
enrichment technologies. For example, while some information is known from a
1981 - 1985 IFPRI/ICRISAT survey on rural incomes, and from later data collected
on the informal sector, relatively little is known about the evolution of the
composition of rural and urban incomes over the 1985 - 1991 period, of the
composition of expenditures, and whether households coping strategies and
consumption behaviors are changing. Some data should become available through
the SAL I-supported Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) suevey. Analysis of
this data should prove extremely useful in the design and refinement of food
security strategies. Furthermore, little is known today on the dynamics of the
labor market in Burkina Faso, the constraints for further employment creation,
as well as on the impact of the minimum wage policies (SMIG and SMAG) on
employment. Yet, another area where more research is called for includes the
technologies for low cost farm storage of cereals, the enrichment of coarse
grains with iron, the transformation of coarne -rai-ns '.n ready to cook items,
solar energy preservation and/or drying of fruits and vegetables which are
produced in abundant quantities throughout Burkina Faso. The proposed project
would, therefore, provide support for research projects by institutions such as
INERA and CEDRES on some of these themes.
Nutrition Interventions
1.32         Improvement in nutritional status was not, in the past, explicitly
a stated objective of the development of the agricultural sector, although the
Government (and especially the Ministry of Health) has undertaken several actions
that undoubtedly promote  such objective.   Among these actions,  the food
technology unit of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock has a vitamin A
project to increase availability and access to carotene-rich food by households.
1.33         Some other important measures taken by the Government to increase
household food security and nutritional status are:
-   The CNLES (para 1.27 ) or The National Committee to Combat the Effects
of Drought, located in the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs was
created in 1983 to monitor and control emergency plans set up to help
drought victims to gain access to food, water, health services and
equipment;
-   Several development funds (para 1.47) have been established through
Government agreement and/or solicitation: Band Aid; Network Africa 2000;
Program Solidarity Canada-Sahel; Fund for women income generation
activities;
-   Nutrition rehabilitation programs, although limited in coverage, have
been implemented by the Ministry of Health mainly for children under five
years of age, pregnant and lactating women;
-   A school lunch program run bv the Ministry of Education has been
established, although about 863 primary rural schools are not yet covered
by this program.
Nutrition Education: Current Status and Issues
1.34        Most of the nutrition education done in Burkina Faso takes place in
health facilities and, therefore,  hagt only limited out-reach.   Many donor



- 10 -
assisted health projects and some agriculture projects have a nutrition education
component. The main nutrition education projects are:
-   the Ministry of Health: USAID's Nutricom (in 8 provinces); the USAID-HKI
vitamin A project (in 4 provinces); the RENA-UNESCO multi-media pilot
project (in 1 province); the USAID child survival project with Save the
Children (in 1 province); the CATHWELL's CREN project; IDA's Maternal and
Child Care/Family Planning project (1 province).
-   the Ministry of Acriculture: the UNDP-FAO vitamin A project  (in 4
provinces); the USAID nutrition in agriculture project (22-23 provinces).
1.35        Burkin. has some very innovative approaches to communication, one
in particular is used by the NGOs: the Group for Research and Promotion of
Participatory Training (Groupe de Recherche et d'Appui pour l'Autopromotion
Paysanne or GRAAP), INADES-Formation (Institut Africain pour le D6veloppement
Economique et Social--Centre de Formation or the Training Center of the African
Institute for Economic and Social Development) as well the CESAO (Centre d'Etudes
Economique et Sociales de l'Afrique de l'Ouest or the Center for Economic and
Social Studies in West Africa). The approach was originally developped by the
GRAAP and is therefore called the GRAAP method; it consists in participative
training rather than the more traditional approach. This participative training
of village associations is used mainly for environmental projects, management of
small projects, although some trainings h-ve been designed for health, and
hygiene.   The trainers have themes which are used for discuosion and the
villagers themselves actually develop their messages.   Other communication
channels are also used in Burkina, such as the rural radio with radio-contests,
village theatre, and video shows. Existing nutrition education projects have
provided extensive information on the knowledge, attitude and practices of the
population on nutrition through focus group surveys.
1.36        Diagnosis of existing nutrition education programs shows that there
are several problems:
-   because most of tho nutrition education is health centre based, the
coverage is limited;
-   sometimes, conflicting advice is provided through the messages.
-   there is need to re-inforce the participative approach to communication;
-   there is the need to dev-elop provincial level communication strategies
for nutrition educatior. in order to coordinate efforts of different
sectors and to avoid conflicting messages to the population.
-   there is a need to monitor and evaluate nutrition education efforts;
D.   Government Institutions Dealina with Food Security
CNLES
1.37        The CNLES  (Para 1.27) is the Government's main instrument for
mobilizing international aid for emergency assistance to drought-affected
provinces. It alerts the Council of Ministers (based on information provided by
the existing information systems--Annex II), to impending national emergencies.
The Council of Ministers has the sole responsibility to declare national
emergencies and to mandate the CNLES to mobilize international support. At the
provincial level, the CNLES relies on officials of the Ministry of Territorial
Administration and the extension agents (CRPAs or the Regional Centers for the
Promotion of Agro-Pastoral Activities) of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock who assist in the identification of vulnerable households and in the



- 11 -
targeting of emergency assistance.   The role of OFNACER in maintaining and
managing a national food security stock, and in operating a market information
system for cereals (SIM) have already been noted (paras 1.14 and 1.28)
Sec-etariat of the WFP
1.38        The Secret&riat of the World Food Program (WFP) which manages a food
for work program in  :rkina Faso, is a unit within the Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock.  The W'FP Secretariat estimates food requirements for all labor
intensive projects (on the basis of information provided by line ministries)
which are to be implemented through the food-for work program. The Secretariat
also handles the storage and the distribution of the food made available for the
projects.   Finally, there is the unit of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock (Service de Technolocie Alimentaire, para 1.32) which deals with issues
related to improved food conservation, distribution and storage at the household
level.   Aside from this unit (and the nutrition intervention and education
programs of the Ministry of Health), no other formal Government institutions
currently deal with household and non-emergency national food security issues.
1.39        However,  in the context of the preparation of the Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Program, an Interministerial Cereals Policy Working Group was
set up by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, to propose reforms in the
cereals subsector and to prepare action plans for implementation as part of the
agricultural sector adjustment program. The result of the work of this Cereals
Policy Working Group was the Cereals Plan (para 1.31) which was presented at a
National Seminar held in Bobo Dioulasso in November 1990.
CNCPC
1.40        To better assist the Government in the management of national
emergencies and design policies to improve household food security and nutrition,
the National Seminar recommended (and the Government endorsed) the creation a
National Coordinating Committee for Cereals Policy (CNCPCI. The CNCPC would be
composed of the ministers of industry, commerce, and mines; environment and
tourism; health and social action; finance, planning, and cooperation; water
resources; transport and communication; territorial administration; scientific
research; equipment; information; and the Presidents of the CRES (the Economic
and Social Revolutionary Council) and the Chamber of Commerce. The Minister of
Agriculture would be the chairman of the CNCPC and would convoke two ordinary
sessions of the CNCPC every year and extraordinary sessions as needed. The main
role of the CNCPC would be: to guide, monitor, and coordinate the cereals policy;
to organize consultations with all partners involved in the provision of food
aid; to monitor the implementation of the Cereals Plan and to provide regular
evaluations; and to provide a forum for national food security and nutrition
strategy.
1.41        The CNCPC would have a Permanent Secretariat located in the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock.   The Permanent Secretary and staff of the
Secretariat would report directly to the Minister of Agriculture and Livestock
in his capacity as chairman of the CNCPC. In essence, th Permanent Secretariat
would formalize the Interministerial Cereals Policy Working Group (para 1.39) and
transform it into a permanent body dealing with cereals policy and the national
food security and nutrition strategy.
CCI
1.4.        The National Seminar further recommended the creation of a national
Committee for the Coordination of Information on Food Security (CCI) under the
direction of the Permanent Secretariat, as well as a unit within the DEP of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock to act as its secretariat. Although the
CCI does not yet formally exist, its nucleus emerged as a subgroup of the Cereals
Policy Working Group. It was composed of the representatives of the DEP of the



- 12 -
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, OFNACER, CNLES, the National Institute of
Statistics and Demography (INSD), and CEDRES (the Center for Development and
Social Research of the University of Ouagadougou). The main functions performed
by the nucleus of the CCI within the Cereals Policy Working Group was the
gathering and analysis of data on agricultural production and environmental
degradation; animal production; storage, distribution, and commercialization of
food aid; and food processing technologies. The objective of formally creating
this committee (the CC'), which currently meets on a regular basis, is to
facilitate the Government's ability to tap the data gathering and analysis, and
the food security research capabilities of the institutions represented by this
subgroup.
1.43        In view of the central role that the Permanent Secretariat of the
CNCPC would play in cereals policy analysis, and for the development,
implementation, and monitoring of a national food security and nutrition
strategy, the proposed project would support its creation and operation.  In
addition, the project will provide assistance to an Early Warning System (EWS)
Unit (in the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock).
E.   Role of NGOs
1.44        NGO Coordination.  As of February 1991, 150 NGOs were registered
with the Government's NGO monitoring unit (Bureau de Suivi des ONG or BSONG) of
which about 65 belong to the NGO consortium SPONG (S6cr6tariat Permanent des
ONG). The NGO community in Burkina is very diverse. It includes International
NGOs (some of whom have field staff and implement projects, while others are not
phvsicallv present but fund local N(Ma. Villace AgLaoc-itionna  or Government
Agencies) as well as Local NGOs, most of whom are project implementing agencies.
Most of the NGOs (local as well as international) date their activities to the
"first" Sahelian drought (1972-74). Until recently, relief activities dominated
their concerns.    NGOs  in Burkina enjoy a special relationship with the
Government.   Relative to other countries  in the Sahel,  Burkina has few
regulations governing the activities of NGOs. Most local and international NGOs
work in close collaboration with local government agencies (especially the CRPA
extension agents), village associations, and cooperatives, and often depend on
ministry personnel for project execution. In 1987, NGOs contributed $33 million,
which represents 15% of all external assistance and have the capacity to quickly
mobilize rural communities.
1.45        NGO Activities. While the Government (until very recently) has been
absent in assisting households and vulnerable groups cope with food insecurity,
NGOs in Burkina are major actors in targeting assistance to food insecure groups.
Data on NGOs gathered by BSONG indicated that assistance provided by NC-Os range
from support to income generating activities often focused on women (anti-erosion
berms, home gardening, provision of equipment and small dams for agriculture,
grain mills, small ruminants raising, crafts, food processing, and commercial
activities), management of small savings and loan schemes, training and education
(adult literacy programs, nutrition education), health and water resource
development (support to regional centers for nutrition education--CREN (para
2.04), provision of medical equipment and medicines, evacuation of critically ill
patients, artesian and wide diameter wells), as well as in the provision of
social infrastructure (schools, health posts, cereal banks, rural roads etc).
1.46        Since the mid-1980's, all international NGOs have experienced severe
financial constraints and have downsized their activities as the outpouring of
public and governmental support to the Sahel has dimmed in intensity. Local
NGOs, on the other hand, have flourished largely due to multilateral, bilateral
and non-governmental support. The most notable form through which such direct
assistance is channeled, is through the establishment of funds and the creation
of local (ad hoc) committees whose role consists of project screening, evaluation
and selection for funding.



- 13 -
NGO Development Funds
1.47        Funds supported by NGOB and currently in operation (or recently
terminated) aret
(a) FEER (Fund for Rural Water and Equipment) finances integrated development
projects (on grants), and seems to encounter problems because few
communities and local NGOs can design integrated development projects;
(b) Band Aid: this program operated from 1986 to 1991. It had a committee
of 12 members which analyzed project proposals and selected projects for
funding.    Projects  approved were  funded  (grants)  through project-
sponsoring NGOs and were released in three tranches: progress reports had
to be submitted and verified before the last two tranches were released.
The Committee had approved 44 projects worth CFAF 1.436 billion up to
1991. Initially, Band Aid emphasized large scale water projects. In its
last years of operation, however, funds were primarily channeled to small
local NGOs and village associations for micro projects that were in the
order of CFAF 5 million or less;
(c) Network Africa 2000:   this progra=, financed by UNDP uses the same
selection committee as Band Aid for its projects. Fourteen projects have
been approved since September 1989 for a total of 400 million CFA. Most
of these projects are environmental projects and are funded on the basis
of grants;
(d) Programme Solidarit6-Canada Sahel: this program financed by the Canadian
Government (CIDA) channels grants through local NGOs in order to promote
NGO institution building.  Proposals by local NGOs are vetted and funds
disbursed through a local committee of 11 members, comprised of five
local NGOO, three Canadian NGOs, two SPONG representatives, and a full
time coordinator.   Since its creation in 1987, a total of CFAF 150
million has been disbursed through the committee;
(e) Fund for small scale income aenerating activities for women: this fund
was recently established by the UNDP and the Ministry of Finance. It is
a 3-year, US$ 660,000 credit facility lodged with the Banque
Internationale du Burkina (BIB) and it mainly targets women in urban
areas. The fund is governed by an executive committee while a credit
committee reviews individual loan applications.
F. Links between Food Security and Nutrition and Current IDA Proiects
1.48        The links between food security and nutrition and current IDA
projects are summarized in a matrix in Annex III. IDA-supported activities in
nutrition education through the Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning
Project has already been mentioned (para 1.34). The IDA's policy-based lending
program to Burkina (SAL I, and the SECALs in Transport and Agriculture), and a
number of investment operations (particularly in human resource development--
Education IV) aim at eliminating constraints to growth in the long run, their
successful implementation should improve food security in the long run.   More
specifically, with SAL I (retargeting public finance and government expenditures
to priority sectors as health, education, and agriculture) and the proposed
Aaricultural SECAL (agricultural policy reforms to enhance production, incomes
and sustain access to food supplies), the measu_es contemplated during the
proposed Food Security and Nutrition Project would add a third dimension to food
security strategy: building the capacity of local institutions for improved food
security management.
1.49         IDA  assistance  to  increase  agricultural  productivity  through
projects currently under execution include a Fertilizer Proiect under which the



- 14 -
subsidy on chemical fertilizers has been phased out, and two nationwide projects,
the Agricultural Research project and the Aaricultural SuoDort Services project.
The IDA-supported FY91 Environmental Management Proiect is of singular relevance
to the proposed food security project: it will undertake community land
management operations in 21 provinces including Bougouriba, Houet, Gnagna,
Kenedougou, and Kouritenga where Provincial Terroir Management Units (LGPTs) and
Provincia. Terroir Committees (CPT) chaired by the High Commissioner of the
province have been set up. The role of the UGPTs is to provide technical support
to village !ommunities in the preparation and implementation of land management
plans as well as in providing assistance in extension and training programs. The
CPTs oversee the activities of land management projects in their provinces and
give final approval to land management plans submitted by communities.   The
proposed project would seek to complement the Environmental Management Project,
in the provinces where they are both present, adding an income generation
activities dimension to environmental management activities.   The proposed
project will also benefit from the provincial institutional structures set up to
manage the environment: UGPT and the CPT.
G. History of Bank Involvement and Sector Issues
1.50         In 1987, the Government established an interministerial working
group to prepare a Cereals Plan and requested Bank assistance.   During the
dialogue with the Government on macroeconomic and agricultural sector adjustment
issues, the need to broaden the scope of the work on cereals policy to food
security, in order to address such complementary issues as emergency
preparedness, nutrition and incomes policy becan-e evident.
1.51         Sector Issues.   The 1990 Bank sector report on food security,
Burkina Faso: Towards Achieving Food Security (Report No. 8761-BUR), identified
three dimensions of the problem:
a) The national dimension. This covers four main elements: the country's
capacity to ensure that aggregate food supply (through domestic
production, food aid, or imports) is adequate to meet aggregate demand,
the efficiency of domestic food warkets and the capacity of the public
sector to palliate market imperfections, and the capacity of the
Government to manage crises;
b)  The household and individual dimensicn.   This concerns three main
elements: the household's access to food either through production or
purchase, the efficient allocation of food (or individual access to food)
among household members, and the quality of food or the nutritional
element of food intakes. Furthermore, a satisfactory health status is
a prerequisite to ensure optimal physiological utilization of food
nutrients by all household members.
c)  The crisis dimension.  A distinction must be made between the annual and
the secular crises. The annual crises affect the households which are
in transitory food insecurity, largely because of natural phenomena
(rainfall shortfall, insect infestations, and other calamities), or of
insufficient disposable income. Annual "hungry periods" are particularly
critical times for vulnerable groups such as the lower income groups, or
women whose energy requirements increase as the demand on their labor for
agricultural tasks increase while food availability is at its lowest.
Secular crises occur mostly when a prolonged interannual rainfall deficit
decreases food production leading to stock depletion and loss of capital.
1.52        The Bank's report recommended a three-pronged strategy based on:
-   building the capacity of local institutions for improved food security
management;



- 15 -
-   economic policy reforms to enhance incomes and sustain access to food
supplie5;
-   targeting public finance and government expenditures to priority sectors
as health, education, and agriculture because of their link to food
security.
1.53        The report also identified the following priority areas for specific
actions: establishing a Government Department with the responsibility for food
security management, consolidating a performing food security information system,
improving the timing of public expenditures--especially labor intensive public
works programs--to adjust to the demand for suppiementary incomes by lower income
groups; retargeting food subsidies and income transfers; nutrition and health
targeted at women and children; family planning programs; education campaigns on
nutrition, water quality, and oral rehydration therapy; mobilization of the most
vulnerable groups--especially women--for year-round income generating activities.
The proposed project would deal with many of these priority areas.
H.   Status of Prolect Pre aration
1.54        The proposed project was, for the most part, prepared under the
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program which was the result of a two-year period
of intensive dialogue with the Government and other donors (the French Ministry
of Cooperation, the Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique, and the GTZ of
Germany, the European Community). The Interministerial Cereals Policy Working
Group (para 1.39) played the lead role in the preparation of this project. A
project preparation facility (PPF) of US$ 0.2 million was granted to cover
consultancies on Early Warning System, a baseline survey, a beneficiary
assessment, and preparatory work for training of NGOs in project identification,
preparation, presenktation and accounting.
1.55        Project preparation benefitted from the collaboration of the WFP's
office in Ouagadougou; the 1991 WFP evaluation report of its food-for-work
program in Burkina Faso; impact evaluations by IFPRI (International Food Policy
Research Institute) on experience with public works in Africa for improving food
security (1991); and valuable experience gained from the many donor- and NGO-
supported pilot activities in cash-for-work, nutrition education, and rural
income generating activities.
1.56        Collaboration with NGOs  (the Secretariat of SPONG--para 1.44)
started in the design of the project throagh consultations on the principles as
well as on the design of the project component on income generating activities
targeted at women. This collaboration culminated in the setting up of a working
group--during project appraisal--composed of NGO representatives, provincial
level administrators, and IDA to work out the principles and modalities for NGO
involvement in the proposed project. The report of this group is attached as
Annex IV.



- 16 -
II.    TEE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Proiect Rationale
Impact of Past Policies and Prooosed Actions Under the Project
2.01         Past Government policies (macroeconomic, data gathering for crisis
management, nutrition education and interventions, support for development
funds), aimed at improving food security and the nutritional status of specific
groups, have sometimes produced some impressive lo;-al results, yet, the overall
impact has been modest. The Government's attempts to deal with the food security
issue have tended to ignore the household dimension of the food security issue.
Moreover, improvements in the macroeconomic, incentives, and incomes policies and
the removal of the major distortions in food pricing, marketing, and trade
policies are only now being addressed within the context of SAL I and the
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program. SAL I's emphasis on restraint on the
level and growth of the public sector wage bill and reallocation of resources to
promote human resource development and poverty alleviation should help improve
income distribution.
2.02         Early Warning Systems and Emergencv Preparedness.  The capacity of
Government to manage crises, however, needs specific actions directed at
strengthening its data gathering and analysis capability (and especiallv the
performance of the Early Warning Systems), and dispositions for the delivery of
emergency assistance (Emergency Preparedness). The recurrent seasonality problem
in Burkina has been approached through the development of community cereal banks
and a national food security stock managed by OFNACER.   Recent evaluations of
such cereal banks have highlighted the failures of many. The lessons learned
through these evaluations and the reforms proposed in the Agricultural SECAL for
the management of the national food security stock should help improve on such
schemes.
2.03         However, improved storage and management of food security stocks
would not be enough. The inadequate handling of the declared emergency in 1990
suggests that a clear plan of action to be implemented during a crisis remains
to be developed. As the early warning systems are dispersed and unintegrated and
are based on data of limited reliability (especially at the provincial level) the
proposed project would emphasize the development of more reliable information
systems and the integration of existing early warning systems. Specific measures
to improve Emergencv Preoaredness (through the CNLES) would be provided for by
other donors under provisions for the coordination of food aid and the use of
counterpart funds in the Agricultural Adjustment Program.
2.04         Nutrition Interventions and Nutrition Education.  rhe nutrition and
school lunch programs supported by the Government also had limited coverage. For
example, school feeding only reaches primary school age children that actually
attend school. Yet, enrollment levels nationally are 45% for boys and 26% for
girls, and far less in most rural areas. Moreover, the most vulnerable group is
children below five years, who are unaffected by the program. The Ministry of
Health and Social Action's nutrition education program provides nutrition
education during pre- and post-natal care. Since the care is provided at central
locations, the care is limited to interested women within reach of district or
provincial health centers. Nutrition Rehabilitation Centers (CRENs) provide some
nutrition education while simultaneously rehabilitating severely malnourished
children.   But curative rehabilitation is far more costly than a preventive
approach. A recent Ministry of Health evaluation has shown that most of the
CRENs have been ineffective in both nutrition education and rehabilitation. The
proposed project would, therefore, adopt a preventive approach which would
consist of providing targeted assistance and, especially, nutrition education to
vulnerable households by building on the more successful experiences in nutrition



- 17 -
education gained from other African countries, as well as on participatory
training approaches not yet used in nutrition education.
2.05        Household Income Generating Activities.   Most of the activities
supported by the development funds (para 1.33) were isolated, not well targeted,
lacked a national institutional base, primarily supported consumption by severely
drought-affected households, and were designed and implemented outside the
context of a national and household food security and nutrition strategy. The
proposed project would, therefore, emphasize institution building to assist the
Government in vulnerability assessment and the design and implementation of long-
term strategies to alleviate household food insecurity and malnutrition.
2.06        Research on Food Security.   Food self-sufficiency is no longer
considered as a priority objective in many Government circles.  However, the
approach to national food security (including that of the Cereals Policy Working
Group--para 1.39) remains dominated by exclusive focus on the supply side of
cereals balances at the national  and provincial  levels.   This  is hardly
surprising since two of the lead institutions in the Cereals Policy Working Group
(OFNACER and CGP--a price stabilization board for imported basic commodities
including rice) have a mandate of ensuring the adequacy of supplies of cereals
at the national and (in the case of OFNACER) provincial levels. Thus, despite
increasing food security and nutrition sector work which emphasized the
importance of incomes policy and equitable income growth, Burkinaba research on
food security needs to be promoted to ensure ownership of the design and
implementation of viable and sustatnable food security strategies. This effort
would be supported by the proposed project.
B.   Prolect Obiectives and Design
2.07        Objectives.  The proposed project, which will run concurrently wtth
the Agricultural SECAL, would extend and deepen the impact of reforms supported
by SAL I and the Agricultural SECAL on food security and improved nutrition. The
project has two objectives:
-   At the national level: (a) reduce the Government's response time for
reacting to national food emergencies, (b) improve the targeting of food
security programs to concentrate on low income groups in drought-prone
provinces, and (c) provide a data base and logistic frame for rational
decision-making on food security and nutritional issues.
-   at the household level:  improve household coping mechanisms by (a)
diversifying income sources of the rural poor for improved food security
and nutrition, and (b) improve the efficient use of available household
food to achieve better nutritional status for children below the age of
three and lactating mothers.
2.08         The project seeks tc achieve its objective.s in the following manner:
(a) assisting Government to establish an institutional focal point within the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (the Permanent Secretariat of the
CNCPC--para 1.41) for food security management;
(b) establishing an integrated Early Warnina Systems (EWS), and improving '.he
data gathering and analysis capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock (MOAL) which is essential for reducing the leal time for
Emeraencv Prevaredness (EP);
(c) providing income-earning opportunities in the mo3t drought-prone
provinces during the dry season and period of low labor demand. A part
of the existing WFP--supported food-for-work program, complemented by



- 18 -
cash-for-work, will be redirected and focuesed on poor households in
drought-prone provinces; and
(d) providing an  independent  source of  income to women--essential  for
improved nutritional status of children--by financing income generating
activities directed predominantly at women; and
(e) carrying out a nutrition Information, Education, and Communication (IEC)
campaign to bring about a behavioral change in child weaning and feeding
practices. The target audience will be women beneficiaries of the income
earning and income generating activities.
2.09         The  proposed  project  has  been  designed  under  the  following
principles: to build, to the extent possible, on existing institutions and
structures and reinforce successful experiences in food security interve;.tions
and nutrition education; to target vulnerable populations in the most vulnerable
provinces; and to select activities likely to have a direct impact on household
food security (the focus on women), and to be sustainable even after project
funding  ceases   (income  generating  acting  activities  and  beneficiary
reconstitution of funds for income generating projects). Taraetina of assistance
would be by region (4 of the 8 most vulnerable provinces), by season (focus on
the hungry season in food-for-work and cash-for-work programs), and by gender
(income generating activities of women).   The four provinces are Gnagna,
Namentenga, Passore, and Soum. The total population of these four provinces is
950,000 or slightly more than 10% of the national population.  Given limited
Government experience in interventions to improve household coping mechanisms,
the geographical scope and size of activities to diversify incomes of the rural
poor will be restricted and implemented on a pilot basis.
C.   Summary ProJect Description
2.10        The project, to be implemented over a six-year period, would consist
of the following five components (of which the costs given below include
provisions for contingencies).
1.  Institution Buildina and Strenathenina IUSS 1.8 million): would provide
assistance to: the Permanent Secretariat of the CNCPC (MOAL), the
Household Food Security Unit  (MOAL),   BSONG  (the Government's NGO
coordinating unit), and SPONG (an NGO umbrella organization) to plan,
implement and monitor food security interventions. Support to: (a) the
Secretariat will consist of office space, equipment, and a vehicle; (b)
the Household Food Security Unit (HHFSU): a vehicle, office equipment,
staffing, training of the unit's staff and technical assistance; c) BSONG
and SPONG: office equipment, all terrain vehicles, technical assistance,
and training.  In addition, the project would provide (d) funding for
priority research on themes identified by the CCI (para 1.31).
2.  Establishint  an Intearated Early Warning System (USS 1.4 million):
would provide assistance for integrating various existing EWSs within
MOAL and to implement the National Survey of Agricultural statistics
(NSAS). Support for the integrated EWS will consist of: office equipment
and supplies, incremental staffing, training, short-term technical
assistance. Funding will be provided for workshops, the preparation and
implementation of a plan for system integration, and the printing and
distribution of monthly EWS bulletins. Support to the NSAS will improve
the reliability of agricultural statistics at the provincial level, and
collection of information on farming activities, including rural
household incomes, needed to assess famine vulnerability.
3.  Labor Intensive (Food/Cash-for-Work) Programs (USS 4.9 million):  would
provide for: technical assistance, incremental staffing, vehicles and



- 19 -
office equipment to NOAL's Secretariat of the WFP (para 1.38) to
strengthen its monitoring and evaluation of labor intensive food-for-work
programs. Complementary funding for food/cash-tor-work program will be
provided under this component, wh.le the design, implementation and
oupervision of specific project. will be contracted out to an Executing
Agency (FASO BAARA).
4.  Household Food Security Interventions (USS 3.4 million): would finance
income generating activities (directed primarily at women's groups) in
the four selected provinces.   Within this context, support will be
provided to a pre-qualified group of NGOs who will assist the beneficiary
groups to identify feasible activities, prepare dossiers for funding
requests, and monitor the execution of the activities.
5.  Nutrition Information. Education. and Communications Campaian (USS 1.4
million): will support (a) a Beneficiary Assessment, (b) a rapid
assessment of training needs of NGOs and agricultural extension workers
responsible for women's activities in the provinces, (c) nutrition
education message development, (d) training of 150 agricultural extension
workers and 64 NGO agents in nutrition education, and (e) a multi-media
nutrition education campaign.
D.   Detailed Proiect Features
Institution Buildina and Strenathenina
2.11        The CNCPC (para 1.39) and its Secretariat would be the Government'e
focal point for the implementation of the "Cereals Plan" and its programs to
improve household food security and nutrition. Staffing requirements for the
Permanent Secretariat of the CNCPC will consist of: four wenior staff
(economists/agro-economiste and sociologists) one of whom would be the Permanent
Secretary; and six support staff (an administrative secretary, a secretary, two
typists, a driver and a mail delivery clerk). The staff would be seconded from
other Government departments, including the MOAL, and the Government would bear
the full cost of staffing the Permanent Secretariat from its own budgetary
resources.   The office  space  for the  Secretariat would be Government's
contribution in the context of the proposed project.
2.12        The HHFSU would have operational responsibility for planning,
monitoring and evaluation of all field actions of the project.  The staffing
requirements for the HHFSU which would be fully financed by the proposed project
include: three senior staff (an agro-economist and head of the Unit, a
sociologist, an accountant and four assistants--to be located in the four
provinces), a secretary, two typists and two drivers.
2.13        Technical assistance would be provided to assist the HHFSU in: the
planning, monitoring and evaluation of income generating micro-projects; the
introduction of small savings and loans schemes; the identification,
mobilization, and coordination of existing structures (state extension services,
NGOe, village groups) for providing assistance to villagers, and nutrition IEC
(Information, Education, and Communication) program development.
2.14        To strengthen local NGOs, which are active in programs with a direct
impact on household food security, support will be provided to SPONG and BSONG
(para 1.44).   Assistance will consist of s an all-terrain vehicle, offico
equipment (PCs, typewriters and printers) and office supplies to BSONG and SPONG.
In addition, SPONG will be provided with technical assistance to organize
training programs to pre-selected NGOs in project identification, preparation,
presentation, and the maintenance of simple project accounts.



- 20 -
2.15        Funding will also be provided to the HHFSU to contract priority
research in the following areas: the identification of relevant indicators of the
state of food security; the analysis of how households cope with food crisis;
impact evaluation of measures initiated in the context of food security programs;
the dynamics of the labor market, the constraints for further employment
creation, as well as on the impact of the minimum wage policies (SMIG and SMAG)
on employment; technologies for low cost farm storage of cereals, the enrichment
of coarse grains with iron, the development of v'llage-based weaning food such
as power flour, the transformation of coarse arains in ready to cook items,
drying of fruits and vegetables, and the feasebility of producing home made
germinated cereals.
Intearated Early Warnina System
2.16         Intearated Early Warnina system:  In its Letter of Agricultural
Development Policy, the Government announced its decision to integrate the
various donor-assisted Early Warning Systems (para 1.27) and to designate the DEP
of the MOAL as the focal point for the integrated system. In this manner, data
analysis will be 1) more closely linked to data collection and 2) entrusted to
an agency with proven technical capabilities.  The EWS Unit would be located
within the Service de Statistiques Agricoles (SSA). The donors already involved
in EWS activities are prepared to redesign their respective components in order
to arrive at a single, effective and integrated system. USAID has indicated its
intention to provide direct technical assistance for the redesign and integration
of the system.
2.17        Work Program.   The EWS project component would include three
activities: 1) the reinforcement of institutional capabilities to analyze data
and forecast crisis, 2) the development of an analytical framework, such as a
model linking the various variables, and 3) the establishment of mechanisms to
obtain the various data required to drive the model.
2.18        The core activity of the EWS project component would be the creation
of processing and analysis capabilities within the EWS Unit.  Staff would be
recruited and trained, and information processing equipment would be purchased
in the 6 months following project effectiveness. Training would then be provided
on a yearly basis throughout the project. Staff would be retrained and equipment
upgraded in year 4 of the project. On-site long term technical assistance would
be provided by the FEWS project.
2.19        The setting up a national EWS would require the improvement of
national analytical capabilities. Experience shows that this would be the most
elusive aspect in the establishment of an EWS.  It would demand a long-term
investment, involving human resources development and institution building.
Present capabilities within the Service de Statistiques Agricoles (SSA) are not
sufficient to independently operate all EWS aspects. In the short-term, remedial
technical assistance would be provided by the project and by FEWS; but in the
longer term national capabilities would be upgraded through recurrent on-the-job
training. The project also would extend, but at a lower intensity, training to
the CCI community, including technical partners and users, and promote sharing
of their experiences through annual technical training workshops.
2.20        The objective is to establish from components of the various,
ongoing EWS an integrated system that can provide timely information for
Emergency  Preparedness.    Specifically,  the  EWS  would  provide  monthly
vulnerability assessments at the provincial and departmental levels by extending
the USAID-FEWS analytical framework to the more than 300 administrative
departments. The extended framework would require a detailed specification of
household income that would be provided by the NSAS.
2.21        The  proposed  project  will  support  the  creation  of  the  data
gathering, processing, and analysis capabilities of the EWS Unit by providing



- 21 -
funding for: equipment and supplies; incremental staffing, recurrent on-the-job
training, technical assistance, and the printing and distributing 200 copies of
the monthly EWS bulletins to the relevant Government Departments and the donor
community.  !D  c.jpport would complement that of SCF/OXFAM (Save the Children
Fund,, DIAiER/CILSS and USAID.
2.22        Technical assistance would be in the form of short-term foreign
consultancies to provide technical training, to orLinize a technical workshop
that would define the integrated system, to prepare a plan for system
integration, and to help in its implementation. Current staffing levels at the
SSA (7 statisticians, 2 agronomists) would be reinforced with a socio-economist
and a computer and software specialist. The MOAL will transfer an agronomist and
2 statisticians from other departments to the SSA.
2.23         Funding for the integrated EWS would also include provisions for tha
collection of field data using a protocol derived from that presently suggested
by DIAPER for the ZAR. Coverage would be extended from the three Sahel provinces
to the following ten provinces:
CRPA du Sahel                 Oudalan, Seno, soum
CRPA du Yatenga               Passor6, Yatenga
CRPA du Centre-Nord           Bam, Namentanga, Sanmentanga
CRPA du Centre-Sud            Nahouri, Soundweogo
2.24         Current funding for the SAP-Sahel would be redirected towards
support of data collection and analysis by the CCI, in the form of a service
contract. In return, the CCI would provide SCF and OXFAM with customized monthly
vulnerability assessment bulletins, limited in their coverage to the three Sahel
provinces.
2.25         National Survey for Acricultural Statistics. At present, the annual
agricultural survey estimates crop production through a yearly survey, called the
Permanent  Agricultural  Survey.    This survey uses  a demographic  sampling
methodology based on the 1985 population census.
2.26        As a policy, CILSS countries are committed to shift from this
sampling methodology to aerial sample frames.   With EC support, the Projet
Surveillance des Ressources Naturelles au Sahel has been conducting research to
adapt the aerial sample frame methodology in CILSS countries. Pilot activities
have been conducted in Northern Burkina in 1991, to compare the results of
parallel surveys using demographic and aerial sample frames methodologies.
Further pilot activities are planned. As part of the National Environment Action
Plan (NEAP), the Government is also looking to fund the application of aerial
sample frames in the 4 provinces targated by the IDA-assisted Environmental
Management Project (PNGT--Programme National de Gestion des Terroirs) project,
making use of aerial photographic coverage. Still, existing funding will not be
sufficient to implement a national aerial sample frame within the next 6 years.
In addition, by that date, improved methodologies using remote sensing and models
of primary production, currently under development, should have become available.
Thus, in the meantime, improving the reliability of demographic sampling appears
to be a pragmatic option.
2.27         The main weakness of the current annual permanent surveys is that
although valid at national level (margin of error: 5%), the data are unreliable
at the provincial level--with a margin of error of between 15-30%. In other
words, the extent of the cereal deficit at the national level can be estimated,
but cannot be located. Access to reliable estimates of cereal production at the
provincial level is indispensable if famine relief actions are to be correctly
targeted.   Such access is thus of utmost importance in the context of any
Emergency Preparedness.



- 22 -
2.28        Conducting the NSAS--in the absence of an agricultural census, which
is expensive--would permit the stratification of agricultural statistic's
samples, and thus lead to an improvement of statistical reliability, sufficient
for use at the provincial level. More important, the survey also would provide
information on farming units, including information on rural household income.
Such information, indispensable for the operation of an effective EWS and a
famine vulnerability assessment, will not be available from the household survey
to be conducted by INSD for the Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) program,
since it will mostly focus on urban populations. In addition, the survey would
explicitly collect information on the role of women in agricultural production,
if necessary by breaking down the information on agricultural production units,
as recommended by the S6minaire sur la Participation de la Femme dans les Projets
de Developpement Agro-Pastoral: Strategies et Moyens d'Int6gration, Ouagadougou
27-28 juin 1991.
2.29         The DEP of the MOAL has prepared a detailed program for the NSAS
which would be completed in three years. Total cost for the survey is estimated
at CFAF 784,150,000 and funding has already been committed from three sources,
besides the national budget: 1) the Government of Netherlands, 2) the Proj3t de
Renforcement des Services d'Appui aux Producteurs (PRSAP), and 3) the Projet de
Planification Rurale (PPR). However, there remains a financing gap of CFAF 200
million to cover hiring of 560 surveyors for one year. Given its importance to
the integrated EWS, the proposed project would cover this financing gap.
Labor Intensive (Food/Cash-for-Work) Proaram
2.30         The main objective of this component, which had been developed in
close collaboration with the WFP, is poverty alleviation I'hrough the provision
of employment opportunities to poor households in periods of low labor demand and
virtually non-existent rural employment opportunities. Increasing the purchasing
power (including income in-kind) of the rural poor is a direct means of
contributing to food security and a necessary condition for improved nutritional
status of household members. A secondary objective is the provision of growth
and development-oriented public infrastructure through labor intensive means.
2.31          Payments to workers would consist of WFP's usual food packages as
well as cash payments. The rationale for introducing cash-for-work in addition
to the food-for-work is to: (a) preserve the dignity of the worker by valuing
his/her contribution on a labor intensive works (LIW) site equal to any other
form of employment; (b) reinforce the sense of productive employment over a
welfare dependency; and (c) simplify the management of the program as cash-for-
work is easier to manage. Furthermore, the evidence in Burkina and elsewhere
suggest that incremental income of food insecure populations, particularly
mothers, is largely spent on food: any incremental employment (income) will
expand food demand.
2.32         Burkina Faso has a long experience with labor intensive public works
programs. These include: from 1969 to present, WFP supported dam and reservoir
construction, reforestation, and road building; successive (1971 to 1980, and
1982 to 1987) World Bank supported rural development projects based on voluntary
labor participation; ILO pilot program (1975 - 1980) of labor intensive erosion
control and reforestation works; Environment Ministry use of "food-for-trees"
rations for reforestation work in the Red Vo'ta Forest Reserve. From 1982 to
1988. conservPation and infrastructure activities provided 805,000 workdays of
employment. Despite this significant level of activity, the potential for labor
intensive public works programs remains high: Burkina's infrastructure
deficiencies mirror those of other land-locked Sahelian countries--inadequate
rural roads, lack of erosion control structures, limited irrigation facilities,
insufficient education and health facilities.
2.33          Labor intensive public works projects which will be supported under
this component would include: communal road building and maintenance; the



- 23 -
construction of schools, village health pos.s and day care centers, wells or
micro dams to provide potable or irrigation water. Anti-erosion works and land
improvement measures such as reforestation would be excluded since Burkina
already has many projects (including the IDA-supported Environmental Management
Project) which emphasize such activities. Support, under this component, will
be restricted to the four pilot provinces during times of low agricultural labor
demand, especially, towards the end of the dry season which also corresponds to
a peak in the hungry period. Targeting will be through "self-selection" of the
poorest. However, preqilalified NGOs will also play a role in informing village
groups of proposed works and in mobilizing them for such works.
2.34         In a typical year, about 8,000 people are expected to benefit
directly (as unskilled workers) from LIWs programs supported by the proposed
project, totalling 200,000 workdays (25 days of work/person/year).   With an
average household size of 5, this implies that approximately 40,000 people will
benefit directly and indirectly from the program at a base cost of about US$
450,000 per annum or US$ 11.25 per person. The component will aim for a minimum
of 50% female participation rate in the labor intensive public works program.
2.35         Subproiect Selection Criteria.  Food security wi'll take precedence
over investment objectives. However, to ensure that these labor intensive works:
(1) are technically sound, constructed with due regard for engineering standards,
and realized efficiently and cost-effectively; (2) fall within provincial
priorities; (3) are selected on the basis of criteria equivalent to those used
for project selection in the Public Investment Program (PIP); (4) could and would
be adequately maintained by the village communities; and (5) would have their
operations and maintenance costs provided for in the budgets of the relevant
ministrier and Government departments, where necessary (such as in the case of
schools arnd health facilities). The Government would designate PASO BAARA as the
Executing Agency for this component. The Agency was created in the context of
an IDA-supported urban Public Works and Employment Project (Report No. 9535-BUR).
It currently executes a program of public facility and infrastructure
rehabilitation and maintenance in urban areas carried out under labor intensive
schemes by local contractors.   It operates according to a Procedures Manual
designed and applied for this specific purpose. The Agency executes subprojects
on behalf of the Government, who grants it full authority to select subprojects
(from a pre-agreed list of eligible works and within an agreed annual budget),
select contractors through a process of local competitive bidding, sign the
contracts, supervise works, acknowledge delivery, and pay contractors. Amendment
of the current Procedures Manual to reflect the rural focus and geographical
scope of the project in a manner acceptable to IDA, and Government signature of
a project management contract with PASO BAARA would be conditions of
effectiveness (para 6.02a).
2.36         To improve the monitoring of labor intensive rural public works
program in Burkina, the MOAL's Secretariat of the WFP would be provided with:
technical assistance, additional staffing (2 computer specialists), office
equipment (2 PCs and printers), and office supplies.   In addition, the WFP
Secretariat will be assisted to conduct initial studies of nutrition status in
the four provinces, and a nutrition impact evaluation of this project component
in year 3 of project implementation.
2.37         The WFP has confirmed its willingness to provide financing (USS 1.1
million over the six year period) for projects in the four pilot provinces. The
German Government has also indicated its intention to provide cofinancing for
this component. The largest share of the German contribution would cover the
cach-for-work feature. In addition to the WFP food package given to workers,
food rations would include locally-made high density weaning food much needed to
ensure nutritionally adequate child weaning and to bring about a change in the
weaning,  habits of poor mothers.   This 500-gram packet will constitute a
complement of about 240 calories per day for a child for one week.



- 24 -
Household Income Generating Activities
2.38         This component would finance micro-projects designed and implemented
by predominantly women's groups of food insecure households. The beneficiaries
of the income generating micro-projects will be village groups, averaging 30
members, recognized by traditional and provincial authorities in the four pilot
provinces. Basic statistics for the four provinces are presentnd in Annex V.
They indicate that out of a total population of 940,000, 38% (j-7,000) can be
characterized as vulnerable to famine. The percentage of women and children at
risk is 8%, on average, for each province.   It is expected that about 9,600
vulnerable households will benefit from this component during the life of the
project.
2.39        Targeting.   The targeted women's groups are those with limited
productive resources--marginal farmlands, insecurity of land tenure, a binding
labor constraint--and who are currently not served by formal or informal
financial institutions. To ensure that the beneficiaries belong to vulnerable
households the project will make use of existing NGOs and Village Associations
who are in a better position than government institutions to identify and reach
the poor.   NGOs or a Village Associations in Burkina Faso cater to a self-
targeted clientele. This clientele is invariably poor.
2.40        Objective.  The objective is to reduce the dependence of these poor
householdB on a single source of income--drought-prone crop production. Almost
all rural households in drought-affected areas in Burkina rely to a certain
extent on food purchases.   Households with the poorest cropping outcomes,
provided they have other sources of income, purchase the most in proportional
terms.  For such households, therefore, income diversification is a means of
safeguarding food consumption.
2.41         The evidence in Burkina suggests, that in zones of high variability
in harvests, the most effective strategies for the generation of purchasing power
are based on non-croioina occupations (both employment- and asset-based). The
exception is dry-season gardening based on dam construction or water harvesting
works.
2.42         For  many  women,   an  employment-based   approach  to   income
diversification is not feasible simply because their labor time (even in the dry
season) is, more often than not, fully accounted for: women are responsible for
activities required to maintain the household, the most time-consuming being meal
preparation. Other time-consuming activities include: water collection--which
takes up more time in the dry season as nearby water sources dry up; and
collecting wood.
2.43        A strategy of assisting predominantly women's groups to diversify
their sources of income must, therefore, be two-pronged: labor saving devices to
free women's labor time (for example, improved stoves to reduce fuelwood use,
grain mills, wells, and animal traction and haulage); and access to productive
resources or financial services to enable women to engage in non-cropping income
generating activities.
2.44         TyDes of Activities to be supported.  The types of activities to be
financed under this component are those which can be demonstrated to have a
relatively short gestation period and would be demand driven. Experience in
Burkina on which activities appear to work (either because they significant
reduce female labor time or are potentially profitable) suggest that the
following types of activities are likely to dominate project proposals: home
gardening, poultry raising, fattening of small ruminants, the making of
handicrafts, flour mills, sheanut presses for oil extraction, local beer brewing,
food processing, and petty trading. Grain marketing is excluded (even though it
is potentially profitable) since, in Burkina, it is predominantly a male



- 25 -
activity. This list is indicative and not limitative and will evolve according
to demand.
2.45         Of these women's activities,  poultry and the raisi-; of small
ruminants in family compounds (moutons de case) is almost always a t.;.rot area of
investment by rural households. Handicrafts ranks second in terms of viability.
Other activities, such as local beer brewing, petty trading, home gardening, and
food processing are les certain because of the critical role of ready access to
a market. If markets are far--which they are in most rural areas in the four
provinces--traveling time and costs limit women's sales and purchases. Further,
as wiives absences are a source of conflict with husbands, most women aell what
they can in limited local markets or from their compounds.  Ready access to
markets is not nearly as determinant in the case of handicrafts and the selling
of poultry and small ruminants. For these activities, markets can be developed.
2.46         Small ruminants are sold during muslim religious festivals and
ceremonies, and potential annual rates of return on investment can be very high
(well in excess of 50%). However, the activity is risky (finding a market at
just the right time is crucial) as well as costly (in drought-prone zones where
natural fodder has to be supplemented with purchased feed). To reduce the risks
and minimize the costs, therefore, the project would have to ensure not just the
capitalization of the beneficiaries (the initial stock) who must be organized in
groups, but to address strategies for ensuring regular input supplies (animal
feed), veterinary services, and market access.
2.47         For such types of women operated rural-based income generating
activities, there are very few sources of formal or informal credit in Burkina
Faso. Financial services available from formal institutions in rural areas in
Burkina are very limited. Most formal credit, as well as informal credit, is
tied to specific crops, especially cotton, and is dominated by men. The only
access most women have to savings and credit schemes is through rotating credit
groups called tontines. Each member of the tontine contributes a small sum of
money on a regular basis and the group members receive the total amount collected
in turn. However, the amounts saved and received are generally too small for
investment purposes. Moreover, tontines can not cope with demands for credit by
all the group members at the same time.
2.48        Conditions of SuDPort. Under the proposed project, the village or
beneficiary group (BG)--an average of 30 members--would be the unit to which
support would be provided. The BG would have to form a management committee and
to contribute a minimum of 20% of total activity costs in kind. In order for an
activity to be eligible for financing under this component, a micro-project
proposal must be sponsored by a pre-qualified local NGO.   It must meet the
following additional elicibilitv criteria: an activity undertaken by and for
predominantly women's groups in one of the following provinces: Gnagna,
Namentenga, Passore, or Soum; an activity that will benefit the poorer households
within these provinces; the project should be demonstrated to improve household
food security, health and nutritional status especially of children of these
households. An upper limit of CFAF 2.0 million (approximately US$ 7,500) would
be placed on financing any BG group under this component. It is expected that
the average assistance to BG would be CFAF 1.5 million. This translates into an
average investment and working capital of about USS 185 per beneficiary
household.
2.49         Selection criteria. Once the project proposal meets these criteria,
the selection of subprojects will consist in analyzing the following: the
proposal must demonstrate that even after financing under this component ceases,
the subproject will be sustainable; the subproject must be technically feasible
and sound; the project proposal should demonstrate that the beneficiaries have
been/will be involved in designing, implementing and managing the project; the
beneficiaries will contribute to the subproject either in the form of labor and,



- 26 -
when feasible, of materials; the subproject has a reasonably short gestation
period.
2.50        Funding made available for women's income generating activities
would have to be repaid by the beneficiaries. The reasons are:
(a) the project is targeted at the poorest rural households in the most
drought prone provinces to whom income transfers can be justified on the
same basis as funding for education, population, health programs, or
direct nutrition interventions in the form of supplementary food
provisions;
(b) for sustainability of the activities--and possible rotation of project
funding to other BGs--beneficiaries must, as a minimum, reconstitute the
initial investment and working capital and provide for rehabilitation and
maintenance;
(c) insistence on a market rate of interest would defeat the objective of
income transfer or of support to income generating activities of these
groups, which is food security and improved nutritional status especially
of children in poor households.
2.51        Parallel actions foreseen under the component (training NGOe in
project identification and evaluation, rigorous project selection criteria,
strategies to reduce investment risks) would ensure that beneficiaries are able
to reconstitute the funds. Nutrition Information, Education and Communication
(IEC) campaign, to be launched under the proposed project, would place food
security and improved nutritional status in a central position among the main
concerns of the BGs.
2.52        Phasino.  In its first year of full operation, funding of income
generating activities will be restricted to Passore.  This would enable the
component to be run on a pilot basis (to test the volume of demand-driven project
proposals:  C ) extent and nature of assistance provided to NGOO and Village
Agsociati'o,) ktv staff of government agencies, and to monitor the performance)
before its exte;tsion to the province of Namentenga in the second year. Projects
proposals ir, soum and Gnagna would be considered only in the third year of
operation. Assurances were obtained durina neaotiations that Government and IDA
will review the Passore program after one year of operation and that
implementation problems identified will be corrected before program continuation
in Passore and expansion to other provinces (para 6.01a).
2.53        Funding would be provided for a Provincial Coordinator (in addition
to a specialist in accounting--para 2.12) for each of the four selected
provinces.   The coordinator would have overall responsibility for income
generating activities implemented in the province. Each coordinator would be
equipped with a motorized two-wheeler, and be provided with a fully-equipped
office space.   Staffing would be phased in accordance with expansion of
operations to the provinces. In addition, the project would finance: a baseline
survey of Passore to be comoleted before Droiect effectiveness; a mid-term survey
and a final survey of Passore. The surveys will be restricted to Passore for
reasons of economy and the fact that it is reasonably representative of the three
other provinces.
2.54        The HHFSU will, with IDA assistance, organize a project launching
workshop; a publicity campaign for the project component to explain the
objectives, target group, and conditions of support within one month of project
effectiveness. Under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF), the Government will
(a) prepare a Procedures Manual for NGO prequalification and operation under the
project (b) sign a contract with SPONG (para 1.44) to train a preselected group
of NGoo in project identification, preparation, presentation and maintenance of
project accounts. To accomplish this, SPONG would be provided with 6 months of



- 27 -
technical assistance for the preparation of the training program. Preparation
of the NGO Procedures Manual, acceptable to IDA, and MOAL's signature of a
contract with SPONG will be conditions of oroiect effectiveness (para 6.02b)
Nutrition IEC
2.55         Nutrition IEC would be a critical intervention to complement the
labor intensive works and income generating activities in the four selected
provinces.   The objective will be to bring about an improvement ot the
nutritional status of children in the target population, by changing behavioral
practices, in particulars child feeding (especially during the we&ning stage) and
spending habits for families.
2.56        Most of the solutions to nutrition problems are to be found at
community level. In order to increase community awareness of these problems, and
mobilize appropriate solutions, nutrition education must be established at that
level. The participatory communication method developed by GRAAP (an NGO based
in Bobo Dioulasso and already training Government and NGO staff in its method)
will be used. The weakness of this method is that trainees need to be properly
supervised because otherwise they tend to go back to their original "teaching"
approach. This weakness will be solved by assigning a full-time IEC specialist
to the HHFSU.   In addition to this inter-personal method of communication, a
multi-media approach will be used to reinforce the messages developed by the
communities and the extension workers.
2.57         The project would finance the following:
-   a Beneficiary Assessment in each province to identify the food and
nutrition concerns of the target population. The results would help to
orient the content of the nutrition education campaign by identifying the
themes and their wordings;
-   a multi-media nutrition education campaign involving development and
distribution of video films, theater plays, radio contests, exchange of
experiences between village associations, and printing of some messages
in support to the other communication channels;
-   an intensive inter-personal communication campaign using the GRAAP method
and delivered by extension workers at the village level from the
agriculture and NGO services;
-   a rapid assessment of training needs of agricultural extension agents
(currently responsible for women's activities) in each of the four
project provinces; this assessment would be done by a consultant in four
weeks;
-   the training of 150 agriculture extension workers and of 64 NGO extension
workers in GRAAP method (by INADES) with a focus on nutrition education,
followed by refresher sessions each year;
-   the development of inter-sectoral provincial communication plans through
workshops;
2.58        Nutrition education messaces to be transmitted at any point in time
will include only three of the following themes:
-   exclusive breastfeeding for four months and prolonged breastfeeding;
-   feeding an enriched porridge to infants starting at 4 months, in addition
to breastfeeding;
-   diarrhea treatment (salt solutions with continued frequency of feeding);



- 28 -
-   frequency of child feeding (4 meals/day for children aged 4 months to 5
years) and separate food preparation for children below the age of 2
years;
-   food preservation using appropriate technologies such as fermentation and
sun drying.
2.59        Comolementaritv with other nutrition education vroiects.   Health
center based--thus, limited in scope--nutrition education projects (such as
USAID's Nutricom project which intervenes in Gnagna) are already underway in each
selected province (see Annex VI). In order to ensure complementarity, the
following mechanisms will be put in place:
(i)      based on the results the Beneficiary Assessment, existing messages
(similar to the ones the present project will focus on) will be
reviewed, made more specific and adapted to types of coping
strategies identified with the target population; and
(ii)     a Provincial Communication Plan will be developed for each Province:
Passore (within six months of project effectiveness), Namentenga
(before the end year 1 of project implementation), and Gnagna and
Soum (before the end of year 2). This will ensure that the core
messages are standardized,  and complementary.   Assurances were
obtained from Government during negotiations, that the provincial
communications plans will be submitted for IDA review before they
are implemented (para 6.01b).



- 29 -
III.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A.   Costs
3.01      Total base project cost is estimated at CFAF 3001.3 million (US$ 11.0
million).   Base cost estimates reflect February 1991 prices.   Costs were
calculated net of all identifiable taxes and duties.  Physical contingencies
amounting to US$ 0.5 are estimated at 14% of civil works and 5% of other project
components; their total amounts to 4.8% of base cost.  Price contingencies
amounting to US$ 1.2, representing 11.1% of base costs and 9.4% of total costs,
are based on forecasts of international inflation for foreign goods and services
(3.7%) and estimated annual inflation in Burkina Faso for local costs (3%). The
breakdown of total project cost of US$ 12.8 million is as follows,
Summary of Project Cost Estimates'
%       9%Total
Local   Foreian  Total   Local Foreign  Total  Foreign   Base
Exchanae  Costs
---- (CFA million) -    ----(USS million)---
A. Institution Building         161.9   243.5   405.3    0.6    0.9    1.5         60.1     13.5
B. Early Warning System         117.2   205.2   322.4    0.4    0.8    1.2         63.7     10.7
C. Labor Intensive Works        713.1   480.2  1193.3    2.6    1.8    4.4         40.2     39.8
D. Income Gen. Activities       591.5   160.2   751.7    2.2    0.6    2.8         21.3     25.0
E. Nutrition IEC Campaign       180.0   103.9   284.0    0.6    0.4    1.0         36.6      9.5
F. Project Preparation (PPF)   18.9    25.7    44.6    0.1    0.1    0.2           57.6      1.5
Total BASELINE COSTS           1782.6  1218.7  3001.3    6.5    4.6   11.1         40.6    100.0
Physical Contingencies        95.3    50.2   145.5    0.3    0.2    0.5         34.5      4.8
Price Contingencies          203.6   128.8   332.4    0.7    0.5    1.2         38.7     11.1
Total PROJECT COSTS            2081.6  1397.7  3479.3    7.5    5.3   12.8         40.2    115.9
1. Net of identifiable taxes and duties. Totals may not add up due to rounding.
B.   Financina
3.02               The IDA credit of USS 7.5 million equivalent would represent
58.4% of total project costs net of identifiable taxes, and would be on staniAard
IDA terms with 40 years maturity. The Government of Burkina's contribution (US$
1.5 million equivalent) represents 11.5% of total project costs. Parallel co-
financing of about USS 3.8 million was identified during appraisal and will be
finalized with the Government of Germany, and the WFP. Additionally, the EC has
expressed strong interest in providing co-financing for the labor intensive works
component of the project. Should the EC contribution materialize, the scope of
the labor intensive works component could be expanded. Neither the financing
plan, nor the project costs include valuation of the in-kind labor to be provided
by the beneficiaries for execution of the income generating activities financed
under the household food security component of the project.  The tentative
financing plan is detailed below.



- 30 -
FINANCING PLAN
(in USS Million)               (Percent)
IDA                         7.5                       58.4
Germany                     2.7                       21.3
WFP                         1.1                        8.8
Government                  1.5                       11.5
Total                      12.8                      100.0
3.03               The IDA credit would finance 94.5% of the cost of setting up
the integrated early warning system, 33.3% of the institution building component,
42.7% of labor intensive works, 78.9% of income generating activities, and 56.3%
of the nutrition information,  education and communications campaign.   The
Government's financial contribution will be used to meet the salaries and office
space of project staff.  Government would also pay the salaries of most non-
contractual staff required by the project, roughly 60% of total project staff,
but this amount has not been included in cost estimates. WFP's contribution will
be in the form of food, while the Government of Germany will support the cash-
for-work complement. In addition, the German Government will provide technical
assistance and office equipment to the HHFSU and the Provincial Project Unit.
C.   Procurement
3.04               The table below summarizes the project elements and their
estimated costs and proposed method of procurement.
Summary of Provoeed Procurement Arrangements
(USs million equivalent)
Proiect Elements             ICB        LCB     Other    NIF    Total Costs
Allocations from a
Revolving Fund with
Cost Recovery                ---        ---      2.2'    ---          2.2
(2.2)               f2.2)
WORKS
1. Office Space            ---       ---      ---      0.1          0.1
2. Construction            ---       2.0      ---      2.3b         4.3
(2.0)                         (2.0)
GOODS
Supplies                  0.2                         0.1          0.3
(0.2)                                   (0.2)
Vehicles & Equipment      0.6       ---      ---      0.1c         0.7
(0.6)                                   (0.6)
CONSULTANTS & STUDIES
Studies                   ---       ---       0.2     0.2d         0.4
(0.2)               (0.2)
Technical Assistance      ---       ---       0.4     1.06         1.4
(0.4)               (0.4)
Training                  ---       ---       0.6     ---          0.6
(0.6)               (0.6)
MISCELLANEOUS
Increm. Op. Costs         ---       ---       1.1     1.5f         2.6
(1.1)               (1.1)
PPF Refinancing           ---       ---       0.2                  0.2
(0.2)               (0.2)
TOTAL                        0.8        2.0      4.7      5.3        12.8
Of which IDA                (0.8)      (2.0)    (4.7)                (7.51



- 31 -
Nktg: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the IDA
credit. NIF denotes Not IDA Financed.
a. The proceeds of project funding for household income generating activities may welt be used to purchase
some construction materiats. Where feasible, these purchases will be grouped and procured on the basis of
at least three price quotations. The main purchases to be made with the proceeds, however, witl consist of
small ruminants for fattening, equipment and suWplies (animal feed, sheanut presses, packaging materials,
etc) purchased in small quantities by beneficiaries of income generating activities. These will be procured
directly by the beneficiaries.
b. USS 1.1 million of this amount consists of WFP-suppLied food aid. The remainder (USS 1.2 million
equivalent) is the German contribution to the L1W component for the cash-for-work comptement.
c. Includes SUS 0.1 million equivatent of office equipment and supplies, co-financed in paralleL by
Germany; procured in accordance with GTZ regulations in conformity with para 1.4 of World Bank Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA credits, Washington D.C. (May 1985).
d. Inctudes SUS 0.2 million equivalent of studies (nutritionaL status, employment opportunities in the four
provinces) co-financed in parallel by Germany.
e. Includes SUS 1.0 million equivalent of technical assistance co-financed in paraltel by Germany; procured
in accordance with GTZ regutations.
f. Incrementat operating costs (USS 1.5) is Government financed.
3.05                Procurement  arrangements  for the project  are designed to
address the food security and poverty alleviation objectives.   All goods and
services financed under the IDA credit would be procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines.   Procurement  (except for procurement by beneficiaries of income
generating activities and for labor intensive works) would be handled by the
Central Accounting and Procurement Unit  (CAPU)  in the MOAL.   The Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) prepared by the Bank in 1990 indicated that
the laws and decrees governing the procurement procedures of Burkina were
acceptable to the Association.
3.06                Goods.  Goods estimated to cost over US$100,000 equivalent per
contract would be procured under International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines.   These consist of vehicles,
ecomputer equipment and software (US$ 0.6) and office furniture and supplies (US$
0.2 million).   The procurement packaging and bidding documents for contracts
estimated to cost over US$100,000 equivalent would be cleared with IDA before
tendering, and recommendations for contract awards would be submitted to IDA for
comments prior to award. The other contracts would be eubject to random ex-post
review by IDA after contract award. Local manufacturers would be allowed a 15%
margin of preference (on goods procured under ICB) or the applicable customs
duty, whichever is lower.
3.07                Civil Works.  The IDA-financed share of civil works (totalling
US$ 2.0 million) will be procured by FASO BAARA in its capacity as Executing
Agency for the labor intensive public works component (para 2.35). They will
consist of communal road building and maintenance; the construction of schools,
health posts and day care centers, wells or micro dams to provide potable or
irrigation water.    Payments  for unskilled  labor  (supplied by the village
communities) will be provided through parallel cofinancing (US$ 2.3 million) by
the WFP and Germany (food/cash-for-work).



- 32 -
3.08               The procurement procedures according to which FASO BAARA will
select projects and contractors, and award contracts are an important feature of
the project. These procedures were discussed during appraisal and assurances
were obtained from Government that agreements reached on them during negotiations
will be reflected in a Manual of Procedures (para 6.01c). FASO BAARA's current
Procedures Manual will serve as a model and will be modified to reflect the rural
focus, geographical scope, and the special procedures for the recruitment of
unskilled labor for the works. Based on its experience in managing a similar
food/cash-for-work program in Senegal, the Agence d'Execution des Travaux
d'Interet Public Contre le Sous-Emploi (AGETIP) will provide technical assistance
to FASO BAARA in designing the procurement arrangements and managing the works.
3.09               In summary, the Manual will require FASO BAARA to maintain a
roster of contractors eligible for LCB. Prior to effectiveness, FASO BAARA will
broadly advertize a call for anplications to initiate this roster. It will then
select an initial list of eligible contractors and engineering firms according
to procedures acceptable to IDA and spelled out in its Procedures Manual. When
applying for registration, the contractors will provide all the administrative
data regarding the firm and a list of references.  Applications will specify
categories of works for which the firm applies, references relative to the types
of works sought, and will indicate a willingness to undertake works in the four
selected provinces, using labor intensive technologies.   IDA will review and
approve this initial selection and satisfy itself that established procedures
have been followed. The oreaualification of eligible contractors and engineering
firms will be a condition of effectiveness (para 6.02c). The roster will stay
open during project execution so as to allow additional applications at any time.
3.10               The procurement procedure will include local advertisement
among eligible contractors from FASO BAARA's roster and in local newspapers. The
works will be widely dispersed over the four provinces, and the contracts
Involved will be relatively small (average value per contract is estimated at US$
15,000) thus unlikely to interest foreign and large local firms using modern
equipment.   These firms,  however,  will not be excluded from bidding for
contracts.  All contractors in the roster for the category of works and the
province concerned by the subproject will be invited to bid. The contract, which
will be written in simple language and will describe the scope and nature of the
works, proposes a reference price with straightforward explanations about its
calculation (unit prices and quantities). Contractors will be invited to bid by
way of discounts either on the total price or on the unit prices. Among the
eligible bidders, the winner will be selected on the basis of the proposed
discounts. FASO BAARA will use its current contract awarding committee, composed
of its Director General, Technical and Financial Directors who will have full
authority to select the winner. However, FASO BAARA will have to justify in
writing, in the minutes of the meeting, and in reference to explicit criteria
listed in the bidding documents, any decision not to select the lowest bidder.
The contract awarding commitcee will open the bids in public and the bidding
firma or their representatives can be present at that meeting.   Government
assurance were obtained during negotiations that the first LCB contract for works
will be submitted to IDA for clearance (para 6.01d).
3.11               Allocations  from  a Revolvina  Fund  for  Household  Income
Generating Activities.   Beneficiaries of assistance for income generating
activities will be directly responsible for procurement with the proceeds of the
fund (total US$ 2.7; million over the project's lifetime).   In general ftinds
provided will be very small (on average USS 5,500 per group, or US$185 per
individual). The main purchases to be made with the proceeds will consist of
small ruminants for fattening, equipment and supplies (animal feed, sheanut
presses, packaging materials, etc) purchased in small quantities. These will be
purchased on the basis of local shopping. It is possible, however, that some of
the proceeds of project funding for household income generating activities may
well be used to purchase some construction materials.  Where feasible, these



- 33 -
purchases will be grouped and procured by the Provincial Project Coordinator on
the basis of at least three price quotations.
3.12               Consultants and Studies.  The IDA credit would finance about
4 consultant contracts, research, Btudies, and training totalling USS 1.15
million. All. consultants financed by the IDA credit (for a total of US$ 0.4
million) would be hired in accordance with IDA's guidelines on the employment of
consultants. Research would be procured on the basis of proposals judged to be
within the research priority areas established by the CCI (para 1.31).   Co-
financed consultants and technical assistants (primarily USS 1 million by
Germany) will be procured on the basis of the procedures of the cofinancing
agency. However, they will be expected to have specific terms of reference with
verifiable goals to be achieved, in the same way as those financed by IDA.
D.   Disbursements
3.13               The IDA credit would be disbursed over a six year period.  The
credit closing date will be December 31, 1988.   Projected disbursements by
semester is presented in Annex XI and is summarized below:
Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Year:     FY93      FY94     PY95    FY96    FY97   FY98
Annual                    1.2       0.8      1.0      1.6     1.4    1.5
Cumulative                1.2       2.0      3.0      4.6     6.0    7.5
3.14               The IDA credit would be disbursed on the basis of categories
shown below:
Categorv of Expenditure    IDA Allocation    Percentage of Expenditures
(USS Million      to be financed
Civil Works                     1.7                100%
Vehicles, equipment &
Supplies                     0.7                100%  of foreign expenditure
Consultants & Studies           0.5                100%
Training                        0.5                100%
Incremental Operating
Costs                        1.0                100%  of  cost  of  surveyors
(1993)  and  additional
staff for EWS Unit
Allocations from a
Revolving Fund with
Cost Recovery                   2.0                100%  up to 80% of estimated
subproject costs
Project Preparation (PPF)       0.2                100%
Unallocated                     0.9
TOTAL                           7.5



- 34 -
3.15               Disbursement would be fully documented except for incremental
operating costs (1.0 million) and contracts valued at less than USS 20,000
equivalent.    IDA-financed incremental operating costs is concentrated in the
first year of implementation and a sizable portion (75%) represents the cost of
hiring 560 surveyors to conduct the National Survey of Agricultural Statistics
(NSAS). Thene will be against statements of expenditures (SOEs) and certified
by CAPU and the head of the HHFSU. Full documentation would be retained for
inspection in the course of normal project supervision and by independent
auditors.
3.16               Due to the nature of the project decentralization of decision-
making is essential. To facilitate project implementation and ensure that funds
are available when needed, the Government will open a Special Account, operated
by CAPU in a commercial bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. IDA would make an initial deposit of US$ 400,000 into the Special
Account representing about four months' expenditures. The account would be used
to finance local and foreign costs of eligible expenditures financed by IDA.
3.17               CAPU will also initiate the establishment at provincial banks
(in line with the phasing of the project) of four Second Generation Special
Accounts (SGSAs) for USS 50,000 each. The provincial project coordinators will
administer these funds, obtain the necessary documentation justifying incurred
expenditures, and will seek replenishment of their SGSAs.   Similarly, CAPU will
establish an account to be administered by FASO BAARA for an amount of US$
100,000.   Following this, CAPU will prepare the replenishment request of the
Special Account.   IDA will replenish the Special Account upon receipt of
satisfactory proof of incurred expenditures and evidence that such expenditures
were eligible for financing out of the Special Account.   Up-to-date bank
statements and reconciliation of the Special Account would accompany
replenishment requests.



- 35 -
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Oraanization and Management
Proiect oraanization
4.01              The administrative set-up of the project takes into account the
decentralized nature of Burkina's administration; the need to ensure effective
grassroots participation in identification, preparation, and implementation of
field activities; and the nature and tasks of participating institutions (NGOs,
Village Associations, provincial administration, and the central services of the
MOAL). A brief description of the three different administrative levels will
clarify how the project is to be managed.
4.02              At Villaae Level. Prior to iroiect effectiveness, a oublicitv
camnaign will be launched by the MOAL in the four ;rovinces to inform villagers
of the objectives of the project and the opportunities it provides for labor
intensive public works, women's income generating activities and nutrition
education. Villages interested in participating in these activities would then
establish Village Associations (VA)--where there are none--and the more
restricted women's village group (or Beneficiary Group--BG) averaging 30 members.
The VA and the BG will be the primary units to which assistance would be provided
for labor intensive works and household income generating activities. The BG
would select a management committee which will represent the group at meetings
and consultations held outside the village. Both the VA and the BG would be
assisted by local NGOO active in the four provinces and which will be preselected
and trained in subproject identification, preparation, presentation, and
accounting; and nutrition education.
4.03              At Provincial level. The MOAL has a network of technicians and
extension agents based at regional, provincial and zone levels in the CRPAs (para
1.37). Within each CRPA, there is a unit which focuses exclusively on women.
There is an extension agent for every eight to ten villages. Additionally, one
of the four pilot provinces, Gnagna, has a Provincial Terroir Management Unit
(para 1.49) under the direction of the MOAL. Key staff of these units would be
designated for (a) training as focal points for nutrition education, and (b)
providing assistance to local NGOO and BGs in preparing project dossiers, and in
monitoring the implementation of income generating activities.   A full-time
provincial project coordinator would be posted in each of the four provinces.
The coordinator's main role would be coordinating extension services to VAs and
BGs as needed, vetting subprojects proposals, and managing the provincial project
budget. The provincial coordinator would also monitor project implementation in
the province, act as liaison between beneficiaries and CAPU, and periodically
review procedures to identify bottlenecks in project preparation and
implementation.   The provincial coordinator will be assisted by a subprojects
selection committee composed of (i) three to four representatives of NGOs or
Village Associations; and (ii) an independent member from the province selected
by the coordinator in consultation with provincial authorities.
4.04              The provincial coordinator,  the selection committee,  and
provincial officials (which would include the high commissioner, and
representatives from the agricultural extension services) would constitute the
Provincial Project Unit. This is the unit with which PASO BAARA will liaise to
ensure subprojects proposed for execution under the labor intensive works
component (a) fall within provincial priorities and will be adequately maintained
and operated, and (b) criteria for subproject selection are equivalent to those
used for project selection in the PIP.



- 36 -
4.05              At National Level. The MOAL would have overall responsibility
for project implementation.   Rather than using an especially established
implementation unit, the project has been designed to be implemented through the
management structure of the MOAL, though a full-time Project Coordinator (the
head of the HHFSU), responsible to the Minister, would be appointed.   The
Government has prepared draft decrees for the creation of the CNCPC, and its
Permanent Secretariat (Annex VIII).   These were discussed and agreed on at
negotiations (para 6.01e). Promulgation of the decrees, and effective staffing
of the Secretariat of the CNCPC and the HHFSU would be a condition of
effectiveness (para 6.02d).
4.06              The head of the HHFSU -ould: supervise the work of the
provincial coordinators (para 2.53); and coordinate actions carried out by the
MOAL field staff in connection with the proposed project and the local NGOs and
Village Associations. Appointment of a provincial coordinator and the setting
up of a Ptovincial Project Unit in Passore will be a condition of effectiveness
of the project  (para 6.02e).   Simile -ly, provincial coordinators will be
appointed and Provincial Project Units   t up for Namentenga, Gnagna and Soum
according to Implementation Schedule in Annex XII.
B.   Imolementation of Proiect Components
Integrated EWS.
4.07              The DEP of the MOAL will have the overall responsibility for
the establishing the integrated EWS and the conduct of the NSAS. The Director
of the DEP will supervise the activities of the EWS Unit which would be located
within the  Service de Statistiques Agricoles  (SSA).    Under the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF), the DEP, in consultation with IDA, will prepare (a)
the TORs for short-term consultants to provide technical assistance in
establishing the EWS Unit and to proceed with their recruitment (b) the TORe of
higher level staff of the EWS Unit and proceed with the transfer and recruitment
of staff (para 2.22) with qualifications acceptable to IDA.  Recruitment of
technical Aasistants- and- staf f ina of the EWS Unit would be a condition of 1proiect
effectiveness (para 6.02f).
4.08              The detailed work program of the EWS Unit calls for (1) during
the first six months of project implementation, developing an analytical model
for famine vulnerability assessment with assistance of FEWS and short-term
technical assistance, (2) within 9 months of effectiveness, organizing and
holding a workshop (para 2.22) for defining the integrated EWS and preparing a
plan for its implementation and (3) at year 1 of project effectiveness starting
the production of monthly EWS bulletins. A second workshop would be held in year
4 of the project to review and improve the analytical framework of the EWS. IDA
obtained Government assurances durina negotiations that quarterly progress
reports on the activities of the EWS Unit will be provided to IDA (para 6.01f).
These reports, will highlight progress towards meeting the performance
benchmarks, major issues that need resolution, and action plans for resolving
them. The mid-term project review (para 4.26, 6.01m) will focus on a qualitative
assessment of the EWS: effectiveness of the system in predicting emergencies.
4.09              The DEP will also have the responsibility to conduct the NSAS.
The DEP would designate a project manager, in charge of the administrative and
technical aspects of the survey, and an accountant. Through the annual permanent
survey, the DEP has already built up a team of qualified surveyors and survey
controllers. This team will supervise the NSAS. IDA-financed personnel will be
recruited by the CRPAs and trained by INSD.  The DEP is familiar with the
procedures required for large surveys, having recently conducted a National
Livestock Survey with DIAPER eupport. IDA obtained Government assurances during
negotiatione that the first quarterly progress report will include details on
progress in recruitment and training of the 560 surveyors (para 6.01g).



- 37 -
4.10              The HHFSU will be responsible for ensuring the interface
between the EWS and Emergency Preparedness (EP). The head of the HHFSU will
coordinate with the Director of the DEP, to ensure that information delivery
matches information needs and that data generated is made available to the CNCPC-
-responsible for mobilization of emergency assistance--and all key donors in a
timely manner.
Labor Intensive (Food/Cash-for-Work) Program.
4.11              The Government will contract FASO BAARA as the Executing Agency
(the Agency) for this component (para 2.35). The Agency will operate on the
basis of a Procedures Manual prepared for this purpose. Prior to effectiveness,
the Aaencv will submit for IDA's apDroval a core list of suboroiects and an
exvanded inventory of potential works in each Drovince (para 6.02g). The Agency
will provide similar lists for each subsequent year no later than October 15, of
the preceding calendar year.   Subprojects in the core list will not exceed
projected component budget for the year (Annex VII). However, the Agency may
proceed, with IDA's and other donors' approval, to execute some of the
subprojects in the expanded inventory should drought conditions justify it and
provided additional funding is mobilized.
4.12              The Agency will liaise with the Provincial Project Unit in
subproject identification (para 4.04) and with the MOAL's Secretariat of the WFP
which will be responsible for ensuring the timely delivery of food aid for the
works.
Household Income Generatina Activities
4.13              Details on the institutional arrangements for micro-project
identification, selection, implementation, and supervision--worked out during
appraisal by a working group composed of NGOs, government officials and IDA--are
presented in Annex IV.  In summary, a group of NGOs active in the provinces will
be preselected and trained the under the project. Pre-selection of local NGOs
will be done by the Provincial Project Unit (para 4.04) in consultation with IDA,
based on qualification criteria. Pre-selection of local NGOs by the Provincial
Project Unit of Passore in consultation with IDA will be a condition of
effectiveness (para 6.02h).    Similarly, local NGOs will be pre-selected in
Namentenga before the end of year 1 of project implementation, and before the end
of project year 2 in Gnagna and Soum were obtained during negotiations. These
pre-selected NGOs will be trained by SPONG (see para 2.54) and will mobilize the
poorest households in the villages, assist them in forming BGs and setting up a
group management committee, identifying promising income generating activities,
and preparing funding requests. These requests would then be forwarded to the
provincial coordinator. If approved, the NGOs (as the sponsoring agencies) will
continue to provide overall implementation assistance to the BGs including
coordinating with the Union des Cooperatives d'Epargne et de Cr6dit Burkinabe
(UCECB)--a savings and loans cooperative union--to assist beneficiaries in
setting up a savings and loans cooperative, and the agricultural extension staff
for nutrition education (para 2.57).  A contract signed between the three
parties: NGO, BG, and the provincial project unit will clearly specify the
respective rights and obligations of each party.
4.14              The advantage of using local NGOs and Village Associations
derives from their capacity to channel resources directly to the grassroots
population with minimal administrative and overhead costs. The NGOs and Village
Associations have a demonstrAted ability to mobilize communities quickly and



- 38 -
implement projects with a fraction of the time needed by government agencies.
As a result of their experience in Burkina, they are able to replicate and share
successful projects with local groups. Their small size and flexibility also
permit them to evaluate their interventions at short intervals and to reorient
programs to ensure their success. The administrative costs (payable over two
years, with the tota? amount not to exceed 14% of the initial investment cost of
a subproject: the rata NGOs currently receive for management of other development
funds) would be negotiated between the MOAL and SPONG and will be reflected in
an NGOs Proceduree Manual (para 2.54). These costs will be paid directly by the
Provincial Coordinator, subject to adequate performance on the basis of pre-
established criteria reflected in this Manual.
4.15              Selection  of  subprojects  for  funding  would  be  the
responsibility of the selection committee (para 4.03).   The use of an NGO-
dominated selection committee is to enable the proposed project to benefit from
the project-vetting experience (and knowledge of the capabilities of local NGOs
and village Associations) gained by members of similar committees through the
administration of similar funds (Para 1.47).  Furthermore, the use of such a
committee would lead to greater transparency in selection.
4.16              Procedures for ReconstitutinQ Funds for Household Income
Generatina Activities. With the assistance of the sponsoring NGO, the BG would
establish a savings and loan cooperative (COPEC) in which the sponsoring NGO, the
BG, as well as each individual beneficiary would have an account. Repayments by
the BG or individual beneficiaries would be deposited in the sponsor's account.
The precise schedule on monthly repayments will be determined by the BG in
consultation with the sponsoring NGO. Repayment period would vary depending on
the nature of activity but would not exceed 24 calendar months. Transactions on
the account of the sponsor would require two signatures from the sponsor and the
project coordinator at the provincial level.   Once all repayments for the
previously financed subproject are made, the sponsoring NGO will immediately
transfer the full amount (including accumulated interest) to the provincial
coordinator, who will deposit these funds into a provincial "Food Security and
Nutrition Fund".
4.17                The provincial Food Security and Nutrition Fund--into which
repaid funds and other donor assistance would be deposited--would be another
source for providing assietance to another or the same BG. The same BG, if it
wishes, may submit an applLcation for further support either to rehabilitate,
replace machinery and other fixed assets, expand the initial subproject, or for
a different line of activity. However, a limit of four years will be olaced on
suloort to the same BG. In case funds are not repaid, no further financing will
be provided to the group, and the sponsoring NGO will be disqualified from
participation in the project.   Equipment and machinery financed under this
component would be repossessed and group assets seized. Government acreement on
these terms were obtained at negotiations (para 6.01h).
4.18              Nutrition Education.  A contract would be signed between the
provincial project unit (representing the HHFSU) and INADES or a similar training
NGO such as CESAO or GRAAP (para 1.35).  INADES already collaborates in the
training of trainers for the MOAL.   The Provincial Project Unit (and the
provincial project coordinator, specifically) would ensure the coordination of
the nutrition education campaign in its province, and its supervision. Each
Provincial Project Unit will identify an individual to act as focal point
specifically for the nutrition education sub-component. In addition, one of the
staff of the HHFSU at the central level would be designated as the IEC
coordinator. Government assurances were obtained during negotiations that as
soon as Provincial Project Units are set up, a contract would be signed between
these units and INADES or a similar NGO to train agricultural extension staff and
prequalified NGOs in nutrition education (para 6.01i).



- 39 -
4.19               Communities will be mobilized through the information campaign
which will be carried out in each province by the MOAL, before the effectiveness
of household income generating activities component.   During this campaign,
communities will be made aware of the objectives of the project, which include
improved nutritional status.   Communities will also be mobilized when they
discuss, accept and sign the contract with the sponsoring NCO and the provincial
project unit (para 4.13) for funding income generating activities.   In this
contract, the community musts agree to mobilize the village population to
participate in the nutrition education sessions, and agree to have their
children's growth regularly monitored.
4.20               Baseline Survey. CEDRES, of the University of Ouagadougou, was
identified at appraisal as the best placed institution to carry out this baseline
survey (para 2.53), and Government sionature of a contract with CEDRES to carry
out the survey would be a condition of effectiveness of the vrooosed oroiect
(para 6.02i).
C.   Proiect Monitorina and ReDorting
4.21               Monitoring.     The  head  of  the  HHFSU  would  have  the
responsibility for project monitoring. Technical assistance to be provided to
the HHFSU will help in establishing a monitoring system which should be
operational within three months of project effectiveness. Careful monitoring and
evaluation of the implementation of the component on women's income generating
activities in the project's first year is crucial as a decision to extend this
component to a second pilot province would be based on the results of the
evaluation. A project evaluation will be carried out at the end of the first
year of implementation.
4.22               Process  indicators.  For each project component,  specific
indicators will be developed to identify potential bottlenecks in the
implementation. Monitoring indicators will be categorized as follows: indicators
of availability of services, of acceosibility to services, of quality of
services, of utilization of services by the target group, of coverage of the
target group, and of satisfaction by the target group. Some of this data will
be collected through supervision missions undertaken by the provincial and
central project units. A preliminary list of key project (process and impact)
indicators is attached as Annex IX. These were discussed and broad acreement
reached on them at neaotiations (para 6.01j).
4.23               Imoact of the project on beneficiary groups will be assessed
with respect to income, nutritional status, household coping mechanism, and the
sustainability of activities to provide a divereified sources of income to
women's groupe.  The head of the HHFSU will, therefore, ensure that: socio-
economic data and the nutritional status of benefic4.ary households are regularly
collected.   The success rate of BGs in reconstituting funding for income
generating activities will provide an indicator of project suatainability.
Unlike the success rate of BGs in reconstituting project funding, it is difficult
to isolate the impact of the project from other factors that influence income,
nutritional etatus, and changes in household coping mechanisms. The Baseline
Survey, the Mid-Term Survey, and a Final Survey at project completion should
provide a basis for impact evaluation: the scope of the baseline survey has been
designed to increase the probability that there will be villages covered in the
surveys but which will not benefit from project support, and could thus serve as
a "control group".   Furthermore, the initial Beneficiary Assessments in each
province would provided quantifiable indices of nutritional status of children.
This would permit the setting of precise nutritional objectives for the project
during the first year of implementation.



- 40 -
4.24              Quarterly progress reports covering, staffing, training and
retraining, procurement, technical assistance, implementation of IEC training
activities, research, project expenditures, the performance of information
gathering and analysis units, and monitoring and evaluation activities would be
provided to IDA.   These reports would also highlight major issues needing
resolution and shall not overlap with other reporting requirements (budget, work
program, etc). The reports would be approved by the CNCPC (para 1.40) before
submission to the Bank. Government assurances were obtained durina neootiationS
to this effect (para 6.01k).
4.25              Sunervisi2n.  Project supervision would be based on Technical
and Annual Review Missions and in close collaboration with co-financiers. Review
missions are planned twice yearly. The first mission, in February or March of
each year, would be the Technical Review and the second mission, in August or
September, would be the Annual Review. The reviews would focus on those broad
technical and policy issues of greatest concern at the time as highlighted by the
reports of the head of the HHFSU.  In addition to these regularly scheduled
review missions, the project component on women's income generating activities,
due to its pilot nature, would be subject to intensive supervision during the
first year of implementation. Annex X provides a detailed supervision schedule.
Assurances were obtained at necotiations, that during the September mission, a
review of the previous year's work program will be undertaken and agreement on
the following year's work pro,gram and budget will be reached (para 6.011).
4.26              Mid-Term Review.   The mid-term project  review would be
conducted during the second half of 1995 by the Government and all financiers of
the project. The review will focus on, but not be limited to, the management and
impact of all components supported by this project, including procurement
procedures and performance by FASO BAARA, performance of Technical Assistance
(TA) particularly its impact on institution building, and selected NGOs of their
respective obligations. Assurances were obtained durina negotiations, that the
mid-term review would be undertaken no later than September, 1995 and that its
operational conclusions would be promptly implemented (para 6.01m).
D.    Accounts and Audit
4.27              Financial  management  and  project  accounts  will  be  the
responsibility of the Central Accounting and Procurement Unit (CAPU) of the MOAL.
CAPU has been strengthened by a previous IDA-assisted project (Agricultural
Support Services Cr. 1979-BUR), and this operation will provide an additional
accountant and four assistants (para 2.12), who will be trained and equipped.
Given the complex nature of the project, an accounting procedures manual will be
established with Technical Assistance (under the PPF) and the involvement of
selected auditors. A condition of effectiveness would be that the accounting and
financial management system of the project would be in place (para 6.02j).
4.28              Siecial Account and Second Generation Soecial Accounts (SGSAsl.
Immediately after credit effectiveness, IDA would make an initial deposit of US$
400,000 in the Special account, representing about four months' expenditures.
Paralleling the phasing of the project, SSGAs would be opened for each of the
four provincest Passore (first year), Namentenga (second year), Gnagna and Soum
(third year) with an initial deposit of US$ 50,000 each, drawn from the Special
Account.   These SSGAs would be operated under the responsibility of the
provincial project coordinator, assisted by the accountant recruited by the
project. FASO BAARA would similarly open a special project sub-account in year
1 of project effectiveness which would be provided with an initial deposit of US$
100,000.  Replenishment from the Special Account would be effected by CAPU upon
receipt of all document expenses as approved by the respective provincial
coordinators and the Director of FASO BAARA. The Special Account, the SGSAs and
FASO BAARA'o sub-account will be audited annually.



- 41 -
4.29              Disbursement  Procedure  for  Household  Income  Generatina
Activities.  This would be based on an agreement to be concluded between the
beneficiary group, represented by its management committee (para 2.48), the
sponsoring NGO, and the Provincial Project Unit (para 4.04) represented by the
provincial project coordinator.  This agreement would indicate the different
expenditures incurred by implementation of the activity; detailed budget and
corresponding financing scheme indicating the respective contribution of the
beneficiary group and the project funds. The agreement would also indicate the
disbursement rate necessary to launch the activity as well as the conditions for
reconstitution of funds.   It would show clearly the beneficiary group's
contribution which should be equal to or above 20% of the total activity budget.
4.30              Once this agreement is signed by the three partners procurement
of works, goods and services of a significantly large size (USS 2,000 minimum)
will be identified. These will be procured on the basis of a minimum of three
quotations from suppliers, and the provincial project coordinator will issue
payments based upon contracts, invoices and other supporting documents.  Any
other disbursements would be checked against that agreement and effi ted on the
basis  of  SOEs  and/or  supporting documents.    The  agreement,   .th their
corresponding SOEs and supporting documents, would be compiled and sent to CAPU
by each provincial project coordinator. A report on the SGSAs and the status of
contract disbursements with corresponding SOEs and supporting documentu would be
sent every quarter by each of the four provincial project coordinators to the
head of HHFSU.
4.31              Assurances were obtained durina negotiations that CAPU would
prepare and maintain in accordance with sound and generally accepted accounting
principles and practices acceptable to IDA: (a) consolidated project accounts
permitting identification of all receipts and payments under the project; (b)
financial statements, including sources and uses of funds (para 6.01n). Further
assurances were obtained from Government durinQ negotiations that these accounts
will be audited every year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
according to terms of reference agreed by the Bank.   Auditors will express
separate opinions on the Special Accounts and a separate audit and opinion on the
records and accounts used to support disbursement against Statement of
Expenditures. Project accounts and auditor's reports will be submitted to the
Bank within six months of the close of each year  (para 6.01o).   During
necotiations. agreement was reached on the draft terms of reference for the
auditors (para 6.01p). A condition of effectiveness will be the appointment of
an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank under an annually renewable
contract (para 6.02k).
Environmental Impact
4.32              The overall environmental impact of the project is expected to
be neutral to positive. The environmental category is C. Components such as the
integrated early warning system and the food security institution building will
increase the information available to the Government on drought-prone provinces,
and could potentially be beneficial to the environment.    Public works to be
financed under the project will be small and scattered and their impact on the
environment is expected to be marginal.  However, to eliminate risks to the
environment, the environmental evaluation criteria developed under the Burkina
Faso National Environmental Action Plan--NEAP (para 2.26 and Annex I) will be
applied in the evaluation of all activities of the labor intensive program.



- 42 -
V.   BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
5.01              The proposed  operation would  improve  food  security  and
nutrition in about 17,600 poor rural households in four of the most vulnerable
provinces.   By increasing and diversifying their sources of income (micro-
enterprises, food/cash-for-work programs) their food security will be improved.
Through the project, the dependence of these households on crop production in
drought-prone provinces will be considerably reduced.   Nutrition education
activities supported by the project should also significantly contribute to
behavioral change and adoption of better child-feeding practices and subsequent
nutritional improvement of children below age 3. An additional benefit of the
food/cash-for-work program is the provision of growth and development-oriented
infrastructure to the poor communities.
5.02              The proposed project will contribute to capacity building of
both Government and NGOs. Through assistance provided in part by the proposed
project, the Government, for the first time, will establish a national focal
point (the Secretariat of the CNCPC) for food security issues. Moreover, the
Household Food Security Unit will enable the Government to design, implement, and
monitor programs to improve the food security and nutritional status of the most
disadvantaged groups.
5.03              Furthermore, the capacity of the Government to deal with
emergencies (Emergency Preparedness) will be significantly strengthened through
support to the establishment of an integrated early warning system. The capacity
of NGOs will be improved through support to SPONG and BSONG, and direct training
to presslected local NGOs. Research on food security by institutions based in
Burkina Faso would complement this capacity building.   Finally,  improved
collaboration between NGOs and the Government in promoting community-based
development would be an additional benefit because it will ensure that programs
reach the most vulnerable households.
Risks
5.04              The main risk of this operation is delay in implementation due
to the newness of the Permanent Secretariat as an administrative structure. This
risk is mitigated by the fact that the proposal to create the Secretariat was the
result of a long preparatory phase and has strong Government commitment
endorsement by the Government. The phasing of income generating activities,
building on the established experience of FASO BAARA, and intensive project
supervision and annual program and budget reviews should also reduce this risk.
Furthermore, within the current context of Burkina, there is a lot that the
proposed project can build on. First, as a result of work done on the "Cereals
Plan" and the Bank's economic and sector work on food security, the dimensions
and causes of the food insecurity problem are much better known. Second, rural
communities are much better organized--there is hardly a village in Burkina which
does not have a village association of some sort--and local initiativas to deal
with environmental degradation are widespread. Third, NGOs are very active in
Burkina and have acquired considerable experience providing assistance to village
communities and managing resources which are channeled through them by the donor
community.



- 43 -
VI.   AGREEMENTS. ASSURANCES AND I *MENDATIONS
6.01               During negotiations, the follow_ng agreements were reached
and/or assurances obtained:
(a)      Government and IDA will review the Passore program after one year of
operation and that implementation problems identified will be
corrected before program continuation in Passore and expansion to
other provinces (para 2.52);
(b)      the provincial communications plans will be submitted for IDA review
before they are implemented (para 2.59);
(C)      agreements reached on procurement procedures according to which FASO
BAARA will select projects and contractors, and award contracts will
be reflected in a Manual of Procedures (para 3.09);
(d)      the first LCB contract for works signed by FASO BAARA will be
cleared by IDA (para 3.10);
(e)      draft decrees for the creation of the CNCPC and its Permanent
Secretariat (para 4.05);
(f)      quarterly progress reports on the activities of the EWS Unit will be
provided to IDA (para 4.08);
(g)      the first quarterly progress report of the EWS Unit will include
details on progress in recruitment and training of the 560 surveyors
(para 4.09)
(h)      terms for providing funding for income generating activities, and
Government assurances that repaid funds will be rotated to similar
or the same beneficiary group (para 4.17);
(i)      as soon as Provincial Project Units are set up, a contract will be
signed between these units and INADES or a similar NGO to train
agricultural extension staff and prequalified NGOs in nutrition
education (para 4.18).
(j)      key project indicators (para 4.22);
(k)      quarterly  progress  reports  covering,  staffing,  training  and
retraining, procurement, technical assistance, implementation of IEC
training activities, research, project expenditures, the performance
of information gathering and analysis units, and monitoring and
evaluation activities will be regularly provided to IDA (para 4.24);
(1)      during the September Review Mission, a review of the previous year's
work program will be undertaken and agreement on the following
year's work program and budget will be reached (para 4.25);
(m)      the mid-term review will be undertaken no later than September 30,
1995 and that its operational conclusions will be promptly
implemented (para 4.26);
(n)      CAPU will  prepare  and maintain  in accordance with  sound and
generally accepted accounting principles and practices acceptable to
IDA (para 4.31);
(0)      audits of project accounts by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank will be made available to the Bank within six months of the
close of each fiscal year (para 4.31);



- 44 -
(p)      the termo of reference for project auditors (para 4.31);
6.02              The following actions will be taken prior to the effectiveness
of:
(a)      Finalization of a detailed Procedures Manual acceptable to IDA and
Government signature of a project management contract with FASO
BAARA (para 2.35);
(b)      Preparation of the NGO Procedures Manual, acceptable to IDA, and
signature of a contract with SPONG (para 2.54);
(c)      The  effective  prequalification  of  eligible  contractors  and
engineering firms by FASO BAARA (para 3.10);
(d)      Promulgation  of  the  decrees,  and  effective  staffing  of  the
Secretariat of the CNCPC and the HHFSU (para 4.05);
(e)      Appointment of a provincial coordinator and the setting up of a
Provincial Project Unit for Passore (para 4.06);
(f)      Recruitment of technical assistants and staffing of the EWS Unit
(para 4.07);
(g)      Submission by FASO BAARA of a core list of subprojects and an
expanded inventory of potential works in each province for IDA's
approval (para 4.11);
(h)      Pre-selection of local NGOs by the Provincial Project Unit of
Passore in consultation with IDA (para 4.13);
(ii      Government signature of a contract with CEDRES to carry out a
baseline survey of Passore and completion of the survey (para 4.20);
j)       The setting up of an accounting and financial management system
acceptable to IDA (para 4.27);
(k)      Appointment of independent auditors acceptable to IDA (para 4.31).
6.03              Recommendation. With the above assurances and conditions, the
project would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 5.5 million (US$ 7.5 million
equivalent).



- 45 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7 pages
BURKINA FAS8
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Nodiu - to Lona-Term Prosoects for Economic Growth
1.        Although Burkina's economy (and specifically the agricultural sector)
performed better in the 1980s than many countries in the region, and certainly
much better than in the previous decade, it remains a poor economy, with signs
of weaknesses and possibly deteriorating trends. Thus, while between 1982 and
1990, GDP growth (3.7% p.a.) slightly outstripped the very high population growth
rate (3.3% p.a.), the average growth rate masks two distinct periods: between
1980 and 1988 the economy enjoyed relatively rapid growth (average annual growth
rate of 5.5%) mainly fuelled by strong performance in agriculture (6.4% annual
growth), expansion in public consumption, and a construction boom driven by the
public investment program.  During the last two years, however, economic growth
fell significantly: -0.4% in 1989 and 1.3% in 1990. This slow down was to a
large extent due to negative growth in the agricultural sector (see Table 2),
caused inter alia by inadequate rainfalls.   However, past policy distortions
which  tended  to  dampen  the  incentives  for  production  and marketing  of
agricultural products, and the degradation of natural resources also greatly
contributed to the reduced agricultural growth rate. Indeed, it is astimated
that each year, the cereal, livestock, and fuelwood production foregone because
of soil and biomass degradation is about 5% of GDP. Reduced production entails
less food supplies as well as less income to households to purchase food.
2.        The fall in economic growth in 1989 and 1990, growing internal and
external arrears, and an increa,tsingly strained budgetary situation suggest that
the basis for the expansion of the 1980s was, to a large extent, unsustainable.
First, as pointed out above, the high growth of agriculture was due in part to
good weather and to the bringing of new land, recently freed from onchocerciasis,
under cultivation. Further, the agricultural growth "was largely based on the
mining of the natural resource endowment"1 especially in the Sahel and the
Central Plateau as the growth was achieved through more extensive land use,
shortened fallow periods, etc. Second, the expansion of public consumption could
not continue in the face of stagnant revenue performance and growing budgetary
arrears. Third, because the overall efficiency of investment undertaken during
the latter half of the 1980e was very low, as reflected in an ICOR of 7.3 in
1985-90, only modest benefits from past high investment spending were secured.
3.             The Government, within the context of SAL I, has taken vigorous
steps to address the precarious eiconomic and financial situation.   Policy
distortions in agriculture are also being removed through the agricultural sector
adjustment program. The other factors that threaten tihe long-term sustainability
of Burkina's development efforts--rapid population growth, a low level of human
resource development and a deteriorating natural resource base--are also being
addressed by the Government (para 1.61). However, most of these constraints to
development are not amenable to rapid change in the medium term: improved soil,
water, and biomass resource management, agricultural research, and improvements
in the quality and responsiveness of extension services can affect agricultural
output only gradually; reduction of population growth can only occur in the
longer term if the Government's population policy is effectively implemented;
only gradual progress can be made in increasing human capital, and hence labor
productivity of the working population.   Further,  the economy  is highly
'See Burkina Paso: Economic Issues in Renewable Natuml Resource Manarement, Agriculture Oprations, Sahel
Department, Africa Region, March 30, 1990.



- 46 -
Page 2 of 7 pages
vulnerable to drought and to economic conditions in C6te d'Ivoire and Ghana
because of the importance of workers' remittances.
4.             A Policy Framework Paper (PFP) was drafted by the Government in
late 1989, and included, in particular, an initial definition of the reform
packages which would form the basis for programs supported by Bank adjustment
operations.    The  authorities  have  assumed  much  of  the  initiative  and
responsibility for the formulation of the reform program.  Significantly, the
structural adjustment program was the subject of public debate at meetings in
mid-1990, to which all political and economic groups were invited. Because of
the extensive consensus-building which the authorities chose to undertake,
negotiations on the PFP were concluded only in December 1990.
5.             The overriding objectives of the first-year PFP, considered by the
Bank Board meeting as the Committee of the Whole in early 1991, are to raise the
standard of living of the population through broad-based employment and income
growth and to lay the foundation for sustainable economic and social development.
The Government is aiming for economic growth of about 4 percent per annum while
strengthening public finances and the balance of payments. The Government has
adopted an appropriate fiscal policy stance the aim of which is to contain public
consumption so as to promote public and private savings and foster private
initiative and investment. At the same time, it will increase revenues through
improved collection performance and expanded tax coverage. The program aimed at
a settlement of all external arrears in 1991, largely with debt-forgiveness and
rescheduling on Toronto terms, and a resolution of internal arrears by 1993.
Given Burkina Faso's exchange rate arrangement, containing domestic inflation
will be essential for improved international competitiveness and better growth
prospects in the long term. Because of the tight fiscal position, the Government
is pursuing a prudent external debt management policy: it will contract or
guarantee only concessional loans, with the exception of short-term trade credits
and loans arising from Paris Club rescheduling.
6.              Starting  in 1990 the Government made good progress on key
budgetary issues and in implementing structural reforms set out in the PFP:
elimination of most price controls, liberalization of commerce, elimination of
export taxes, and easing of trade regulations. The consolidated fiscal deficit
(excluding grants), which averaged 13 percent of GDP in 1986-88, shrunk to 7.6
percent of GDP in 1990 and the Government has adopted strong measures to effect
a further decline in 1991. In the 1991 budget military expenditures have been
substantially reduced, personnel costs are smaller in nominal terms than in 1990,
despite a substantial increase in the number of primary school teachers, and
student stipends have been reduced. The Government has also moved to improve the
productivity of public investments by giving priority to rehabilitation and
maintenance, strengthening project selection, and dropping several large
uneconomic projects. Several public enterprises have been liquidated or sold,
and steps in a program to accomplish substantial divestiture had been taken. Key
reforms (including the restructuring of the banking system) have also begun to
encourage private sector and export growth. These and other reforms constitute
the basis for a program supported by SAL I, which was approved by the Bank's
Board in June 1991.
7.              SAL  I supports  reforms  in two  broad areas:  (i)  increased
efficiency of public resource use through a restructuring of budgetary
expenditures, improved management of the civil service, and better programming
and monitoring of public investments, and (ii) establishment of an enabling
environment for private sector activities through a comprehensive package of
banking sector reforms, public enterprise privatization, liberalization of
pricing, marketing, and external trade regulations, and reforms of the legal and
regulatory framework affecting investment, commercial relations, and employment.



- 47 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 7 pages
8.             The proposed Agriculture SECAL seeks to reinforce policy measures
initiated under SAL I and to provide for their concrete application to the
agricultural sector. Among the issues of direct relevance to the SECAL, the
program supported by SAL I provides for:
-    improved management  and monitoring of public resources and
enhanced efficiency of public resource use through: (a)
consolidation of all state resources and expenditures in a single
document to be annexed to the government's budget, (b)
preparation of consolidated annual public investment budgets
within a framework of a three-year rolling public investment
program, (c) a reduction in extra-budgetary operations, and (d)
a reduction in the number of special treasury accounts;
-    enlarging the scope for private sector activities in production
and distribution through: (a) abolition of commercial and
distribution monopolies with the exception of imports of
petroleum products and rice, (b) simplification of licenoing
requirements for engaging in trade, (c) liberalization of local
trade, (d) elimination of price controls on locally produced
goods, and (e) implementation of a phased program of import
liberalization.
Growth Prospects and Economic Outlook
9.             In the medium-term,  assuming  reasonably  favorable  climatic
conditions and a continuing small improvement in the terms of trade, Burkina's
economic growth can reach about 4 percent per annum, i.e. slightly faster than
the population growth rate which is estimated at 3.3 percent per annum. The
formidable constraints to development, however, are not amenable to rapid change
in a medium-term perspective: improved soil, water,  and biomass resource
management can affect agricultural output only gradually; reduction of population
growth can only occur in the longer term if the Gov'rnment's population policy
is effectively implemented; only gradual progress can be made in increasing human
capital, and hence labor productivity of the working population; and exploitation
of new mineral deposits (gold, zinc, copper) can only make small contributions
to overall growth. Moreover, the economy is highly vulnerable to drought and to
economic conditions in C8te d'Ivoire and Ghana because of the importance of
workers' remittances.
1O.            Nevertheless, several factors favor per capita income growth in
the medium term: a hard-workirg and dis-iplined population; a domestic market
approaching 10 million people; and manufacturing opportunities in the local and
regional markets. Given appropriate incentives, there is room for expansion of
private sector activity in both traditional and market-oriented agriculture
(cotton, oil seeds, fruits, and vegetables) and related processing and service
industries; and in small-scale productive and commercial enterprises in
construction materials, services such as repair facilities, and tourism. For the
lonaer-term there is reason for cautious optimism because the Government is a
leader in the Sahel in addressing environmental degradation, the role of women
in development, and population growth.
11.            Economic projections of the most likely development scenario in
1992-2000--involving normal weather; more efficient investment, in part due to
a rapid improvement in the private business climate; a continuous expansion of
exports (including, after 1995, exploitation of significant zinc deposits); a
slow recovery in workers' remittances; a relative decrease in public consumption;
a containment of imports through gradual import-substitution and improved
external competitiveness; debt relief; and an increase in external capital flows



- 48 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7 pages
in response to the implementation of the adjustment program--show modest GDP
growth of about 4 percent per annum for the rest of the decade. The achievement
of this target is predicated on the capacity of the economy to generate resources
for rehabilitation and new investment. The expansion of industry and services
and, to a lesser extent, of agriculture, is predicated on a revival of private
sector activity in response to improved incentives.
12.            Based on these assumptions, which also formed the basis for the
macroeconomic framework agreed upon in the context of the first-year PFP, the
current account deficit would decline to about 12 percent of GDP by the end of
the decade.  After taking account of disbursements on existing and expected
project-related commitments and debt relief available to Burkina on Toronto
terms, the external financing needs average US$114 million per annum in 1992-93.
About US$10 million annually would be financed through Burkina Faso's access to
the IMF SAF and a further US$51 million annually through IDA support for the
adjustment program (SAL I, the Transport SECAL approved by the Board in February
1992, and the proposed Agriculture SECAL). The remaining resources are expected
to become available through cofinancing from both multilateral and bilateral
donors. If external resources are mobilized to cover these needs during the
1992-93 period, the net per capita disbursements to Burkina of Official
Development Assistance (ODA) projected for 1993 (US$44) would still be less, in
nominal terms, than the net per capita disbursements of ODA to other Sahelian
countries in 1987 (US$59).   A growth rate in external aid flows (grant and
concesnional loan disbursements) of about 6.8 percent per annum in US dollar
nominal terms, which would be adequate to cover Burkina's financing needs up till
the year 2000, is therefore realistic if the Government continues to maintain an
appropriate macroeconomic framework and implement structural policy reforms.
13.            Aariculture.  Although the performance of Burkina's agricultural
sector over tha past decade has been impressive for a Sahelian country, economic
projections indicate that the high agricultural growth rates of the 1980s will
not be sustained. Even with policy reforms supported under the Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Program, slower sector growth (4%) is expected in the 1990s as
the potential for expanding cutivated areas sharply declines. Furthermore, the
long-term trend in cereals production suggests an increasing deficit.  As a
result of population growth, the demand for food is going to increase, and,
therefore, the pressure on natural resources will continue. For example, without
major changes in consumption patterns, the demand for cereals is going to
increase from 1.6 million tons in 1990 co 2.2 million tons in year 2000 and 3.0
million tons in year 2010. At current technologies and productivity levels, this
would entail an expansion in the cultivated area 1.5 million ha, which would push
the total cultivated area to about 42,000 km2, i.e., almost 50% of the estimated
cultivable area, further reducing fallow, and land productivity, and therefore
jeopardizing sustainable food production.
Constraints to Sustainable Aoricultural Growth
14.            The level of agricultural technology remains low and extensive.
Farming practices continue to put undue stress on the natural resource base thus
seriously imperiling sustainable growth in the long run. However, the causes of
the risk to sustainable sector growth go beyond extensive land use, low
technology  and  environmentally  hostile  farming practices.    The pricing,
marketing, and trade policies pursued in Burkina may have had on balance a
negative impact on natural rgsources, in particular in the Central Plateau where
cereal production is still expanding to marginal lands instead of being
intensified in the South and Southwest. In cereal markets, trade regulations
(traders licenses, provincial trade barriers, pan-territorial wholesale prices,
road taxes etc) have considerably increased transaction costs between surplus and
deficit areas.   When prices are beyond their purchasing power, poor rural



- 49 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 7 page.
households extend their cultivated areas under food crops into marginal areas.
This impact is exactly the opposite of what would be desirable to restore soils
in the already very degraded areas of the Central Plateau, that is long bush or
cultivated fallow, with a comparative advantage for livestock production instead
of cereals. This perverse effect of Government market interventions is also felt
in the surplus areas where cereal prices, and consequently returns to labor, are
too low to encourage the development of more intensive production.
15.            Furthermore,  subsidies for domestic  rice production may be
encouraging a very inefficient use of water resources. The increased demand for
rice has led to the development of several irrigation perimeters, most of them
with Government or donor support. Even at the high productivity levels reached
in some of them (nine to ten tons of paddy per hectare), rice production is
uneconomic if water resources were priced at their scarcity value. The subsidies
are encouraging an inefficient use of scarce water resources. Interestingly, on
private small-scale irrigation Rchemes which do not benefit from the subsidies,
farmers have switched from rice to higher value crops for exports (vegetables).
16.            It is also important to question the impact of cotton pricing and
marketing policy which has been a very strong incentive for the expansion of
production.   On the one hand, favorable relative cotton/cereals prices have
supported the continued application of chemical fertilizer, thereby maintaining
soil productivity.  On the other hand, farm survey results suggest that very
little organic matter is restituted to the soils, and that crop rotations are not
adhered to. The long-term impact on soil fertility of such practices could be
quite negative. Even while this result is only an indirect effect of pricing and
marketing policies, it draws the attention of linking pricing policies to other
measures, such as the delivery of good extension services to prevent natural
resource degradation.
17.            Burkinabe producers have shown an ability to adapt to major
changes in the environment (particularly degradation of natural resources) and
develop new indigenous technologies. But neither the level of these technologies
nor the rate at which they are currently adopted are sufficient to maintain the
capital of productive assets and support sustainable growth. Although fertilizer
consumption has significantly increased over the 1980s, its application remains
highly concentrated in the cotton areas.  High yielding seeds continue to be
limited to cotton and to some extent groundnuts, as varieties appropriate for the
ecological conditions in Burkina are not yet available for crops such as millet
and sorghum. Mechanization (mainly animal traction) has progressed, albeit at
a much slower pace than in some other African countries including Sahelian
countries such as Senegal and Mali. Only about 3% of farmers possess a complete
traction unit, while about 25% have parti-I units. About 50% of cotton producers
use animal traction.
Current Sector Development Strategv
18.            Government efforts to reduce the impact of the constraints to
sustainable growth include major undertakings aimed at improving the management
of the country's renewable natural resources, policy reforms in agricultural
input (especially fertilizer) policies and efforts to develop and promote the use
of cheaper fertilizers, agricultural research, and the establishment of a
national agricultural extension service.
19.            Environmental Manaoement.  The impact Nn resource degradation of
its demographic growth and the spontaneous settlement in the onchocerciasis zones
is being openly addressed by Burkinabe leaders, and the country stands out



- 50 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 7 pages
amongst the Sahelian countries of West Africa as the pioneer for initiating
operational approaches to alter the trend in renewable natural resource
degradation, in particular since the early 1980's. Four major initiatives have
been taken. In 1983, the Government launched a program called the "three fights"
-- to contend against uncontrolled bushfires, livestock movements, and tree
cutting. A National Plan against Desertification (1986) and a law on Agrarian
and Land Tenure Reorganization (revised in 1991) have been prepared.   The
preparation of a National Environmental Management Program has been completed and
is in its implementation stage with major donor assistance, including IDA, and
more recently, a National Environmental Action Plan has also been prepared.
20.            The National Environmental Action Plan is a global strategic
framework for the management of natural resources.   It contains four main
components for which detailed investment plans have been prepared:
-    the manaoement of national natural resource endowments which
includes a national forestry action plan, a soil cartography
program, regional planning, and studies/analysis on subterranean
water table;
-    land manaaement orooram includes the campaign against tree
cutting, and the national land management projects such as the
national environment management program;
-    program to improve the conditions of life in rural areas includes
projects  to  develop  secondary  townships,   village  well
construction,   projects   to   construct   schools,   markets,
dispensaries and village access roads, as well as an urban
component which aims at addressing the impact of a high rate of
urbanization on the destruction of natural resources;
-    environment  awareness  and  training  program  includes  mass
environmental information campaigns, training programs in
primary, secondary, and higher levels on environmental issues,
and technical assistance to the private and public sectors on
environmental management
21.            The National Environmental Management Program is designed as a
long-tert. effort to stop and reverse the process of land degradation in order to
secure agricultural growth, to restore biodiversity, and to manage forests and
wildlife sustainably.  The program has an innovative bottom-up approach.  It
supports community land management plans conceived with formally organized rural
communities that have been granted secure rights (through the Agrarian and Land
Tenure Law) over land and land resources.   With support by decentralized
government and non-government services, these communities decide ultimately on
actions to be carried out on their lands.
22.            Concomitant to the Government'e efforts, tremendous momentum has
built-up amongst the rural population in certain areas to reclaim degraded lands
arn protect their resource endowment. The joint efforts of the population and
the Government have led to Mubstantial support from the donor community,
including non-governmental institutions (NGO's), with the result that many pilot
operations are underway, and valuable experience is available.
23.            Fertilizer Policies  With IDA assistance, the Government has
improved fertilizer policies and the structure of fertilizer use by removing
subsidies, identifying and providing cheaper fertilizers, and eliminating supply
inadequacies. Through policy reforms, the project focuses increasingly on the
domestic sources of supply (animal manure, other organic matter, rock phosphate)
and, where economically justified, on cheaper kinds of imported fertilizers. The



- 51 -
ANNEX I
Page 7 of 7 pages
Governments fertilizer program includes field trials, a phosphate acidulation
unit, credit to farmers for fertilizer purchases, rock phosphate production, as
well as studies to (a) analyze the impact of subsidy removal on fertilizer
consumption and cereals production and (b) the technical and economic feasibility
of existing processes for local production of chemical fertilizers. Results on
fertilizer research have been encouraging: researchers have come up with
fertilizer formulas for cereals production for different agroclimatic zones, and
the results of composting work have generally been positive. Detailed technical
and economic analysis are in process to determine the profitability of these
innovations before they are passed onto extension for diffusion to farmers.
24.            Acricultural Research Program. Under this program, the Government
established a national agricultural research organization (the Institut National
d'Etudes et de Recherche Agricole--INERA) and research network that plans and
executes agreed priority research programs that are in line with government
policies regarding national food security and natural resource management.
Research is farmer oriented (responsive to farmers' needs), and allows for better
coordination in the formulation and execution of national and international
agricultural research program.   Furthermore,  linkages between research and
extension services have been strengthened.
25.            Aaricultural Extension Program.        The Government, with IDA
assistance, introduced a T and V system (training and visit) adapted to Burkina's
environment, thereby ensuring all farmers (male and female) equal access to
advisory services, and extension staff access to appropriate training.   The
program promotes and organizes communication between national agricultural
research staff and extension staff, and has: improved services to the livestock
sector, introduced a grassroots functional literacy program, strengthened the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock's organization and management by developing
an in-house training facility, and developed an effective information system to
ease the data collection and management by extension workers and trainers.
26.            The  Government  recognizes  that  its efforts  to  remove  the
constraints to sustainable sectoral growth (improved soil, water and biomass
resource management, agricultural research, and improvements in the quality and
responsiveness of extension services) are neither likely to lead to rapid
improvement in agricultural productivity, nor are they complete. To complement
these efforts, therefore, the Government has designed a medium term agricultural
sector strategy.  The strategy emphasizes the elimination of the restrictive
regulatory environment (through pricing and marketing liberalization) and
unproductive public investments.  The strategy aims at achieving sustainable
sectoral growth through modernization, diversification and increased private
sector participation.



- 52 -
Page 1 of 14 pages
BURKINA FASO
FOOD SECURItTY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Information for Food Security
I . FaTRODUCTION
A. The Role of Information on Food Security
1.1     The proposed Food Security and Nutrition Project would deepen
the impact of reforms supported by the SAL I and the agricultural SECAL
on food security and improved nutrition (PASA: Programme d'Ajustement
du Secteur Agricole).  Amongst other objective, the Project would
strengthen the Government's institutional capacity to gather and
analyze data as a basis for monitoring the evolution of food security
and the nutritional status of the population, particularly in
vulnerable areas. Decision makers need to know the number of people
affected by the crisis, the extent of food stocks in the region, and
the nature of appropriate response, such as the amount of food aid
needed.
1.2     The primary actor in the food security sector would be the
Comit6 National de Coordination de la Politique C&r&ali6re (CNCPC).
It would 1) guide, monitor and coordinate the cereals policy, 2)
organize consultations with all partners involved in the provision of
food aid, 3) monitor the implementation of the Cereals Plan and to
provide regular evaluations, and 4) provide a forum for the design of
a national food security and nutrition strategy.
1.3     Thus, concerning food security information, CNCPC would ensure
that 1) relevant it is made available in a timely fashion and 2) the
institution responsible for emergency preparedness gets the information
and uses it to act appropriately.  CNCPC would use a demand-driven
approach, involving the information user in the design of the
information system and establishing feedback mechanisms.
1.4     A  Household Food Security Unit  (HHFSU),  located  in the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MOAL), would provide
coordination of the components of the Food Security and Nutrition
Project, including food security information, emergency preparedness
and research related activities.
B. The Current State of Food Security Information
1.5     Food  security  is a cross-sectoral  concept.    Hence,  the
information required to forecast and prevent food crisis, and to orient
emergency aid whenever a crisis erupts, touches many different sectors
including crop production, animal production, health, education or
demography. Therefore, the challenge in Food Security Information is
to 1) coordinate the many distinct sources that hold relevant
information, each according to its statutory mandate, and 2) integrate
and analyze the information in view of food security concerns.
1.6     Providing  information  on  agricultural  production  is the
responsibility of the Service de Statistiques Agricoles (BSA),
Direction des Etudes et de la Planification (DEP) Ministere de
l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage. The SSA has five ongoing programs:



- 53-                           ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14 pages
1) The national component of the Proiet de Surveillance des
Ressources Naturelles Renouvelables au Sahel.   This is a
regional project (CILSS) funded by the European Community. It
seeks to improve natural resource assessments using remote
sensing, with a particular emphasis on crop monitoring.
2) The  Permanent  Survey  Unit.    This  is  the  basic  yearly
country-wide  survey  of  cereal  production.    The  current
methodology was implemented with support from the Projet
Diagnostic Permanent des secteurs c6r6ales et elevage
(DIAPER/CILSS).   It is the results of the efforts by CILSS
member countries to standardize their methodologies and
procedures.
3) The Permanent Survey Unit also supervises a yearly Survey of
Horticultural Production, currently supported by the Projet de
Planification Rurale (PPR).
4) The Central Information Database (CID) Unit, established with
the technical support from DIAPER/CILSS.
5) The Monitoring of the Agricultural Campaian.
1.7     The Cellule do Statistiques Animales was split away from the
SSA in May 1991 and directly attached to the Secretariat d'Etat a
1'Elevage. It conducts surveys of market prices of animal produce and
of abattoir.
1.8     The Commission Nationale de Lutte contre lox Effets do la
S6cheresse (CNLES), Ministry of Health and Social Action, is in charge
of emergency preparedness and assistance. Since the mid-1980s it has
acted as a focal point for various donor-funded early warning
activities.
1.9     The Office National  des  C6r6ales  (OFNACER)  in the past
sustained officially fixed cereals prices through the management of a
price stabilization stock.  Given the decision to liberalize cereal
prices, its new mandate under the PASA is to maintain and manage a
national food security stock.  As a corollary activity, it monitors
cereal stocks and market prices. In this context, it has developed a
market information system for cereals (SIM).
1.10    The Institut National de Statistique et de D6aographie (IN8D)
is responsible national statistics and population censuses.
1.11    The Direction Nationale de la M6t6orologie collects primary
information on rainfall from a network of gauges covering the country.
The Direction is provided decadal Normalized Difference Vegetation
Index (NDVI) images produced by Agrhymet/CILSS from their NOAA/AVHRR
satellite receiving station in Niamey. These images show the intensity
of the growth season at 10 day intervals. With USAID support, the
Direction is currently developing in-house capabilities for processing
NDVI digital images to monitor crop and pasture growth and estimate
their production.
TI. IMPROVEMENT OF FOOD SECURITY INFORMATION
A. Strateav
2.1     Improvement in the quality and availability of food security
information will result from three measures: 1) better coordination of
base data collection, 2) reinforcement of base data collection by
various sectoral agencies, and 3) development of technical capabilities
to integrate and analyze sectoral data, in order to identify crisis
areas and assess crisis extent.



- 54 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14 pages
2.3     A workshop held  in Koudougou  in March  1991  established
organizing principles for these measures. It recommended the creation
of an interdepartmental Committee for the Coordination of Information
for food security (CCI). This has effectively been done, and monthly
bulletins were published during the 1991 agricultural campaign.
However, official recognition by an interministerial decree has yet to
be completed. The CCI would include 6 working groups:
1) Vegetation production and physical environment
2) Animal production and animal produce commercialization
3) Food aid stocking and commercialization
4) Monitoring of vulnerable areas, and famine management
5) Consumption and socio-economic environment
6) Research on food strategies, policies and technologies
2.4     Coordination of base data collection.  A Coordination Unit
within the Service de Statistiques Agricoles in the DEP of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock (ESW Unit) would provide adminietrative
and technical coordination of the various groups. In particular, it
would prepare and call CCI meetings, make a synthesis of the results
provided by each working group, and publish a bulletin of the food
security situation. The unit would be headed by a Permanent Secretary
named by the Minister in charge of Agriculture.
2.5     Data provided by the various groups would be held in the
Central Information Database (CID).  Beyond establishing a central
database, CID also provides guidelines for the organization of sectoral
databases.    Through  the  establishment  of  compatibility  norms,
acceptance of these guidelines would be a major step in improving
access to data sets, thus facilitating food security related analyses
and responses.
2.6     Reinforcement  of  base  data  collection.  The  following
activities have been identified by the CCI to be incorporated in the
various donor funded PASA projects:
- The Monitoring of Livestock Market, to be conducted by the
Cellule de Statistiques Animales within the Secr6tariat d'Etat
a l'Elevage, supported by the Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration
(FAC) of the French Government,
- An Information System on Cereal Markets (SIM), to be conducted
by the Projet de Securit6 Alimentaire within l'Office National
des C6r6ales (OFNACER), supported by the GTZ,
- A National Rangeland Monitoring Program, to be conducted by
the Direction de la R6organisation de l'Elevage Traditionnel
within the Secretariat d'Etat a l'Elevage, with support from
FAC,
- A National Survey on Agricultural Statistics, to be conducted
by the Service des Statistiques Agricoles, for which partial
support has been requested from the World Bank. Support for
this component is discussed in the following section.
2.7     The collection of other data types important to food security
is already supported through other programs, for examiple: data on
household incomes, through World Bank support to INSD under Social
Dimensions of Adjustment program; or agrometeorological data, through
support   to   the   National   Meteorological   Department   from
CILSS/Agrhymet/USAID.
2.8     The Food Security and Nutrition Project would also fund three
studies to be jointly conducted by the PASA Unit of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock and the CEDRES/LAVAL Project of the



-55 -ANNEX I I
Page 4 of 14 pages
University  of  Ouagadougou.       These  studies  concern:  1)  the
identification of relevant indicators of the state of food security as
perceived by rural households, 2) the analysis of how household cope
with food crisis, 3) the assessment of measures initiated in the
context of food security. These form another component of the project.
2.9     Development of technical caDabilities.   Support to the ESW
Unit in order for it to integrate and analyze food security information
has been requested from the World Bank as a component of the Food
Security and Nutrition Project. It is also discussed in the following
section.
S. National Survey for Aericultural Statistics
2.10    Introduction.   Crop production in Burkina Faso is measured
through a yearly survey, called the permanent agricultural survey.
This survey is presently based on samples taken from the population of
farmers, as determined from population census data, a methodology
referred to as demographic sampling.   It is the most widespread
methodology and has, for example, been actively promoted by FAO. Since
1984, technical assistance from DIAPER has resulted in standardization
of agricultural statistics according to procedures used in all CILSS
countries. In Burkina Faso, the permanent agricultural survey is based
on the results of the 1985 population census.
2.11    The second major methodology for collecting agricultural
statistics uses sample units representing tracts of land, and is
referred to as aerial sample frames.  It is considered to be more
reliable and easier to conduct than demographic sampling. The arrival
of remote sensing has facilitated its use by providing the data for
establishing primary sampling units. Spatial samples are then selected
from aerial photographs covering these units. However, aerial sample
frames are technically complex and require a substantial initial
investment.
2.12    As a policy, CILSS countries are committed to evolving from a
demographic sampling methodology to aerial sample frames. With EEC
support, the Projet Surveillance des Ressources Naturelles au Sahel has
been conducting research to adapt the aerial sample frame methodology
in CILSS countries. Pilot activities have been conducted in Northern
Burkina, and in 1991, a test was realized to compare the results of
parallel surveys using demographic and aerial sample frames
methodologies. Further pilot activities are planned. Within the NEAP
context, the Government of Burkina Faso is also looking to fund the
application of aerial sample frames in the 4 provinces targeted by the
World Bank's PNGT (Programme National de Gestion des Terroirs) project,
making use of aerial photographic coverage already financed through the
PNGT. Still, present and expected commitments will not be sufficient
to implement a national aerial sample frame within the next 6 years.
In addition, by that date, improved methodologies using remote sensing
and models of primary production, currently under development, should
have  become  available.    Thus,  in  the  meantime,  improving  the
reliability of demographic sampling appears to be the most realistic
option.
2.13    The main weakness of the current annual permanent surveys is
that although valid at national level (approximately 5%), the data are
unreliable at the provincial level (15-30%).   In other words, the
extent of the cereal deficit at the national level can be estimated,
but cannot be located.   Access to reliable estimates of cereal
production at the provincial level is indispensable if famine relief



- 56 -                         ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14 pages
actions are to be correctly targeted. Such access is thus of utmost
importance in the context of the Food Security and Nutrition Project
and further justifies the decision to support it.
2.14    The  solution  suggested  by  the  DEP  of  the  Ministry  of
Agriculture is to conduct a National Survey of Agricultural Statistics
that would permit the stratification of agricultural statistic's
samples, and thus lead to an improvement of statistical reliability,
sufficient for the use of agricultural statistics at the provincial
level. In the absence of an agricultural census, which has proven too
expensive to be funded, such a survey also would provide information
on farming units, including information on rural household income.
Such information, indispensable for famine vulnerability assessment,
will not be available from the household survey to be conducted by INSD
for the Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) program, since it will
mostly focus on urban populations.
2.15    The results of the yearly agricultural  surveys are made
available in two steps. First, a preliminary estimate released in
October; second a definite estimate published in March-April. This
late date is conditioned by the availability of field measurements for
the latest crops (December-January). Improvement in survey reliability
at the provincial level would permit analysis at this level. This in
turn makes it possible to analyze the provinces in a sequence from the
driest to the wettest, thus quickening the availability of definite
estimates for the most vulnerable (driest) provinces.
2.16    The DEP has prepared a proposal for such a survey.  Funding
has already been identified from three sources, besides the national
budget: 1) the Government of Netherlands, 2) the Projet de Renforcement
des Services d'Appui aux Producteurs (PRSAP), and 3) the Projet de
Planification Rurale (PPR). However, the Government of the Netherlands
has made its support conditional on finding co-financing for 200
million FCFA. The Government of the Netherlands has also expressed the
desire to see to it that the survey explicitly collect information on
the role of women in agricultural production, if necessary by breaking
down the information on agricultural production units, as recommended
by the Seminaire sur la Participation de la Femme dans les Projets de
D6veloppement Agro-Pastoral: Strat6gies et Moyens d'Integration,
Ouagadougou 27-28 juin 1991.
2.17    Obiectives.  The main objective of the project would be to
improve agricultural statistics at the provincial level (precision of
no less than 10% at p=.05), and quicken their delivery for the
provinces most vulnerable to famines. As a corollary objective, the
project would collect information on farming activities, including
rural household incomes, that will be used in assessing famine
vulnerability.
2.18    Proiect Description.  The project will finance the salaries of
560 surveyors for one year (1993). Qualifications would include BEPC
schooling level.
2.19    -ost.  Base cost of the project component to be financed by
IDA is 200.000.000 FCFA out of a total of 784.150.000 FCFA.   Cost
breakdown according to different sources would be:



- 57 -                ~~~~ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14 pages
Government of Burkina Faso                             63.714.000  FCFA
Projet de Renforcement des Services
d'appui aux producteurs (PRSAP)                      130.939.000 FCFA
Projet de Planification Rurale (PPR)                   89.497.000  FCFA
Government of the Netherlands                          300.000.000 FCFA
IDA                                                    200.000.000 FCFA
TOTAL               784.150.000 ECFA
2.20    Organization and management.  The HHFSU would commission the
Service the Statistiques Agricoles of the DEP of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock to conduct the National Survey of
Agricultural Statistics. The DEP would designate a project manager,
in charge of the administrative and technical aspects of the survey,
and an accountant. Administrative and management support will be
provided by the PPR. Funds from the various sources will be held in
a bank account managed by the project manager.
2.21    Through the annual permanent survey, the DEP has already built
up a team of qualified surveyors and survey controllers. These staff
will supervise the National Survey. IDA financed personnel will be
recruited by the CRPAs and trained by INSD. The DEP is familiar with
the procedures required for large surveys, having recently conducted
a National Livestock Survey with DIAPER support.
2.22    Work Prooram.  Completing the  survey would  require three
agricultural campaigns: 1992-993 for its preparation; 1993-1994 for its
execution; 1994-1995 for its processing and analysis.  The improved
permanent survey would start in 1994-1995 for the provinces most
vulnerable to famine, and in 1995-1996 for the whole country.
C. Early Warninq Systems
2.23    Introduction.   The philosophy behind early warning systems
(EWS) has evolved over the past 15 years from locking mainly at the
balance between cereal production and cereal consumption, to assessing
vulnerability as an aggregate measure of the underlying factors that
influence exposure to famine and predisposition to its consequences.
These factors include human development factors such as those used by
the United Nations Development Programme in calculating its composite
Index of Human Development (education, health and freedom), the
breakdown of household sources of income (agriculture, livestock, gold,
salaries, remittances or transfers), in addition to shorter term
indicators such as market prices, school attendance, and finally
measures of cereal balance in the current year and over the preceding
yeare. This reflects the fact that factors triggering famine are not
always ecological, such as poor rainfall, but can also be social or
economic, such as civil strife, induced migration, market policies or
decreased transfers to the poorer segments of the population. Famines
are foremost a crisis of incomes and consumption.
2.24    EXi4tna earl---  :arn:n-  ;-tcz.z.  Thres activt. es related to
early warning have been initiated in Burkina Faso: 1) the SAP-Sahel
covering the three Sahel provinces, Oudalan, Seno and Soum, conducted
by the CNLES, 2) the Suivi des Zones a Risque (ZAR), also conducted by
CNLES, and 3) the Famine Early Warning System (FEWS), executed and



-58-                          ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14 pages
funded by USAID,  with CNLES  as the national  focal point.    Two
additional activities are relevant to EWSs in Burkina Faso, although
they are not in themselves EWS components. The first is the Central
Information Database provided by DIAPER and installed at the DEP of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock.   The second is the monthly
bulletin presently prepared by the DEP.
2.25    The SAP-Sahel was set up in 1987 within the CNLES with the
joint support of two NGOs, Save the Children Fund (SCF-UK) and OXFAM-
UK. As a corollary objective SAP-Sahel was to orient the relief and
development activities of these NGOs.   Project relies on village
informers (25) to collect information.   These are then reviewed by
provincial censors and forwarded to a project coordinator based in
Dori. This coordinator prepares a monthly bulletin that is published
and distributed in approximately 60 copies by the project supervisor
based in Ouagadougou. An independent evaluation conducted for SCF and
OXFAM in 1990 revealed serious failings relative to choice of
indicators, conception of survey forms, staff selection training of
staff, technical and operational feasibility, field supervision and
bulletin delivery. Nonetheless, funding has been extended until April
1996.
2.26     In September 1991, a seven-month long pilot EWS program was
started in the same three Sahel provinces, the suivi des Zones A Risque
(ZAR), with DIAPER support.   ZAR differs from the SAP-Sahel in its
reliance on questionnaires regularly filled by technical agents already
in the field, and not on the work of staff recruited by a project.  In
addition, the type of information collected is broader, having been
inspired from experience gathered in other CILSS countries, in
particular Mali and Senegal.   Regrettably, the effective start of
activities was delayed and few results have been obtained.
2.27    FEWS  is an international  USAID  funded program presently
nearing completion of its second phase.   The headquarters are in
Washington, DC, with field offices in each of the 7 countries
(Mauritania, Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger, Chad, Sudan and Ethiopia)
covered by the program.   The Burkina Faso field office is located
within the USA embassy compound. The office is well equipped and can
directly analyze food security information.   FEWS does not collect
primary data, but instead relies on data available in each of the
country that are sent to Washington.   FEWS headquarters publishes,
throughout the growing season, a bulletin that assesses the food
security situation and trends. It also publishes yearly, a pre-harvest
assessment (October), a post-harvest assessment (January), and a
vulnerability assessment (June).
2.28    FEWS has been a testing ground for food security models.  In
the case of Burkina Faso, a promising model has been developed that
combines long-term, medium-term and short term qualitative indicators
to provide a vulnerability index at the provincial level. The Burkina
Faso field office is currently extending the model to the departmental
level and modifying it to incorporate average household income
breakdowns as a key indicator.
2.29    These EWS components do not funct'or, as well as could be
desired due to: 1) dispersal and lack of integration, 2) limited
reliability of data, and 3) lack of cooperation and of complementarity.
Of greatest consequence, CNLES was designated by the Government of
Burkina Faso as the national EWS focal point in order to articulate
data generation and analysis with CNLES's Emergency Preparedness
Program. This choice has had a major negative impact on EWS operations
in Burkina Faso, given CNLES's limited technical capabilities and



- 59 -                        ANNX II
Page 8 of 14 pages
experience, factors which put it at a marked comparative disadvantage.
CNLES has had to rely on staff secondments or recruitment of new staff
on contract. Hindsight shows that operational and technical issues
related to information production were confused with the need for close
coordination, through a body such as CNCPC, between the user of the
information, in this instance the unit responsible for emergency
preparedness, and its producer, whatever agency this may be. If proper
coordination exists, then technical guidelines and contractual
safeguards between the user and supplier of the information ensure
relevance and timeliness of delivery.
2.30    Government policy.   In its Letter on Agricultural Policy
Development (LAPD), the Government announces its decision to integrate
these various systems and to transfer them to the DEP of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock. In this manner, data analysis 1) will
be more closely linked to data collection and 2) will be entrusted to
an agency with proven technical capabilities.   The donors already
involved in EWS activities   (see 2.17) will have to redesign their
respective components in order to arrive at a single, effective and
integrated system. In particular, USAID would provide direct technical
assistance.
2.31    Obiectives.   The objective is to establish from existing
components an integrated EWS that would provide information in support
of service delivery by the Unit for Emergency Preparedness.
Specifically, the EWS would provide monthly vulnerability assessments
at the provincial and departmental level.
2.32    Proiect DescriDtion.  The project would finance equipment and
supplies, the cost of incremental staffing, of training and of
technical assistaace to enable the EWS Unit to handle the integrated
EWS, and for data gathering within four CRPA regions targeted by the
Food Security and Nutrition Project. Technical assistance would be in
the form of short-term foreign consultancies to provide technical
training, to organize a technical workshop that would define the
integrated system, to prepare a plan for system integration, and to
help in the plan's implementation. The project also would fund the
cost of printing and distributing 200 copies of the EWS bulletins,
every month of the year.



- 60 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14 paqes
2.33    .Cost.  Total cost
Item             measure  TOTAL Y1   Y2    Y3    Y4    Y5    Y6   Unit cost   Gxk
INVESTMENT
Information processing
Computers                 unit      4      2   0      0     2      0     0
Computer upgrade          10%      14      0   2      2     2      4     4
Color printer             unit      2      1   0      0     1      0     0    200C$
Laserjet printer          unit      2      1   0      0     1      0     0    3000$
UPS                       unit      1      1   0      0     0      0     0    6000$
Consultancies
Model development         month    10      3   0      0     3      0     0
Training                  month    10      3   1      1     3      1     1
Workshops
Model development         unit      2      1   0      0     1      0     0
Training                            6      1   1      1     1      1     1
Equipment
4 wheel drive             unit      4      2   0      0     2      0     0
Pocket calculators        unit     20    10   0       0     10    0      0    70.000   1L<OD
Photocopier               unit      2      1   0      0      1    0      0
Training
seScion                            60    10   10    10    10    10    10   45.000   2.7aD
OPERATIONS
Personnel
Socio-economist          month    72    12   12    12    12    12    12
computer specialist       month    72    12   12    12    12    12    12
Team leaders              month   720   120   120   120   120   120   120  7.500    SAOD0
Surveyors                 month   7200  1200  1200  1200  1200  1200  1200 10.000 72.000.000
Training allowances       unit    660   110   110   110   110   110   110  6.000    39oD
Field supervision        mission  36    6        6      6     6    6      6   210.000  79LOOD
Maintenance
Computer equipment        %       18      2      2      2     4    4      4
Photocopier               %        6      1      1      1     1    1      1
4 wheel drives            %       12      2      2      2     2    2      2
Fuel                      %       12      2      2      2     2    2      2
Various
Supplies                  lump sum  6    1       1      1     1    1      1 1.000.000 6.000.000
Communications            lump sum  6    1       1      1     1    1      1  1.000.000 6.0D.o
2.34    Oraanization and management.  The HHFSU would commission the
EWS Unit to provide vulnerability assessments.   IDA support would
complement that of SCF/OXFAM, DIAPER/CILSS and USAID. The HHFSU would
provide coordination between the ESW Unit and the Emergency
Preparedness Unit to ensure that information delivery matches
information needs. Production of vulnerability bulletins would start
at month 12 of project effectiveness, and would be supported for the
remaining 5 years of the project.



- 61 -                        ANNEX I I
Page 10 of 14 pages
2.35    The  ESW  Unit  would  be  located  within  the  Service  de
Statistiques Agricoles. Current staffing levels at central level (7
etatisticians, 2 agronomists) would be reinforced with personnel
financed as follows:
-  statistician                           DEP
-  assistant statistician                 DEP
-  socio-economist                        Food Security and Nutrition
Project (FSNP)
-  agronomist                             DEP
-  computer and software specialist       FSNP
-  secretary                              Projet    de    Planification
Rurale (PPR)
-  liaison agent                          PPR
2.36    Work Program.  The EWS project component would include three
activities: 1) the reinforcement of institutional capabilities to
analyze data and forecast crisis, 2) the development of an analytical
framework, such as a model linking the various variables, and 3) the
establishment of mechanisms to obtain the various data required to
drive the model.
2.37    The core activity of the EWS project component would be the
creation of processing and analysis capabilities within the EWS Unit.
This is where the CCI "adds value" to the data provided by the CCI
sectoral components.   Staff would be recruited and trained,  and
information processing equipment would be purchased in the 6 months
following project effectiveness. Training would then be provided on
a yearly basis throughout the project. Staff would be retrained and
equipment upgraded in year 4 of the project.   On-site long term
technical assistance would be provided by the FEWS project.
2.38    One of the greatest challenges in setting up a national EWS
would  be  the  improvement  of  national  analytical  capabilities.
Experience shows that this would be the most elusive aspect in the
establishment of an EWS.   It would demand a long-term investment,
involving human resources development and institution building.
Present capabilities within the Service de Statistiques Agricoles are
not sufficient to independently operate all EWS aspects.  In the short-
term, remedial technical assistance would be provided by the project
and by FEWS; but in the longer term national capabilities would be
upgraded through recurrent on-the-job training.   The  project  also
would extend, but at a lower intensity, training to the CCI community,
including technical partners and users, and promote sharing of their
experiences through annual technical training workshops.
2.38    The only existing analytical framework currer.tly available is
the FEWS model for the provincial level. The project would extend this
framework to the more than 300 administrative departments and introduce
the concept of food entitlement, that is the ability to command food
through legal means and is based on production (labor, trade or
exchanges), remittances and transtere (FEWS, 1991).   This approach
requires a detailed specification of household income that would be in
part provided by the previous project component (National Survey of



- 62 -                        ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14 pages
Agricultural Statistics). Average household income from all sources
would be calculated in millet equivalents. In addition, the analytical
framework would 1) incorporate cereal and livestock market data, as a
measure of existing stocks and expectations, and 2) primary school
attendance, as a proximate measure of migration away from vulnerable
areas. Short-term consultants funded by IDA would work closely with
the FEWS project in Washington to that planned extensions of the model
are completed and adapted to the circumstances of Burkina Faso.
2.39    The EWS project component also would provide the EWS Unit with
technical assistance to organize a workshop, in cooperation with the
various donors and sources of technical assistance, during which the
users and producers of food security information would discuss the
analytical framework to be adopted by Burkina Faso. In particular, the
workshop would inform the food security community about the existing
FEWS model, its uses and assumptions.  This workshop would be held
within 12 months of project effectiveness. A second workshop would be
held in year 4 of the project to review and improve the analytical
framework.
2.40    Current and planned projects and programs would cover most of
the information required to drive a famine vulnerability model. These
have been summarized above in the Introduction, and would be available
to the EWS project component through the CCI. The National Survey of
Agricultural Statistics, described in the preceding section, would
cover two additional aspects, production statistics and household
incomes at provincial level. Nevertheless, additional data regularly
collected from the field also would be necessary to provide more direct
indicators and for crisis monitoring.
2.41    The EWS project component would collect field data using a
protocol derived from that presently suggested by DIAPER for the ZAR.
Coverage would be extended from the three Sahel provinces to include
in all the following ten provinces:
CRPA du Sahel              Oudalan, S6no, Soum
CRPA du Yatenga             Passore, Yatenga
CRPA du Centre-Nord         Bam, Namentanga, Sanmentanga
CRPA du Centre-Sud         Nahouri, Soundweogo
2.42    Current funding for the SAP-Sahel would be redirected towards
support of data collection and analysis by the EWS Unit, in the form
of a service contract. In return, the EWS Unit would provide SCF and
OXFAM with customized monthly vulnerability assessment bulletins,
limited in their coverage to the three Sahel provinces.
II. ISSUES
Three issues must be resolved prior to project implementation:
-  The formal transfer of EWS components from CNLES to the DEP of
the Ministry of Agriculture, and the establishment of a EWS
Unit within the Service le Statistiques Agricoles of the DEP
which will serve as the sole national EWS focal point.
-  The technical harmonization of the various databases related
to food security in Burkina Faso (DIAPER, FEWS, FAO, sectoral
databases), in order to establish compatibility standards and
thus facilitate data exchange. This would be achieved through



- 63 -                         ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14 pages
a short-term consultancy financed under the PPF.
- The announcement by USAID of the extent and duration of direct
technical assistance that would be provided under the FEWS
project.
ANNEX: TERMS OF REFERENCE (Technical Assistanceb
A. Technical aspects of CCI coordination
1.   Justification. The creation of the CCI has established mechanisms
for coordinating the institutions involved in food security
information. There is now a rapid need to extend this coordination to
at least two technical issues: 1) the specifications of the central
database used by the EWS Unit, and 2) the selection of indicators to
be collected in the field on a monthly basis.
The Service de Statistiques Agricoles has installed the Central
Infoi.nation Database (CID), a software package for storing food
security information provided by DIAPER. A different database structure
has been developed by FEWS, and serves as the foundations for their
application's packages for data analysis. In the event of the EWS Unit
benefiting from direct technical assistance by FEWS, it would become
necessary to harmonize these two database structures. In addition, FAO
has made proposals concerning another database structure that are being
studied by the Government.
DIAPER has recommended and funded field data collection using a
protocol inspired from experience acquired in other CILSS countries.
The data collected according to this protocol are mostly qualitative
and might not be sufficient for the type of analysis conducted by FEWS.
2.      Duties.  The consultant would, under the supervision of the
CCI and in close consultation with DIAPER and PEWS:
-  assess all technical options relative to the structure of the
central database and to the data to be collected in the field,
-  recommend the options most suited for Burkina Faso,
-  reprogram the DIAPER CID according to the options selected by
the Government.
3.      Oualifications and exDerience.   The consultant would be a
database specialist familiar with food security information, capable
of programming on microcomputers. He would also be fluent in french and
english, and have worked in sub-saharan Africa.
4.      Duration.  The consultancy wctld require 3 months in Burkina
Faso.
S.      Fundino.  To be funded under the Project Preparation Fund.
J3 Develooment of an analytical framework
1.      Justification.  The success of an information system depends
in great part on how well it delivers the information needed to the
targeted decision makers. Gathering and publishing base data certainly
is a first step, but rarely does it let decision makers have a global
view of a situation or forecast how the situation might evolve. This



- 64 -                         ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14 pages
requires an analytical framework linking the variables, and thus, by
a deductive process,  going beyond their direct reading.   Such a
framework has been developed by the USAID/FEWS project for assessing
vulnerability to food crisis at the provincial level in Burkina Faso.
Starting from this framework, the project would develop an improved
framework  that  extends  coverage  to  the  departmental  level  and
incorporates a broader range of variables.
2.      The  Food  Security  and  Nutrition  Project  includes  the
organization by the EWS Unit of a workshop, in cooperation with the
various donors and sources of technical assistance, during which the
users and producers of food security information would discuss the
improved EWS analytical framework to be adopted by Burkina Faso. This
workshop should result in an implementable consensus.   A second
workshop would be held in year 4 of the project to review and further
improve the analytical framework.
2.      Duties.  The consultant would, under the supervision of the
EWS Unit, provide technical assistance, first to develop and then later
to improve an analytic-al framework for Burkina Faso's EWS.  To this
end, the consultant wc ald provide technical inputs to help the EWS Unit
organize the above mentioned workshops. Following each workshop, the
consultant would write software applications implementing the consensus
attained.
3.      Oualifications and experience.  The consultant would have a
wide experience in developing analytical frameworks for decision making
and implementing them within public institutions. He/she would have
direct experience in working with government officials in african
countries. He/she would also be fluent in french and english.
4.      Duration.  The consultancy would require 6 months, 3 in year
1 after project effectiveness, and 3 in year 4.
C. Trainina
1.      Justification.  One of the greatest challenges in setting up
a national EWS would be the improvement of national analytical
capabilities.  Experience shows that this would be the most elusive
aspect in the establishment of an EWS.  It would demand a long-term
investment, involving human resources development and institution
building.   Present capabilities within the Service de Statistiques
Agricoles are not sufficient to independently operate all EWS aspects.
In the short-term, remedial technical assistance would be provided by
the project and by FEWS; but in the longer term national capabilities
would be upgraded through recurrent on-the-job training.
2.      The project also would extend, but at a lower intensity,
training to the CCI community, including technical partners and users,
and promote sharing of their experiences through annual technical
workshops.
2.       Duties.  The consultant would:
-  organize yearly intensive on-the-job training sessions for the
staft of the CCI Coordination Unit to teach analytical skills
and model conception,
-  arrange lower intensity training sessions for stiff of key CCI
technical partners,



- 65 -                         ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14 pages
- help the CCI organize and animate yearly technical workshops
for the CCI community of technical partners and users, to
share and mutually benefit from the different experiences.
3.      Oualifications and experience.  The consultant would have wide
experience of training in information systems and analytical frameworks
for public administrations, and specific experience in the food and
agriculture sector. He/she would be fluent in the use of the better
known software packages to analyze statistical data. He/she would also
have direct experience in working with government officials in african
countries and be fluent in french.
4.      Duration.  The consultan-y would be spread over the 6 years of
the project according to the following schedule:
Y1    3 months
Y2    1 month
Y3    1 month
Y4    3 months
Y5    1 months
Y6    1 month
D.  Lona term technical assistance
1.      Duties.  Provide technical support and guidance concerning
analytical framework, bulletin preparation.
2.      Oualifications and experience.   African experience of EWS.
Socio-economics background.
3.      Duration.   Throughout the 6 years of the Food Security and
Nutrition Project.
4.      Fundino.  To be included in USAID FEWS project.



- 66 -                   ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
eI.l
F1i1 IS IA
ii  ]                   7            fi *1  I}] 
r~~ U
:~~~. 1~                            :1 



-67 -ANNEX III
Page 2 of2
1      ]  .     ;1    1        ,I
RSIg            1                    1ffllIS
1i I                 
_.   i



- 68 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 8 pages
BURKINA FASO
PROJET DE SECURITE ALIMENTAIRE ET DE NUTRITION
MECANISME DE MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROJET
SECURITE ALIMENTAIRE/NUTRITION
(RESULTATS GROUPE DE TRAVAIL ETAT/ONG)
Dane le cadre de la mise en oeuvre de la composante Fonds de
Securite Alimentaire et de la Nutrition (FOSAN) le groupe s'est reuni pendant
trois jours pour debattre de see m6canismes institutionnels, gestionnaires,
et financiers (voir termes de references en annexe).
L'objectif du projet dans le cadre de la strat6gic alimentaire du
PASA east de promouvoir la participation des populations lea plus d6munies
(payeans marginalise6s, groupements villageois, associations villageoises) de
participer a l'action nationale de s6curit6 alimentaire d'une part et
daas2urer la leur a travers des activites g6n6ratrices de revenus et de
l'6pargne d'autre part.
Pour ce faire, quatre provinces parmi les plus v6n6rables selon
une 6valuation du FEWS ont 6t6 retenues pour le projet. I1 s'agit: de la
Onagna, du Passore, du Sou.ou, et du Namemtenga.
I.    CONSIDERATIONS DU GROUPE PAR RAPPORT AU PROJET
1.    Ce projet cree dans son application un cadre institutionnel de
renforcement du partenariat populations -ONG -Etat. A cet 6gard,
lea ONG r6affirment leur volont6 de travailler dans lea provinces
choisies par le projet dans la seule condition oa elles seront
consider6es comme des partenaires a part entieres.
2.    Ce projet  de s6curit6  alimentaire et de nutrition depasse
egalement lea limites d'un projet conventionnel ONG-Etat car il
s'adresse 6galement aux populations lea plus pauvres, c'est a
dire marginalise6es.   Il exigera une toute autre strategie de
d6veloppeLnent a la base afin d'amener l'ensemble de la communaut5
rurale dans les provinces & participer a leur propre
d6veloppement et A le consolider par des activites g6n6ratricea
de revenue et l'epargne.
3.    Afin de promouvoir ce d6veloppement innovateur et pour faire
participer lee b6n6ficiaires au processus du projet, le groupe de
travail pense quo la d6centralisation eat le meilleur moyen de
garantir le succAo de l'entreprise dana un cadre global de
concertation et de prise de d6cision.
Cela veut dire:
-     que le projet porte des acquis qui existent en niveau des
provinces (cadres de concertation, comit6s villageois de projets,
6V, 6VF, AV, Caisses Populaires, structures d'encadrement, etcl



- 69 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 8 pages
-     gue le projet construise ses bases avec la participation des
beneficaires;
-     que le projet d6veloppe des strategies sectorielles & partir des
priorites des b6n6ficiaires;
-     que le projet renforce la capacit4 d'absorption des b6n6ficiairea
et des srtuctures dlencadrement (Etat, ONG) pas des modules de
formation, d'information, de planification-suivi-6valuation
propre au projet d6velopp6s& partir des besoins.
4.    Ce processus innovateur commande que l'on prenne tout le temps
n6cessaire afin que le message soit bien re,u et l'aspect
p6rennit6 du projet soit bien percu.
5.    Consid6rant la forte presence des femmes dans lea domaines des
activi6s g6n6ratrices de revenus, leur repr6sentativit6 a tout le
niveau du projet:   Comite du projet,  secr6tariat permanent,
personnes  ressources,   comit6  villageois,  sera  des  plus
duterminantes a la bonne marche et au succas du projet.
II.   MIS3 EN OEUVRE INSTITUTIONNELE ET TECHNIOUE DU PROJET
SECURITE ALIMENTAIRE ET DE NUTRITION
Les d6bats fructueux du groupe ont abouti aux conclusions ci-
dessous.
2.1   Partenariat
Dana le cadre du projet FOSAN, le groupe pense qu'un m6canisme de
collaboration plus 6tendu entre les groupements villageois, les ONG et lee
structures de l'Etat dans les provinces doit etre trouv6. I1 doit promouvoir
une dynamique entre lea acteurs du d6veloppement socio-6conomique de la
province avec l'objectif premier d'instaurer un climat de confiance, de
compl6mentarite et de droit au d6veloppement des plus d6favoria6s.   Ce
m6canisme de partenariat doit prendre la forme de contrats de societ6 liant
chaque partie prenante avec des droits et des devoirs.
Dans la perspective de ce projet de securit6 alimentaire et de
nutrition au niveau des m6nages, des contrats techniques seront 6labor6s
entre lee trois familles de d6veloppement afin de garantir au maximum les
chances de succAs quant a la finalit6 du projet a savoir l'auto-gestion,
l'auto-promotion et 1'epargne.
Dane ce cadre-la, le groupe recommande gue le SPONG et le
Secr6tariat du projet au niveau de l'Etat se mettent rapidement ensemble pour
elaborer lee diff6rents types de contrats.
2.2   Comit6 du Proist au Niveau Provincial
Le Comite du projet est le relais entre la coordination centrale
au niveau national et la province dana la mis e n oeuvre de la politique de
securit6 alimentaire du PASA. Ii eat l'organe central de gestion du projet
au niveau provincial. Selon la proposition du groupe, il doit etre compose
d'au moins 7 a 12 personnee pour une raison d'efficacite. Ces personnes sont
issues du grand cadre de concentration de la province et qui compose toutes
lee parties prenantes ou non du projet. Le Comite du projet eat pr6sid6 par



- 70 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 8 page.
le Haut Commissaire qui pout d6leguer see pouvoirs a un Secr6tariat Permanent
provincial du projet.
2.2.1 Role du Coait# du Prolet
Le Comite du projet est charge de l'application des directives
6manant de la structure de coordination au niveau centrale et les adaptent
aux r6alit6s et aux priorites de la province.
I1 a pour role principal d'6laborer lee m6caniemes de gestion
technique et financiAre du projet notamment dans 1'6tablissement:
-     des critbres d'animation, d'information et de sensibilisation des
ben6ficiairee et des encadreurs du projet;
-     lee criteres d'elaboration des projets;
-     is criteres de selection et appr6ciation des projets;
-     les criteres d'execution des projets;
-     les crit&res do gestion des projetp;
-     lea criteres de suivi-6valuation des projets.
Le Comite du projet delibere et apprecie sur les projets gui lui
sont soumis pour financement et d6livre l'autorisation du d6blocage des fonds
aux b6n6ficiaires.
Le  Comit6  fait  le  point  de   l'avancement  du  projet
trimestriellement avec lea encadreurs du projet et annuellement avec le cadre
de concertation provincial. I1 peut 6galement op6rer des changements de fond
a la strat6gie du projet et les soumettre a la coordination centrale.
Le Comite minera aussi des r6flexions sur les themes essentiels
du projet et lee goulots d'6tranglement.
2.2.2 Le Becr6tariat Executif du Proiet
Dane le cadre de la d6centralisation du projet et dana la
perspective d'uns p6rennisation des activit6s au niveau de la province, un
Secr6tariat Executif idger sera cre6. I1 sera anim6 par un Coordinateur qui
aura pour principales taches:
-     de servir de liens entre lee differents partenaires (gestion
quotidienne du projet, administration technique et financiAre);
-     de convoquer, animer le Comite provincial du projet et le cadre
de concertation provinciale;
-     de planifier avec lee encadreurs,  les differentes phases du
projet et de veiller a la mise en oeuvre;
-     d'organiser le programme de formation;
-     de recevoir et d'appr6cier les projets soumis;
-     d'organiser  et  de  suivre  les  Etudes  et  les  Evaluations
recommand6es dana le cadre du projet;



- 71 -
ANNEIX IV
Page 4 of 8 pages
-     de  tenir  une  liaison  suivie  avec  le  niveau  national  A
Ouagadougou;
-     de rendre compte trimeetriellement de l'Etat d'avancement du
projet et des financemente.
Pour leur permettre de mieux accomplir sa tache, le Coordinateur
sera second6 par:
-     un comptable dont  le role  sera de veiller sur la gestion
financiere des projets;
-     d'un  technicien  du  developpement  rural  dont  le  role  sera
d'appuyer le coordinateur dans lee domaines sp6cifiques (par
example information, formation, int6gration de la femme au
d6veloppement rural, etc.).
Loe Coordinateur peut toujours faire appel a d'autres comp6tences
externee (ONG, techniciens de l'Etat, consultants) dans le cadre du projet.
2.3   Conit& Villassois du Proiet
Le Comite villageois du projet sera la structure inetitutionnelle
de base qui s'intagre harmonieusement dans l'approche PNGT en coure
d'ex6cution au Burkina Faso. I1 concerne leo payeans organis6s au sein d'une
association  ou  d'un  groupement  reconnu  -  et/ou  encadres  -  et  les
marginalis6s.
2.3.1 Role du Comit& Villaseois
La raison fondamentale de la mise en place du Comite villageois
du projet, eat d'assurer la participation organis6e des ben6ficiaires a la
vie du peojet qui leur est destin6e.
Dane cette perspective, ile participeront a:
-     l'identification et a la prioritisation de leurs besoins;
-     la planification de leurs activites;
-     la gestion technique et financiere de leure projote.
Le Comite villageois du projet est anime par lee b6n6ficiaires
eux-memee sous le conseil des structures d'encadrement (ONG-services
6tatiques).
III.  DOM3SNES D'INTERVENTION DU PROJET
La mise en oeuvre du projet de e6curit& alimentaire et de
nutrition dans leo  provinces s6lectionn6es est un processue de longue
haleine.  Elle recommande que lea meesages du projet soient bien pergues dos
b6n6ficiaires et des structures d'encadrement.
La participation des populations lee plus pauvres coneeille
1'61aboration d'une etrat6gie de sensibilisation et d'animation dynamique qui
prend en compto toutee lee couches sociales au niveau du village.  Pour ce
faire, des mesures d'accompagnement seront eseentielles dans la consolidation
des aesises du projet.



- 72 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 8 pages
3.1   Activit6s de Consolidation
La fragilite de provinces et leur manque d infrastructures socio-
economiques recommandent pour consolider et p6renniser lee activites
g6n6ratrices de revenus que le projet satisfasseen priorit6 lea besoins
fondamentaux des beneficiaires en matiere d'hydraulique villageoise, de
sant6, de transport, etc.   Lee femmes 6tant lea plus nombreuses dans le
secteur des activites g6n6ratrices de revenue, et 6tant 6galement engag6es
dans d'autres activit6s de survie de la famille, le projet doit 6galement lea
soutenir afin qu'elles aient le temps materiel de participer au projet:
-     Moulins a moteur pour la moulure des c6r6ales;
-     Moulins & traction animale pour la moulure du mil germe
pour lee dolotieres;
-     Presses & karite;
-     Pourpes manuelles pour le maraichage;
-     Charettes pour le transport de la recolte, du bois, ou de
l'eau;
-     Pousse-pousse & eau;
-     Foyers a dolo (pour diminuer la corvee du bois).
Quelques unes de ces mesures peuvent egalement generer des
revenue mais devraient a priori etre consid6r6es sous l'aspect allegement du
travail et etre subventionn6es partiellement ou totalement selon le groupe
b6n6ficiaire et leur environnement socio-6conomique.
Dans un sens large, meme l'approvisionnement en eau potable et la
mise a la disposition des ervices de sant6 primaire peuvent s'averer
n6cessaires pour permettre aux femmes de se consacrer a des activit6e
6conomiques.
Pour des groupes particuliArement vuln6rables, des travaux
d'intdret commun (reboisement, construction des diguettes, des micro-
barrages, etc.) peuvent etre r6mun4r6s par des vivres ou par l'argent (food
for work, cash for work).
3.2   Quelaues Activit6e G6n6ratrices de Revenus
Lee provinces cibles du projet 6tant class6s parmi lea plus
vuln&rables, une identification fine des activites generatrices de revenue
s'av6re ndcessaires quant & leur p6rennit6.   Dans cette perspective,  le
projet a identifie dans une premi4re 6tape, quelques domaines 6numeres ci-
dessous:
-    Petit elevage (moutons de case);
-     Maraichage;
-     Artisanat (tissage, teinture, poterie, vannerie, etc.);
-     Transformation des produits agricoles:
fabrication de dolo
fabrication d'huile et de la pate d'arachide
fabrication du beurre de karit6
fabrication du soumbala
sechage des fruits et des l6gumes
fabrication du jus et de la confiture
sechage des poissons
pr6paration des beignets, galettes, etc.
restauration
* production du misola
-     Prestations de servicea divers (associations de cul Are,
etc.)



- 73 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 8 pages
-     Spiculture
-     Boutiques villageoisees.
Ces activit6s ne repr6sentent qu'un repertoire d'ordre g6neral
6tant entendu que chaque roue a sa propre specificite.
3.3   commorcialisation
Le projet ne se d6marque pas de l'organisation des circuits du
march6 traditionnel. Pour assurer la rentabilite des activites g6n6ratrices
de revenus, une 6tude de l'offres et de la demande doit etre faite afin
d'organiser des filieres de commercialisation tant au niveau des provinces
que des grands centres commerciaux.
De plus, un souci de recherche de qualit6 de conservation et de
stockage doit etre d6veloppe. Une meilleure organisation de la production
dans l'espace et dans le temps peut palier aux difficultes de l'6coulement.
Finalement, une 6ducation nutritionnelle permettra d'une part un
changement des habitudes alimentaires et d'autre part de renforcer l'auto-
consommation des produits souvent destin6s sux plus nantis. Cette strat6gie
de commercialisation sera introduite dans la conception du projet et bien
comprise des b6n6ficiaires.
3.4   Formation
S3il s'agit de l'organisation des b6n6ficiaires du projet, de la
r_alisation des activit6es ou de leur auto-gestion, une forte composante
"formation" y est indispensable.  Les volets suivants ont 6t6 retenus:
-     Alphabetisation fonctionnelle;
-     Formation  technique  salon  les  activites  (6levage,
maraichage, etc.);
-     Formation sur la vie d'un groupement;
-     Formation sur le plan 6pargne-cr6dit;
-     Formation our la gestion des unites 4conomiques;
-     Formation sur le marketing;
-     Education nutritionnelle.
la formation ne doit pas etre ponctuelle mais etre renforc6e par
des recyclages et un encadrement continu ayant comme objectif le
d6veloppement int6gr6 de la communaute et l'auto-gestion des activites des
populations.
3.5   M6canismea de la Formation
La formation et le suivi seront assures par le personnel
d'encadrement des ONG et des services 6tatiques a travers lesquels lee
demandes d'appui ont 6t6 int6gr6es.
Des restitutions de formation (ONG ou structures 6tatiquee
sp6cialis6es) peuvent etre sollicit6es mais ne suffisent pas a elles seules
aux nouveaux besomns du projet. Ce projet peut donc faire appel a d'autres
comp,tences (nationales ou internationales) pour leur confier surtout:
-     l'elaboration d'un programme de formation des populations
et du personnel d'encadrement;
l'elaboration des modules d'information et de formation.



- 74 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 8 pages
La volet alphab6tioation pourrait etre confie par example a
1'INA.
En ce qui concerne la formation en matiere d'6pargne-cr6dit, elle
sera dispeno6e par une ONG sp6cialiu6e (par example:   UCECB).   Avec cee
structures, des contrats de coop6ration seront a 6laborer avec le 'omit6 du
projet et un financement A pr6voir.  Un financement conedquent doit aller a
cette phase de d6marrage du projet.
IV.   OESTION DU PROJET
Dans le respect de la d6centralisation du projet au niveau
provincial, les fond. seront places au niveau dee provinces dans une
institution de financement si elle existe (euccursale de banque de commerce,
COOPEC, CNCA, etc.) Le Comit6 du projet est responsable de l'allocation des
fonds et son ex6cution.   I1 rend compte de son 6tat d'execution aux
b6neficiaires et a la structure de coordination au niveau national.
Le financement du projet aura deux volets:
a)    Volet Subvention
-     pour l'information et la sensibilisation
-     pour lee mesures d'accompagnement (example:  formation,
6tudes, all6gement des taches de la femme, d6senclavement,
hydraulique, sante).
b)    Volet Credit
Le fonds cr6dit sera min a la disposition des projets
g6n6ratrices de revenue et g6r6s par les ONG et lee structures d'encadrement
de lEtat. Il sera plac6 & un taux raisonnable d6cide de commun accord avec
lee b6n6ficiaires.   Leo  individus pourront acc6der aux cr6dits avec la
caution des groupements.
V.    PAR!ME
Af in de d6velopper et de renforcer lea capacitee d' auto-promotion
et d'auto-gestion des b6n6ficiaires du projet, l'idee de l'6pargne sera
introduite des la formulation des projets. Ceci leur permettra d'adh6rer aux
finalit6s recherch6es par le projet.
Lee b6n6ficiaires sont introduits a une strat6gie d'4pargne qui
sera d6velopp6e par une ONG op6cialio6e en la matiure. En occurence, 1'UCECB
qui a une approche adapt6e au monde rural an Burkina Faso.
I1 e'agit de d6velopper lee 6tapee suivantes:
1.    C6r6ales d'Etudes
Ceci est une simple nutuelle de r6flexion dans la phase initiale.
2.    Club d'Eoarane
Lee membres du club commencent & 6pargner.   Des responsables
villageoio sont formes en gestion (initiation a la comptabilite).



- 75 -
Page 8 of 8 pages
3.    Coo2frative de Cr6dit at d'3Jaraue
Si 30 a 50 membres ont epargn6 un minimum de 200.000 FCFA, une
COOPEC pout etre cr66e.
Ce modble qui pr6voit le temp. n6ceosaire (2 & 3 ans)
dlinformation et de formation semble particuliarement adapte pour permettre
aux ftmmes i'int6gration dans le processus d'auto-gestion.
Co mystAme permettra donc a la longuet
-     d'avoir un fonds villageois pour des activitds d'interet
communautaire et individuel et;
-     la cr6ation des comptes d'6pargne personnels.



- 76 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 4 pages
BURKINA FASO
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Vulnerability Index by Province
Regional Variations in Food Insecurity
1.          The identification of geographical location of food insecurity and
malnutrition in Burkina is complex because the situation is highly variable from
year to year.  Available information suggests that the supply of cereals at the
regional level is also extremely uneven.   Results of a regression analysis of
cereals production by CRPA1/ (Regional Centers for the Promotion of Agro-Pastoral
activities) over a 12 year period (1976 - 1987) carried out by CILSS-DIAPER2/ to
assess the trend in surpluses and deficits when compared to a demand of 190 kg per
capita suggests that in only two of the 12 CRPAs was the trend in cereals production
positive.   In five CRPAs it is negative while in the other fi-e it alternates
between surpluses and deficits.   Four main zones can be distinguished (see map
below):
(a)   A northern zone, which includes the CRPAs of the Sahel and Yatenga with
a strong deficit and high variability (coefficients of variation of
0.50 and 0.22 respectively), where production only reaches 50 to 60% of
needs. The population is about 1.0 million inhabitants;
(b)   A central zone, which includes the North and Center CRPAs, with a
lesser deficit and lesser variability and meet only 75 - 100% of needs.
The population is 2.5 million;
(c)   A transition zone, which includes five CRPAs: East, Center East, Center
West, Hauts Bassins, and Bourgouriba with a population of 3.5 million
and where surpluses and deficits alternate; and
(d)   The Western Zone, which includes tLe CRPAs of Mouhoun and Comoe, with
a surplus, and a population of about ..2 million inhabitants.
2.          The distribution of surplvtses and deficits can largely be explained by
the agro-climatic environment in the various regions of the country. The northern
zone has the lowest rainfall and is not suitable to rainfed cropping except in
bottom lands. Livestock is the main activity. The central zone endures a major
cereals shortfall largely because of its low productivty agriculture, itself due to
the high rate of natural resource degradation. The transition zone benefits from
higher rainfall and lower population densities. However, the rainfed production
systems do not suffice to meet demand in case of a rainfall shortfall.  For the
western zone, rainfall is good, production systems are considerably more intensive,
and, in the case of Como6, more fertile lands are available.
3.          It is not to be concluded, however, the larger the cereals production
deficits the more vulnerable the population to food insecurity. In regions where
there are cereals production deficits purchases from surplus regions or from imports
would be made provided that there is adequate road and storage infrastructure, and
l/There are currently 12 "CRPA regionb& for the 30 provinces in Burkina.
2/See CILSS-DIAPER data bank, Ministry of Agriculture.



- 77 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 4 pages
the purchasing power is adequate.  Access to some parts of the country is difficult,
in particular during the rainy season when some villages are cut from main road
communications for several weeks. For example, the three northern CRPAs which have
a structural cereals deficit are inaccessible during the rains; seven other
provinces in a similar situation are Gourma, Tapoa, Sissili, Bourgouriba, Poni,
Sourou, and Kenedougou (see map IBRD 238668).
BASIC STATISTICS FOR THE FOUR SELECTED PROVINCES
# Women &
Vulnerable   Children at
Province    Departments      Villages      Population    Population         Risk
Gnagna              6             223          272159          73338         16134
Namentenga          6              98          215040         106900         23518
Passore             9             183          234461         52331          11513
Soumn               8             151          217319         124638         27420
TOTAL              29             655          938979         357207         78585



- 78 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 4 pages
RANKING OF PROVINCIAL DATA FOR VA91 3/
File Name: Provweit
November 8, 1991
Table 1:    Selected indicators and their relative importance to the regional domain
of vulnerability to famine in Burkina Faso.
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__----
Indicator                                                   Weight (%)
LONG-TERM         Subtotal (%)      30
Crude death rate                                                  5
Infant mortality rate                                             5
Literacy rate                                                     5
School attendance rate                                            5
Hospital beds per capita                                          5
Coefficient of variability of t___l cereal production             5
MEDIUM/TERM       Subtotal (%)      35
Distance to artisanal gold mining sites                           6
Percent populetion out of the country in 1985                     6
Cotton production per capita                                      4
Livestock per capita                                              4
Pasture carrying capacity per capita                              3
Total cereal production per capita                                6
Irrigated gardening (sq. meters per capita)                       2
Pearnut production per capita                                     2
Production of other crops per capita                              2
SHORT-TERM        Subtotal (%       35
1989 Offici&l cereal balance, % different from average           10
1990 Provisional cereal balance, % different from average         5
1990 Official cereal balance, % different from average           10
Maximum NDVI for 1990, % different from average                  10
TOTAL                                                                 100
3/Ranking by USAID-FEWS.



- 79 -
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 4 pages
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__-
Province          LT       Rank     MT        Rank     ST       Rank     Overall
NAHOURI           0.65     14       0.44       2       0.61      3        1
GNAGNA            0.29      1       0.63      18       0.98      7        2
BAZEGA            0.69     16       0.58      11       0.58      2        3
YATENGA           0.57      9       0.64      19       0.68      4        4
ZOUNDWEOGO        0.58     10       0.53      5        0.99      8        5
PASSORE           0.53      7       0.78     28        0.51      1        6
SOUM              0.33      2       0.49       4       1.49     18        7
NAMENTENGA        0.41      3       0.57      10       1.31     16        8
OUBRITENGA        0.54      8       0.55       7       1.38     17        9
BOULKIEMDE        0.86     19       0.47       3       1.08     10       10
KOURITENGA        0.99     23       0.53       6       0.89      5       11
SANGUIE           0.65     15       0.65      21       1.21     13       12
SANMATENGA        0.63     13       0.72      27       1.13     11       13
GOURMA            0.60     11       0.68      24       ..28     14       14
BOULGOU           0.97     21       0.58      14      1. 95      6       15
BAM               0.69     17       0.'8      25       1.19     12       16
TAPOA             0.61     12       0.62      16       1.54     20       17
SOUROU            0.97     20       0.63      17       0.99      9       18
GANZOURGOU        0.44      4       0.79      29       1.55     21       19
SENO              0.44      5       0.56       8       2.11     28       20
ADIOGO            1.25     27       0.20       1       1.85     25       21
OUDALAN           0.51      6       0.58      13       2.25     30       22
SISSILI           0.83     18       0.56       9       1.83     24       23
BOUGOURIBA        1.16     26       0.70      26       1.30     15       24
KOSSI             0.98     22       0.58      12       1.90     26       25
MOUHOUN           1.27     28       0.60      15       1.51     19       26
KENEDOUGOU        1.03     24       0.67      23       1.80     23       27
COMOE             1.30     29       0.80      30       1.61     22       28
PONI              1.13     25       0.66      22       2.24     29       29
HOUET             1.37     30       0.64      20       1.99     27       30



- 80 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 8 pages
BURKINA FASO
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
NUTRITION EDUCATION
A.     WHAT EXISTS IN NUTRITION EDUCATION:
1.          Most nutrition education in Burkina Faso takes place in health
facilities. Many health projects and some agriculture projects have a
nutrition education component. The main nutrition education projects are:
Ministry of Health: USAID's Nutricom (in 8 provinces); the USAID-HKI
vitamin A project (in 4 provinces); the RENA-UNESCO multi-media pilot
project (in 1 province); the USAID child survival project with Save
the Children (in 1 province); the CATHWELL's CREN project.
Ministry of Agriculture: the UNDP-FAO vitamin A project (in 4
provinces); the USAID nutrition in agriculture priject (nationwide).
NUTRITION PROJECTS EXISTING IN THE FOUR PROJECT PROVINCES
PROJET/      Nutr'  m   SMI-   Vitamin    Vitamin A  TDCI         Surv.
PROVINCE                 PF      A          (HKI-       (Medicu   Croiss
(USAID)    (B.M.   (PNUD-     USAID)      8
_                )       ~~~~~~~FAO             Mundi)    (PNUD)|
-Tutelle-    --MSAS--   -MSAS   --MAE--    --MSAS--   --MSAS-   -MSAS-
Gnagna       XX
Namentenga                       XX         XX          XX
Passor6                   XX                            XX        XX
Soum                                                              XX
2.          Burkina has some very innovative approaches to communication,
one in particular is used by the GRAAP, INADES-Formation as well the CESAO
which are NGOO specialized in training of trainers, that approach war
originally developed by the GRAAP and is therefore called the GRAAP method;
it consists in participatory training rather than the more dogmatic
traditional approach. This participatory training of village associations
is used mainly for environmental projects, management of small projects,
although some training programs have been designed for health, and hygiene.
The trainers have themes which are used for discussion and the villegers
themselves actually develop their messages. Other communication channels
are used in Burkina, such as the rural radio with radio-contests, village
theater, and videos. Existing nutrition education projects have provided
extensive information on the knowledge, attitude and prartices of the
population on nutritiou through focus group surveys.
3.          The diagnosis of existing nutrition education programs (done by
the appraisal team) shows that there are several problems:



- 81 -
ANNEX VI,
Page 2 of 8 pages
-     because most of the nutrition education is health center based,
the coverage could still be increased by using to their full
potential the other communication channels.
-     need to focus the content of training: extension workers are
subject to numerous training sessions and are asked to
integrate a multitude of messages (See Annex 1 for list of
messages).
-     sometimes not always the same advice is provided through the
messages, or messages are not clearly defined (like "sensitize
fathers so they get more involved in their children's
feeding"), at other times messages seem awkward (like
classifying food into three food groups according to the colors
of the national flag, and include in the "green group" carrots
and oranges).
-     need to monitor and evaluate nutrition education efforts.
--    reinforce the participatory approach to communication.
3     need to develop provincial level communication strategies for
nutrition education in order to coordinate efforts of different
sectors and provide the same messages to the population.
B.    NUTRITION EDUCATION IN THE PROPOSED PRCIECT:
4.          Most of the solutions to nutrition problems can only be found
at community level. In order to increase community awareness of these
problems, and mobilize appropriate solutions, nutrition education must be
established at that level. The participatory communication method
developed by GRAAP will be used in the project. The weakness of this
method, according to the GRAAP director, is that trainees need to be
properly monitored because otherwise they tend to go back to their original
teaching approach, this weakness will be solved by assigning a full-time
trainer/supervisor to the project. In addition to this inter-personal
method of communication, a multi-media approach will be used to reinforce
the messages developed by the communities and the extension workers.
S.          The goal of the nutrition education component is to contribute
to the improvement of the nutritional status of children in the target
population. The objectives are to improve feeding habits of children and
spending habits for families which participate in income generation
activities.
6.          The project will finance the following:
-     a beneficiary assessment to identify the food and nutrition
concerns of the target population. It will identify the
overlap between the concerns of the target population and those
of the nutrition specialists. The results will help orient the
content of the nutrition education campaign by identifying the
themes and their wording.
-     a sensitization campaign for the Food Security and Nutrition
Fund: during this campaign it will be necessary that the
objectives of the activities funded by the Fund be understood,
and agreed upon, by the target population: the improvement of
children feeding and nutritional status. The target population
must then also accept to have the nutrition education sessions



- 82 -
ANNEX VX
Page 3 of 8 pages
in their villages. These conditions will be stipulated in the
contract between the NGO/Agriculture Service, the Beneficiary
Group, and the Provincial Project Unit.
-     a multi-media nutrition education campaign involving
development and distribution of video films, theater plays,
radio contests, exchange of experiences between village
associations, and printing of some messages in support to the
other communication channels. A schedule of distribution for
each communication channel has already been proposed.
-     a rapid assessment of training needs of extension agents in
each of the four project provinces; this assessment will be
done by a consultant in four weeks.
-     an intensive inter-personal communication campaign using the
GRAAP method and delivered by agriculture and NGO extension
workers at the village level (see Annex 2 for details) with
training of extension workers.
-     the development of inter-sectoral provincial communication
plans through workshops.
C.    INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK:
7.          A contract will be established between the provincial project
unit and INADES, or another such training institution. INADES already
collaborates in the training of trainers for the Ministry of Agriculture.
The provincial committee for food security and nutrition will ensure the
coordination of the nutrition education campaign in its province, and its
supervision. It is essential that a person be identified in each
provincial project unit to take care specifically of the nutrition
education sub-component.
D.    DEVELOPMENT OF THE PROVINCIAL PLAN FOR NUTRITION EDUCATION:
8.          Only the provinces will be able to develop a nutrition
education plan. In order to refine, or to develop the provincial nutrition
aducation plan, a provincial seminar of 2 days will take place (financed
under PPF for the provinces of Gnagna and Namentenga). This seminar will
inform all participants about .hea project, it. objectives, and
implementation schedule. It will be the occasion to provide the results of
the beneficiary assessment, and the nutrition education messages. The
target groups and communication channels will be examined and refined.
This seminar will use as working document the nutrition education report
left by the appraisal mission and the report that the consultant on
training will have written as well as on existing sectoral provincial
communication plans (the MOH is going to develop such a plan in Gnagna, and
the Rural Development Ministry is going to do one in Passore).
The Food Security and Nutrition Project Provincial Unit:
9.          This Unit will be responsible for the project nutrition
activities, and will have the specific tasks to undertake:
a.    collaborate in the elaboration of the provincial plan of action
for nutrition education and see to its implementation.



- 83 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 8 pages
b.    sign a contract with the NGOs which will be implementing parts
of the plan of action: training, theater, radio...
c.    plan, monitor and update the training calendar.
d.    monitor the implementation schedule of the nutrition
activities, analyze results, provide feedback to the field and
central levels.
e.    harmonize the messages and of the training with all partners
concerned.
f.    distribute nutrition education material.
g.    supervise nutrition education activities; a supervision
schedule and system will be developed which will focus on the
following items:
h.    ensure that beneficiaries are the targeted population, if this
is not the case, identify means to better target. For this,
discussions with villagers who do not participate in the
project will be necessary.
i.    monitor the quality of nutrition education.
j.    inform the provincial project unit of progress, future
activities, and problems encountered.
The Central Level Project Unit: The Household Food Security Unit
10.         One person will be assigned specifically to nutrition
education.  The TORs for this person still need to be developed.  This
person will be in charge of monitoring and evaluation as well as
supervision.
11.         The monitoring and evaluation will concentrate on the following
elements:
a.    distribution of material;
b.    implementation schedule and administration;
c.    access to communication channels by target population;
d.    reach of the messages;
e.    proper knowledge of the messages by beneficiaries and trainees;
f.    proper modification of practices by beneficiaries;
g.    nutritional status of beneficiaries' children.



- 84 -
ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 8 pages
ANMX 1
LES THEMES/MESSAGES D'EDUCATION NUTRITIONNELLE
THEM1ES                    A _            X  D
Los diffirarts gopes d'a_imnts                        X     X      X
La prEpamtion des aliments/reoetes                    X            X
Pratiques de wvrage pour 0-1 an                       X     X
Bouille I partir de 4 mois (B et D= entre 4-6 mois)   X     X            X
Bouillie doit etre enrichie avec aliments donnant energie   X
Bouille 3-4/4-S fois parjour                          X     X
Hygiene dana preparation at conservation aliments     X            X
d'enfanta
SenabiL;aer pOres pour r'impliquer plus dans alimentation    X  X        X
enfants (D=mari doit voeiUr I ce que sa famille mange
auez ae viande, legumes et fiuits)
Enrichir bouillie avec du beurre                            X
Utiliser lait entier pour prEparer yaouwt                   X
Manger aauce avec feuiWes vertes pluaieurs fois/jour         X
Allaitement est la meilleur aliment pour 4 premiers mois    X
Continuer allaiter juaqua 24 mois                           X
Un enfint min groat                                         X
Un enfant doit manger plus durant et aprbs maladie          X
Femmea encente aet allaitantes ont besoin de plus de        X            X
nourriture (D: manger au moins 3 foierour)
Encourager traitement traditionnel lutte avitamlnose A      X
avec consommation de foic
Consequences de mauvaise alimentation                              X
Technologi alimentairu                                             X
Un regime divcrsiSfc est mciileur                           X
Fuure mbre doit e fair rdguli-                                           X
erement examiner durant grose
Demandez b gent ae  ou travailleur social comment                        X
prEparer bouille enichic
LA &mme enceinte a besoin nourritire varide            _                 X
A:       Proet Pilote UNESCO-RENA en Education Nutritionnelle dans la Province du BAM, MSAS-DSF-DESA.
B:       Pfioet Survie d l'Enfhnt, Save the Children US, Dori.
C:       Service Technologie Alimentaire, Bureau Appui k la Formation, MAE (thbmes & l'intention des G.V.,.
D:       GuIe des Anmaeu: 'Les Familler Burinabe gur I Chemin de In Sante', MSAS DSF/DESA, 1990 (uide pour auiater
I la preentation de diapoaitives at pour mener des jeux de r6les).



- 85 -
ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 8 pages
ANNEX 2
TRAININO IN kUTRITION EDUCATION
A .   WHO WILL TRAINt
12.         It is proposed that each province develop its training schedule
and curriculum each year, according to the number and location of household
income generating activities to be financed by the Food Security and
Nutrition Project. This will be done by the Provincial Project Unit with
help from the central level (especially from the Food Technology and
Nutrition Service of the Ministry of Agriculture) and with the NGO which
will be in charge of delivering the training. This training schedule and
curriculum will be based on the results of a consultancy to estimate
training needs for each province.
13.         For each province, two trainers from the Food Technoloav and
Nutrition Service of the Ministry of Agriculture and two trainers from an
NGO specialized in training will train extension agents. The Food
Technology and Nutrition Service of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock has a training division which provides training to trainers; in
fact, this Division has 5 resource trainers of trainers.
14.         The Service has established a list of "food and nutrition
training themes according to the target populations". The training program
of CRPA agents lasts 5 to 6 days. The themes are:
-     nutritional needs;
-     the nutrients and their roles (esp. vit. A);
-     the food groups (vit. A rich food in particular);
-     nutritional problems (case of avitaminosis A);
-     nutritional needs of pregnant and lactating women, and of small
children;
-     food and nutrition monitoring;
-     horticulture;
-     food technology (storage, transformation, preserving,
preparation);
-     raising small animals; and
-     pedagogical methods.
15.         The Ministry has, as an example, provided training through its
vitamin A project to the following types of people:
-     agriculture extension agents;
-     health nurses and mid-wives;
-     school teachers;
-     trainers of the Rural Development Ministry;
-     some NGO extension workers.
16.         The main NGOs which work with government services on training
of trainers and direct training of village associations are:
TE GRAAP: this NGO developed a very innovative participatory method
of training called now the GRAAP method. The villagers actually
develop their own messages, and the trainers are simply facilitators
who come with r] theme and orientate the discussion to find solutions
to problems expressed. GRAAP has developed some nutrition education
material which it sells along with its pedagogic method. GRAAP has
provided training to MOH and MOAL staff as well as to personnel of
other organizations; it trains about 1000 persons per year for the



- 86 -
ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 8 pages
last 3 years. GRAAP personnel consists in 6 pedagogy experts who
make up three training teams.
CMSAOs This NGO trains rural development agents and agriculture
workers on themes such as, "initiation to management of community
projects" (this particular training takes 7 weeks), and can organize
training on other themes, according to the demand.
INADES: This NGO organizes training on site. It is already working
with the Ministry of Agriculture. It has not yet elaborated any
training modules on nutrition education, but can do so if there is a
demand. INADES uses the GRAAP method.
WHO WILL BE TRAINED:
17.         Since villagers are in contact with extension agents from
several sectors (from Agriculture, Environment, NGOs, Rural Development,
from Social Action, Forestry, Literacy), it will be essential not to add
anybody new. Therefore, the extension agents from NGOs and from
agriculture will be trained in nutrition education according to the
schedule drawn at the provincial level; a trainer from the central level or
from the NGO in charge of training might accompany these extension agents
during the nutrition education sessions to collaborate with them.
18.         Provincial agriculture extension agents live in a village and
cover several other villages. The norm is one extension agent per village
association.  Reality does not quite correspond to this norm as shown by
the following tables
Province     Nbr. ag.      Nbr.           Nbr.  VA/   Nbr.        Nbr.
extension    existing       extension   existing   village/
agent        village        agent        vil        extension
association                lages      agent
_ _ _ _ _   ~(VA)_          __        _   _   _
Gnagna       24 (1/92)    56              2.3          223        9
Namentenga   26 (1/92)    12              0.5          98         4
Passore      18 (estim)   0               0            183        10
Soum         12 (91)       342            29           151        13
19.         Among the agriculture extension agents, there are few women,
(none in Gnagna, 1 in Passor6, 1 in Namentenga, 4 in Soum). There is one
provincial female coordinator per province in the Bureau of Promotion of
Women's Affairs (called BPAF).
20.         It is estimated that about 150 agriculture extension workers
(although there are only 80 such agents in the four target provinces, their
turnover rate is high, so retraining will be frequent) and 64 NGO extension
workers will be trained in GRAAP method with a focus on nutrition
education; refresher sessions will be organized every other year.



- 87 -
Page 8 of 8 pages
CON5NTM OF TRAINING:
21.         Extension agents will be trained in nutrition education (the
messages), in the objectives and procedures of the Food Security and
Nutrition Project, and in GRAAP methodology.
22.         In order to determine exactly what the training needs are in
each province, a rapid appraisal will be done by the Minietzy of
Agriculture with the help of a consultant to:
-     find out how many extension agents, from all sectors, have
already been trained in nutrition education;
-     estimate their knowledge, attitudes and practices in nutrition.
-     estimate the coverage of these extension agents.
23.         The results will provide an exact estimate of the needs for
further training, for new training, for the best delivery channels to use,
and will identify some bottlenecke.



BURKINA FASO
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Table 1. INTEGRATED EARLY WARNING SYSTEM (CCI)
Detailed Cost Table
CFAF
Totals Including Contingencies             Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
SUS                                       SUS
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997  Total    F.Exch  Local  Taxes  Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. INFORMATION PROCESSING
MICRO COMPWTERS           23.3    0.0    0.0   26.0    0.0    0.0   49.4         49.4    0.0    0.0   49.4
PC UPGRADE                 0.0    2.6    2.7    2.8    5.7    5.9   19.6         19.6    0.0    0.0   19.6                        N
COLOR PRINTER              2.2    0.0    0.0    2.5    0.0    0.0    4.7         4.7    0.0    0.0    4.7                         O
LASER PRINTER              3.3    0.0    0.0    3.7    0.0    0.0    7.0         7.0    0.0    0.0    7.0                        0
UPS                        6.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    6.7          6.7    0.0    0.0    6.7                        C
VEHICLES                  54.5    0.0    0.0   60.7    0.0    0.0  115.2        115.2    0.0    0.0  115.2                       En
POCKET CALCULATORS         2.9    0.0    0.0    3.2    0.0    0.0    6.1         6.1    0.0    0.0    6.1
PHOTOCOPIER                7.8    0.0    0.0    8.7    0.0    0.0   16.5         16.5    0.0    0.0   16.5
CONSULT (MODEL DEVT)       0.0   11.5   11.9   37.1   12.8   13.3   86.6         86.6    0.0    0.0   86.6
TRAINING (MODELS) CONSULT   33.3   11.5   11.9   37.1   12.8   13.3  119.9      119.9    0.0    0.0  119.9
WRKSHOP ON MODEL          26.7    0.0    0.0   29.6    0.0    0.0   56.3         48.0    8.3    0.0   56.3                 n)
TRAINING IJORKSHOP        29.3   30.4   31.5   32.6   33.8   35.0  192.6        164.2   28.4    0.0  192.6                 w 
Sub-Total                 189.9   55.9   58.0  244.0   65.1   67.5  680.6       643.9   36.7    0.0  680.6                                   cO
_._ _ _ _ _ ___ _ _ _ _ _ D ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z                                        OD
Total INVESTMENT COSTS           189.9   55.9   58.0  244.0   65.1   67.5  680.6       643.9   36.7    0.0  680.6                        c    D
11. RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                               W           En 
A. DATA GATHERING 8 ANAL.                                                                                                             0
COST OF SURVEYORS          0.0   64.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   64.6         0.0   64.6    0.0   64.6
SOCIO-ECONOMIST (EUS)     11.2   11.5   11.9   12.2   12.6   13.0   72.4         0.0   72.4    0.0   72.4
COMPUTER SPECIALIST (EWS)   11.2   11.5   11.9   12.2   12.6   13.0   72.4       0.0   72.4    0.0   72.4
TEAM LEADERS               3.4    3.5    3.6    3.7    3.8    3.9   21.7         0.0   21.7    0.0   21.7
SURVEYORS (EWS)           44.9   46.4   47.9   49.5   51.2   52.9  292.7        147.9  144.8    0.0  292.7
TRAINING ALLOWANCES lEWS)    2.5    2.5    2.6    2.7    2.8    2.9   16.1       8.1    8.0    0.0   16.1
FIELD SUPERVISION          4.7    4.9    5.0    5.2    5.4    5.6   30.7         15.5   15.2    0.0   30.7
MAINTENANCE (PCS)          0.4    0.4    0.4    0.8    0.9    0.9    3.7          1.9    1.8    0.0    3.7
MAINTENANCE (PHOTOCOPIER)    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    1.2       0.6    0.6    0.0    1.2
MAINTENANCE (VEHICLES)     1.5    1.5    1.6    1.7    1.7    1.8    9.8         4.9    4.8    0.0    9.8                                 oQ 2
FUEL                       1.0    1.1    1.1    1.2    1.2    1.2    6.8         3.5    3.4    0.0    6.8
VARIOUS SUPPLIES           3.7    3.9    4.0    4.1    4.3    4.4   24.4         12.3   12.1    0.0   24.4
COMIIUICATIOWS             3.7    3.9    4.0    4.1    4.3    4.4   24.4         12.3   12.1    0.0   24.4                                 o
-------     -------     -------     -------     -------     -------     -------  -------   -   . .. ---     -------     -----   o
Sub-Total                  88.4  155.8   94.2   97.7  100.8  104.1  641.0       2e7.1  433.9    0.0  641.0                                  m
Total RECURRENT COSTS             88.4  155.8   94.2   97.7  100.8  104.1  641.0       207.1  433.9    0.0  641.0
Total                         278.3  211.7  152.2  341.7  166.0  171.6 1321.6       851.0  470.6    0.0 1321.6
- Values scaled by 1000.0 4/18/1992 9:29



BJRKINA FASO
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Table 2. RURAL LAIOR INTFU<1VE WORKS
Detai4ed Cost Table
CFAF
Totals Including Contingencies                 Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
WS                                             SW
====~~~ = ==a=============S=======                   = ===_= .=G=--==_=_
1992    1993    1994    1995    199     1997  Total      F.Exch   Local   Taxes  Total
1. INVSTMENT COSTS
.... . ......
A. SUPPORT TO SPPAI
TWO PCS                     23.3     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    23.3        23.3     0.0     0.0   23.3
TWO ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES    54.i    0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   54.5        54.5     0.0     0.0   54.5
Sub-Total                    77.8     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    77.8       77.8     0.0    0.0   77.8
B. INITIAL EWL. STUDY
OPPORTUNITY COST OF LAB.   44.3      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   44.3        33.3    11.1     0.0   44.3
-- - -   -- - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - . . . . . . .. . ... ..  :. .
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             122.1     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   122.1      111.1    11.1     0.0  122.1
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SUWPORT TO SPPAN
PRINTED FORMS               44.3     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0   44.3         33.3    11.1     0.0   44.3
2 COMPUTER SPECIALISTS      23.3    24.0    24.7    25.4    26.2    27.0   150.6         0.0   150.6    0.0  150.6                                         1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE        99.8   103.5     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0   203.3       203.3     0.0     0.0  203.3                                        CD
FOOD FOR WORK               45.2   124.5   254.0   262.5   271.3  280.4  1238.1        626.4   611.7    0.0  1238.1                                        %0
CASH FOR WORK               47.4  130.1   134.0  272.5   280.7  289.1  1153.9            0.0  1153.9     0.0  1153.9                                       1
MATERIALS & SUPERVISION    149.6   213.0   220.2   449.2   464.3  479.9  1976.2        999.9  976.3      0.0  1976.2
NGO & VA SUPERVISION         0.8    0.8      0.8      0.9     0.9    0.9      5.1        2.6     2.5     0.0    5.1
MISOLA DIST                  0.0     0.1      0.1     0.2    0.2      0.2     0.7        0.1     0.7    0.0    0.7
Sub-Total                   410.5  596.0  633.9  1010.8  1043.6  1077.5  4m.3          1865.5  2906.8    0.0 4772.3
Total RECURRENT COSTS              410.5  596.0  633.9  1010.8  1043.6  1077.5  4772.3        1865.5  2906.8    0.0 4772.3
======= ----  ---- ===========  ======= ======= =======    ======= ======= ======= ==m=====
Totat                           532.6  596.0  633.9  1010.8  1043.6  1077.5  4894.4        1976.6  2917.8    0.0 4894.4
- Values scaled by 1000.0 4/18/1992 9:31
0w 



BIRKINA FASO
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Table 3. FINANCING OF INCONE GENERATING ACTIVITIES
Detailed Cost Table
CFAF
Totals Including .ontingencies             Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
'-US                                       SUS
Ws=z                                       $us==  =
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997  Total    F.Exch  Local  Taxes  Total
. ................ ...................................  .........  ................... ..... ........ . ................
1. IIVESTIENT COSTS
A. HOUSEIOLD FOOD SECURITY
OFFICE EQUIP. COORDS        2.1    4.3    6.6    6.9    0.0    0.0   19.9         19.9    0.0    0.0   19.9
INFORMATION CANPAIGN       3.8    4.0    4.1    4.2    4.3    4.5   25.0          3.8   21.1    0.0   25.0
....... ....... ....... . . ..... ....... ....... . ......  23.7   21    0 
SuTotaltt                    5.9    8.2   10.7   11.1    4.3    4.5   44.8         23.7   21.1    0.0   44.8
Total INVSTllENT COSTS             5.9    8.2   10.7   11.1    4.3    4.5   44.8         23.7   21.1    0.0   44.8
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. STAFFING LEVELS
PROVINCIAL COORDINAToRS    12.3   25.4   39.3   54.0   55.7   57.4  244.2         37.4  206.8    0.0  244.2
ACCOIUTANTS (PROVINCIAL)    10.3   21.2   32.7   45.0   46.4   47.9  203.5        31.2  172.3    0.0  203.5
CIOP SPECIALIST (SPONG)    12.3   12.7   13.1   13.5   13.9   14.4   79.9         12.2   67.7    0.0   79.9
ECON/COhI. DEV SPEC        12.3   12.7   13.1   13.5   13.9   14.4   79.9         12.2   67.7    0.0   79.9                                   1
Suj-Totat                   47.2   72.0   98.2  126.0  130.0  134.0  607.5        93.0  514.5    0.0  607.5                                    o
S. MICROPROWECTS FUNDING
INC. GEN. ACTIVITIES       10.3   26.5   60.0   78.8   92.8   95.7  364.1        55.8  308.2    0.0  364.1
INCONSE GEN ACT.(SUPPLIES)   51.3  132.3  300.2  393.9  464.1  478.6  1820.4    279.2  1541.2    0.0 1820.4
NGO/VA OVERHEAD COSTS      8.6   22.2   50.4   66.2   78.0   80.4  305.8         46.9  258.9    0.0  305.8
TA FOR 1ST YR (GNAGNA)    128.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  128.1        128.1    0.0    0.0  128.1
Suh-Total                  198.3  181.0  410.6  538.8  635.0  654.7 2618.4       510.1  2108.3    0.0 2618.4
C. PROJECT PREPARATION
CONSULTANT ON PROJECTS     21.3   22.1    0.0    0.0   24.7    0.0   68.2        68.2    0.0    0.0   68.2
TRANING IGOS & VA          0.0    9.7   10.0    0.0    2.7    5.5   28.0          4.3   23.7    0.0   28.0
CONTRACT LOCAL NGO          0.8    1.7    1.7    0.0    0.5    0.5    5.2         0.8    4.4    0.0    5.2
SubTotal                   22.2   33.6   T1.8    0.0   27.8    6.0  101.3         73.2   28.1    0.0  101.3                               0 
Total RECURRENT COSTS            267.7  286.6  520.6  664.9  792.7  794.7 3327.2        676.3 2650.9    0.0 3327.2                               t X
Total                         273.6  294.8  531.4  676.0  797.1  799.1  3372.0       700.0 2672.0    0.0 3372.0                               O C-4
Values=s=aled===  1000.0 4/18~199-  9--33- C0 C  ==
- Vatues scaled by 1000.0 4/18/1992 9:33                                                                                                        q



BURtKINA FASO
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
1abte 4. SUPPORT TO FOOD SECURITY INSTITUTIONS
Detailed Cost Table
CfAF
Totals Including Contingencies               Breakdown of Totals IncL.Cont.
SUS                                          SUS
=22=22222=2=22222       == =      ……= =                     …==…SW$us-    2
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997  Total    F.Exch  Local  Taxes  Total
....................................  ...............................................  ................ ..........................................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. PERNMAENT SECRETARIAT
OFFICE SPACE               123.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  123.5          92.7   30.8    0.0  123.5
ALL TERRAIN VEHICLE        28.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   28.8           28.8    0.0    0.0   28.8
DELIVERY VEHICLES (2)       41.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   41.2          41.2    0.0    0.0   41.2
PCS AND PRINTERS (2 EACH)   41.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   41.2          41.2    0.0    0.0   41.2
PHOTOCOPY, FAX & OTHER      33.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   33.0          33.0    0.0    0.0   33.0
Stb-Total                   2i7.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  267.6         236.8   30.8    0.0  267.6
B. SUPPORT TO SPONG & BSONG
1 VEN. EACH SP 8 SSONG     57.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   57.7           57.7    0.0    0.0   57.7
2 PCS AND PRINTERS EACH    41.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   41.2           41.2    0.0    0.0   41.2
PHOTOCOP. & TYPEUR. EACH    21.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   21.2          21.2    0.0    0.0   21.2
............ .... .... ........................... .........    .......    ..........    ......  .....    .......   ..........    .......  -------.. -----     --- -   --- --
Sub-Total                   120.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  120.0         120.0    0.0    0.0  120.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            387.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    C.0  387.7          356.9   30.8    0.0  387.7
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. STAFF
SECRETARIAL STAFF            8.9    9.1    9.4    9.7   10.0   10.3   57.4           0.0   57.4    0.0   57.4
ADMINISTRATOR/ACCOUNTANT    12.3   12.7   13.1   13.5   13.9   14.3   79.7           0.0   79.7    0.0   79.7
DRIVERS (3)                  8.1    8.4    8.6    8.9    9.1    9.4   52.6           0.0   52.6    0.0   52.6
MESSENGER                    2.0    2.0    2.1    2.2    2.2    2.3   12.7           0.0   12.7    0.0   12.7
STAFF TRAINING              16.4   16.9    0.0   17.9    0.0   19.0   70.3           0.0   70.3    0.0   70.3
SECONNENT IOEMNITY           9.9   10.1   10.5   10.8   11.1   11.4   63.7           0.0   63.7    0.0   63.7
MISSION ALLOWANCES           7.4    7.6    7.8    8.1    8.3    8.6   47.8           0.0   47.8    0.0   47.8
.......     ......... .......     .........  ...... ...... .......     ....... . . ------   ------   --- --   -------..... ... ...... ............. ....................
Sub-Total                   64.9   66.9   51.5   71.0   54.6   75.3  384.1            0.0  384.1    0.0  384.1
8. EXPATRIATE STAFF                     1               1
SHORT TERM CONSULTANCIES    14.4   14.9   15.5   16.1   16.7   17.3   94.9          94.9    0.0    0.0   94.9                               oj Z
TECINICAL ADVISOR          140.9  146.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  286.9         286.9    0.0    0.0  286.9
Sub-Total                   155.3  161.0   15.5   16.1   16.7   17.3  381.9         381.9    0.0    0.0  381.9                               4 
C. OPERATING COSTS                                                                                                                               ° H
VEH. OFFICE EQUIP 0 & N     9.4    9.7   10.0   10.3   10.7   11.1   61.2           30.9   30.3    0.0   61.2                                  H
OFFICE SUPPLIES             20.6   21.2   22.0   22.7   23.5   24.2  134.2          67.8   66.4    0.0  134.2
Sub-Total                    29.9   30.9   32.0   33.0   34.2   35.3  195.3          98.7   96.6    0. t   195.3
D. RESEARCH AND IMPACT EVAL
PROJECT IMPACT EVAL.         0.0   48.4    0.0   51.7    0.0   55.3  155.5          78.7   76.8    0.0  155.5
PRIORITY RES. FUNDING        0.0   48.4   50.1   51.7   53.5   55.3  259.0         131.1  127.9    0.0  259.0
Sub-Total                    0.0   96.9   50.1  103.5   53.5  110.6  414.5          209.P  204.7    0.0  414.5
Total RECURRENT COSTS             250.2  355.7  149.0  223.6  158.9  238.4  1375.8         690.3  685.5    0.0  1375.8
======= ======= ======= ======= ======= ======= =======   :====== ======= ======= =======
Total                          637.8  355.7  149.0  223.6  158.9  238.4  1763.5    1047.2  716.3    0.0  1763.5
- Values scaled by 1Ce0.0 4/18/1992  9:35



BURKINA FASO
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Table 6. PROJECT PREPARATION (PPF REFINANCING)
Detailed Cont Table
CFAF
Totals Including Contingencies     Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.                                                         GERNAJY
WuS                               Sus                                   Parameters                       Fin. in $US
1992   1993-97     Total     F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total    Phy. Cont. For. Exch.  Gross Tax Sum. Acnt.       92-97  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. PPF REFINANCING
BASELINE SURVEY             46.9        0.0      46.9       23.5    23.4     0.0    46.9           0.10       0.50       0.00 PPF              0.0    0.0
BENEFICIARY ASSESSMENT      70.9       0.0       70.9       35.5    35.4     0.0    70.9           0.10       0.50       0.00 PPF              0.0    0.0
CONSULTANT (ESV)            46.9       0.0       46.9       42.3     4.7     0.0    46.9           0.10       0.90       0.00 PPF              0.0    0.0
INITIAL NGO TRAINING        18.9       0.0       18.9        4.7    14.2     0.0    18.9          0.10        0.25       0.00 PPF              0.0    0.0
Sub--Total                  183.6        0.0     183.6      106.0   77.6      0.0   183.6                                                       0.0    0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             183.6        0.0     183.6      106.0   77.6      0.0   183.6                                                       0.0    0.0
===== ============== === ========.....   ...... ...   .........  -------  ---------====-                              ---   ---
Total                           183.6        0.0     183.6      106.0   77.6    0.0   183.6                                                         0.0    0.0
Values scaled by 1000.0  4/18/1992  9:38
'a
UV
O -
'th 



BUNKIIIA FASO
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION MROJECT
Table 5. NUTRITION INFORNATIO1, EDLICATION. AND CONMIIIICATION
Detalted Cost Table
CFAF
Totals Including Contingencies               Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
SUS                                          SUS5
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997  Total    F.Exch   Local  Taxes  Total
... . . . . . .. . . . . . ........ ... ....  .........   .  ..... . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. NUTRITION EDUC CAMPAIGN
2 VIDEO VANS                28.8   29.9   62.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  120.7           120.7    0.0    0.0  120.7
B. INITIAL NUT STUDIES
NIUT STATUIS IN 4 PROWN.     0.0   29.2   30.1   31.1    0.0    0.0   90.4            13.8   76.6    0.0   90.4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              28.8   59.1   92.1   31.1    0.0    0.0  211.1          134.5   76.6    0.0  211.1
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. NUTRITION EDUCATION
INUTRITION EDUC. CONSULT    16.0   16.6    0.0   17.9   18.5   19.2   88.2           88.2    0.0    0.0   88.2
IN-SERVICE TRAINING          3.7    6.6    6.8    7.0    7.2    7.5   38.8            5.9   32.9    0.0   38.8
NUT EDUCATION IN VILLAGES   34.9   38.1   40.6   42.8   43.9   45.3  245.6           37.5  208.1    0.0  245.6
TRAINING IN NUT. EDUC.      22.6   22.0   26.1   23.6   25.2   25.9  145.3           22.2  123.1    0.0  145.3
RADIO, THEATER CtOII.       20.5   21.2   27.1   33.3   34.3   35.4  171.8            26.3  145.6    0.0  171.8                                      (
SEMINARS COMI STRATEGY      23.0   23.7   27.9   33.3   34.3   35.4  177.7           27.2  150.6    0.0  177.7
SUPERVISION (NUJT. EDUC)     3.3    5.1    7.C    7.2    7.4    7.7   37.6            5.8   31.9    0.0   37.6
IMPACT EVAL. (NUT EDUC)      0.0   24.3   25.2    0.0   27.2   28.2  104.9          104.9    0.0    0.0  104.9
CONTRACT WITH INADES         4.0    4.1      6.0    6.9    6.4    7.7   35.1           5.4   29.7    0.0   35.1
.*Tt-18    161.7 1-6.8  171.9  204.5  212.2  1045.1        323.3  721.8    0.0  1045.1
Sub-Totat                   128.0  161.7  166.8  171.9  204.5  212.2  1045.1         323.3  721.8    0.0  1045.1
Totat RECURREIIT COSTS             128.0  161.7  166.8  171.9  204.5  212.2  1045.1         323.3  721.8    0.0  1045.1
Total                           156.8  220.8  258.9  203.0  204.5  212.2  1256.2         457.8  798.4    0.0  1256.2
Values scaled by 1000.0 4/18/1992  9:37
I tD >
o 
%h 



BURKINA FASC
FOWO SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
CfAF                             SUS                          X Total
--------------<---------------    ...........................  X Foreign       Base
Local   Foreign     Total       Local  Foreign    Total     Exchange    Costs
............ --------------------- . ... ....  .................................  --------------------
A. Early Warning System              117.2     205.2     322.4          0.4     0.8       1.2        63.7       10.7
8. Institution Building              161.9    243.5      405.3         0.6      0.9       1.5        60.1       13.5
C. Labor Intensive Uorks             713.1     480.2    1193.3         2.6       1.8     4.4         40.2      39.8
0. Income Gen. Activities            591.5     160.2     751.7         2.2      0.6       2.8        21.3       25.0
E. Nutrition IEC                     180.0    103.9    284.0            0.7     0.4       1.0        36.6       9.5
F. PROJECT PREPARATION (PPF)          18.9      25.7      44.6         0.1      0.1      0.2         57.6       1.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                1782.6    1218.7    3001.3         6.6      4.5     11.0         40.6     100.0
Physical Contingencies             95.3      50.2     145.5         0.4      0.2      0.5         34.5       4.8
Price Contingencies               203.6     128.8    332.4          0.7      0.5      1.2         38.7      11.1
Total PROJECTS COSTS                2081.6   1397.7   3479.3           7.7      5.1     12.8         40.2     115.9
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 - 4/18/1992 9:39
O C
0o



BURKINA FASO
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Sumary Accounts Cost Sumry
CFAF                              SUS                          X Total
---------------------.......    ...........................---   XForeign        Base
Local   Foreign     Total        Local  Foreign    Total     Exchange      Costs
I. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. INTEGRATED EMS                      8.6     154.8      163.4         0.0      0.6       0.6         94.8       5.4
B. INSTITUTION BUILDING                7.5      86.6      94.1          0.0      0.3       0.3         92.0       3.1
C. LABOR INTENSIVE WORKS               3.0      29.7       32.6         0.0      0.1       0.1         90.9       1.1
0. INCOME GEN. ACTIVITIES              0.0       4.5        4.5         0.0      0.0       0.0        100.0       0.1
E. Nutrition IEC                      17.6      31.1       48.7         0.1      0.1       0.2         63.9       1.6
F. PPF REFINANCING                    24.2      26.7      50.8          0.1      0.1      0.2          52.5       1.7
, .............................................. ... .... .  ................................ ........ ...........................  -------------
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                60.8     333.4      394.2         0.2       1.2      1.4         84.6      13.1
, .........  ............................. .................... .................................. .   -----------
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INTEGRATtD EMS                    108.6      50.4      159.0         0.4       0.2      0.6         31.7       5.3
S. INSTITUTION BUILDING              154.4      156.8     311.2         0.6      0.6       1.1         50.4      10.4
C. LABOR INTENSIVE WORKS             710.2     450.5    1160.6          2.6       1.7      4.3         38.8      38.7
D. INCOME GEN. ACTIVITIES            586.3      154.8     741.0         2.2       0.6      2.7         20.9      24.7
E. Nutrition IEC                     162.4      72.8      235.3         0.6      0.3       0.9         31.0       7.8
Total RECURRENT COSTS               1721.8     885.3   2607.1           6.3      3.3       9.6         34.0      86.9                                                     '0
Total BASELINE COSTS                1782.6    1218.7    3001.3          6.6      4.5      11.0         40.6     100.0
Physical Contingencies             95.3      50.2      145.5         0.4      0.2       0.5         34.5       4.8                                                       1
Price Contingencies               203.6     128.8      332.4         0.7      0.5       1.2         38.7      11.1
,---------     -......... -------... . -. ............. ............ ................. . ..... ................  ..................... 
Total PROJECTS COSTS                2081.6    1397.7    3479.3          7.7      5.1      12.8         40.2     115.9
----    ---------------------    ==== =========== ===-- - - -- - -== s==  =====m-=======s======
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 -  4/18/1992  9:?9
00 z
OQ 
O 0
bb F



BURKINA FASO
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Financing Plan by Foreign Exchange / Local / Taxes
$us
WORLD FOOD      IDA      GOVERNMENT
GERANUY     PROGRM      FINANCING  OF BURKINA        Total
..... ........ ...........................  ...... .........
Amount      Amount      Amount       Amount       Amount
I   Foreign                          1.2          0.5         3.1          0.3         5.1
11  Local (Excl. Taxes)              1.5          0.6         4.3          1.2         7.7
III Taxes                            0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
.. .. ..... ... .. ........ ............ ... ... ... ... .. ... ......
Total Project                        2.7          1.1         7.5          1.5         12.8
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 4/18/1992 9:40
00
o
C -



- 97 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 4 pages
BURKINA FASO
PROJET DE SECURITE ALJIMENTAIRE ET DE NUTRITION
lDraft Decree creating the CNCPC)
LE PRESIDENT DU FASO.
CHEF DE L'ETAT
CEL' DU GOUVERNEMENT
-     Vu la Proclamation du 4 Aout 1983;
-     VVu la Proclamation du 15 Otobre 1987;
-     VVu la Zatu No. AN V-0001/FP du 15 Octobre 1987 portant cr6ation du Front
Populaire;
-     Viu le Kiti No. AN VII-022/fp/PRES du 21 Septembre 1989 portant remaniement du
Gouvernement Revolutionnaire bu Burkina Faso;
=     Sur Proposition du Ministre de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage;
=     Le Conseil des Ministres entendu en sa s6ance du
P R O N O N C E
Article ler:       I1 eat cree un Com't6 National de Coordination de la Politique
C6e6aliere est regi par lee dispositions du present Kiti.
Article 2:        Le Comit6 National de Coordination de la Politique C6r6alidre est
r6gi par les dispositions du pr6sent Kiti.
Article 3:        Le Comit6 National de Coordination de la Politique C6r4ali&re est
place sous ls tutelle technique du Ministre charge de
1'Agriculture.
TITRE I - ATTRIBUTIONS
Article 4:        Le Comite National de Coordination de la Politique C6rgaliire est
charg6:
do  l'orientation,  la coordination et  le suivi de la
Politique C6r6alibre;
de  l'approbation  des  propositions  de  gestion  de  la
Politique  C6r6aliere en fonction de la conjoncture;
do   l'instauration  d'une   large   concertation  entre
partenaires et acteurs de la filiere c6realiere;
du suivi de la mise en oeuvre du Plan C6realier et de
l14tablissement des bilans periodiques.
TITRE II - COMPOSITION
Article 5s        Le Comite National de Coordination de la Politique C6r&ali6re se
compose comme suit:
Pr6sident: Le Ministre charge de l'Agriculture
Membres:    Le Ministre charg6 du Commerce
Le Minsitre charge de l'Action Cooperative Paysanne
Le Ministre charg6 de l'Environnement et du Tourisme



- 98 -                          ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 4 pages
Le Ministre charge de 1'Action Sociale
Le Ministre charg6 du Plan et de la Coop6ration
Le Ministre charg4 de l'Eau
Le Ministre chargd de la Promotion Economique
Le Ministre charg6 des Finances
Le Ministre chargfi des Transports et Communications
Le Ministre charg6 de l'Administration Territcriale
Le Ministre charg6 de la Recherche Scientifique
Le Ministre charge de l'Equipement
Le Ministre charge de l'Information
Le Pr6sident du CRES
Le Pr6sident de la Chambre de Commerce
TITRE ISI - ORGANISATIONIFONCTIONNEMENT
Article 6s         Le Comite National de Coordination de la Politique C6r6alibre
dispose des Organes suivants de concertation et de mise en
oeuvre:
-     Un Secretariat Permanent charge de la preparation et de
l'ex6cution des decisions. I1 est anim6 par un Secr6taire
Permanent nomme par Kiti pris en Conseil des Ministres sur
proposition du Ministre charge de l'Agriculture.
-     Un Comit6 de Coordination de l'Information charge de la
collecte, du traitement et de la diffuston des informations
sur la situation agricole et alimenta.re.
-     Un fonds de d6veloppement Cer6alier pour le financement des
op6rations de mise en oeuvre de la politique c6r6aliAre.
-     Une Maison des Cereales our Chambre d'Agriculture, lieu de
rencontres et de concertation des acteurs de la filiere
cereali6re.
.Airticle 7:       Le Comit6 se reunit en session ordinaire deux fois par an sur
convocation de son Pr6sident, et en session extraordinaire chaque
fois que de besoin.
Article 8s         Des  textes  organiques  pr6ciseront  les  attriDutions  et  le
fonctionnement   du  Secretariat   Permanent,   du  Comite  de
Coordination de l'Information, du Fonds de Developpement
C6r6alier et de la Maison des Cer6ales ou Chambre d'Agriculture.
Article 2:         Le pr6sent Kiti qui abroge toutes  dispositions  ant6rieures
contraires, sera enregistr6 et publie au Journal Officiel du
Faso.
LA PATRIE OU LA MORT, NOUS VAINCRONSI
Ouagadougou, le
Le Ministre de l'Agriculture
et de 1'Elevage



- 99 -                        ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 4 pages
(Draft Decree Creating the Permanent Secretariat of the CNCPC)
LE MINISTRE DE L'AGRICULTURE ET DE L'ELEVAGO
PRESIDENT DU COMITE DE COORDINATION
DE LA POLITIQUE CEREALIERE
-     Vu la Proclamation du 4 Aout 1983;
-     Vu la Proclamation du 15 Octobre 1987;
-     Vu  la Zatu No. AN V-00O1/FP du 15 Octobre portant creation du Front
Populaire;
-     Vu l  Kiti No. AN VII-0022/FP/PRES du 21/09/89 portant rema-iement du
Gouvernement RGvolutionnaire du Burkina Faso;
-     Vu le Kiti No. AN VIII-         /'FP/AGRI-EL du            portant c  .-tion du
Comit6 de Coordination de la Politique C6r6aliare.
AN NON C E
Article ler:       Les attributions et l'organisation du Secretariat Permanent du
Comit6 National de Coordination de la Politique C6r6ali6re sont
fix6eo par lea dispositions du present Raabo.
TITHE I - ATTRIBUTIONS
Article 2:         Le Secr6tariat Permanent, Organe executif du Comit6 National de
Coordination de la Politique C6r6ali6re, eat charge de:
-     La preparation et l'ex6cution des d6cisions du ComitA
National de Coordination de la Politique Cer6aliere.
-     des 6tudes n6cessaires a la mise en oeuvre de la Politique
C6r6ali6re.
-     L'exploitation et la diffusion de lInformation issue du
Comit6 de Coordination de l Information.
-     proposer, en relation avec le Comite de Gestion du Fonds de
D6veloppement Cerealier, les Secr6tariata de la Commission
Nationale de Lutte contre lea Effets de la Secheresse et du
Comite de Coordination de l'Information et toute autre
structure comp6tente, les mosures de geotion de la
Pol.atique C6r6ali6re et de la Securit6 Alimentaire.
-     suivre et evaluer lea strat6gies et programmes de Politique
C6r6aliAre et de S6cuirit6 Alimentaire.
Article 3s         Le Secrltariat Permanent tient les Proces-Verbaux et actes du
COmit6 de Coordination de la Politique C6r6aliere.
TITRE II - ORGANISATION
Article-4s         Le Secretariat Permanent est plac6 sous 1'autorite du Pr4sident
du Comite National de Coordination de la Politique C6r6ili6re.
Artigle 5:         Le Secr6tariat Permanent est dirige par un Secr6taire Permanent
nomm5 par Kiti pris en Conseil des Ministres sur proposition du
President du Comit6 National de Coordination de la Politique
Cdr6ali&re.



- 100 -                         ANNEX VIII
Page 4 of 4 pages
Article 6s         Le Secrftaire  Permanent a sous son autorit6  1 enoemble  du
personnel  du  Secr6tariat  Permanent  du  Comit6  National  de
Coordination de  la Politique C6r6aliere  dont  il assure  la
coordination at le controle des taches.
I1 veille A la bonne gestion des cr6dits et mat6riels mis a la
disposition du Secr6tariat Permanent.
En cas d'absence ou d'empechement, il propose au Pr6sident du
Comit6 son int6rimaire parmis le personnel caidre sup6rieur.
Article 7:         Le Secretaire Permanent rend periodiquement compte des activit6s
du Secr6tariat Permanent au Pr6sident de Comit6 National de
Coordination de la Politique Cfr6ali6re.
Article 8:         Le Secr6tariat Permanent du Comite National de la Coordination de
la Politique Cerealiere comprend:
-     une Cellule Administrative et F4nanciere;
-     une Cellule Technique.
Lee Cellules sont dirigees par des Chefs de Cellules nomm6s par
Raabo du Pr6sident du Comite sur proposition du Secr6taire
Permanent.
Article 9:         La Cellule Administrative et Financiare est responsable, au sein
du Secr6tariat Permanent:
-     du courrier
-     de l'administration
-     de la gestion du patrimoine.
Article 10:        La Cellule Technique est responsable, au sein du Secr&tariat
Permanent:
-     de la collecte, de la centralisation, et de l'analyse des
informations relatives a la Politique Cer6aliere et a la
S6curit6 Alimentaire.
-     de la pr6paration des dossiers techniques A soumettre au
Comite National de Coordination de la Politique C6r6alibre.
-     du suivi de l'execution des d6cisions du Comite National de
Coordination de la Politique Cer6aliere.
-     de  la  confect40.n  du  p6riodique  d'information  our  la
situation alim'r'.taire nationale.
ArtLcle lls        Le Secretaire Permanent du Comite National de Coordination de la
Politique Cfr6aliOre eat charg6 de l'application du present Raabo
qui sera enregistr6 et communique partout oa besoin sera.
LA PATRIE OU LA MORT, NOUS VAINCRONSI
Ouagadougou le,
Le Ministre de l'Agriculture
et de l'Elevage



BURKINA FASO
FOOD SEC11RITY AND NUTRION PROECT
I. KEY PROJECT INDICATORS
Expected                           Cprren                             A vem
Proeram Deliry                     Comotion Date                           St4tus                          Resnonsible
Implemesn¢tiotn_
I. EWS
1.  TORs for consubants and                   July 1992                        Draft prepared                      DEP-MOAL
EWS staff
2.  Selection of consultants                 August 1992                        Pending PPF                        DEP-MOAL
3.  Staffing of EWS and                     November 1992                       Pending PPF                        DEP-MOAL
recruitment of surveyors
4.  First workshop on .nalytical            September 1993                   Pending project start                 EWS UNIT
model
II. INSTITUTION BUILDING
1. Finalize draft decrees for
CNCPC and CCI                             July 1992                   Enactment expected 9,'92                   MOAL
2.  Enactment of decrees
3.  Staffing of permanent                   September 1992                        On track                         jovernment
secretariat and HHFSU                   October 1992                         On track                            MOAL
4. Appointment of provincial
coordinator Passore                    November 1992                                                             MOAL
m. LABOR INTENSIVE WORKS
1. Amend FASO BAARA
procedures manual                         July 1992                          On track                    MOAL, FASO BAARA
2.  Signatare of contract with
FASO BAARA                               August 1992                         On track                          Government
3. Advertize for roster of eligible
contractors                            Septemnber 1992                       On track                        FASO BAARA
4.  Submit core list and expanded
inventory of works in Passore          November 1992                         On track                        FASO BAARA
to IDA                                                                                                                                            a1  z
IV. NUTRITION EDUCATION
1.  Contract with INADES                    December 1992                         On track                    prxovincial Project Unit                 O   >C
V.  ANNUAL WORK PLAN.
REPORTING. MONITORING
AND EVALUATION
1.  Deatiled Annual Work Plans          February 28 (each year)            TOPR for auait prepared       CAPU, FASO B.AARA, Provincial
and Budgets                                                                                                   Coordinators
2.  Q.aterly Progress Reports
3.  Audit of Accounts, SOES                                         L



PROCESS INDICATORS
Indcaor                     Target at Projct Stat        S of PTpo          Accepme lapse:   PApouccico As   Rccommended
(or rupenisioa                                   ansc
5npZ?
Tagtd            Aeta            Target    |      A_a!
I  u                                                                                                                                          .... ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _
A)  INCOME GENERATING
ACTIVITIES__                                                        _  _  _  __                                                       _  _  _   _  _   _   _  _  _
-   No. of visits of BGs by NGOs              weeky                  Not Applicable    Not Applicable      N/A              N/A
-   No. of visib of BGs by                    monthly                    N/A               N/A             N/A              N/A
Provincial Coordinator 
-   Frqueacy of contacb                      bi-wekly                    N/A              N/A              N/A              N/A
btween BGs and Agric.
Extension Sciviccs
B)  NUTRITION EDUCATION
-   Prequency of nutrition                    monthly                    N/A               N/A             N/A              N/A
edcation ampaigns
. Process Effeetlveaes
A) No. of eligible proposals per
province (annual)
-   Women's microprojecs                        30                       33%                              I month
-   Labor intensive works                       40                       50%                             2 months
B)  No. of agric. ext. ageats and               40                       N/A              N/A              NtA              N/A
NGOs tained in nubtion
education by Province (annual)                                                   _



Indicator              Annual Change   In Income         Reimbursement  (Participation)         Actions Recomnded
(__uit_ion) of   Beneficiaries         Rate
. _ _ _____________                      of           Acl             Target           Actual             act   R      m
1. Income (nutritonal status)                      _
A) INCOME GENERATING
ACTIVITIES
-   Impact on annual disposable        30%                               100%
Income
B)  LABOR INTENSIVE WOPRS
-   Avcrage Annual No. of             200,00                              N/A             N/A
workdays (unskid_c labor)    _
C) NUTRITION EDUCATION
-   Knowledge of messages by        (satisfactory)   (satisfiaNtory/     N/A              N/A
beneficiaries and trainees                     unsatisfactory)                  _                                                                  w
-   Percentage of Beneficiaries        75%                                N/A             N/A
modifying child-feeding
practices                                                                                      _
-   change in nutitional status of   (io be                              N/A              N/A
beneficiaries' children as   deternined)
measured by weight/height etc
D) EARLY WARNING SYSTEM
-   Frequency of publication of      Monthly                             N/A              N/A
EW Bulletin
-   Margin of error fmine               5%                               NIA              N/A
vulnerability predictions at
provincial level
EDx
o>4



- 104 -                                            ANNEX X
BURKINA FASO
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION SCHEDULE
1.                Bank Supervision InRut: The staff input indicated in the table
below is in addition to the supervision provided by an agriculture
specialist stationed in Ouagadougou, and to regular supervision needs in
Washington for the review of progress reports, procurement actions,
correspondence, etc, (estimated to require two staff weeks per year).
2.                Proaress Reoprts should be submitted as follows:
(i)   they should cover all parameters of the project execution;
(ii)  at the end of February and August of each year;
(iii) by the head of the Household Food Security Unit based upon the
input provided by the Provincial Project Coordinators and
technical support teams.
3.                Schedule of supervision missionas
Approximate Date                     Activity                            Expected Skills             Staff
________________________________________Weeks
01/93          Project Launching Workshop                 TM, SocioLogist, financial             12.0
anaLyst, Nutritionist IEC
specialist, and NGO advisor
03/93          Supervision/impLementation Review          TM, IEC specialist,                   8.0
Meeting                                    Nutritionist, EWS specialist
and NGO advisor
09/93          Supervision Mission                        TM, EWS specialist, FFW              10.0
specialist and financial
I _________________                                               analyst
03/94          Supervision/Implementation Review          TM, IEC specialist and                 6.0
_________________  Meeting                                       financial analyst
09/94          Supervision Mission                        TM, social fund specialist,            8.0
and Nutritionist
03/95          Supervision/Implementation Review          TM, IEC specialist and                 8.0
_Meeting                                   financial analyst
09/95          Supervision Mission                        TM and WID specialist,                 7.0
.__ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _   Nutritionist
11/95          Mid-term review                            TM, food policy analyst,              12.0
financial analyst,
training/IEC specialist,
popular participation
specialist /WID.
03/96-97-98       Supervision/Implementation Review           TM, financial anaLyst                 7.0
.___________ _   Meeting
09/96-97-98       Suervision Mission                          TM  IEC Specialist                    8.0



- 105 -
ANNEX XI
BURKINA FASO
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJEOl
Disbursement Estimate
(US$ million)
Semester              Amount                Cumulative         Percentage
1993  I                 0.6                    0.6                 8
II                0.6                    1.2                16
1994  I                 0.4                    1.6                21
II                0.4                    2.0                27
1995  I                 0.5                    2.5                33
II                0.5                    3.0                40
1996  I                 0.8                    3.8                51
II                0.8                    4.6                61
1997  I                 0.7                    5.3                71
II                0.7                    6.0                80
1998  I                 0.7                    6.7                89
II                0.8                    7.5               100
TOTAL______________7_____5__
TOTAL                   7.5



-106 -
ANNEX XII
Page 1 of 7 pages
BURKINA FASO
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
PROJECT DESIGN. CRITERIA FOR SELECTION OF NGOS AND INCOME
GENERATING ACTIVITIES, IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS AND SCHEDULE
I. Proiect Design
Project design and implementation arrangements are based on
lessons learned from a similar Bank-supported food security project:
Republic of Cameroon: Food Security Project (Report No. 9048-CM). The
main lessons relate to the income generating activities and nutrition
education components of the proposed project.
There are several lessons to be learned from Cameroon's
FIMAC (Fonds d'Investissement pour les Micro-Realisations Agricoles et
Commerciales) which finances income generating activities:
1.    Simplification of subproiect cateaories to be financed and
necessity to start on a pilot basis:
The experience of FIMAC: FIMAC started in september 1991 in
4 Provinces (FIMAC component = $8 million/7 years). only 24 subprojects
have been approved and hundreds of proposals have been rejected. FIMAC
provides loans for three types of activities:
-     self-sufficiency (max. 500 000 FCFA/project), a revolving
fund must be reconstituted (no interest rate) over 4 years
maximum;
-     commercial (max. 4 000 000 FCFA/project) provided as a
commercial credit with an interest rate of not less than
15%, to be repaid in 4 years. This type of credit is
channeled through a commercial bank (no credit has yet been
approved for this kind of project);
-     small infrastructures (max. 6 000 000 FCFA/project) the
financing must be reconstituted over a 10 year period.
In the proposed project, only one kind of activity will be
financed: income generating activity (i.e. the "self-sufficiency"
category of FIMAC), with an average of 1.5 million CFA per beneficiary
group of an average of 30 members. Further, project financing will be
restricted to only one province in the first year of implementation, and
two in the second year. Funding in all four target provinces will be
provided only in the third year of implementation.
2.    Lenath of time between reception of subproject proposal and
start of subproiect implementation:
The experience of FIMAC. The time period between submission
of a proposal and providing inputs (tools) or funding is 5 months.   The
main reason for the long waiting period was an overly centralized
decision-making and disbursement arrangement. Current target is to
decrease the waiting period to one month through decentralizing the
project financing from Yaounde to the provincial level.
In the proposed project, decentralized project vetting,
decision-making, disbursement and procurement are already planned for.



- 107 -
ANNEX XII
Page 2 of 7 pages
It is, therefore, expected that the maximum period of time between
reception of project proposal and that of project inputs by
beneficiaries will be one month.
3.    Institutional development of NGOs:
The experience of FIMAC. The project had to undertake an
extensive census of existing NGOs as none existed.
The proposed project, however, will benefit from an existing
long institutional history of NGOs being organized in consortia (for
example, through SPONG), and of good government-NGO relations (through
BSONG, the Government's NGO monitoring unit).
II. Criteria for the Selection of NGOs. Communities.
and Income Generating Activities
These criteria will be refined as the project monitoring
system highlights problems or bottlenecks in the implementation.
NGOs at the Provincial Level must:
(a)   be an officially recognized NGO;
(b)   already be involved in development of small-projects with
communities;
(c)   have been in existence and active for more than three years;
(d)   have extension agents with experience in small projects
based in the rural areas concerned;
(e)   agree with the project's objectives;
(f)   have agents with skills in subproject identication,
preparation, presentation, and basic accounting or be
willing to undergo such training;
(g)   have agents with experience in nutrition education or be
willing to undergo such training.
Communities which can benefit from funding must:
(a)   be located in one of the four provinces concerned by the
project;
(b)   be in a rural area (>15 km. from the provincial capital);
(c)   for towns with more than 5000 people, the community must
reside outside these towns;
(d)   the community should alreadly be organized in a project
committee(s) of an averag'4 of 30 members each, and should
have ongoing community activities;
(e)   no member of the committee should have an outstanding debt;
(f)   the beneficiary group should include at least 50% women;
(g)   the beneficiary group should contribute a minimum  of 20% of
total activity costs in kind.
SubDroiect selection criteria (income generating activities) will
include:
(a)   technical and economic feasibility;
(b)   short gestation period,
(c)   involvement of beneficiaries in designing, implementing and
managing the activity;
(d)   beneficiary contributions (not less than 20%) to subproject
either in the form of labor or materials or cash;



- 108 -
ANNEX XII
Page 3 of 7 pages
(e)   Subproject sustainability especially beyond the maximum four
years that support may be provided;
(f)   acceptance of beneficiaries to have the nutrition status of
their children regularly monitored.
Subproiect section criteria (labor intensive works):
Food security will take precedence over investment objectives. However,
FASO BAARA must also ensure that these labor intensive works:
(a)   z e technically sound, constructed with due regard for
engineering standards, and realized efficiently and cost-
effectively;
(b)   fall within provincial priorities;
(c)   are selected on the basis of criteria equivalent to those
used for project selection in the Public Investment Program
(PIP);
(d)   could and would be adequately maintained by the village
communities; and
(e)   would have their operations and maintenance costs provided
for in the budgets of the relevant ministries and Government
departments, where necessary (such as in the case of schools
and health facilities).
III. Entities Involved in Proiect ImDlementation:
(see also Chapter IV of SAR especially paras 4.01 - 4.06):
- At the National Level:
-     The MOAL will have overall responsibility for the project.
-     For implementation of field actions, a Household Food
Security Unit (HHFSU) will be established within the MOAL
and headed by a coordinator directly responsible to the
Minister. This unit will supervise and monitor all
activities undertaken under the proposed project and,
especially, of the household income generating activities.
- At the Provincial Level:
-     A Provincial Proiect Unit composed ot  '12 people will be
created. The secretariat for this comm-ttee will be headed
by a provincial coordinator (see his/her TORs in Annex IV,
page 4) seconded by an accountant and a rural development
expert. The Provincial Project Unit will approve or reject
the project proposals (see TORS of the Committee, Annex IV,
p. 3).
- At the Villaae Level:
-     Each project will be submitted by the village beneficiaries
which will be responsible for project identification,
project proposal development and project implementation.
NGOs and agriculture extension workers will provide support
to the beneficiaries. Beneficiaries should be organized in
groups. Each project proposal MUST be sponsored by an NGO
and must be part of a tripartite contractual agreement
NGO/Beneficiary Group/Project Unit.



- 109 -
ANNEX XII
Page 4 of 7 pages
- Other Main Implementation Entities:
FASO 3AARA for the Labor Intensive Works component: it is an
execu'ing agency was created in the context of an IDA-
sui. irted urban Public Works and Employment Project. It
wi:l have a contractual agreement with the MOAL. FASO
BAARA's role as an executing agency is expected to
significantly facilitate the implementation of this
component and reduce the responsibilties of the HHFSU to a
monitoring role, and the Provincial Project Units to a
consultative role.
INADES or other similar training NGO for the nutrition
education component: a contractual agreement between this
NGO and the HHFSU will be drawn up for the implementation of
training in as well as delivery of nutrition education.
DEP of MOAL is already established, and will become the main
unit responsible for the EWS component. The DEP, through
its SSA (Service de Statistiques Agricoles or the
Agricultural Statistical Service) already publishes a
monthly EWS bulletin.  The SSA will be reinforced to (a)
conduct the NSAS (National Survey for Agricultural
Statistics), (b) better coordinate all data bases for EWS,
and (3) to develop a more reliable analytical framework for
famine vulnerability assessments. Given the DEP's
considerable experience in data gathering and analysis, and
in EWS activities no implementation problems are foreseen.
CAPU (the Central Accounting and Procurement Unit) of MOAL
is already established as the accounting unit of the MOAL
for the IDA financed PRSAP (Projet de Renforcement des
Services d'Appui aux Producteurs or the Agricultural Support
Services Project).   CAPU was subsequently reinforced within
the context of the IDA-supported Environmental Management
Project. CAPU will also be used to handle accounting for
the present project. To this end, technical assistance is
provided for under a PPF to enable CAPU to set up an
accounting and management system for this project.
SPONG is the main NGO consortium in Burkina (half of the
NGOs belong to this consortium). A contractual agreement
will be established between SPONG and the MOAL for SPONG to
provide training in project identification, preparation,
presentation and basic accounting to NGOs which would have
been pre-qualified under the proposed project.
CEDRES of the University of Ouagadougou will have a
contractual agreement with the Project Unit to carry out the
baseline surveys.



- 110 -                        ANNEX XII
Page 5 of 7 pages
IV.   Implementation Schedule
ComDonent             Task                        Completion        Agencv
Date             Responsible
I.   EWS               1.  Finalization of
the TORs for
consultants and staff      July 1992         DEP-MOAL
of EWS Unit
2. Selection of            August 1992
consultants                                  DEP-MOAL
3. Staffing of the
EWS Unit and               November
recruitment of              1992             DEP-MOAL
surveyors
4. First Workshop on       September
Analytical Model            1993             EWS UNIT
5. Start production        December
of EWS Bulletin             1993             EWS UNIT
6. Second Workshop on      December
Analytical Model            1996             EWS UNIT
II.  INSTITUTION       1. Finalize draft
BUILDING              decrees for CNCPC and       July 1992         MOAL
CCI
2. Enactment of            September
decrees                     1992             Government
3. Staffing of             October 1992
Permanent Secretariat                        MOAL
and HHFSU
4. Appointment of
provincial                 November
coordinator Passore         1992             MOAL
5. Establishing            December          Provincial
Provincial Project          1992             Coordinator
Unit in Passore
6. Project Launch          January 1993      MOAL, HHFSU
Workshop
7. Appointment of
Provincial                 November
coordinator in              1993             MOAL
Namentenga
7. Establishing            December          Provincial
Provincial Project          1993             Coordinator
Unit in Namentenga



- 111 -
ANNEX XII
Page 6 of 7 pages
S. Appointment of
Provincial                 November
Coordinators in             1994             MOAL
Gnagna and Soum
9. Establishing
Provincial Project         December          Provincial
Units in Gnagna and         1994             Coordinators
Soum
III.  LABOR            1.  Amend FASO BAARA
INTENSIVE WORKS       Procedures Manual                             MOAL, FASO
July 1992        BAARA
2. Signature of            August 1992
Contract with FASO                           Government
BAARA
3. Advertize for           September
roster of eligible          1992             FASO BAARA
contractors
4. Submit core list
and expanded               November
inventory of works in      1992              FASO BAARA
Passore to IDA
5. Submit lists of         November
works to IDA in all         each year        FASO BAARA
provinces
IV. INCOME
GENERATING             1. Prequalification         September        HHFSU, SPONG
ACTIVITIES             of NGOs in Passore          1992
2. Signature Training      September
Contract with SPONG         1992             MOAL
3. Training Workshop       December
of NGOs                     1992             SPONG
4. Baseline Survey         December
(Passore)                  1992              CEDRES
5. Prequalification        September
of NGOs in                  1993, and        HHFSU, SPONG
Namentenga, Gnagna          1994
and Soum
6. Mid-term and Final      November
Surveys                     1995, 1998       CEDRES
V.  NUTRITION          1. Contract with            December         Provincial
EDUCATION              INADES                      1992             Project Unit



- 112 -
ANNEX XII
Page 7 of 7 pages
2. Beneficiary
Assessment in              December
Passore:                   1992              CEDRES
Namentenga:                 1993
Gnagna and Soum             1994
3. Rapid Assessment
of training needs          December          Consultdnt
(agric extension and       1992
NGOs)
4. Training of Agric
extension workers and
NGOs in GRAAP method                         INADES
January
Passore:                   1993
Namentsnga                  1994
Gnagna and Soum,            1995
refresher courses
each year
5. Workshops for
development of
provincial                                   Provincial
communications plans       September         Project
Passore:                   1993              Coordinators,
Namentenga:                 1994             INADES,
Gnagna and Soum:            1995             Consultants
VI.  ANNUAL WORK       1. Detailed annual          September        HHFSU, DEP,
PLAN, REPORTING,       Work Plans and              30, 1993,        FASO BAARA
MONITORING, AND        Budgets for each year       1994 and
EVALUATION                                        thereafter
2. Quarterly Progress      March 31,         HHFSU, DEP,
Reports                    June 30,          FASO BAARA,
September        Provincial
30, and          Coordinators
December 31
each year
3. Maintenance of                            CAPU, FASO
records and accounts                         BAARA,
Provincial
Coordinators
4. Audit of Accounts,      February 28       CAPU, FASO
SOEs                       each year         BAARA,
Provincial
Coordinators
5. Mid-Term Review         December
1995



W
BURKINA FASO
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT                                                                               -                                                                                   .
sou_                                                                               7 <oGlm<X _ ->  1°'9''r hGR
S Y A T E N                                                 *~,                  GC)R A                                           K     '      
|~~                                          ~         ~    ~ ~       ~ ~~ P ~ IO  7 t   O(hG"0                                 ''~I               I         t      c       
1 0 0 0~ ~~ ~~ ~~~ / 0  0       P                                                                                                                                       ® y  S   0   E   , I  C o p  2 o                1 0 1 
00. 0.   000000 by T. WO,10800       ..0I0oI0                                          P          nSi
ToSwkoMo ~ ~   ~       ~       ~       ~      0000 '  \                                                                         bo,                                   -.J E/T  'neo,oo fBo o ....  oG!l \d............    os
v    LobDIorsz9  %I AH)LLI,/j                               .... 
'*  <   ;                                                                                            G           <    ;             + ;                        +, \                       B E NATINN
(t   --    ,>><><                 A   a                        G            H    ~~~~~~~~~~A N                 A2                i{,-r~/Z
4        ,    oMo                  < >            P  a     t                                                                                                                       PoedArp
4~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C) 6 G                                                                                    R           ne Ro=d
ges roAbfdl=t ^( / j \\ JD p ZG 4: 50 eD                                            Ir RL Ilod
<  ra *5 ~-hr ' r ~oni i ireh meno u....................... o belbSi .....PrvcefNAHale 
tt     )   i        m  d;2tsge.B a thC,o f Th;WoldbrnkG fv/  3 /wn                  ~                  ~           rbrutrsno             BENINre



-    FASO
CEREAL PRODUCTION ZONES                                                                   OU-  <  QuDA N  j AN
IV  P A   S   2   \                                    C PA
\ MOFI  'N                                                 1'(O4
A0 .   A         AN    Oa                                        r,
SANMATENTA   DEF
s    R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P~  od
IV  -                                                                        411064                                        ®   00,, oTt+B                  NI N10
P tA            40                      , t t roto,ri E
*.to*,*}tOI FTt04t4NGA
\     XKOfO                      DO0   ILOFEFCI                                                                          P2eKod
70    0Wo                                                              MdIe= t               rDd
rOvOIdat  t   4   0  <                    KlLo22TE2s                5~~~~ Hlgh          1=  Alrpor t 
r ) mmo - O m  1, 2~dNml>_hm    Poc dndre



