Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21422-BF
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-24140; TF-23445)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR5.5 MILLION (US$7.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
BURKINA FASO
FOR THE
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRMION PROJECT
March 30, 2001
Rural Development III
Country Department 15
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2000)
Currency Unit = Franc CFA
1 FCFA = US$ 0.0016
US$ 1.0 = 614 (at time of ICR mission)
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY 1 DECEMBER 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BSONG            Bureau de Suivi des ONG (NGO Coordinating Unit)
CNCPC            Comite National de Coordination de la Politique C4r6alirre
(Permanent Secretariat of the National Cereal Policy
Coordination Committee)
CBRDP            Community Based Rural Development Project
FOSAN            Fond de securisation alimentaire et de nutrition
(Food Security Fund)
HFSU             Household Food Security Unit
IEC              Information, Education and Communication
MOAL             Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
NGO              Non-governmental Organization
NSAS             National Survey for Agricultural Statistics
PMU              Project Management Unit
SPONG            Scretariat Permanent des ONG (Permanent Secretariat
for NGOs)
WFP              World Food Program
Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   Hasan A. Tuluy
Sector Manager/Director:   Jean-Paul Chausse
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Emmanuel Y. Nikiema



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURKINA FASO
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              10
6. Sustainability                                                                  11
7. Bank and Bormwer Performance                                                    12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 14
9. Partner Comments                                                                14
10. Additional Information                                                         15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Flame Matrix                               16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              23
Annex 8. Mission Aide Memoire                                                      24
Annex 9. Borrower's Contnbution                                                    40
Maps: IBRD 23868 and 23869
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000303                                       Project Name: FOOD SECURITY
Team Leader: Emmanuel Y. Nikiema                          TL Unit: AFMBF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: March 30, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: FOOD SECURITY                                  L/C/TFNumber. IDA-24140; TF-23445
Country/Department: BURKINA FASO                                         Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: AG - Agency Reform; AY - Other Agriculture; HH -
Population, Health & Nutrition Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/31/91                                Effective: 0 1/06/93           06/01/93
Appraisal:  01/24/92                                  MTR:                       10/01/96
Approval:  07/09/92                                Closing: 06/30/99            04/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: Government of Burkina Faso/Project Management Unit
Other Partners: Government of Germany, Government of Norway, and World Food Program.
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                        Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Hasan A. Tuluy                             Katherine Marshall
Sector Manager:      Jean-Paul Chausse                          Salah Darghouth
Team Leader at ICR:   Emmanuel Y. Nikiema                       Cadman Atta Mills
ICR Primary Author:   Dirk Nicolaas Prevoo
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overall project objective was to extend and deepen the impact of reforms supported
by the adjustment program on food security and improved nutrition. Specific objectives at the
national level were to: (i) reduce the Government's response time for reacting to national food
emergencies, (ii) improve the targeting of food security programs to concentrate on low income
groups in drought-prone provinces, and (iii) provide a database and logical framework for rational
decision-making on food security and nutritional issues. At the household level, the project aimed
to: (i) improve household coping mechanisms by diversifying income sources of the rural poor for
improved food security and nutrition, and (ii) improve the efficient use of available household
food to achieve better nutritional status for children below the age of three and lactating mothers.
The project's objectives and design should be viewed in the context prevailing in Burkina
Faso at the time. The project was designed in support of the First Structural Adjustment Credit
and the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit. The adjustment program was intended to remove
major distortions in food pricing, marketing and trade policies. In addition, it emphasized
restraint on the level and growth of the public sector wage bill and a reallocation of resources to
promote human resource development and poverty alleviation.  Even though the project
document does not state so explicitly, the adjustment program was expected to have a short-term
negative impact on the most vulnerable groups through its impact on cereals prices. The project
was therefore designed to intervene at both the national level through programs targeted at the
most vulnerable groups and specifically at the household level in the country's poorest provinces.
At the national level it was necessary to establish a unified system that would replace the
multitude of donor food security monitoring systems with different data requirements and output
indicators. With the creation of an integrated early waming system, it was also necessary to
provide the tools and training to strengthen the Govemment's commission responsible for
formulating a policy response. At the household level, prior experience had shown that past
Govemment policies aimed at improving food security and the nutritional status of specific groups
have sometimes had impressive short-term results, yet the overall impact remained modest. This
was primarily due to the fact that these policies tended to ignore the household dimension of the
food security issue and focused mostly on the provision of food, rather than on strengthening the
capacity of households to increase and/or diversify their income sources. Likewise, nutrition
interventions had been focused on rehabilitation of malnourished children rather than on
prevention though education.
The project's objectives were in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy of
alleviating poverty  and were not overly ambitious or complex relative to the country's
implementation capacity. As was often the case with Bank projects at a time when logical
frameworks were not employed, some of the project's objectives were somewhat general, making
it difficult to measure outputs and impact quantitatively and to unambiguously assess whether
they had been fully achieved.
3.2 Revised Objective:
- 2-



The mid-term review mission confirmed the validity of the project's original objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
In support of the project's objectives, five components were included.
* Institution Building and Strengthening (US$1.8 umllion) to improve the capacity of the
Permanent Secretariat of the National Cereal Policy Coordination Committee (Comite
National de Coordination de la Politique Cerealiere, CNCPC), the NGO Coordinating Unit (
Bureau de Suivi des ONG, BSONG), the Permanent Secretariat for NGOs (Secretariat
Permanent des ONG, SPONG), and the Household Food Security Unit of Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock (MOAL) to plan, implement and monitor food security
interventions.
Institutional strengthening activities were mostly implementation support activities, except for
support to the CNCPC. The support activities to the Household Food Security Unit and the
NGOs would have fitted better in a separate project management component. The support
provided to the CNCPC was appropriate and clearly related to the project's objectives as this
committee was responsible for ensuring food security in Burkina Faso. The component had a
classic design and was in line with implementation capacity.
*  Establishing an Integrated Early Warning System (US$1.4 million) to consolidate various
early warning systems within the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock and implement the
National Survey of Agricultural Statistics. This component was the basic tool for achieving
the project's national objectives. Its goal was to ensure that sufficient information would be
available in a timely manner. The new system was to be based on the best practices available
from all the different donor warning systems and the design of it therefore did not pose any
significant problems. Sufficient support was also provided for training of Burkinabe in using
the system and analyzing results. Actual data collection was supported by other donors. The
component's design did not pose any significant implementation problems.
* Labor-Intensive (Food/Cash-for-work) Programns (US$4.9 milion) to strengthen the
capacity of the Secretariat of the World Food Program (WFP) within the MOAL to monitor
and evaluate the labor-intensive, food-for-work programs. Complementawy funding was
provided for the food/cash for work program, which was to be executed by a public works
executing agency, Faso Baara.  Faso Baara was to be responsible for the design,
implementation and supervision of the specific sub-projects. This component corresponded
only partially with the project's objective of strengthening food security at the household level
through income diversification.  It did not lead to permanent income increases at the
household level, nor was adequate training for infrastructure maintenance provided.
Inplementation arrangements were properly assessed during project preparation, but the
formulation of adequate operaional procedures for its implementation were left until after
project start-up (in particular, procedures to ensure that contractors would have an incentive
to use local unskilled labor rather than skilled labor from urban centers), which posed
problems during implementation.
* Household Food Security Interventions (VS$3.4 million) to finance income-generating
-3 -



activities, directed primarily at women's groups, in four at-risk provinces (Namentenga,
Gnagna, Passore and Soum) and to provide support to a group of pre-qualified NGOs to
assist the beneficiaries in identifying feasible activities, preparing dossiers for funding requests,
and monitoring the execution of activities. This component fitted well with the project's
household level objectives. The income generating activities were to become self sustaining
and assist households in reducing their dependency on subsistence farning and thus improve
their food security. Support to beneficiaries was to be contracted out to NGOs familiar with
such work, rather than building up a separate implementing institution. The design of the
component therefore posed no significant implementation problems.
*  Nuitwion Information, Education and Communicatons Canmaign (US$1.4 millon) to
support: (i) a beneficiary assessment, (ii) a rapid assessment of training needs of NGOs and
agricultural extension workers responsible for women's activities in the provinces, (iii) training
of 150 agricultural extension workers and 64 NGO agents in nutrition education, (iv)
development of nutrition education messages, and (v) implementation of a multi-media
nutrition education campaign. This component was a critical part of the household level
activities as it was designed to change behavior so that increased income from the other
components would be used, at least in part, for improved nutrition. The component itself was
well designed and in line with implementation capacity. However, it did not include
quantitative or qualitative indicators for measuring impact, which was not unusual at the time.
3.4 Revised Components:
The planned Household Food Security Unit within the MOAL was replaced by a more
traditional freestanding Project Management Unit, the underlying reason for this change is
unclear. The nutrition-education component was redesigned before the mid-term review so that
food security and nutrition issues were identified and addressed in a more holistic manner as part
of a development participatory diagnostic exercise, rather than as a stand alone issue.
At the mid-term review, implementation arrangements for the labor-intensive
(food/cash-for-work) component were extensively redesigned to increase beneficiary control and
impact. Responsibility for executing the sub-projects under this component was transferred from
the largely urban-based contractors selected by Faso Baara to trained village groups. Also, three
additional provinces, Oubritenga, Bazega, and Kouritenga, were added to the initial four
provinces.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory. As stated earlier, the project's objectives were
consistent with the Governmenfts and Bank's rural development priorities and poverty alleviation
goals. The project was urgently needed given the high climatic risk in Burkina and the periodicity
of droughts in the Sahel. The project and its implementation arrangements were, with minor
exceptions, well developed during project preparation and in line with Bank practice at the time.
-4 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project achieved its national-level objectives. Data from both the 1998 and 2000
droughts indicate that Government response time to national food emergencies has decreased by
half -- from approximately 6 months prior to the project to only 3 months during these last two
emergencies. The effectiveness of food aid targeting has improved through the application of
new criteria that take into account not only geographic/climatic vulnerability but also social
vulnerability and measures of purchasing power (alternative income sources, coping mechanisms).
Cereal production, stock, and price data continue to be published and distributed on a monthly
basis drawing from the Government's early warning database. Collection of information is
supported by other donors.
The project partially achieved its household-level objectives. The project sought to
improve food security at the household level by diversifying the income of both male and female
members of the household through two different sets of interventions: a labor-intensive work
program primarily aimed at men and income generating activities exclusively aimed at women.
The labor-intensive work program failed to significantly increase local employment of unskilled
labor and thus income. The income generating activities component exceeded its objectives. An
impact study of the nutrition information, education and communication activities, which had as
objective to modify nutrition behavior, showed that 71 percent of households had increased the
quantity of food consumed and 84 percent the variety.
Overall the project is rated satisfactory. The project's detailed achievements by component are
detailed below.
4.2 Outputs by components:
* Institution Building and Strengthening (USS 1.8 million). This component achieved its
specific objectives of: (i) assisting the Government to establish an institutional focal point
within MOAL for food security management; (ii) strengthening NGOs involved in programs
with a direct relation to strengthening household food security and the Government agency
involved in their oversight; and (iii) providing support to the Household Food Security Unit
(HFSU), which was to plan, monitor and evaluate all the project's field activities. The rating
is based on the satisfactory performance of the National Food Policy Coordination
Committee, which was the key activity of this component. The strengthening of NGOs and
the PMU were not as much institution building as support to project implementation.
The National Food Policy Coordination Committee (Comite National de Coordination de la
Politique Cerealiere) was maintained by the Government as planned. The committee
acquitted itself of its key roles to: (i) guide, monitor and coordinate the country's cereals
policy; (ii) coordinate food aid; (iii) monitor and evaluate the implementation of the "cereals
plan"; and (iv) act as a forum for the national food security and nutrition strategy. The
committee played a crucial role in setting up the emergency response during the 1998 and
2000 droughts.
-5-



Support to local NGOs was provided through BSONG (the Government's supervisory body)
and the permanent secretariat of NGOs (SPONG). Planned training activities were organized
and staff from NGOs were trained, but there was no systematic follow-up by the PMU to
measure their impact or the specific number of beneficiary NGOs. All NGOs involved in
project implementation performed satisfactorily. Whether that was due to the support
provided under this component or other factors is, however, unknown.
Instead of the HFSU, which was in essence a project unit within the MOAL, a classic Project
Management Unit (PMU) was created outside of the Ministry. The PMU carried out studies
on food security and nutrition, and measured the impact of the different project activities. The
outputs of the studies were used to fine-tune and monitor the impact of the different project
activities. As mentioned under section 3, it is unclear why the project unit (HFSU/PMU)
was included in this component and not as part of a separate project management section, as it
was not expected to become a permanent institution and no institution building impact could
therefore be expected. The PMU had a relatively well developed monitoring and evaluation
system in place to track the impact of project activities in the field, but it failed to follow-up
on the recommendations of the mid-term review mission to collect data on malnutrition in the
project area. Its financial management system was also weak as it was unable to produce
basic procurement information in a timely manner.
3  Establishing an Integrated Early Warning System (USS 1.4 million).  This component
pkartiall achieved its objectives of: (i) establishing an integrated early warning system that
was to provide monthly vulnerability assessments at the provincial and departnental levels;
and (ii) supporting the National Survey for Agricultural Statistics (NSAS). It is rated
satisfactorv overall, because of its achievements related to the early warning system. The
agricultural census activities were carried out by other donors and the project had limited
input into the execution of these activities.
Prior to the project, several different early warning systems were in operation with different
objectives, data collection procedures and outputs. The inconsistencies and duplication were
costly and no one system could provide a complete picture within a reasonable period of time.
The Government and the donor community agreed to put in place an integrated system that
would provide the information needed by decision-makers in a timely manner. The new
system was placed, as planned, within the Agricultural Statistics Division of MOAL and staff
assigned to working with it received appropriate training. This integrated early waming
system was established as planned based on two statistical models: (i) a forecasting model
which, due to the nature of the information on which it relies, can only provide reliable
forecasts late in the cropping season, and (ii) a diagnostic model which can determine the
regions at highest risk for food production shortfalls within a short-term time frame. The
diagnostic model functioned well in determining the regions with the greatest likelihood of
food shortages.
Information on agricultural production data and nutritional status was collected and published,
as planned, in the monthly bulletin of the Inter-Ministerial Coordination Committee (Cellule
-6-



de Coordination Interministerielle). In addition, estimates of production shortfalls were made
available according to agreed upon dates. As a result, the average Government response time
was reduced from 6 months prior to the project to 3 months during the 1998 and 2000
droughts. The system has continued to function after credit closing without outside financing
although the distribution list for the monthly bulletin has been restricted to those requesting
the information.
The project foresaw an agricultural census on a sampling basis, to be carried out with support
from bilateral donors. The main objective of this activity was to reduce the margin of error at
the provincial level from 15-30%/o. The project financed the shortfall in funding during the first
years, as the information was considered key inputs into the Integrated Early Warning System.
The annual census was carried out as planned, the information was regularly published in the
monthly bulletins and used in the definition of the 1998 and 2000 action programs. No
separate reviews were done to verify the sampling error of the census, so it is not possible to
independently evaluate whether the sampling error at the provincial level had been reduced.
*  Labor-intensive (Food/Cash-for-Work) Program (USS 4.9 midion). The specific objective
of this component was to alleviate poverty through the provision of employment opportunities
to poor households in periods of low labor demand and virtually non-existent rural
employment opportunities. The component did not achieve its specific objectives although it
was redesigned, with significant improvement, following the mid-term review in October
1996. It is therefore rated unsatis_actory.
By the end of 1996, a total of 40 sub-projects had been executed at a total value of CFAF 1.0
billion, according to Faso Baara (the PMU claims that 51 sub-projects were executed). Each
sub-project consisted of either one activity (e.g. the construction of a building) or several
activities in the same area (e.g., waterholes constructed close together). These sub-projects
failed to have the desired impact on local incomes because Faso Baara contractors relied on
experienced workers from urban areas rather than local labor. In addition, the 500 tons of
food aid that had been distributed did not always reach beneficiaries in a timely manner. WFP
attributed this to the weakness of the Permanent Secretariat in support of the WFP at the
Ministry of Agriculture. No independent evaluation was carried out by project management
to estimate the actual transfer of funds and food aid to recipients. According to the WFP, this
comrnmittee was unable to process requests for beneficiary food aid in a timely manner. Early
supervision reports and the mid-term review note that the committee was unable to fulfill its
mandate.
After the component was redesigned, execution of the sub-projects was entrusted to the
beneficiaries which increased the participation of the beneficiaries in design and led to a
decrease in the unit cost of construction. Most of the sub-projects related to hygiene (290
private latrines and 2 collective ones), waterholes (83 of large diameter), and the development
of 540 ha of lowlands for rainfed rice and vegetable cultivation. About 100 tons of food aid
was distributed to the beneficiaries following the component's redesign, which is low in
comparison with distribution prior to the mid-term review.  Although the employment and
income impact of this component clearly increased once the component was redesigned, the
- 7 -



PMU did not collect the employment data.   The ICR mission rated this component
unsatisfactory given the lack of information on the actual number of beneficiaries and the
impact on household income of the most vulnerable groups, and the likelihood that any impact
income impact would be much less than planned.
* Household Food Security Interventions (US$ 3.4 nmilion). The specific objective of this
component was to reduce the dependence of poor food insecure households on a single
source of income (drought prone crop production). The component exceeded its objectives
and is rated satisfactorv.
At the time of credit closing (April 20, 2000), 563 of 1,661 villages in seven provinces were
covered (four provinces were planned). Over the life of the project, 1,093 loans were made to
women's groups (800 were planned). The total amount of credit granted was CFAF 1.58
billion, with beneficiaries contributing 20 percent of the cost. The credit repayment rate
exceeded 95 percent compared to the original target of 100 percent in the Staff Appraisal
Report, and a minimum goal of 85 percent in the annual work programs prepared by the
PMU. Where repayment did not reach 100 percent, the project attributed this to social
reasons (illness or death in the family) or exogenous climatic factors (e.g. low rainfall in 1997
caused livestock fattening initiatives to fail). Repayments were placed in a special fund (the
Food Security and Nutrition Fund, Fonds de Securisation Alimentaire et de Nutrition,
FOSAN) for subsequent loans. Prior to credit closing, CFAF 0.6 billion of FOSAN funds had
been used to fund counterpart obligations and CFAF 0.3 billion to reimburse the Bank for
ineligible expenditures made by the PMU. The Bank agreed to this use of the funds. The
balance of CFAF 0.6 billion was deposited at the Central Bank at the time of credit closing. It
is not clear what will be done with these funds.
In addition to the loans, about 1,803 beneficiaries received basic management training under
this component (input purchasing, basic bookkeeping, marketing), and 2,561 received training
in a variety of technical subjects (animal fattening, beehive management, soap making, peanut
oil production, etc.). The project's goal was to reach 17,600 households (this objective was
revised to 25,000 at the mid-term review). Some 34,000 households were estimated to have
benefited from project support (this may be an overestimate since several beneficiaries
benefited from more than one loan).
Following the 1996 mid-term review, a survey was conducted with a sample of 165 women
(1.5% of the beneficiaries at that time) to determine the impact of the project's income
generating activities. Data was collected on this sample through 1998. The results of this
GTZ-financed study indicate that about 90 percent of all activities undertaken were profitable
with average financial rates of return exceeding 40 percent per month. Women used their
profits to supplement household expenditures on nutrition and education (22 to 34 percent of
their profits, depending on the year, were dedicated to such expenditures) and to accumulate
cash savings. Overall, 70 percent of the women, and 60 percent of the women's groups, who
benefited from project loans opened savings accounts in decentralized financial institutions.
This allowed them to continue, and expand, their income-generating activities after the end of
the project through their access to the formal financial system.
- 8 -



The ICR mission was unable to collect sufficient data to determine the impact of the project's
subsidized credit, if any, on existing decentralized financial institutions. Judging from the
information available, decentralized financial institutions were, for the most part, either
physically inaccessible to beneficiaries, or the beneficiaries were ineligible for the institutions'
services at the time of project preparation. It was only towards the end of the project that a
substantial number of beneficiaries gained access to decentralized savings and loan institutions
(because of the savings generated by their project-financed micro-projects and because of the
geographic expansion of the formal credit system). Experience under the project shows that
targeting the poor, as the project did, can not only raise the income level of the poor, but also
promote rather than impede the development of decentralized financial services by giving
project beneficiaries the possibility of generating savings and making them creditworthy.
Introduction of labor saving technologies did not happen until 1998, even though they had
been seen as a necessary activity, particularly for women. By credit closing, 43 women had
received small, labor-saving devices (e.g., mills, threshers, dryers, etc.) at a total cost of less
than US$ 6,500. Given the high impact of the income generating activities without the
introduction of these technologies, one may reasonably ask whether the design team had
overstated the need for these in project design.
* Nutrition Information, Educaton and Communications Campaign (USS 1.4 nmilion).
This component appears to have met its stated objective of improving the nutritional status of
children by changing women's behavior (in particular child feeding practices and spending
habits). It is rated satisfactor . Nutritional impact indicators or targets were not defined at
appraisal. During the mid-term review, the Bank recommended that the nutritional impact of
project activities be measured quantitatively.   Although this was not done, village
representatives and beneficiaries themselves regularly monitored the nutritional status of
infants and children using a simple upper arm measurement technique developed in India (
bandelekte Shakir). This information was used to assess the effectiveness of the training
programs and messages but was never systematically collected by the PMU. Project progress
reports indicate a decrease in malnutrition in beneficiary households based on this measure
without providing the quantitative data.
The component intervened in 252 villages. In these villages, it trained 1,592 village
representatives to teach women the importance of good nutrition and hygiene on health,
particularly of children. Results from surveys carried out by the project show that 71 percent
of the women trained had increased the quantity of food prepared for the household and 84
percent had changed the composition of the family diet. This exceeded the project's initial
objective of changing the nutritional behavior of 75 percent of beneficiary women. In
addition, other surveys show that women used the profits from income generating activities to
supplement household expenditures on nutrition and education (22 to 34 percent of their
profits, depending on the year, were dedicated to such expenditures). These data show that
this component has had an impact on women's behavior related to nutrition and the availability
of food in the household and thus with a reasonable likelihood it has also had an impact on
children's nutrition status.
-9



4.3 Net Present Value,Economic rate of return:
No net present value or economic rate of return was presented in the Staff Appraisal
Report. Given the project's objectives and the quality and type of data gathered, it was not
possible to calculate a global rate of return or net present value for the project or any of its
components.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return can be calculated for the project as a whole. The beneficiary
survey carried out by the project between 1996 and 1998, estimated that the revenue-generating
activities had a fairly high financial rate of return, averaging 43 percent per month. Unfortunately,
the sample size was quite small and therefore the results are only indicative and not generalizable.
As mentioned earlier, the high repayment rate, the high number of beneficiaries (70 percent)
opening savings accounts in the decentralized financial institutions and the increase in household
nutritional expenditures from revenue generated by the credits indicate that the sub-projects were
profitable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, the project's institutional development impact was moderate. The project had a
positive impact on the National Food Policy Coordination Committee and the Integrated Early
Warning System. They were both functional at the time of the ICR visit and now fully supported
from the Government's budget. The training in basic management and production techniques
given to women, the increased financial strength of local women's organizations, and the increase
in accounts and access to decentralized financial institutions suggest a positive impact on local
institutional development. The project also had an influence on intra-household relationships, as
women's access to and control over cash resources has increased. Likewise, the nutrition
activities will have a lasting impact where they have demonstrated the beneficial impact of
improved nutrition on children's and family health. The project only had a limited impact on
BSONG and PSONG. However, support to BSONG and PSONG was only a small part of the
project costs (US$ 60,000) and their weight in the evaluation of the project's institutional impact
is therefore very small. The PMU was not designed to become a permanent institution, so it has
not been included in this part of the project's evaluation.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
The main factor outside of the Government's or PMU's control which had an important
impact on project implementation was the devaluation of the CFAF in January 1994. As most
expenditures were in local currency it moderately reduced costs expressed in US Dollars. This
enabled the project to expand geographic coverage from four to seven provinces within its
original budgetaty envelope.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
-10-



The main factor subject to Government control was the relatively long delay (eight
months) between credit signature and credit effectiveness.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The main changes having a major impact on project implementation were: (i) the shift in
project execution from Faso Baara as implementing agency to the beneficiaries themselves; and
(ii) the active participation and implication of beneficiaries in the identification of their problems
and potential solutions. In both instances this has led to an empowerment of beneficiaries and a
much greater buy-in into the project's objectives.
Financial management under the project was consistently weak. The installation of new
accounting software did not help to improve the project financial staffs analysis of expenditures
and, in spite of several requests, the administrative staff was unable to produce a procurement
table for items purchased with the IDA credit proceeds. Towards the end of the credit,
overpayment of termination grants for project staff led to problems with the special account as
World Bank disbursement staff refused to replenish it until the issue was resolved. The problem
was finally resolved in early 2000 when the Government agreed to reimburse these expenditures
using funds from the FOSAN. The Borrower disagrees with this statement and feels that financial
management was satisfactory.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At the time of appraisal, project costs were estimated at US$ 12.8 million, with IDA
contributing US$ 7.5 million, the World Food Program US$ 1.1 million, the Government of
Germany US$ 2.7 million, and the Borrower US$ 1.5 million. In 1994, the Government of
Norway made NOK 16.2 million (US$ 2.4 million equivalent at the time) available in support of
the project. The project's accounting system tracked expenditures in CFAF only, hence actual
total project costs and contributions by financiers other than IDA and the Government of Norway
have been estimated based on average exchange rates. Total actual project costs are estimated at
US$ 13.7 million. IDA's actual contribution was US$ 7.6 million, the Government of Norway's
contribution was US$ 2.1 million, the Government of Germany's contribution was estimated at
US$ 2.7 million, the WFP contribution was estimated at US$ 0.4 million and the Borrower's
contribution was estimated at US$ 0.9 million. Details are shown in Annex 2.
The slightly lower than planned contribution by the Norwegian Government is due to
exchange rate fluctuations between the Norwegian Kroner and the US Dollar. The Government's
contribution was much less than planned, mostly because of the 50 percent devaluation of the
CFAF to the French Franc and the weakness of the French Franc against the US Dollar. WFP's
contribution was much lower than planned because of the drastic change in the design of the
Food/Cash-for-Work Program and the poor coordination by the Permanent Secretariat in Support
of WFP at MOAL.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
- 11 -



The project's overall sustainability is rated as liLkel.
National Level. The early warning and coordination activities have all been recognized by
the donors as very important and have been continued to date with Government budgetary
support. It is unclear whether the institution building activities benefiting BSONG and PSONG
had the desired impact and whether this impact is sustainable, but as stated before these activities
forned only a small part of the project and were mostly related to implementation.
Househo&VLocal Level. At the local level, many of the women who benefited from
project support for income generating activities have now successfully entered the formal savings
and loan system, and their capacity and skills have been strengthened to ensure that they can
continue to successfully manage their investrnents. Project impact at this level is likely to be
sustainable. The impact of the nutrition education activities are also likely to be sustainable
because many women have been trained in monitoring the nutritional status of infants and are
aware of the impact of simple nutritional and hygiene measures on infant and child health. The
Cash/Food-for-Work component is, however, not likely to be sustainable at the present time,
because insufficient emphasis has been placed on training in infrastructure maintenance and
management, despite activities to correct this following the mid-termn review. This issue will be
addressed under the Community-based Rural Development Project (CBRDP), which will provide
capacity building support to the same set of villages covered by the project.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project's fixed assets were transferred to the CBRDP, which will support
socio-economic investments similar to those supported by the project through its local investment
fund and emphasize local capacity building. The CBRDP will also include all the provinces
covered by the project. The national level food security activities (data gathering, statistics
publication, and early warning system) will be continued under Government and/or other bilateral
or multilateral donor support.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Project preparation was satisfactory overall and in line with Bank practice at the time.
The main design weakness related to the institutional strengthening component as described in
section 3.5.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's overall supervision performance was unsatisfactory. Necessary changes in
the Cash/Food-for-Work program, although clearly identified early in implementation, were
postponed until the mid-term review and then took some time to be fully implemented.
Supervision missions did not include the necessary skill mix for adequate supervision of all project
activities. Neither was the frequency satisfactory. The field office undertook regular supervisions
-12-



of the project, but failed to record these in a consistent manner. Most of the supervision missions
focused primarily on the income-generating activities, as evidenced by the information presented
in the supervision reports. The national level activities were generally overlooked or given
cursory attention, which resulted in delays in establishing the Early Warning System, and
incomplete knowledge amongst Bank staff of its functions and effectiveness after it was
established. Insufficient attention was given to the types of data gathered by the monitoring and
evaluation unit of the PMU, which led to data being collected which was different from the agreed
upon performance indicators. The latter makes it difficult to unambiguously judge the outcome of
the project. Bank supervision missions also failed to review the project's implementation set-up
even though it was very costly (see below). In addition, project files at headquarters are
incomplete and lack relevant basic documentation, supervision reports and aide menoires. It
should be noted, however, that the Bank's mid-term review of the project was exhaustive and led
to a number of recommendations that improved project implementation.
The cost of NGO support/supervision to the women's groups averaged about 8-10 percent
of the cost of the sub-project. Added to these costs were the overhead costs of the PMU, which
could not be broken down by component. For the project as a whole, overhead costs were 21
percent of total project costs, mostly due to the household food security and nutrition education
components. Overhead costs were high because of duplication at the provincial level of the
project's management structure while NGOs were also hired to perform some of the same tasks.
Overhead costs could have been significantly reduced if implementation of the project had been
contracted out entirely with only periodic supervision from the PMU based in Ouagadougou.
This issue was not addressed during either the mid-term review or regular supervision missions.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Given the importance of appropriate supervision, the overall Bank performance was rated
unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
During preparation, Government performance was satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated as marginally satisfactory. The main
weaknesses in Govermment performance relates to the substantial delay in meeting credit
effectiveness conditionality (eight months) and the performance of the Permanent Secretariat in
support of the WFP at the Mlnistry of Agriculture, which was unable to provide timely
information to WFP on the expected need for food aid under the Food/Cash-for-Work component
, resulting in delays or non-receipt by beneficiaries.
7.6 ImplementingAgency:
The overall performance of the PMU is rated as margmally satisfactory. It successfully
executed the annual work programs as agreed upon with World Bank supervision missions. It
-13 -



failed, however, to collect the revised qualitative statistics to measure nutritional status for
inclusion in progress reports. This may have been due to a combination of inadequate Bank
follow-up and/or lack of capacity at the PMU. Financial management was weak as noted in the
mid-term review and as evidenced by disbursement problems towards the end of the project and
the inability of the project to generate the requested financial information for the final mission.
Although annual audit reports did not show any irregularities, procedures were inadequate to
track expenditures by activity or component.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance is rated as marginally satisfactory, given the problems cited
above.
8. Lessons Learned
* Well-targeted support to poor segments of the population through one-time subsidies for
income generating assets can lift beneficiaries out of the subsistence/poverty trap and promote
their insertion into the cash economy.  This suggests that well-targeted subsidies for
income-generating activities can promote, rather than impede, the emergence and
development of decentralized financial institutions. Great care needs to be placed on the
design of such activities to minimize overhead costs.
e The project implementation team (Bank and Borrower) needs to systematically review
implementation arrangements for each component since flawed implementation can negate the
expected benefits from an otherwise well designed project. In this project, the mid-term
review was used to review in-depth the implementation impediments to each component and,
as a result, the Food/Cash-for-Work component was substantially redesigned. More could
have been achieved if implementation arrangements had been revised earlier in project
implementation. Also, savings on the management of the income generating activities could
have been realized had management arrangements been reviewed at the time of the mid-term
review.
*  Beneficiary participation in implementation is important but not sufficient to guarantee project
success. Beneficiaries need to be involved from the very start, e.g., in the choice of activities
and implementation design. In the case of this project, involvement by beneficiaries has led to
lower costs. In addition, given appropriate support, beneficiaries are more likely to contribute
to maintenance if they were involved in investment selection.
* Well-defined input, output, and impact indicators, and a robust system for real-time moni
toring and evaluation is imperative as a tool for project management and to measure project
achievements.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowerhmplementing agency:
-14 -



A copy of the draft ICR was sent to the Government and the implementing agency for
comments. These comments were incorporated into the final report. Where differences of
opinion remained, they were noted in the text.
(b) Cofinanciers:
A copy of the draft ICR was sent to the projectes cofinanciers (Government of Germany,
Government of Norway and WFP). Comments were received from WFP, which were
incorporated into the final report. No comments were received from the other cofinanciers,
despite follow-up by the World Bank resident mission in Burkina Faso with local representatives.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
A copy of the draft ICR was sent to Faso Baara. No comments were received.
10. Additional Information
No additional information.
- 15-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Implementation and Output Indicators
Objective at Project Start-Up                              Actual
Supervision
Income GeneratingActivities
Visits by NGOs to Groups             Weekly                                     Mostly adhered to
Visits by Provincial Coordinator to  Monthly                                    Only initially adhered to
Groups
Frequency of contact between groups  Twice weeldy                               Not always adhered to, and statistics not maintained
and the extension service
Nutrition Education
Frequency of nutrition education     Monthly                                    Monthly
Lmplementation
Income generating                    30 per province per year 33% of proposals  1,093 approved (about 800-900 estirnate4 approval
accepted                                  rate staistics not maintained
Cash/Food-for-Work Programs          40 per province per year, 50°/ of proposals  Not achieved; in total only 40 projects executed by
accepted                                  Faso Bar and about 200 by women groups
Number of extension workers and      40/province/an                             274 heablt workers trained; 143 staff fmm NGO
NGO stafftrined in nutritional                                                  tained and 104 received refresher taining
education by province (annual)
Income
Income GeneratingActivities
mpact on anmusl income               Incomes of beneficiaries up by+30%i 100%   60 percent of net cash incomes of beneficiaries is
of micro credits reimbursed               from income generating activities; 95% of micro
credit reimbnued
CasMWood-for- Work Program
Average nunber of days worked        200,000 person days per year               Not available, data on actual days worked include
(unskilled daily workers)                                                       both skilled and unskilled workers
Nutritional Education
Knowledge of messages by project     Satisfactory                               Satisfactory
beneficiaries and trainees
Percentage of project beneficiaries that   75%                                  90%
have changed their infant feeding
behavior
Change of infant nutritional status as  To be determined                        No qualitative data systematically collected, the
measured by weight/height, etc.                                                 progress report only meotion that the activties have
had n inipact
- 16 -



Integrated Early Warning System
Frequency of picatios                Montly                                     Monhy
Effor margin in the pedin of         5%                                         Depaqk on time ofycar, inilly inthe in n, the
wilerability to famine at the                                                   fabe posiive cm exceed 50% and dop to vitualy
provinicial level                                                               0% as tbe ax ing seo p1ces
This table is reproduced  from  Annex  9  of the  Staff Appraisal Report.  At the time of project
preparation, the standard logfiame table was not yet in use.
- 17-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
The project could not provide project costs in the standard formats included in the PDS, other than
totals by financier. Costs by expenditure category could not be properly aggregated as definitions among
different agencies were not the same and not all funds transitted through the PMU. In addition, the SAR
did not use the same for the tables as that used-in the PDS.
Project Costs by Financier
Source                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Final Estimate
IDA                                      7.5                   7.6
Federal Republic of Germany              2.7                   2.7
Kingdom of Norway                                              2.1
World Food Program                       1.1                   0.4
Governement                              1.5                   0.9
TOTAL                                   12.8                   13.7
Expenditure Account            Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Final Estimate
Civil Works                                4.4                            2.6
Sub-Projects                               2.2                            2.5
Vehicles and Equipment                     1.0                            0.7
Consulting Services                        2.4                            4.6
Operating Costs                            2.6                            3.2
Project Prparation Facility                0.2                            0.1
TOTAL                                      12.8                          13.7
The expenditure accounts were estimated on the basis of the procurement table in the StaffAppraisal
Report.
- 18 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
No net present value or economic rate of return was presented in the Staff Appraisal Report.
Given the goals of the project and the quality of the data gathered, it will not be possible to
calculate a global rate of return or net present value for the project or any of its components.
No overall financial rate of return can be calculated for the project. Based on surveys carried
out by the project in 1998, it can be estimated that the revenue generating activities had a fairly
high financial rate of return, averaging 43 percent per month. Unfortunately, the number of
beneficiaries on which this estimate is based is rather small and the information is presented for
illustrative purposes only.
- 19 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cy~~Ie         ~4o. of 1'ersQns and Sp~oia1ty                                                    .............
S: ......................................... . .. . . .. .. .. ... .. .. .. . . ... .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .  .. ... .. .. . . .. . . . .. .. .  ..
.... .-. .. ..e                                     g .  ..............  .... .. ... ... ........) .  ........ ..fle v e                                      e
;ln~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ l. .l, .lal . . . . .. . ...   .l . .. .; . . ., . . . . . .     ,, . ..                                       . .. . . . .. ....   .     ., ...  ..... gi  -  
......                                                                ......-                ....    ...-                             :;g::::lnult  -  Ati-g-  .........    rpw. .-
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision
07/92                                             1   Economist
10/92                                             1   Economist
3/93                                              3   Economist, Nutritionist,                                           S                         :HS
Operations Officer
6/93                                              1   Economist (partial supervision)                                    S                         HS
11/93                                             2   Economist, NGO Specialist                                         S                           S
3/94                                              4   Economist, Environmental                                         HS                          HS
Specialist, Operations Officer,
Nutritionist
11/95                                            3   Economist, Institutional                                           S                           S
Specialist,
6/96                                                     Economist (partial supervision)                                 S                           S
4/97                                              1   Economist (partial supervision)                                    S                          S
6/98                                              2   Economist, Environmental                                           S                          S
Specialist
6/99                                              4   Enviromnental Specialist,                                          S                          S
Agricultural Services Specialist,
Financial Analyst, Disbursement
Analyst
ICR
10/99                                            1    Operations Analyst                                                S                           S
(follow-up mission)
Supervision reports in project files were incomplete. The information was therefore supplement with
information from the PSRs, which do not provide all infornation.
(b) Staff
M              0                                . .............  .  ,...... ... ........  ..   ........  . ........... .. .  .... ........-
iEdiE E iLL iSE id ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    .i,.,  . i,!,. ., ,0  ..._ ...__.......... E
EtiA    -.E,   iSi.-E  E  !!!  -  !  i E!! ............................. !E  ---i! o W   .............
Identification/Preparation                                             N.A.                                                  10
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                  N.A.                                                  35
Supervision                                                            N.A.                                                585
ICR                                                                          4                                               15
Total                                                                  N.A.                                                645
- 20 -



The total number of staff weeks for this project per project cycle stage is unavailable from the SAP reports.
- 21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H--High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
LI Macro policies                       O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                       O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
L Physical                              O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
LI Financial                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
LI Institutional Development            O H  O SU 0 M  O N  0 NA
LI Environmental                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
ElPovertyReduction               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Li Gender                        O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
LI Other (Please specify)        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
L Private sector development            0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
L Public sector management              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Other (Please specify)                OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
-22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactoiy, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Untsfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rahing
L Lending                                          OHS OS OU OHU
FII Supervision                                    OHS OS   * U   OHU
I Overall                                          OHS OS   * U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                           Rating
Z Preparation                                      OHS OS  O U  O HU
O Government implementation performance            O HS OS  0 U  0 HU
Ol Implementation agency performance               O HS *S  0 U  0 HU
O Overall                                          OHS OS  O U   O HU
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
* Mid-Term Review Report, February 20, 1998.
*  Annual Progress Reports.
*  Borrower's Contribution, full report, September 2000.
*  Etude sur les activites generatrices de revenus pour les femmes de la GnaGna, Rapport
definitif, Sahel Consult, Mai 1994.
*  Rapport de l'enqu&e sure le depistage de la malnutrition proteino-energitique par les d6legues
des groupements villageois, Ministere de I'agriculture, juillet 1997.
*  Etude des effets socio-6conomiques du programme d'activites g6neratrices de revenues
(AGR) du PSAN 1997-1998, GTZ, mai 1998.
*  Etude sur les effets des interventions du PSAN sure le comportement nutritionel et sanitaire
des menages beneficiaires, GTZ, avril 1999.
*  Presentation du projet securite alimentaire et de nutrition, Ministere de l'agriculture, juin 1999.
- 24 -



BANQUE MONDIALE
PROJET DE SECURITE ALIMENTAIRE ET DE NUTRITION (PSAN)
CRED1T IDA 2414-BUR - DON NORVEGIEN TV 23445-BUR
MISSION DE SUPERVISION DU 15 AU 26 JUIN 1999
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.   Une mission de la Banque Mondiale a effectu6 du 15 au 26 juin 1999, une
supervision du Projet de Securite Alimentaire et de Nutrition (PSAN).
L'equipe de la mission qui etait constituee de specialistes des Missions Residentes
du Burkina et du Niger comprenait Madame Marilyne YAGULIBOU, Chargee du Suivi
des decaissements, Messieurs Mamadou YARO, Analyste Financier, Ibrahim NEBIE,
Sp6cialiste des Services agricoles et Emmanuel NIKIEMA, Specialiste en Gestion des
Ressources Naturelles et Task Manager du Projet.
2.   La mission remercie les equipes des Coordinations Nationale et Provinciales du
Projet pour l'organisation du travail a Ouagadougou , dans les provinces et villages
visites et pour la collaboration fructueuse tout au long de la mission; elle adresse
sp6cialement ses remerciements aux femmes et hommes membres des organisations et
associations partenaires du Projet et a leurs parrains que sont les services techniques
6tatiques et ONGs.
3.   Conformement a ses termes de reference (joints en annexe), la mission a eu des
seances de travail avec le staff du projet, effectue des visites terrain dans les sept
provinces d'intervention et echange avec les beneficiaires et les structures parrainantes.
Etat de Mise en CEuvre des Differentes Composantes du Projet
4.   La mission a constate que les activites du projet s'executent normalement et ce
conformement au plan de travail annuel elabore.
L'extension de la date de cl8ture au 31 decembre 1999 du Credit IDA et du Don
Norvegien ainsi que la reallocation des fonds permettent la poursuite des differentes
activites au profit des groupements feminins beneficiaires et les partenaires du projet.
5.   La mission de supervision ayant eu lieu quasiment a la periode initialement prevue
de cl6ture du projet (30 juin 1999), les r6sultats globaux des differentes composantes ont
et apprecies en comparaison avec les objectifs planifies a l'evaluation du Projet.
25



Composante Activit6s Gn&ratrices de Revenus (AGR) et AII6gement des
Taches des femmes
6.   Les dernieres sessions provinciales de selection et de financement des cr6dits des
projets des groupements feminins ont toutes eu lieu dans le premier trimestre de 1999 ; au
total, un financement de 113 987 060 CFA a et6 accorde a 84 projets selectionnes pour
2615 beneficiaires individuels.
Ces credits places doivent &re rembourses avant la cl8ture du Projet le 31
decembre 1999.
7.  Les realisation globales au niveau des AGR sont les suivantes:
* 1093 projets finances pour un cout de 1 572 302 077 francs CFA,
* 34 007 femmes ont beneficie du financement de leurs activites,
* 90 % de taux de remboursement moyen.
S.   Quelques resultats d'analyse des impacts des AGR degag6s par une 6tude men6e en
1998 montre que ces activit6s ont eu un impact positif sur l'amelioration des conditions
de vie des menages bin6ficiaires et en particulier sur l'amelioration de leur situation
alimentaire et nutritionnelle.
En effet, il ressort de cette etude que:
* 91 % des AGR realises sont rentables;
*  Avec un cr6dit de 68 000 FCFA, une femme degage un revenu mensuel de
*  34 000 FCFA dont 32 000 FCFA en especes, le reste correspondant a
I'autoconsommation ou comme intrants dans d'autres activit6s de
diversification men6es (agriculture ou elevage).
*  Le benefice net des AGR est epargn6 a 60 % et 40 % utilise en besoins divers
de consommation.
*  Environ 78 % des femmes constituent des 6pargnes sur la base des revenus des
AGR; cela est fondamental, les femmes se pr6parent a rentrer dans les
structures formelles de credit.
9. La comparaison entre les indicateurs a l'evaluation du projet et ceux des r6sultats
en juin 1999 montre de bonnes performances pour les activites generatrices de revenus.
26



Indicateurs i l'evaluation        Indicateur de r6sultats i la supervision
aUuin 999)
*  25 000 femmes b6neficiaires  ont     *  34007 femmes beneficiaires
participes au programme AGRjusqu'a      individuelles
la fin du projet.
*  800dossiers de projets AGR realises  *  1093 realises
pendant le Projet.
*  Le taux de remboursement des credits   *  Le taux moyen de remboursement est
est superieur a 85 %                    de 90,02 %
Composante Education Nutritionnelle
10. Les activites liees a cette composante s'ex6cutent de facon satisfaisante: causeries
nutritionnelles, suivi de I'etat nutritionnel des enfants de 6 a 36 mois, formations des
meres en preparation des bouillies enrichies et en technique de mesure du tour de bras.
Les derniers mois ont connu une activite particulierement intense d'une part sur la
collecte de donnees sur les carences en iode et avitaminose A et d'autre part sur les
collectes de donnees sur la situation nutritionnelle des enfants dans les villages
echantillons. Toutes ces activit6s sont realisees en bon partenariat avec les structures
sanitaires pripheriques.
11. Les resultats cumules sont largement au dessus des previsions:
* 75 000 villageois ont beneficies des causeries nutritionnelles;
*  1836 seances de causeries ont et organisees;
* 62 % des meres form6es a l'education nutritionnelle maitrisent et appliquent les
techniques;
*  51958 enfants ont et6 suivi (6tat nutritionnel) grace a la technique de mesure du
tour de bras;
*  274 agents de sante et 1592 villageois form6s assurent aujourd'hui 1'expansion
des methodes d'education nutritionnelle;
27



* dans 252 villages sur les 563 couverts par les activites du PSAN, l'6ducation
nutritionnelle est appliqu6e par les meres.
Composante Micro-r6alisations
12. Les activites de cette composante n'ont commence qu'en 1998 et concernent
l'execution d'infrastructures par les communautes villageoises assistees de ticherons.
Au total, 527,5 hectares de bas-fonds ont et amenag6s pour la riziculture pluviale;
253 latrines familiales; 59 puits i grands diametres; 8 puits pour maraichage; 5 banques
de cer6ales.
Malgre l'importance de telles r6alisations pour les populations, la mission note que
le PSAN n'offre pas le meilleur avantage comparatif par rapport a d'autres operations
(PNGT notamment) dans l'ex6cution de ces types d'infrastructures.
Composante Travaux i Haute Intensite de Main d'CEuvre (HIMO)
13. Les performances du Projet dans cette composante sont deja reconnues modestes
suite aux insuffisances d'implication et responsabilisation des beneficiaires dans
l'execution des travaux dont la maitrise d'ouvrage est confiee a Faso Baara.
La mission note que le Projet se limite actuellement a aider a achever trois chantiers
initialement engag6s dans la Province du Passore.
Composante Systeme d'Alerte Pr6coce
14. Le Projet continue d'apporter un soutien financier au fonctionnement du Comitd
Technique de la Coordination pour l'information de la S6curit6 alimentaire. Ce soutien se
poursuivra jusqu'a la cl6ture du Cr6dit en decembre 1999.
Conformement aux conclusions de la mission de supervision de mai 1998, aucune
suite d'appui a cette composante ne pourrait &re envisagee sur financement d'une
quelconque operation sur les Cr6dits IDA.
Le Gouvernement avec le soutien de ses partenaires bilateraux ou autre devraient
prendre la releve. Du reste, la mission a 6t6 inform6e que des initiatives de l'Union
Europeenne en faveur de la composante est deja en 6tude.
Relations entre le PSAN et les autres Operations de Developpement Rural
notamment celles soutenues par la Banque Mondiale
15. Dans toutes les provinces d'intervention du Projet de Securite Alimentaire et de
Nutrition (PSAN), Passore, Namentenga, Oubritenga, Souni, Kadiogo, Gnagna,
28



Kouritenga et Bazega, le projet collabore etroitement avec les Services publics de
l'Elevage et de l'Agriculture dont les programmes d'activites de vulgarisation sont
finances par le Projet de Renforcement des Services d'Appui aux Producteurs (PRSAP Cr
1979-Bur) et par le Projet National de Developpement des Services Agricoles (PNDSA
II) depuis 1998. Ces services publics ont contribue a la mise en ceuvre du projet en
qualite de parrain des organisations paysannes de femmes au meme titre que les ONGs,
les Organisations paysannes et d'autres services etatiques (secteur social, sante,
education).
16. Dans les provinces de la Gnagna et du Kouritenga, le PSAN a collabore avec le
PNGT. Cette collaboration permet de voir la correlation et la compl6mentarite entre les
actions de gestion des ressources naturelles et celle d'amelioration des revenus des
couches pauvres des communautes villageoises.
Dans ces deux provinces, le PSAN a pu b6n6ficier de l'experience des
equipes du PNGT2 dans l'identification, la preparation et l'execution des projets de
petites infrastructures rurales alors que les delegues villageois, personnes ressources
villageoises formes a la RAF par le PSAN ont contribue i l'identification et la
pr6paration des fiches de projet pour la realisation des plans de d6veloppement villageois
. Les diagnostics participatifs initi6s par le PNGT avec les Communautes villageoises et
les autres partenaires aboutissent 6galement a des plans de developpement villageois
davantage aujourd'hui exploites par l'ensemble des intervenants du secteur rural.
17. L'assistance apportee par les services d'Elevage et de l'Agriculture aux
groupements de femmes agricultrices dans I'elaboration et 1'ex6cution de projets
d'activites g6neratrices de revenu (embouche, commerce de produits vivriers,
transformation et vente de produits v6getaux et animaux) ont permis aux agents de
vulgarisation de mieux valoriser les conseils techniques et les formations dispenses aux
producteurs. Ces agents ont en outre arneliore leur methode d'approche face a la
formation a la RAF.
18. Les appuis aux AGR et l'education nutritionnelle ont ete les deux principaux
domaines d'action aux Composantes de PSAN durant cette phase. Au total, 563 villages
et 3007 femmes organises en GVF ont beneficie du financement de leurs AGR pour un
montant total de 1 572 302 077 francs au 31 mars 1999.
La majorite des GVF beneficiaires du programme AGR sont les anciens
groupements de femme des segments de groupements villageois mixte crees, il y a plus
de dix ans. Ces groupements 6taient tres peu actifs avant le PSAN.
19.  La mission a constate que l'attribution des credits pour les AGR par le PSAN a et
un facteur determinant pour rendre ces GVF plus actifs et plus credibles au sein de leur
communaute. Les delegues villageois (en moyenne quatre femmes et deux hommes) sont
devenus les moteurs de ces organisations.
Toutefois, la forme d'organisation et de gestion des GVF ne reflte pas
clairement les principales activites et fonctions des GVF. Alors que tous les GVF gerent
des credits, produisent, vendent et collectionnent individuellement des biens. La majorite
29



n'a pas de responsable pour le credit, la commercialisation ou les principales activit6s
dans leur bureau.
20. La mission suggere que le PSAN en collaboration avec les parrains et structures
specialisees en matiere d'organisation paysannes aide les GVF a organiser
progressivement leurs organes de gestion de facon a mieux prendre en compte et suivre
leurs principales activit6s et fonctions.
Ceci permettrait d'am6liorer la professionnalisation et 1'efficacite des GVF et
d'orienter les actions de renforcement des capacit6s et les formations specifiques a leur
profit.
21. Toutes les actions d'AGR et d'6ducation nutritionnelle du PSAN sont execut6es
avec I'appui de parrains qui sont des services techniques publics, des ONGs ou des
Associations de producteurs.
Ces parrains prealablement selectionn6s par le Projet apportent leur
assistance presque exclusivement a des GVF qu'ils encadrent habituellement. Dans
quelques rares cas, des GVF ont eux-m6mes choisis de se faire parrainer par d'autres
structures autre que celles a laquelle, ils sont affili6s (exemple: cas du groupement de
Bouss6 qui a choisi la DPA du Kouritenga comme parrain parce qu'il se trouvait que
l'Union des groupements dont il relevait, avait trop de demandes de parrainage.
22.  Cette dynamique de libre choix des parrains devrait &re encouragee davantage pour
inciter les structures de parrainage a ere plus professionnelles et performantes dans les
prestations aux beneficiaires.
23. Pour promouvoir cette dynamique dans les programmes AGR futurs, la mission
recommande que les cofits de prestation des parrains soient inclus dans les couits des
micro-projets des GVF qui seront responsabilis6s pour payer les prestations recues
suivant leur appr6ciation de la quafite du service rendu.
Le Projet assurera le suivi du respect des normes d'evaluation et des
prestations selon leur nature et la regularite des contrats par rapports aux regles nationales
et dispositions de l'Accord de Cr6dit.
24. La mission a constate que dans la r6alit6, les delegues RAF constituent des
personnes ressources, motrices de la r6alisation des AGR et de l'EN dans le cadre du
PSAN. Ils sont egalement devenus des acteurs centraux dans les actions de
developpement villageois.
La mission apprecie le fait que les delegues bien que choisis par les membres
des GVF doivent obtenir l'approbation des Chefs et des Notables de la Communaut6
villageoise.
25. Dans la majorite des villages ayant beneficie de la formation RAAF, les delegues
ont elabore des fiches de projet sur les besoins prioritaires des villages et entreprennent la
recherche de financement.
30



Les del6gues assistent les GVF et les villages sur une base de b6nevolat.
Cette situation constitue un obstacle au renforcement et a la perennisation de leurs
activites.
26. La mission suggere que le Projet et les parrains exploitent et mettent a profit toutes
les opportunit6s pour utiliser les d6legues competents comme formateurs ou animateurs
dans les activites d'appui aux GVF et au village ex6cutees par le Projet, les parrains ou
d'autres partenaires.
27. De meme, le PSAN et les autres projets pourraient poursuivre le renforcement de
capacite des delegues suivant leur aptitudes individuelles pour en faire des personnes
ressources competentes.
Les bases de donnees pourraient &re exploitees dans le cadre de la deuxieme
phase du Projet National de Gestion des Terroirs (PNGT2) et le Projet National de
D6veloppement des Services Agricoles (PNDSA II) pour la selection des personnes
ressources villageoises pouvant participer a la realisation des diagnostics participatifs et
d'elaboration des plans et projets de developpement local.
Etat de la Gestion Financiere et de SystOme d'Auditing
28. Un rapport detaille de l'Analyste Financier, membre de la mission sur l'etat de la
gestion financiere et du systeme d'auditing du Projet est joint en annexe.
29. Les conclusions essentielles sont les suivantes:
*  Le PSAN n'est pas un projet a risque.
*  Le Projet connait u bon rythme de decaissement.
*  Les activites programmees sont normalement financees; un disponible du
Credit IDA d'environ 342 512 000 francs CFA (au 31 decembre 1999)
permettra d'executer le programme d'activites prevues jusqu'a la cloture du
Projet en decembre prochain.
*  L'utilisation des fonds selon les categories autorisees de depenses demande des
ameliorations.
30.  Le Fonds de Securit6 Alimentaire (FOSAN) constitue des remboursements de
credits par les groupements feminins devrait etre mieux gre a l' aide de procedures de
controle interne appropri6es; actuellement les rapprochements bancaires ne sont pas
syst6matises. L'audit de cl6ture du Projet doit s'appesantir sur le FOSAN; des termes de
references specifiques devront &re soumis a l'auditeur.
31



31. Les fonds de fonctionnement ont effectivement servi a l'execution de depenses
eligibles; cependant, une necessit6 s'impose d'ameliorer les rapprochements bancaires a
ce niveau et de former les agents comptables.
32. Les audits des comptes du Projet ont ete r6gulierement realises et ce tous les six (6)
mois.
Les rapports sont disponibles mais sont plut6t descriptifs des activit6s que
presentant l'etat des realisations et des performances des periodes auditees.
La mission invite le Projet a exiger de I'auditeur des rapports plus exhaustifs pour
les prochains examens des comptes prevus au 30 juin 1999 et 31 decembre 1999.
Fait a Ouagadougou, le 28 juillet 1999
La Mission
32



ANNEXE I
Etat de Ia Gestion Financiere et de Systieme d'Auditing
Cr. 2414 - BUR - 23445 NOK GNT
Dans le cadre d'une mission de supervision du Projet de Securite Alimentaire et
Nutrition (PSAN) dont la cloture est fixee au 3 lDecembre 1999, nous avons du 21 au 26
juin 1999, effectue un travail en tant que Charge de la gestion financiere des projets
finances par la Banque Mondiale, sur la base des termes de reference suivants:
- verifier la situation du Compte Sp&cial , les rapprochements bancaires aux
niveaux central et provincial , les etats financiers et les rapports d'audit;
- etablir la situation du Fonds de Securite Alimentaire et Nutrition ( FOSAN ) et la
rapprocher des releves bancaires;
- appr6cier la structure et les montants des depenses de fonctionnement de UIJnit6
de Coordination centrale et de chacune des 7 coordinations provinciales.
En plus du temps passe a l'Unite Centrale de Comptabilite et de Passation des
Marches ( UCCPM ), nous nous sommes rendus dans trois (3) provinces pour mieux
apprehender les realites de gestion financiere des coordinations provinciales de Yako
(Passore ), Kombissiri ( Bazega ), Kouritenga (Koupela ).
Enfin nous avons ete rendre visite a FASO BAARA ( Agetip ou Agence de
Travaux d'Interet Public ) qui est l'agence d'execution des travaux a haute intensit6 de
main d'ceuvre du projet.
Le ComDte SD&ial
Au 31 Decembre 1998, le compte du Cr6dit a Washington avait un solde de
342 512 235 FCFA, ce qui correspond au montant global budgetise pour couvrir dans le
financement IDA les besoins partiels du projet sur l'annee civile 1999. Ce solde est
progressivement vire dans le Compte Special par reconstitution de l'avance initiale.
Nous avons recommande la consommation effective de ce montant par des
depenses autorisees d'ici la fin de I'annee.
Nous en avons profite pour insister sur les procedures de cloture tant au niveau
technique qu'au niveau des decaissements.
33



Le Fonds de Securite Alimentaire et Nutrition ( FOSAN )
Une des principales activit6s du projet est de soutenir les Activites Gen6ratrices de
Revenus ( AGR ) initiees et menees par les Groupes Beneficiaires ( GB ) qui recoivent a
cet effet des petits credits remboursables.
Ces petits credits octroyes a partir du Compte Special sont rembourses au
comptable provincial qui, a son tour, verse les sommes ainsi collectees dans le compte
provincial FOSAN.
IL y a deux ( 2 ) generations d'octroi credits:
- la premiere a partir du Compte Special pour un montant de 1 024 406 819 FCFA
avec un taux de remboursement de 89.6% au 31 Mars 1999;
- la seconde provenant du FOSAN lui-meme ( les sommes rembours6es ) a hauteur
de 547 895 258 FCFA avec un taux de remboursement de 57.8% au 31 Mars 1999.
Au niveau provincial, chaque comptable a ouvert les trois joumaux suivants:
- le journal de caisse pour saisir les remboursements des petits cr6dits en entrees de
fonds et les versements en banque en sorties de fonds;
- le journal de banque pour suivre et saisir les versements en banque et les transferts
effectues en DAT ( Dep8ts A Terme );
- le journal de DAT pour suivre les mouvements du capital depose et des inter8s
generes.
Au niveau l'Unite Centrale de Comptabilite et de Passation de Marches , toutes les
donnees financieres des coordinations provinciales sont saisies et consolidees pour
produire l'information sur l'ensemble du projet .
La gestion du FOSAN est entachee par le manque evident de procedures de
contr6le interne; ceci est d'autant plus une faiblesse importante que ce sont par exemple,
les operations de caisse qui renferment les risques potentiels les plus eleves.
Les cas suivants illustrent bien cette situation:
1.   Le comptable au niveau provincial garde dans son coffre-fort des fonds de
montant eleve ( 1 500 000 FCFA a 2 800 000 FCFA ) pendant trois ( 3 ) a quatre (
4 ) semaines. Aucune indication ne lui a ete donnee sur le montant et/ou sur le
moment de versement desdits fonds en banque.
2.   Le comptable au niveau provincial ne fait pas de rapprochements bancaires
periodiques bien que les releves bancaires soient disponibles.
34



3.   L'identification de la copie carbonee servant de souche dans le carnet de
recus de remboursements de credits par les Groupes B6neficiaires n'est pas
clairement etablie.
4.   Le Responsable Financier et le Comptable au niveau de la coordination
centrale n'effectuent pas de tournees de contr6le dans les provinces a cause de leur
charge de travail.
Le manque de procedures de contr6le inteme ne renforce le FOSAN ni dans son
efficacite ni dans la fiabilite de son information financiere.
Nous recommandons un examen approfondi du FOSAN lors de I'audit prevu pour
la cloture du projet.
Les d6nenses de fonctionnement
Ce sont les frais du personnel et les frais generaux: salaires, indemnites du
personnel recrute localement, frais de location et d'entretien des vehicules, achat de
fourniture de bureau, de carburant et de petits materiels.
Deux (2 ) observations de taille sont a faire:
- les rapprochements bancaires periodiques sont mal faits parce qu'ils ne
renseignent pas sur le vrai solde de tresorerie . Nous avons fait ce constat tant au
niveau provincial qu'au niveau central;
- la confusion entre l'etat de soumission des depenses(DRF )et l'6tat financier
mensuel refl6tant les depenses du mois courant est entretenue par les comptables
provinciaux, ce qui les amene a arreter le solde du mois au journal de banque de
mani6re incorrecte.
Nous recommandons une formation des comptables meme si le projet est entre
dans un processus de cl6ture .
Les RaDnorts d'Audit
Nous avons examine les rapports d'audit et particulierement le tout dernier sur les
comptes arretes au 31 Decembre 1998 ainsi que les termes de references des audits du
projet.
Nous n'avons pu deceler nulle part dans le dernier rapport un passage relatif a la
methode et a la procedure de l'examen de la performance du projet alors que l'une des
dispositions des termes de ref6rence ( le point 2.1.5 ) exige 1'examen de << la performance
du projet, c'est a dire son stade d'ex6cution par rapport aux objectifs fixes et aux
programmes d'execution etablis, aussi bien sur le plan financier que physique ).
35



En plus, au vu du manque evident de procedures de contr6le interne au niveau du
FOSAN, les auditeurs n'ont pas approfondi leur examen sur les AGR ( Activit6s
Gen6ratrices de Revenus ) .
Notre visite a FASO BAARA nous a mieux situer sur la realite des audits, audits
exiges par les documents de l'Accord de Credit et de l'Evaluation du projet. Nous avons
recu le rapport d'audit des comptes arrets au 30 Juin 1998 et la liste des engagements
« Convention numero 000/07/PCT: PSAN)> qui se chiffrent a 1 146 563 466 FCFA de
travaux de genie civil decrits en d6tail et par attributaire.
Par la meme occasion, nous avons ete informes que toutes les realisations issues de
travaux de genie civil n'ont pas fait l'objet de v6rification systematique par les diff6rentes
missions de supervision de la Banque.
Avec autant d'interrogations et de doutes sur l'examen de performance et la
verification des realisations physiques du projet, nous recommandons qu'un accent soit
mis sur ces aspects lors de I'audit pr6vu pour la cloture du projet .
36



ANNEXE H
Contribution de I'Assistante en Diboursement
Cr. 2414 - BUR - 23445 NOK GNT -Situation sur les Deboursements
J'ai participe i la Mission de Supervision sur le terrain du 15 au 26juin 1999
conduite par le Task Manager Mr. Emmanuel Nikiema , Specialiste en Gestion des
Ressources Naturelles, Mr. Ibrahim Nebie, Specialiste des Services Agricoles. A l'issue
de la visite sur le terrain. et d'echanges avec 1'equipe provinciale, j'ai rencontre les
services comptables de la Coordination Nationale le 28 juin 1999.Cette rencontre avait
pour but de passer en revue le Compte Special IDA Credit n° 2414 ainsi que le Don
Norvegien n° 23445- Bur afin de completer les donnees sur la partie d6boursements
ComDte Sn6cial
Le montant alloue au cr6dit PSAN est de 400 000 000 Fcfa soit 7,500 000.00 Usd
avec une avance initiale de Fcfa 313,020 000.Le Montant recouvre par la Banque
Mondiale a la date du 28 Juin 1999 est de Fcefa 74,235 721.00 avec un reliquat de
238,784,279.00 Fcfa.
Le Montant decaisse est de 3,209 584,455.00 contre 5 4 demandes de
remboursements au total (6 demandes de remboursement rejetees durant toute la dur6e du
projet).
J'ai pu constater une tres bonne organisation inteme des services comptables de la
Coordination Nationale et Regionale avec des comptes separes pour les comptes IDA des
differentes stations. Une bonne classification des justificatifs et pieces comptables; ce qui
facilite la justification des depenses faites et le renouvellement des avances.
Le seul probleme a souligner est le faible niveau du solde du compte sp6cial qui
s'eleve a ce jour a Fcfa 2 362 995 mais ce solde devrait etre realimenter prochainement
par des fonds provenant des demandes en instance deja approuvees.
Contreoartie Nationale
La contrepartie Nationale au PSAN  contrairement a d'autres projets IDA ne
s'exprime pas en terme financier mais en biens (ie local abritant le PSAN egalement
plusieurs structures regionales) immobiliers et en ressources humaines (i.e personnels
detaches du Ministere de tutelle) cela a 6vit6 au PSAN les nombreux problemes
rencontres par certains projets pour mobiliser la Contrepartie Nationale qui est financi6re.
37



Don Norv&ien
Le montant du Don est de Fcfa 163 000 000 avec une avance initiale de Fcfa
162 713 068 69,216 489 Fcfa ont 6te retenu par la Banque Mondiale afin de recouvrer
l'avance initiale du Compte Special.
Les demandes de remboursements de fonds (au total 29) n'ont connu que 2 rejets
durant toute la dur6e du projet ce qui d6montre une bonne gestion financiere.
38



ANNEXE m
Termes de Rif6rence de la Mission de supervision
( 15 au 26 Juin 1999 )
1.   Du 15 au 26 juin 1999 sera organisee par la Banque Mondiale une mission de
supervision du PSAN.
2.   La mission sera conduite par Mr. Emmanuel NIKIEMA Task Manager du Projet .
Les participants seront MM. Ibrahim NEBIE (Sp6cialiste des services agricoles),
Mamadou YARO (Analyste financier), Mme Maryline YAGUIBOU (Specialiste suivi
des decaissements ).
3.   L'objectif principal de cette supervision est de porter un regard critique avec
l'equipe du Projet, les services techniques partenaires (notamment ceux parrainant les
groupements feminins) et les beneficiaires de l'etat de la mise en ceuvre du projet.
La presente mission de supervision qui intervient a la periode de la fin initialement
pr6vue du projet ( 30 juin 1999 ) sera l'occasion d'appr6cier les resultats ; ceux-ci seront
mis en perspectives avec les objectifs planifies a l'evaluation du Projet et seront analyses
4.   Une attention particuliere sera portee:
(i) aux impacts des activit6s initi6es par le projet ; cr6ation / am6lioration des
revenus des menages , amelioration de l'6tat nutritionnelle et sanitaire des enfants,
amelioration de la situation 6conomique de la femme en milieu rural ...
(ii) a la durabilite ; il s'agira de verifier si le beneficiaires de l'appui du projet
(microcr6dits) sont capables. de p6renniser les activites entreprises individuellement
ou collectivement ce qui garantirait le mieux etre pour le long terme .
(iii) enfin , les performances du mecanisme de gestion des microcr6dits, la
reconstitution des fonds a partir des remboursements, 1'efficacit6 des parrain des
organisations feminines , les liaisons du projet avec les autres operations, seront
examinees dans l'optique d'une exploitation potentielle dans de futures op6rations
5.   Chacun des membres de la mission sera charg6 de contribuer a l'ensemble de
l'analyse et s'appesantira sur les resultats et performances de sa specialite.
Monsieur Mamadou YARO analyste financier, examinera l'etat d'ensemble de la
gestion financiere du projet : tats financiers, revue des rapports d'audits, situation du
compte special, releves bancaires au niveau central et provincial et leurs rapprochements
; la situation du Fonds de securite alimentaire et nutrition (FOSAN ) sera eabli et
confirme par les releves bancaires y relatifs; enfin la structure et les cofits de
39



fonctionnement de l'Unite de coordination centrale et de chacune des 7 Coordination
provinciales seront examines par le specialiste.
Madame Marilyne YAGUIBOU, specialiste en decaissement ,passera en revue les
dossiers de demande de remboursement de fonds ; elle appreciera l'efficacite du montage
des dossiers depuis la province jusqu'i l'ehelon central tout en verifiant la conformite
des differentes pieces comptables .
Monsieur. Ibrahim NEBLE specialiste des services agricoles , examinera les
relations PSAN avec les autres operations de developpement rural notamment celles
soutenues par la Banque Mondiale ; en outre il analysera la fonctionnalite des
organisations feminines stimulees par le projet et l'efficacite des differentes structures
d'appui ( ou parrains) desdites organisations ; enfin il donnera une analyse critique sur les
associations villageoises constitu6es par les relais villageois du projet appeles De16gues .
Monsieur Emmanuel NIKIEMA, specialiste en gestion des Ressources Naturelles
et Task Manager du projet, assurera la coordination d'ensemble de la mission; il sera par
ailleurs responsable des analyses touchant aux resultats du Projets , ses impacts et
indicateurs de performances . Les donnees reelles de terrain seront confrontees a celles
projetees au moment de l'evaluation du projet . Diverses recommandations devront &re
formulees dans l'optique d'assurer une cl6ture "en douceur" en decembre 1999 et une
integration / poursuite harmonieuse dans le cadre du Community- Based Local Rural
Development Project ( PNGT2 ) en preparation .
40



MINISTERE DE LAGRICULTURE                         BURKINA FASO
SECRETARIAT GENERAL                       UTlrE - PROORES - JUSTICE
PROJET DE SECURITE ALIMENTAIRE
ET DE NUTRITION
RAPPORT DE FIN D'EXECUTION
DU PROJET DE SECURITE ALIMENTAIRE
ET DE NUTRITION
(CREDIT 2414 BUR)
SEPTEMBRE 2000
41



1. HISTORIQUE DU PROJET
Le Projet de S6curit6 Alimentaire et de Nutrition (PSAN) est n6 de la volont6
du Gouvemement du Burkina Faso de lutter contre la pauvret6 et d'am6liorer les
conditions de vie des populations surtout dans les zones a haut risque d'ins6curit
alimentaire par I'am6lioration des revenus des m6nages pauvres et I'am6lioration du
statut nutritionnel des membres de ces menages.
Le PSAN a 6et prepare en 1992 dans le cadre du Programme d'Ajustement du
Secteur Agricole (PASA) dont les objectifs 6taient:
> La modernisation et la diversification de la production agricole;
> L'am6lioration de la gestion des ressources naturelles;
> Le renforcement de la securite alimentaire.
L'Accord de crudit a e6t signe le 6 octobre 1992 et le projet est entre en
vigueur le 1' juin 1993. Le lancement officiel a eu lieu en novembre 1993 A Yako,
chef lieu de la province du Passore.
Les principaux bailleurs du PSAN sont: le Burkina Faso, la Banque Mondiale
(IDA), la Norvege, la R6publique Federale d'Allemagne et le PAM. Le financement de
la Banque Mondiale est un crudit de 7,5 millions de dollars sous le n° 2414 BUR.
Le financement de la Norvege est un Don associe au crudit IDA sous le n°
2344-5 d'un montant de 16,2 millions de couronnes norv6giennes. Ce don a 6t6
signe le 8 juillet 1994.
Le financement de la Republique Federale d'Allemagne est une assistance
technique d'un montant de 1,8 millions de D.M.
Le financement du PAM est un soutien en vivres d'un montant de 1,1 millions
de dollars US.
La contribution du Gouvemement burkinabe est d'un montant de 1,5 millions
de dollars US.
Dans sa conception initiale, le projet couvrait quatre provinces: le Passore, la
Gnagna, le Namentenga et le Soum.
Par la suite, avec les nombreuses sollicitations d'autres provinces et a la
faveur de la devaluation du francs CFA, le Gouvernement et la Banque Mondiale ont
autorise l'extension du projet a trois autres provinces qui sont: l'Oubritenga, le
Bazega et le Kouritenga (amendement de l'Accord de cr6dit du 17 juillet 1995).
42



II.OBJECTIF DU PROJET
Le Projet de Securite Alimentaire et de Nutrition vise deux objectifs majeurs.
11.1. AU NIVEA U NATIONAL
> Reduire le dMlai de reaction du Gouvernement en cas de crises
alimentaires;
> Mieux cibler les programmes de s6curite alimentaire sur )es groupes A
faible revenu des provinces vulnerables A la secheresse;
> Fournir une base de donn6es et un cadre logistique pour la prise de
decision rationnelle en matiere de securite alimentaire et de nutrition.
11.2. AU NIVEAU DES MENAGES
> Ameliorer les mecanismes d'adaptation  des menages des zones
chroniquement deficitaires en diversifiant et en ameliorant leurs sources de
revenus.
> Ameliorer leur connaissance en matiere de nutrition et de suivi de I'etat
nutritionnel des enfants par la famille.
> Renforcer les capacites des populations a identifier, a analyser et a
r,soudre leurs problemes de securite alimentaire et de nutrition.
Pour atteindre ces objectifs, le projet a developpe une approche participative
et a introduit quatre (4) criteres s6lectifs respectivement g6ographique, familial,
financier et 6conomique.
L'approche de mise en ceuvre des activites par le PSAN est la Recherche -
Action - Formation (RAF).
Cette approche RAF vise a augmenter les capacites des communautes A
l'identification, a l'analyse, a la resolution des problemes lies a leur developpement et
A garantir la durabilite des impacts du projet. Elie a eu aussi pour avantage de creer
une synergie entre les differentes composantes du PSAN.
Les quatre criteres de la strategie d'intervention ont ete:
> d'un point de vue geographique, se fondant sur les donnees de l'USAID -
FEWS et sur l'etude du cadre d'analyse du syst6me d'alerte precoce, le
projet s'est interesse aux provinces a forte population vulnerable;
43



> du point de vue familial, le projet a r6serv6 son soutien aux femmes,
considerant a la fois le role crucial qu'elles jouent dans le menage pour
I'alimentation domestique et la n6cessit6 de mieux reconnattre leur statut
social;
> du point de vue financier, seuls les menages pauvres sont eligibles aux
financements des activites generatrices de revenus et aux equipements
d'all6gement de leurs taches;
> enfin les activitKs realisees devraient etre justifiees comme des activites
Aconomiquement viables, capables de se poursuivre apres la fin du soutien
du projet.
En outre elle devraient etre A meme de developper un savoir et un savoir faire
au niveau des populations benAficiaires des interventions du projet.
MI. REALISATION DU PROJET
Le Projet de S6curit6 Alimentaire et de Nutrition a mis en ceuvre quatre types
d'activit6s regroup6es par composante.
> La composante des activit6s gen6ratrices de revenus (AGR) et
d'allegement de la p6nibilit4 des taches des femmes.
> La composante travaux a haute intensite de mains d'ceuvre.
> La composante micro-realisations.
> La composante education nutritionnelle.
Dans le plan d'op6ration (PO) du PSAN les objectifs et les activites du projet
ont ete traduits en sept resultats:
> le resultat 1 correspond aux activites liees a la structure de gestion du
PSAN;
> le resultat 2 correspond aux actions pour augmenter les capacites des
b6n6ficiaires a identifier, A analyser et a resoudre leurs problemes de
securite alimentaire et de nutrition;
> le resultat 3 correspond aux activitAs liees aux AGR;
> le resultat 4 correspond aux activitAs IiAes A l'allegement de la penibilitA
des taches des femmes;
44



> le r6sultat 5 correspond aux activites Ii6es aux travaux a haute intensite de
main d'oeuvre;
> le resultat 6 correspond aux activites li6es aux micro-r6alisations;
> le resultat 7 correspond aux activites liees a l'education nutritionnelle et
sanitaire.
111.1. RESULTAT 1: LA STRUCTURE ORGANISA77ONNELLE DU PSAN EST
FONCTiONNELLE
111.1.1. OBJECnF DU RESULTAT I
Les activites de ce resultat visent A mener au niveau de la coordination du
projet des actions pour la mise en ceuvre efficace et efficiente du projet.
111.1.2. REALISATIONS
Des documents de gestion et de pilotage du projet ont ete elabores et
executes. 11 s'agit notamment:
> du manuel de gestion administrative, financiere et comptable,
> du manuel de Planification, Suivi-Evaluation avec un Schema de
Planification (SPP), un Plan d'Operation (PO) et des plans de travail annuel
(PTA),
> du manuel de gestion informatisee des AGR, du FOSAN et du credit des
6quipements,
> du manuel de procedure de mise en oeuvre des micro-r6alisations, etc.
111.2. RESULTAT 2: DES ACTIONS SONT MENEES POUR AUGMENTER LES
CAPACfTES DES BENEFICIAIRES A IDENTIFIER. ANALYSER ET RESOUDRE
LEURS PROBLEMES DE SECURITE ALIMENTAIRE ET DE NUTRTON
111.2.1. OBJECTIF
Les activites liees a ce resultat visent a:
> augmenter les capacites d'identification et d'analyse des communautes
villageoises aux questions de developpement, de l'alimentation et de la
nutrition;
> associer les communautes a la resolution de leurs problemes;
> garantir la durabilite des impacts du projet.
45



111.2.2. STRATEGIE DE MISE EN (EUVRE
La strategie d'intervention en matiere d'education nutritionnelle preconis6e par
le document d'evaluation du projet consistait a former des vulgarisateurs issus des
services techniques et des ONG qui seront charges de transmettre des messages.
Les exp6riences ayant montre les limites de ce type d'approche, le PSAN a
juge que l'am6lioration des conditions de vie des populations et plus specifiquement
I'amelioration de leur condition alimentaire et leur etat nutritionnel est seulement
possible qu'a la condition d'une participation effective de ces populations a leur
devenir.
Cela signifie ne pas mener Faction A la place des communautes, encore moins
concevoir pour elles et vouloir le faire accepter.
C'est ainsi que le PSAN, dans la recherche de l'efficacit6 et avec l'accord de la
Banque Mondiale a adopte l'approche Recherche-Action-Formation (RAF).
L'approche Recherche-Action-Formation est l'approche prealable a toutes
interventions du PSAN dans une communauts donnee.
Le processus de l'approche Recherche-Action-Formation devra faire des
dulegues villageois, choisis par leur communaute pour suivre la demarche, des
responsables capables d'amorcer la reflexion dans leurs villages sur la
probl6matique de la securite alimentaire et de la nutrition.
La recherche action est une succession d'ateliers pour la formation th6orique,
puis sur le terrain pour la mise en pratique des connaissances ou savoir faire.
111.2.3. REALISATIONS
Pour atteindre ces objectifs, le projet a developpe depuis 1995, I'approche
Recherche-Action-Formation (RAF).
La RAF a permis d'augmenter la capacit6 d'analyse des populations dans 252
villages et secteurs touches par la formation de 1 592 delegues villageois issus de
279 groupements villageois. 24 de ces d6l6gu6s formes sont actuellement utilises
pour la formation d'autres delegues.
La pertinence de la RAF en tant qu'approche d'auto-promotion paysanne a 6t6
reconnue par tous les acteurs: les d6l6gu6s villageois, les communautes
villageoises, les agents formes.
La RAF a ete un veritable catalyseur pour le succes des interventions du
PSAN. Elle a reussi a cr6er une synergie entre les differentes composantes du PSAN
et a favorise une ouverture d'esprit, une capacite d'analyse des producteurs.
46



111.3. RESULTA T 3: LE PROGRAMME DES ACTIVITES GENERA TRICES DE
REVENUS (AGR) INlTIE PAR LES COMMUNAUTES EST REAUSE
111.3.1. OsJEcnF
Le programme des activites g6n6ratrices de revenus vise A diversifier et A
ameliorer les sources de revenus des menages actuellement subordonnes aux
seules ressources que procurent l'agriculture et l'elevage traditionnels chroniquement
menac6es par une pluviometrie deficitaire ou mal repartie.
111.3.2. STRATEGIE DE MISE EN CEUVRE
> Les projets finances sont ceux issus du processus RAF.
> Les femmes beneficdaires sont regroupees en groupement ou en
associations villageoises reconnues par les autorites administratives.
> Les projets sont selectionnes par le comite provincial de selection et de
suivi des projets.
> Le montant maximum du credit est de 2 000 000 FCFA avec une
participation des beneficdaires au moins egale A 20 %.
> La dur6e maximale de remboursement est de 2 ans.
> Le credit est individuel mais est octroy6 A travers le groupement.
> Le taux d'int6ret du credit est zero, mais il est fortement recommande aux
groupements de generaliser la pratique dun taux d'interet inteme de fa,on
A constituer des fonds propres qu'ils deposeront aupres des institutions
financieres decentralisees pour faciliter leur acces au credit du marche.
> Les groupements sont parraines par les ONG ou par des services
techniques etatiques.
> Les remboursements sont verses dans le Compte Provincial de Securite
Alimentaire et de Nutrition (FOSAN). Ce fonds peut servir au refinancement
des activites.
Les conditions suivantes doivent etre r6alis6es pour qu'un projet soit
selectionne.
> L'activit6 propos6e au financement doit generer des ressources financieres
qui permettent de rembourser le credit et degager un revenu pour le
beneficiaire apres remboursement du pret.
47



> Le montant maximum du credit PSAN est de 2 000 000 FCFA par
groupement.
> La duree du credit ne doit pas exc6d6e 24 mois maximum.
> La participation des groupements au financement de l'activit6 est au moins
egale A 20 % du cout total du projet.
> Le credit est A 0 % d'int6ret pour les groupements mais il est encourage
d'instituer un taux interne au sein du groupement. Le montant de ce taux
est laisse a l'appr6ciation de chaque groupement.
> Les remboursements sont reverses dans un compte provincial de securite
alimentaire et de nutrition (FOSAN) qui peut servir pour le refinancement
d'autres projets AGR.
111.3.3. REALISATIONS
111.3.3.1. R6alisations auantitatives
Au 30 avril 2000, le projet a obtenu les resultats suivants:
> 563 villages ont ete touches par les activites AGR sur un total de 1 661
villages dans l'ensemble des 7 provinces d'intervention du projet, soit un
taux de couverture de 34,94 %. En terme de populations touch6es par ces
activites, la couverture est de 39,52 % (835 735 habitants touches sur une
population totale de 2 114 528 habitants).
> Les b6n6ficiaires directs au niveau des menages des AGR peuvent etre
estim6s A 238 539 personnes (34 077 b6n6ficiaires x 7 personnes
/menage). Compare a la population touchee par les AGR, ce chiffre
represente 28,54 % de personnes ayant beneficie directement des effets
de cette composante contre un objectif assigne au projet qui etait de 16 %.
> 1 093 projets AGR d'un montant de 1 576 047 077 FCFA ont ete finances
contre 800 projets prevus.
> 34 007 femmes individuelles ont beneficid du credit AGR contre 25 000
femmes prevues.
> Le taux de remboursement moyen du credit est de 95,84 % contre un taux
minimum prevu de 85 %.
> Formation de 1 803 beneficiaires en technique de gestion et de 2 561
beneficiaires en technique specifiques diverses liees a leurs activites.
48



111.3.3.2. ApDr6ciation qualitative
Les resultats de 1'6tude d'impact des AGR en 1996 et en 1998 et ceux de
1'6valuation participative permanente indiquent que le programme AGR a eu un
impact positif sur I'am6lioration des conditions de vie des menages bAn6ficiaires de
ce programme et en particulier sur l'am6lioration de leurs revenus.
> La majorite des AGR r6alisees sont rentables dans 91 % des cas.
> Les activites financees par un credit de 68 000 procurent un revenu
mensuel de 34 000 FCFA dont 32 000 FCFA en especes, le reste servant
a I'autoconsommation ou comme intrants dans I'agriculture et 1'elevage.
> Le surplus genere par les AGR se repartissent entre 40 % pour la
consommation et 60 % pour 1'epargne. La part affect6e A la consommation
se compose de 53 % pour l'alimentation, 29 % pour I'achat de vetements et
18 % pour les autres depenses (scolarite, sante, etc.).
> Environ 78 % des femmes ont constitue des epargnes sur la base des
revenus des AGR.
111.4. RESULTAT 4: DES ACTIONS D'ALLEGEMENT DE LA PENIBILITE DES
TACHES DES FE UMES SONT CONDUI
Suite a la mission de supervision de la Banque Mondiale intervenue en Mai
1998, la mission a marque son accord pour le financement des equipements dans le
cadre de I'allegement de la pAnibilite des taches des femmes sur la catAgorie 2 du
pret IDA.
Du fait des delais de remboursement tres court et du demarrage tardif de cette
activite, trois provinces ont pu selectionner et financer quelques Aquipements.
111.4.1. OBJEcnFs
Les activites de ce resultat visent a augmenter la participation des femmes a
la mise en csuvre du projet par l'introduction de petites technologies appropri6es
pouvant:
> allAger la pAnibilite des taches domestiques (mouture de cereales,
transport bois, sau);
> faciliter 1'ex6cution de certaines taches li6es a 1'ex6cution des AGR
(decorticage arachides, sechage des l1gumes, extraction huile de karite,
etc.).
49



111.4.2. STRATEGIE D'INTERVENTION
Les projets finances sont issus du processus RAF. Les projets sont
s6lectionn6s par le Comite provincial de selection et de suivi.
111.4.3. REALISATIONS
Malgre le demarrage tardif de ces activites, le projet a finance 43 equipements
dans trois provinces (Passore, Kouritenga, Soum) d'un montant de 3 043 500 FCFA.
IIL15. RESULTA T 5: LE PROGRAMME DES TRAVAUX A HAUTE INTENSITE DE
MAIN DEJUVRE (HIMO) EST REAUSE
111.5.1. O0JECTIFS
Les Travaux a Haute Intensite de Main d'couvre ont pour but de:
> attenuer la pauvret6 en offrant des possibilites d'emplois remuneres aux
families demunies pendant les periodes ou l'offre d'emplois est faible voire
inexistante en milieu rural,
> doter les provinces d'infrastructures collectives pouvant contrbuer a leur
developpement socio-economique.
111.5.2. STRATEGIE D'INTERVENTION
La mise en cauvre de la composante HIMO a implique sept acteurs principaux:
> la coordination du PSAN qui est le maitre d'ouvrage, il est le bailleur de
fonds de l'Agence Faso Baara qui r6alise a son nom et pour son compte
les differentes taches liees A la realisation de la composante;
> I'agence Faso Baara qui est le maitre d'ouvrage delegue ; cette
responsabilite lui a ete conf6r6e par le Gouvemement et la Banque
Mondiale;
> le SP/PAM est la structure chargee de foumir les vivres PAM;
> le comite de selection qui est le meme que celui des AGR examine et
selection les projets qui lui sont soumis par l'administration et par les
collectivites villageoises par 1'entremise des coordinations provinciales du
PSAN;
50



> les bureaux d'etudes sont les maltres d'oeuvre; ils sont charges des etudes
techniques des ouvrages, de la preparation des appels d'offres, du suivi et
du controle des chantiers; ils sont choisis par I'agence Faso Baara,
> les entreprises s6lectionn6es par l'agence Faso Baara sur appel A la
concurrence sont charg6es de la realisation physique des ouvrages;
> les populations rurales des zones d'intervention du PSAN participent A la
r6alisation des infrastructures comme main d'oeuvre non qualifi6e.
111.5.3. REALISATIONS
111.5.3.1. R6alisations Dhvsigues
53 infrastructures HIMO d'un montant de 1 191 152 769 FCFA ont et6
realis6es en deux campagnes.
Ces infrastructures ont conceme quatre provinces: Passor6, Gnagna, Soum,
Namentenga.
Ces infrastructures sont li6es a:
> I'hygiene alimentaire (abattoir, latrines, boucherie);
> la sante (dispensaire, matemite, centre de recuperation nutritionnelle,
pharmacies villageoises);
> I'education (6coles);
> I'augmentation de la production (perimetres maratchers);
> 1'eau potable (puits a grand diamAtre).
2 903 emplois ont ete cr66s, equivalant A 101 546 hommes/jours contre une
prevision de 200 000 hommes/jours.
Les salaires verses se sont eleves A 220 644 460 FCFA, soit un ratio de main
d'cauvre global de 21,82 % contre une prevision de 17 % . La duree moyenne des
emplois est de 34 jours contre une prevision de 25 jours.
500 tonnes de vivres PAM ont ete distribu6es a la main d'aeuvre.
51



111.5.3.2. ADDr6ciation aualitative de ce resultat
Les infrastructures ont ete faites selon les regles de l'art, leur qualite est
globalement satisfaisante.
Les Travaux a Haute Intensite de Main d'oeuvre ont contribue a doter les
quatre provinces d'un nombre relativement important d'infrastructures a caractere
social et economique.
Ces infrastructures ont egalement contribu6 a ameliorer les conditions des
populations dans les domaines de I'hygiene alimentaire, de la sante, de l'education et
de l'eau potable; malgre ces resultats appreciables du point de vue du deuxieme
objectif, force est de constater que l'objectif de cr6ation d'emplois et de distribution de
revenus au profit des families demunies n'a pas ete atteint parce que la participation
des populations dans les provinces d'intervention a l'ex6cution des travaux a ete tres
insuffisante.
I_1.6. RESULTAT 6: LES MICRO-REAUSATIONS INITIEES PAR LES
COMMUNAUTES SONTREAUSEES
La creation de ce resultat est liee aux insuffisances dans l'implication et la
responsabilisation effective des b6n6ficiaires dans l'ex6cution des travaux HIMO.
11 a ete donc suggere de mettre en couvre un nouveau dispositif qui conferera
au PSAN la responsabilite de la mise en oeuvre des projets d'interet collectif issus de
la Recherche Action Formation et dont les coOts sont inf6rieurs A 20 millions de
francs CFA. C'est seulement A partir de 1998 que les activites de micro-r6alisations
ont d6marre.
111.6.1. OBJEcnF
Les micro-r6alisations ont pour objectif de doter les communautes avec leur
participation de petites infrastructures pouvant contribuer a l'am6lioration de leur
securite alimentaire et leur nutrition.
111.6.2. STRATEGIE DE MISE EN CEUVRE
Les projets de micro-r6alisations finances sont ceux issus du processus de
Recherche-Action-Formation et selectionnes par le comite provincial de selection et
de suivi des projets.
Leurs realisations sont I'ceuvre des communautes villageoises assist6es par
des entreprises locales.
52



111.6.3. REALISATIONS
111.6.3.1. R6alisations Physiques
Les micro-r6alisations men6es sont liees a:
> I'hygiene du milieu avec la realisation de 290 latrines familiales et 2 latrines
collectives;
> I'alimentation en eau potable avec la r6alisation de 83 puits A grand
diametre;
> I'augmentation de la production avec la r6alisation de 541,5 hectares de
bas-fonds pour la riziculture pluviale, de 6 p6rim6tres maraichers et 6 puits
maraichers pour la maratcheculture;
> une dotation de 99,461 tonnes de vivres PAM ont soutenu les effets des
communautes dans la r6alisation de ces travaux, plus particulierement
dans la r6alisation des puits a grand diametre.
L'objectif de r6aliser 10 micro-r6alisations par province est largement atteint et
toutes les infrastructures sont fonctionnelles.
111.6.3.2. Awr6ciation qualitative des micro-r6alisations
Les micro-r6alisations ex6cut6es ont permis:
> d'am6liorer l'etat sanitaire, I'hygiAne du milieu, la reduction des maladies
liMes au p6ril f6cal;
> I'alimentation en eau potable des populations;
> la promotion de quelques tacherons et entreprises locales.
111.7. RESULTAT 7: UN PROGRAMME D'EDUCATION NUTRITIONNELLE.
AUMENTAIRE ET SANITAIRE DES COMMUNAUTES EST MENE
111.7.1. OBJECTnF
Le programme d'education nutritionnelle, alimentaire et sanitaire vise A donner
aux communautes les bases d'une bonne nutrition, d'une bonne alimentation et d'une
bonne hygiene. Ce programme vise egalement A permettre aux communautes
d'assurer la surveillance nutritionnelle de leurs enfants.
53



111.7.2. STRATEGIE D'INTERVENTION
Les activites men6es au niveau de ce r6sultat sont aussi issues du processus
recherche action formation. Elle ont port6 essentiellement sur le suivi de l'tat
nutritionnel des enfants de 6 A 36 mois, les causeries nutritionnelles, les formations
des mbres en preparation des bouillies enrichies, etc.
111.7.3. LES REALISATIONS
111.7.3.1. Realisations auantitatives
> 252 villages ont beneficA de l'intervention en matiere d'education
nutritionnelle sur un total de 166 villages, soit plus de 15 % de villages
touch6s;
> I'etat nutritionnel de 51 958 enfants ont ete suivi par la methode de mesure
de tour de bras avec la bandelette shakir;
> 1 838 causeries nutrtionnelles ont ete organis6es au benefice de 75 304
personnes;
> 1 592 d6l6gu6s villageois ont ete form6s sur les differents themes de
causeries nutritionnelles et sur l'utilisation des boites A images;
> 62 % des meres form6es savent utiliser la bandelette de shakir.
111.7.3.2. ADDr6ciation qualitative des effets de 1'6ducation nutritionnelle
Une etude r6alisee en Mars 1999 sur les effets des interventions du PSAN sur
le comportement nutritionnel, alimentaire et sanitaire montre:
a) Au niveau de I'alimentation de la famille
> 96 % des femmes beneficdaires des AGR et de 1'education nutritionnelle ont
ameliore leur alimentation quantitativement ou qualitativement;
> 71 % des femmes ont augmente la quantite d'aliments consommes;
> 84 % des femmes ont augmente la qualite des aliments consommes.
b) Au niveau de I'alimentation des enfants
Les connaissances des mAres sur l'alimentation des enfants se sont nettement
amelioreos et les changements de comportement sont plus eleves dans le cas des
femmes ayant beneficdA a la fois de l'education nutrtionnelle et des AGR.
54



c) Au niveau des soins de sante
> Les connaissances sur les maladies carentielles et diarrh6iques ainsi que
leurs traitements appropries sont ameliores.
> Les differentes actions de sensibilisation (causeries) et de formations ont
entrain4 une plus forte prise de conscience des villages sur les problemes de
sante et de nutrition.
> Les capacites des villageois a detecter les cas de malnutrition ont ete ameliore
grace aux formations et aux causeries nutritionnelles ; 75 % des femmes
ayant participe aux activites d6ducation nutritionnelle ont ameliore leurs
connaissance en alimentation et en nutrition.
> Un nombre important d'enfants en situation de malnutrition ont pu etre
recuperes a partir des bouillies enrichies.
d) Au niveau de I'hvaiene
On note une amelioration des connaissances en hygiene et leur mise en pratique
chez la quasi-totalite des femmes ayant suivi les causeries nutritionnelles.
e) Au niveau de la Dlanlfication familiale
On constate une frequentation plus assidue des formations sanitaires des
populations pour les causeries en planification familiale et plus particulierement sur
les methodes contraceptives.
111.8. COMPOSANTE SYSTEME D'ALERTE PRECOCE (SAPJ
11 s'agit d'une composante qui a ete executee par la Cellule de Coordination
pour l'lnformation pour la securite alimentaire (CT/CCI). Le PSAN a apporte son
appui financier.
111.8.1. OBJECTIF
La composante Systeme d'Alerte Precoce a pour but de contribuer dans le
cadre de la gestion de l'information pour la securite alimentaire a la mise en place
d'un systeme d'alerte precoce integre afin de permettre au Gouvernement de:
> r6agir plus rapidement aux situations d'urgence alimentaire;
> mieux cibler les programmes de securite alimentaire sur les groupes a
faibles revenus dans les provinces predisposees a la secheresse;
55



foumir une base de donn6es et un cadre logistique pour faciliter la prise de
decisions rationnelles en matiere de securte alimentaire.
111.8.2. REALISATIONS
En rapport avec la formalisation d'instruments d'aide A la prise de decision,
une etude de definition d'un cadre analytique du SAP a ete effectuee en 1994 dans le
cadre de I'appui du PSAN. Le fonctionnement du SAP qui en decoule repose sur la
mise en action de deux principaux modeles que sont:
> un modele de pronostic qui, a partir d'une variable structurelle (indice de
vulnerabilite), d'une variable de moyen terme (situation alimentaire de
l'annee precedente) et de variables d'actualite (production ou prevision de
production par tete) permet de calculer la probabilite de crise alimentaire
au niveau d'une entite g6ographique donnee (province, departement). Cet
instrument est d'une utilite annuelle.
> un modele de diagnostic de la situation alimentaire, qui est plutot de nature
qualitative et consiste en un suivi rapproche de variables de tres court
terme. II s'agit la d'un instrument d'utilite conjoncturelle.
Le suivi des zones A risque fait appel A l'utilisation d'un cadre d'analyse et
l'etablissement du bilan c6r6alier et requiert trois etapes suivant le schema ci-
dessous.
56



SUIVI DES ZONES A RISQUES
PERIODICITE
16- 6tape
Quinquennal
INDICE DE VULNERABILITE STRUCTURELLE
2n 6tape
|PRONOSTIC          =     Indice devulnerbilite     +     Production par tite de mil,
+     Situa tonI
,i ctusi",BB                   sorgho, maYs pour I'ann6e
alimentaire de
en cours
3'ann6e pr6c6dente Annual
3h- 6tape
|II=]     | Pronostic                +      Analyse des indicateurs
+     Anallodes pix '
snacin.6icnnnmigumns
des c6r6ales et    Mensuel
des animaux
C,



La mise en place d'un plan d'organisation et de fonctionnement du CCI.
11 est pr6vu que la cellule technique du CCI centralise differents types
d'informations en provenance de diverses sources, notamment les groupes de
travail, les analyse et les stocke dans ses banques de donnes. Cette cellule a
egalement en charge la publication des situations alimentaires et de la campagne
agricole dans le bulletin mensuel du CCI.
11 reste qu'a l'heure actuelle, la multiplicite des sources d'information n'est pas
suffisamment exploite de fa,on judicieuse.
IV PRINCIPAUX FACTEURS AFFECTANT LE PROJET
IV.1. FACTEURS ECHAPPANTAU CONTROLE DU GOUVERNEMENT
Le seul facteur hors du contrble du gouvemement a ete la mauvaise
pluviometrie en 1997/1998 qui a legerement affecte le projet.
IV.2. FACTEURS DEPENDANT DU GOUVERNEMENT
Le projet etant finance A 100% par I' IDA, il n'y a pas eu de probleme de fonds
de contrepartie. Les procedures pour les achats de biens et services n'ont pas eu un
impact negatif au. niveau du projet.
V.3. AUTRES
IV.3.1. PASSATION DES MARCHES
Le projet n'a pas connu des difficultes pour les passations des marches, tant
au niveau du Gouvernement qu'au niveau de la Banque Mondiale.
IV.3.2. GESTION FINANCIERE/ADMINISTRATIVE
La gestion financibre/administrative du projet a ete satisfaisante et les rapports
d'audits (tous les 6 mois) ont ete soumis dans les delais preconises dans I'accord de
credit. Les auditeurs ont toujours emis une opinion favorable et leurs
recommandations ont ete mises en cauvre par le projet.
Une comptabilite generale analytique budg6taire informatis6e a ete introduite
en 1994.






IV.3.3. RESPECT DES CLAUSES DE L'ACCORD DE CREDIT
Les clauses de l'accord de credit ont 6te respect6es.
IV.3.4. SERVICES DES CONSULTANTS
Le PSAN a utilise des consultants et des prestataires de services prives pour
l'assister dans l'ex6cution du projet, faire des etudes, organiser des modules de
formation, etc. En g6neral, les services etaient de bonne qualit6.
IV.3.5. COUT DU PROJET ET SOURCES DE FINANCEMENT
Lors de l'evaluation, le coOt du projet etait estime a 12,8 millions de dollars au
total dont 7,5 millions de dollars pour l'IDA, 2,7 millions de dollars pour la Norvege,
1,1 million de dollars pour le PAM en vivres et 1,5 millions de dollars pour l'Etat
Burkinabe.
La R6publique Federale d'Allemagne a participe au Projet en apportant une
assistance technique evalu6e a 1,2 millions de dollars.
Au 30 avril 2000, date de clbture du Projet, le cout reel du projet est de 4,043
milliards de francs CFA pour l'IDA; 1,312 milliards de FCFA pour la Norvege; 592
millions pour le PAM et 808 millions pour l'Etat Burkinabe.
Le financement du projet peut etre resume dans le tableau suivant:
En millions de FCFA
SOURCE    ESTIMATION DE    REAUSATION
L'EVALUATION    (Esidmtion la plus
r6cwte)
IDA                   4 043            3 906
Norv6ge                1 312            1184
PAM                     592              206
Etat Burkinabe          808              486
TOTAL                  6 7i55          5 782
V PERENNITE DU PROJET
11 est reconnu qu'un projet de s6curit6 alimentaire et de nutrition, pour avoir un
impact durable, necessite un renforcement des actions sur une periode allant de sept
A dix ans.
C'est pour cette raison, et au vu des resultats obtenus, que le Gouvemement
avait souhaite une deuxibme operation des activites du projet.
60



La Banque Mondiale a souhaite voir integrer les activites du PSAN,
notamment les activites g6n6ratrices de revenus, les activit6s liees a I'education
nutritionnelle dans le cadre du PNGT 2.
Toutefois, au niveau de la composante activites generatrices de revenus,
I'evaluation participative a montre que 89 % des femmes peuvent poursuivre leurs
activites apres le remboursement du credit.
Au niveau de l'education nutritionnelle, 62 % des femmes peuvent assurer le
suivi nutritionnel de leurs enfants.
VI. PERFORMANCE DE LA BANQUE
La performance de la Banque lors de l'identification, de la pr6paration du
projet et de 1'evaluation du projet a ete globalement satisfaisante pour 1'ensemble des
composantes du projet, seule la conception de la composante HIMO a eu des
insuffisances, ce qui a necessite une revision de la conception et la mise en cauvre
d'une composante micro-realisation suite c la revue b mi-parcours du projet en 1997.
La performance de la Banque pendant la supervision a ete satisfaisante
pendant les deux premi6res annees d'ex6cution (1994 et 1995) et pendant les deux
dernieres annees (1998 et 1999), au cours desquelles le dosage des specialites etait
approprie et les visites de terrain frequentes.
Entre ces deux periodes (1996 A 1997), la supervision a ete insuffisante tant
du point de vue de la qualite que de la frequence des visites terrain. Beaucoup de
consultants ont sejoumr au Burkina sans avoir apporte quelque chose au projet,
parfois ces visites ont meme ete n6gatives pour le projet. Cette situation a eu pour
consequence d'occulter les importants acquis du projet au niveau de la Banque
Mondiale.
VII. PERFORMANCE DE L 'EMPRUNTEUR ET DE LO'AGENCE
D'EXECUTION
Wi. 1. PERFORMANCE DE L'EMPRUNTEUR
La performance de I'Emprunteur dans la preparation et I'execution du projet a
ete globalement satisfaisante. Le Gouvernement a participe aux missions de
preparation, d'evaluation et de supervision du Projet.
61



V11.2. PERFORMANCE DE L 'AGENCE D 'EXECUTION
La performance de l'unit6 de coordination du projet a ete satisfaisante.
L'execution des volets sous controle de l'unit6 de coordination a ete bien faite et les
resultats ont depasse les objectifs et l'impact de ces resultats est important.
La gestion financiere a ete satisfaisante.
Cette performance de l'unite de coordination tire son origine du fait que le
projet s'est dote d'un Manuel de Planification/SuivilEvaluation avec des outils de
pilotage, de suivi et d'evaluation gr3ce a l'assistance technique de la GTZ.
VWI!. EVALUATION DES RESULTATS
Les resultats d'ensemble du PSAN sont satisfaisants dans la mesure ocu le
projet a atteint en general ses objectifs.
> 28,54 % de la population totale des villages d'intervention ont beneficie
directement des retomb6es du projet.
> 28 % des menages pauvres des provinces d'intervention ont ete touches
contre 16 % prevus.
> 91 % des activites generatrices de revenus (AGR) menees sont rentables
avec un TRI moyen de 43 % par mois.
> 60 % des revenus nets et 72 % des revenus monetaires des femmes
benAficiaires proviennent des AGR.
> 60 % des revenus supplementaires generes par les AGR sont affectes a
l'pargne (en espece comme en nature) et 40 % a la consommation.
> La part des revenus supplementaires affectes A la consommation se
compose de 53 % pour la nourriture contre 20 % d'augmentation prevu, 29
% pour l'achat de vetements et 18 % pour les autres achats (medicaments,
scolarit6, etc.).
> 90 % des femmes menant des AGR intensives en main d'osuvre et 52 %
de celles menant des AGR non intensive en main d'cruvre ont realise des
epargnes respectivement de 68 % et 30 % des revenus g6n6r6s.
> 58,82 % des groupements beneficiaires ont ouvert un compte d'epargne
dans une institution financiere contre 40 % prevus.
> Un cr6dit initial de 68 000 FCFA procure un revenu mensuel de 34 000
FCFA dont 32 000 FCFA en espece, le reste servant a l'autoconsommation
ou comme intrants dans I'agriculture ou l'elevage.
62



> Les populations des villages beneficiaires du projet sont plus aptes A
identifier, analyser et resoudre leurs problemes nutritionnels et sanitaires
grace a l'intervention des personnes ressources endogenes (d6leguds
villageois) form6es A la demande Recherche - Action - Formation (1 592
delegues formes).
> 75 % des femmes ayant beneficie des causeres nutrtionnelles ont
ameliorw leurs connaissance en matibre d'alimentation et de nutrition et
plus de 80 % des femmes ont ameliore la qualite de la nourriture
consommee en famille.
IX PRINCIPAUXENSEIGNEMENTS
> L'approche pour l'amelioration des conditions de vie des menages, en
choisissant le menage et plus particulierement la femme comme cible de
depart, assure une vAritable promotion economique et sociale de la famille.
> L'approche Recherche - Action - Formation developpee par le PSAN
assure une bonne implication et un meilleur engagement des
communautes face A leur devenir.
> L'approche impliquant le systeme de parrainage a ete nAcessaire au
demarrage du projet, mais il est important de veiller a ce que les parrains
jouent progressivement un role secondaire de conseillers techniques pour
Aviter qu'ils se comportent comme de simples operateurs 6conomiques. Le
PSAN en formant les delegues villageois a permis de minimiser le r6le de
ces parrains.
> Le taux d'intAret zero institue par le projet a facilite l'acces des couches
dAfavorisAes au crAdit et a permis avec un taux interne institu6 par les
beneficiaires de promouvoir par l'ouverture d'un compte d'epargne leurs
accbs au systeme de credit decentralise ou la constitution d'un fonds de
credits rotatifs.
> Le PSAN a forme avec l'approche RAF, des leaders communautaires en
matibres de problematique alimentaire et nutritionnelle, des leaders qui se
sont constitues A leurs initiatives en associations provinciales pour animer
et dynamiser leur communaute dans des action susceptibles d'ameliorer
leur conditions de vie.
Ces associations peuvent etre des acteurs de perennisation des actions du
PSAN mais aussi comme c'est le cas present, des acteurs pour d'autres projets et
programmes.
63






Map Section






54° 0                                                     2°                           jo        ,             ,    OO                 o          +> v                                  IBRI  2386E
15   MAURITANIAI)
BURKINA  FASO                                                                                                                                                                        MALI              ' NIGER
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT                                                                                                       OUDALAN                                                                               1
r  ,  C<,,C,;,       -             t6g>~~~~GuronoGoron,                                           RURIN Oj0l    NIGREIAi> 
GUINEA                        z
e,      DIVOIRE  !
-14'                                                                   T.            N.                                                                                                              1 D4
N-y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
wor '> X j 9 \ YATENGA   
BAM ~ ~ ~        ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~         (
" > 5 U+ oUeRs X CUA>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NA                                                                                                            G b
s ,  C                         ,              g                                      _ ; s                  G O U R M A             s              '             '  *
KENEDOUGOU1S << X 0N.-                                                                       OU RIT NGA
|   -r  _  __>_ ;,_ 9 > X B E Nos    I                                      SZW
j  t- . Q t G H A N                                         ,                                                        ~
<~~~~~T K.,I .O             O '$                                  \          V.r-..    ridna
< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Gou j nave od
Ion Tn Abid1=+  AS  jr (~  |  0  20  40  40  80 lo-                                                                                                          Tivkrg
Cj   a   (   s                KILOMETERS                                                           ffii9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~~                  ~    ~~ Notional Capitail0
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n = ,o,on of ,nd, an a                                                                                                              1 A n.,,Ioei h l0,d-    Province Boundalri
' SA}}/ To 3mmot* ( ; uc=;~~~~~~~~~~np4 o in ioT 7f *b Wol Bok G=~,_ nhyW hdg,nt                                                                   hh Ptrnovince   oundariesi
COTE    X D'IVOIRE                              
5°                           403                                     t2                                                1°                            0°                            1-                            2-
,  ,,  ,           It L                                                                  I BO 






5'  3'               2'                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 23869
15°                           4-   5' 2                                                                                      OX~r'-4 '/   MUR uNiA v4 ~ U
_j LMALIrNIGER
BURKINA FASO                                                                                                             ,-
CEREAL PRODUCTION ZONES                                                                                                           FANo-`--  NIGERIA
's"     ' /ioo g co                       K  B5 RN GUN A5,    
.=..     I      Dlabo                          ,/'9 ~'~~    ?            COTE  /
D'IVOIRE  ~ ' 
14\                                                                                                               To. N-y  14 ,
To 51Sasr0 <      4                          z; \ \ > ,  t   A  < / +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A L   TC   O
;   t/    n         Uza;                    ,_,< 4    /,+                                             +,                 BENIN~~~~~~YAFtl~A  EN
jC   v  \~  ~ k  _        t >   f               r TVh U          rO Tomale  9        p        O G O 0- T9-Nat77ngo
13'                                                                                                 GAN
~~\  <$   >0 M O E  >  X    1 0 0 N I  D                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~GRADATION_ QDEEICJT  ____Paved Roads
*K=# / ) < _HGooua tv C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Middle                                -    RraIraads
KOSSI r T   /  <   s                     o2D us  60 BO 10              p   High           1   Airports
10  vo Abd i'i t   (t+                \                                    KILOMETE RS                                ,   National  Capita u
f t   >                C    w  z:e  f  _   5 os  crBd   /    forehe mvriU  a,,,, of   Th  Woi  ~ --  Province   Bound aries
vd6un     ,arr ,,f r;.yTh nvyO W,id eni  oi,v.rc   ,/dvmXct  _ , _  International Boundaries
C,   TE       D  'IVOIRE                                                 I' 0,\   2  °    O' IK                              2D   '    Y19V
12, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MY192'



