Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2414 BUR
Norwegian Grant Agreement
(Food Security and Nutrition Project)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of development
aid funds provided by
the Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs of
the Kingdom of Norway
Dated July 8, 1994
AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2414 BUR
NORWEGIAN GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 8, 1994, between BURKINA FASO (the "Grantee") and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association") acting as Administrator (the 
"Administrator") of the Norwegian Grant (as hereinafter defined) provided by the Royal 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Norway ("Norway").
WHEREAS: (A) the Grantee and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement, dated October 6, 1992 (the "Development Credit Agreement"), whereby 
the Association has agreed to provide a credit to finance part of the cost of the Food 
Security and Nutrition Project, as more fully described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement (the "Project");
(B)
the Grantee has requested the assistance of Norway in the financing of a 
part of the Project;
(C)
Norway has agreed to make available a grant (the "Norwegian Grant") 
through the Administrator to the Grantee to assist in the financing of the Project, on 
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
(D)
by an agreement between Norway and the Association (the "Administration 
Agreement"), Norway has requested the Association, and the Association has accepted, 
to administer the Norwegian Grant in accordance with the provisions of the 
Administration Agreement;
(E)
the Grantee acknowledges that the financial assistance extended to the 
Page  2
Grantee under this Agreement (the "Norwegian Grant Agreement") shall be considered as 
part of the bilateral development aid extended by Norway to the Grantee; and
(F)
the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing 
to extend the Norwegian Grant to the Grantee in support of the Project, upon the terms 
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (the "General Conditions") 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement, subject however, to the following 
modifications thereof:
(a)
the term "Association", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Norwegian 
Grant pursuant to the Administration Agreement, except in the phrase "member of the 
Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 6.02 (e);
(b)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Norwegian Grant Agreement;
(c)
the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Norwegian Grant;
(d)
the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the trust account opened by the Administrator in its books in the name of the Grantee 
to which the amount of the Norwegian Grant is credited (the "Trust Account");
(e)
in Section 6.02 the term "Association" shall also include the Association 
acting in its own capacity;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date, or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Grantee and the 
Administrator, the Grantee shall prepare and furnish to the 
Administrator a report of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Project 
referred to in the Preamble to the Norwegian Grant Agreement, the 
performance by the Grantee and the Administrator of their respective 
obligations under the Norwegian Grant Agreement and the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Norwegian Grant."; and
(g)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 
(a), and Article XII are deleted.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Administration 
Agreement, and in the Preamble to this Agreement, have the respective meanings therein 
set forth, and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Norwegian Kroner" or "NOK" means the currency of Norway; and
(c)
"CFA Franc" or "CFAF" means the currency of the Grantee.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Grantee, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, a grant in an amount of sixteen 
million two hundred thousand Norwegian Kroner (NOK 16,200,000) or such other amount as 
shall have been made available by Norway to the Administrator for this purpose 
pursuant to the Administration Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Norwegian Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Trust Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as 
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Grantee and 
the Administrator for expenditures made (or if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of the goods and services required for the 
Project.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the 
Grantee on goods and services or in the importation, manufacture, procurement or 
supply thereof.
(c)
The Grantee shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs a special account (the "Special Account") in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Consultants and experts acceptable to the Administrator shall 
be employed by the Grantee on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator 
for the provision of services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Norwegian 
Grant. Such consultants and experts shall be selected in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" (the 
Guidelines), published by the Bank in August 1981. No substitution of such consultants 
and experts or modification of the terms and conditions of their employment shall be 
made, except with the prior consent of the Administrator.
(b)
Goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Norwegian Grant 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the same procedures as 
those described in Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement and on the basis of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in May 1992.
(c)
If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that the 
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to 
in paragraphs (a) and (b) above, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Norwegian Grant, and the Administrator may, without in any way 
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Administrator under 
this Agreement, by notice to the Grantee, cancel such amount of the Norwegian Grant 
as, in the Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such 
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Norwegian Grant.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Grantee of 
such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Grantee declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the Household Food 
Security Unit (HHFSU) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources, with due 
diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial 
and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Grantee shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Grantee responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Grantee shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Page  4
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Administrator;
     (ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; and
    (iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Trust 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Grantee shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
     (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Trust Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
    (iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
     (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Representative; Transfer of Rights
and Obligations
Section 5.01. The Minister of the Grantee responsible for Finance and Planning 
shall be the representative of the Grantee for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Grantee:
Ministère des Finances et du Plan
B.P. 7008
Ouagadougou
Burkina Faso
Telex:
5555 SEGEGOUV
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS 197688 
(TRT)
Page  5
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
Section 5.03. In accordance with the provisions of the Administration Agreement, 
the rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be 
transferred to Norway. The Grantee accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the 
Administrator to the Grantee to that effect, Norway shall, ipso facto, from the date 
specified in such notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the 
Administrator under this Agreement as if Norway had been an original party to this 
Agreement, without any further action or formality required on the part of any party, 
and from such date the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as 
a party under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date first above 
written or the date of the Administration Agreement, whichever is the later, and shall 
continue in effect until the Norwegian Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties 
to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations under this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
BURKINA FASO
By /s/ Gaëtan Ouédraogo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
  as Administrator of the Norwegian Grant
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category                    NOK)        
to be Financed
(1)
Subprojects 
   6,200,000
100%
under Labor
Intensive Works
(2)
Vehicles and
     500,000
100%
equipment
(3)
Consultant
   6,200,000
100%
Page  6
Services
and Studies
(4)
Training 
     600,000
100%
(5)
Operating 
   1,100,000
100%
costs
(6)
Unallocated
   1,600,000
TOTAL
  16,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs" has the same 
meaning as in the Development Credit Agreement.
3.
The proceeds of the Grant will be utilized to finance the operations of the 
Project in the provinces of Passore, Namentenga, Soum and Gnagna.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) at the national level, to reduce the 
Borrower's response time for reacting to national food emergencies, improve the 
targeting of food security programs to concentrate on low-income groups in 
drought-prone provinces, and provide a data base and logistic frame for rational 
decision-making on food security and nutritional issues; and (b) at the household 
level, to improve household coping mechanisms by diversifying income sources of the 
rural poor for improved food security and nutrition, and improving the efficient use 
of available household food to achieve better nutritional status for children below 
the age of three and lactating mothers.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institution Building and Strengthening
1.
Strengthen institutional capabilities of CNCPC and HHFSU.
2.
Support for research on priority themes.
Part B:
Integrated Early Warning System
1.
Establish an integrated Early Warning System (EWS) for food shortages, and 
develop data gathering, processing and analysis capabilities of EWS Unit.
2.
Improve reliability of agricultural statistics at the provincial level, and the 
collection of information on farming activities, through implementation of a National 
Survey of Agricultural Statistics.
Part C:
Labor Intensive Programs
1.
Support labor intensive public works sub-projects, including communal road 
building and maintenance, construction of schools, health posts and day care centers, 
and wells and micro-dams to provide potable or irrigation water, in selected provinces 
during times of low agricultural labor demand.
2.
Strengthen monitoring and evaluation of labor intensive food-for-work programs.
Part D:
Household Income Generating Activities
1.
Support a program of sub-projects designed and implemented by predominantly 
women's groups of food insecure households, in the selected provinces.
2.
Train preselected NGOs and BGs in project identification, preparation, 
presentation and maintenance of project accounts.
3.
Conduct (a) a baseline survey, a mid-term survey, and a final survey of 
sub-projects in Passore, (b) a Project launching workshop, and (c) a publicity 
campaign to explain the objectives, target group and conditions of support under this 
component.
Page  7
Part E:
Nutrition Education
1.
Conduct a beneficiary assessment to identify the food and nutrition concerns of 
the target population.
2.
Conduct a multi-media nutrition education campaign involving development and 
distribution of video films, theater plays, radio contests, exchange of experiences 
between village associations, and printing of messages in support to other 
communication channels.
3.
Conduct an intensive inter-personal communication campaign, using a 
participative community method of nutrition education, known as the GRAAP method, and 
delivered by extension workers at the village level from the agriculture and NGO 
services.
4.
Conduct a rapid assessment of the training needs of agricultural extension 
agents in each of the selected provinces.
5.
Train about 150 agricultural extension workers and about 64 NGO extension 
workers in GRAAP method with a focus on nutrition education, followed by refresher 
sessions each year.
6.
Develop inter-sectoral provincial communication plans through workshops.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Category" means Categories (1) to (5) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) 
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $300,000 
to be withdrawn from the Trust Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to the Administrator 
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as 
follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Grantee for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Grantee, deposit into the Special Account such 
amount or amounts out of the proceeds of the Grant as the Grantee shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Grantee shall furnish to the Administrator requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Administrator shall deposit into the Special Account such 
amounts out of the proceeds of the Grant as shall be required to replenish the Special 
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit shall be made by the 
Administrator in the respective equivalent amount, as shall have been justified by the 
evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Grantee out of the Special Account for which the 
Page  8
Grantee requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Grantee shall furnish to the Administrator, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Administrator shall reasonably request, 
showing that such payment was made for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Administrator when 
either of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals of the Grant proceeds should be made directly to the 
Grantee; or
     (ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall be equal to the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawals of the Grant proceeds remaining unwithdrawn shall 
follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Grantee. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Grantee shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Administrator, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further 
deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account shall be made until the Grantee 
has made such deposit or refund.
7.
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Grantee shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, 
refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount which will be added to the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Grant.
