CREDIT NUMBER 2414 BUR
Development Credit Agreement
(Food Security and Nutrition Project)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated     OcobeL    C      , 1992


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2414 BUR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       (COtb-L    C          , 1992, between
BURKINA  FASO   (the  Borrower)   and  INTEPJiATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower intends to contract from Federal Republic
of Germany (Germany) a loan (the German Loan) in an amount
equivalent to $2,700,000 to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the German Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and Germany;
(C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the World Food
Program (WFP) a grant (the WFP Grant) in an amount equivalent to
$1,100,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the WFP Grant Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and WFP; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.   The  "General   Conditions  Applicable   to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of  the   Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "BG" has the same meaning as in Section 3.04 (a) of this
Agreement;


﻿-2-
(b)   "CFAF" or "CFA Franc" means the currency of the
Borrower;
(c)   "CNCPC" has the same meaning as in paragraph 2 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(d)   "EWS" means the Early Warning System referred to under
Part B.1 of the Project;
(e)   "FASO BAARA" means Agence Faso Baara, an        entity
established and existing under the laws of the Borrower;
(f)   "HHFSU" has the same meaning as in paragraph 2 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(g)   "MAE" means Minist6re de 1'AFriculture et de 1'Elevage;
(h)   "NGO" means non-governmental organization;
(i)   "preselected", in relation to an NGO, means preselected
by a Provincial Project Unit, pursuant to the provisions of Section
7.01 (g) of this Agreement or paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 hereto;
(j)   "Project  Management  Contract"   means  the  Project
Management Contract referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(k)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"   means  the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated June 25, 1992 and July 28,
1992 between the Borrower and the Association;
(1)   "Provincial Coordinator" means a coordinator of the
Project within a Provincial Project Unit;
(m)   "Provincial Project Unit" means the unit responsible for
implementation of the Project in each of the selected provinces;
(n)   "selected provinces" means the provinces of Gnagna,
Namentaega, Passore and Soum;
(o)   "Special Account" and "sub-account" mean, respectively,
the account and any sub-account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement;
(p)   "SPONG" means the NGO Permanent Secretariat.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to five million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 5,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. The Borrower may, additionally, have a sub-account
opened and maintained, in the name of the Provincial Project Unit,
in each of the selected provinces, as well as a sub-account, in the
name of FASO BAARA, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account and each sub-acount shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the   Association  shall  reasonably  request;   (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1, commencing
January 1, 2003 and ending July 1, 2032. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on July 1, 2012 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be. two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by


﻿-5-
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end:
(i)   shall carry out Parts A, B, C.2 and D.3 of the
Project through MAE, and Parts D.1, D.2 and E of
the Project through the Provincial Project Unit,
with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate financial, administra-
tive, technical and agricultural practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required
for such Parts of the Project; and


﻿-6-
(ii)   shall cause FASO BAARA to carry out Part C.l of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in   conformity  with   appropriate   technical,
administrative,   financial   and    engineering
practices, shall take or cause to be taken all
action,   including  the  provision  of   funds,
facilities,   services  and   other   resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable FASO BAARA to
carry out the Project, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with the carrying out of the Project
by FASO BAARA.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B, C.2, D and
E of the Project and shall cause FASO BAARA to carry out Part C.1 of
the Project, all in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Association and the Borrower hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04. 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part
C.1 of the Project shall be carried out by FASO BAARA.
Section 3.04. (a) For purposes of Part D of the Project the
Borrower shall on-lend an aggregate amount of the proceeds of the
credit not exceeding $2,000,000 to finance sub-projects in the
selected provinces, on the basis of a zero rate of interest and a
repayment period not exceeding 24 calendar months, and on such other
terms and conditions as shall be acceptable to the Association,
including, but not limited to, the following:
(i)   every sub-loan shall be made for the benefit of a
beneficiary group (BG), consisting of an average
of 30 members, which has formed a management
committee and undertaken to contribute not less


﻿-7-
than 20 percent of the total cost in cash or in
kind of the sub-project;
(ii)   no sub-loan shall be in excess of CFAF 2 million
or have a repayment period of more than 2 years,
and no BG shall benefit from financing under the
Project for an aggregate period in excess of four
years;
(iii)   every sub-project proposal shall have been (A)
sponsored by a preselected local NGO, and (B)
demonstrated to be capable of improving household
food security, health and nutritional status of
the  poorer  households  within   the  selected
provinces;
(iv)   in the selection of sub-projects to be financed
under the Project, preference shall be given to
those sub-projects, (A) which have been demon-
strated to be sustainable, technically feasible
and sound, and (B) whose beneficiaries are
involved  in  the   design,  implementation  or
management thereof, or are able and willing to
contribute thereto in labor or materials; and
(v)   the proceeds of each sub-loan shall be disbursed
on the basis of a sub-project agreement to be
entered into amongst the BG, the sponsoring NGO
and the Provincial Project Unit, represented by
the Provincial Coordinator, and giving details of
the sub-project to be financed, the tinancing
plan including the respective contributions of
the BG and the sub-loan, the disbursement
schedule and repayment terms.
(b)   In this Section:
(i)   the term "sub-project" means a sub-project under
Part D.1 of the Project;
(ii)   the term "sub-loan" means an amount on-lent under
paragraph (a) of this Section to finance a sub-
project; and the term "sub-project agreement"
shall be construed accordingly.


﻿-8-
Section 3.05. (a) For purposes of Part C. of the Project, the
Borrower shall conclude with FASO BAARA a Project Management
Contract, acceptable to the Association:
(i)   giving details of sub-projects to be undertaken
by FASO BAARA, the criteria to be used for the
selection thereof, the proposed schedules and
work programs, the respective obligations of the
Borrower and FASO BAARA thereunder, as well as
the procurement procedures to be used by FASO
BAARA for the selection of sub-projects and sub-
contractors, and for the award of contracts; and
(ii)   including provisions to the following effect,
namely that:
(A)   FASO BAARA shall, not later than September
15 of each year, submit a program of sub-
projects to be executed during the fiscal
year next following, and the value thereof,
together with an expanded inventory of
potential sub-projects which are capable of
being executed in each of the selected
provinces during the same period;
(B)   FASO BAARA shall revise its Procedures'
Manual and, in particular, its procurement
procedures, to the extent necessary or
appropriate to conform with the require-
ments of the Project Management Contract;
and
(C)   FASO BAARA shall invite applications from
eligible  firms   to  be   considered  for
prequalification, in accordance with the
provisions   of  the   Project  Management
Contract   and  the  revised   Procedures'
Manual, and shall proceed accordingly to
the compilation of an initial list of sub-
contractors and engineering firms who shall
have been so prequalified.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Project
Management Contract in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of


﻿-9-
the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Project
Management Contract, or any provision thereof.
(c)   In this Section, the term "sub-project" means a sub-
project under Part C.l of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts A, B, C.2, D and E of the Project
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
for the Special Account and each sub-account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:


﻿- 10 -
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at   least one year    after the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Account or sub-account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure that the said accounts and records shall
be audited on a semiannual basis by said
auditors, who    shall  prepare  audit   reports
accordingly and furnish them to the Association,
not later than three (3) months after the end of
such semiannual audit period, along with an
opinion as to whether the statements of expen-
diture submitted during such period, together
with  the   procedures  and  internal   controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause FASO BAARA to
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of
FASO BAARA.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause FASO BAARA to:
(i)   have  its   records,  accounts   and  financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) and the
records and accounts for the Special Account and
sub-account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after


﻿- 11 -
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning such records, accounts, financial
statements  and   the  audit   thereof  as   the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account for Part C.1 of the Project were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause FASO
BAARA to:
(i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account or
sub-account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure that the said accounts and records shall
be audited on a semiannual basis by said
auditors, who    shall  prepare   audit  reports
accordingly and furnish them to the Association,
not later than three (3) months after the end of
such semiannual audit period, along with an
opinion   as  to  whether   the   statements  of
expenditure   submitted   during  such   period,
together  with   the  procedures   and  internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause FASO BAARA:
(a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and
engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers; and
(c)   at all times to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound financial, technical and
engineering practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Borrower or FASO BAARA, as the case may be, shall
have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Management Contract.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Borrower
or FASO BAARA, as the case may be, will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Management Contract.
(c)   The Statute Convention, dated August 12, 1991, between
the Borrower and FASO BAARA shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of FASO BAARA to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Management Contract.


﻿- 13 -
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of FASO BAARA or for the suspension of its operations.
(e)   The German Agreement or the WFP Grant Agreement shall
have failed to become effective by July 1, 1993, or such later date
as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions
of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
(f)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms thereof, or
(B)   any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension,    cancellation,   termination    or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower;


﻿-14 -
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur;
(c)   any event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso thereof; and
(d)   any event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The Borrower has published the Decrees establishing,
respectively, the CNCPC, its Permanent Secretariat and HHFSU;
(b)   The  Borrower  has  appointed  independent  auditors,
acceptable to the Association, to audit the Project accounts in
accordance with the requirements of Section 4.01 of this Agreement,
and has established an accounting and financial management system,
acceptable to the Association;
(c)   The Project Management Contract has been concluded;
(d)   FASO BAARA has submitted, in accordance with the
requirements set forth in Section 3.05 (a) (ii) (A) of this
Agreement, a proposed program of sub-projects, covering a program
period of not less than six months ending at the end of the current
fiscal year or the fiscal year next following, as the case may be;
(e)   Necessary modifications to the Procedures' Manual of
FASO BAARA have been duly made and adopted, in accordance with the
requirements set forth in Section 3.05 (a) (ii) (B) of this
Agreement;
(f)   an initial list of prequalified sub-contractors and
engineering firms has been duly compiled, in accordance with the
requirements set forth in Section 3.05 (a) (ii) (C) of this
Agreement, and submitted to, and approved by, the Association;


﻿- 15 -
(g)   The Provincial Coordinator for the province of Passore
has been appointed, a Provincial Project Unit established therein,
and a list of preselected local NGOs duly compiled for that
province, and submitted to, and approved by, the Association;
(h)   The Borrower has (i) issued a Procedures' Manual,
acceptable to the Association, setting forth the procedures
governing the preselection of NGOs and their activities under the
Project, and (ii) signed a contract with SPONG for the training of
preselected NGOs   in  project   identification, preparation   and
presentation, and the maintenance of accounts;
(i)   The Borrower has recruited the requisite number of
technical assistants and other higher level staff required for the
EWS Unit, all of whom shall have qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Association; and
(j)   The baseline survey under Part D.3 (a) of the Project
has been completed.
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
B.P. 7050
Ouagadougou
Burkina Faso


﻿- 16 -
Telex:
5555 SEGEGOUV
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
BURKINA FASO
By J:S/ ?Qa-UL
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /.s/ kAt-na &
f~&1A..  Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works               1,240,000        100%
(2) Sub-projects              1,460,000        100%
under Part D.1
of the Project
(3) Vehicles,                   510,000        100%
equipment and
supplies
(4) Consultants' services       360,000        100%
and studies
(5) Training                    360,000        100%
(6) Operating costs             730,000        100%
(7) Refunding of                150,000       Amount due
Iroject                                   pursuant to
Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                   of this Agreement
(8) Unallocated                 660,000
TOTAL                5,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs"
means the incremental costs arising under the Project on account of
local contractual staff salaries and allowances, office rent,


﻿- 18 -
supplies and utilities, and maintenance of vehicles, fuel and
equipment.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) at the national level,
to reduce the Borrower's response time for reacting to national food
emergencies, improve the targeting of food security programs to
concentrate on low-income groups in drought-prone provinces, and
provide a data base and logistic frame for rational decision-making
on food security and nutritional issues; and (b) at the household
level, to improve household coping mechanisms by diversifying income
sources of the rural poor for improved food security and nutrition,
and improving the efficient use of available household food to
achieve better nutritional status for children below the age of
three and lactating mothers.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institution Building and Strengthening
1.    Strengthen institutional capabilities of CNCPC and HHFSU.
2.    Support for research on priority themes.
Part B:     Integrated Early Warning System
1.    Establish an integrated Early Warning System (EWS) for food
shortages, and develop data gathering, processing and analysis
capabilities of EWS Unit.
2.    Improve  reliability  of  agricultural   statistics  at  the
provincial level, and the collection of information on farming
activities, through implementation of a National Survey of
Agricultural Statistics.
Part C:     Labor Intensive Programs
1.    Support labor intensive public works sub-projects, including
communal road building and maintenance, construction of schools,
health posts and day care centers, and wells and micro-dams to
provide potable or irrigation water, in selected provinces during
times of low agricultural labor demand.


﻿- 20 -
2.    Strengthen monitoring and evaluation of labor intensive food-
for-work programs.
Part D:     Household Income Generating Activities
1.    Support a program of sub-projects designed and implemented by
predominantly women's groups of food insecure households, in the
selected provinces.
2.    Train preselected NGOs and BGs in project identification,
preparation, presentation and maintenance of project accounts.
3.    Conduct (a) a baseline.survey, a mid-term survey, and a final
survey of sub-projects in Passore, (b) a Project launching workshop,
and (c) a publicity campaign to explain the objectives, target group
and conditions of support under this component.
Part E:     Nutrition Education
1.    Conduct a beneficiary assessment to identify the food and
nutrition concerns of the target population.
2.    Conduct a multi-media nutrition education campaign involving
development and distribution of video films, theater plays, radio
contests, exchange of experiences between village associations, and
printing of messages in support to other communication channels.
3.    Conduct an intensive inter-personal communication campaign,
using a participative community method of nutrition education, known
as the GRAAP method, and delivered by extension workers at the
village level from the agriculture and NGO services.
4.    Conduct  a rapid   assessment  of  the  training needs   of
agricultural extension agents in each of the selected provinces.
5.    Train about 150 agricultural extension workers and about 64
NGO extension workers in GRAAP method with a focus on nutrition
education, followed by refresher sessions each year.
6.    Develop inter-sectoral provincial communication plans through
workshops.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Burkina Faso may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and,2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items required under Part D.1 of the
Project, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,200,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
2.    Contracts for civil works under Part C.1 of the Project, up to
an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,000,000, may be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association, amongst bidders who have been prequali-
fied on the basis of criteria acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 22 -
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, as well the first contract
to be awarded pursuant to paragraph 2 of Part C of this Schedule,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    (a)   The Borrower and the Association shall, not later than
September 30, 1993 and, thereafter, not later than September 30 of
each subsequent year, undertake a joint review of the Project or, as
the case may be, not later than September 30, 1995, a mid-term
review, during which they shall exchange views generally on all
matters relating to the progress of the Project, and the performance
by the Borrower and FASO BAARA of their respective obligations under
this Agreement or the Project Management Contract, as the case may
be; including, but not limited to: (i) the execution of the work
program for the current fiscal year, in the light of the key
monitorable indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association, and (ii) the proposed budget and work program,
including the schedule of proposed procurement actions, for the
forthcoming fiscal year.
(b)   Not later than one month prior to each such review, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, a
report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the progress and status of the Project, and giving details, in
particular, of the proposed budget and work program for the
forthcoming fiscal year.
(c)   Following each such review, the Borrower undertakes to
act promptly and diligently, in order to take any corrective action
deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the imple-
mentation of the Project, or to implement such other measures as may
have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the
objectives of the Project.
(d)   Without limitation to the preceding paragraphs (a), (b)
and (c) of this Section, the Borrower shall, throughout the period
of implementation of the Project, submit to the Association, for its
review and comments, quarterly progress reports on staffing arrange-
ments pertaining to the Project, training and retraining, and
procurement actions under the Project, implementation of technical
assistance, and information, education and communication (IEC)
training activities, the activities of the EWS Unit, research,
Project expenditures, the performance of information gathering and
analysis units, and monitoring and evaluation activities.


﻿- 24-
2.    The Borrower shall establish: (a) a Comit6 National de
Coordination de la Politique C6r6ali6re (CNCPC), to be chaired by
the Minister of Agriculture and consisting of representatives of
other interested Ministries and agencies, to guide, monitor and
coordinate cereals policy, organize consultations with partners
involved in the provision of food aid, monitor the implementation of
the Cereals Plan and provide regular evaluations, and provide a
forum for the design of a national food security and nutrition
strategy; (b) a Permanent Secretariat to assist the CNCPC in the
performance of its functions; and (c) a Household Food and Security
Unit (HHFSU), to be responsible for planning, field actions, and the
monitoring and evaluation of food security projects.
3.    The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) a Provincial Coordinator
has been appointed, and a Provincial Project Unit established, for
each of the selected provinces other than Passore, and (b) a list of
preselected local NGOs has been duly compiled for each province, and
submitted to, and approved by, the Association, not later than
December 31, 1993, in the case of the province of Namentaega, and
not later than December 31, 1994, in the case of the remaining
provinces.
4.    Upon the establishment of Provincial Project Unit in each of
the selected provinces, the Borrower shall conclude, on behalf of
the Unit, a contract with a suitably qualified and experienced NGO
for the training of agricultural extension staff and preselected
NGOs in nutrition education.
5.    A Provincial Communication Plan, designed to standardize the
content of core nutrition education messages and ensure their
complementarity with other on-going nutrition projects, will be
developed for each of the selected provinces and submitted to the
Association in each case for prior review.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $400,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account and each sub-account shall
be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of tae Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 26 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account or a sub-account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account and each sub-account, the Borrower shall, at such time as
the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    The provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Schedule,
relating to the withdrawal of the Authorized Allocation atd the
replenishment of the Special Account, shall apply, subject to such
modifications and adjustments as may be necessary or appropriate, to
initial payments made into, and subsequent replenishments of, each
sub-account by the Borrower; provided, however, that the amount
corresponding to the Authorized Allocation shall be determined, in
respect of each sub-account, by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association.
6.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or


﻿- 27 -
(b)   once the   total unwithdrawn   amount of the    Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining oa deposit in the
Special Account and each sub-account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
7.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account or a sub-account: (i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account or the sub-account, as the case may be, or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association, ;n amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account or a sub-account
will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account or any sub-account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
7 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance


﻿- 28 -
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


