Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3397-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED
ELEVENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 100.8 MILLION (EQUIVALENT TO US$110.0 MILLION)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
October 27, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation
to a basket of reference currencies, with Sterling serving as intervention
currency. On August 24, 1982, the official exchange rate was set at Tk 38.95
buying and Tk 39.05 selling per Pound Sterling. The Taka/Dollar cross-rate
depends on exchange rate movements between Sterling and the US Dollar. In
recent months, this rate has fluctuated around Tk 22.5 per US Dollar.
Throughout this report the rates shown below have been used:
US$1             -       Tk 22.50
Tk 1             -       US$ 0.0444
Tk 1 million    -        US$ 44,444
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre  (ac)                       -       0.405 hectare (ha)
1 maund (md)                       -        82.27 pounds (lbs)
1 long ton (ton)                   -       27.22 maunds
1 cubic foot per second (cusec)  -         0.0283 cubic meter per second
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADP     -    Annual Development Programme
AGD     -    Approved Grain Dealers
BADC    -    Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BKB     -    Bangladesh Krishi Bank
BWDB    -    Bangladesh Water Development Board
DCA     -    Development Credit Agreement
DTW     -    Deep Tubewell
FFPMS   -    Food and Fertilizer Policy Monitoring Secretariat
HTW     -    Hand Tubewell
IIS     -    Industrial Investment Schedule
KSS     -    Krishak Samabaya Samity (Farmers- Cooperative Society)
LLP     -    Low-Lift Pump
MFP     -    Ministry of Finance and Planning
MoF     -    Ministry of Food
MTFPP   -    Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan
NFSP    -    National Fertilizer Storage Plan
NIP     -    New Industrial Policy
PDP     -    Primary Distribution Point
PFDS    -    Public Foodgrain Distribution System
SFYP    -    Second Five-Year Plan (FY81-FY85)
STW     -    Shallow Tubewell
TCCA    -    Thana Central Cooperative Association.
TIP     -    Trade and Industrial Policy
TSC     -    Thana Sales Center
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
ELEVENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT SUMMARY    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .i
I.   THE ECONOMY  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .1
Introduction  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .        1
Overall Developments and Medium-Term Outlook   .  .  .  .  .       2
Balance of Payments .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .        4
Public Finance   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .       5
Development Planning and Policy Issues   .  .  .  .  .  .  .       7
Need for Program Aid   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .       9
Relations with the IMF .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .. .  .  .  .  .    10
II.  RESOURCE MANAGEMENT: PERFORMANCE AND POLICIES .  .  .  .  .  .      11
Introduction  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .      11
Development Budget  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .      12
Agriculture   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .      13
Trade and Industry  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    16
III.THECREDIT.18
IIIC T ECE I    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .  1
Introduction  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    18
Improved Procedures for the Annual Development Programme          20
Agricultural Policy Improvements   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    22
- Pricing and Fielding of Minor Irrigation Equipment             22
- Fertilizer Pricing and Logistics   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    25
- Foodgrain Procurement and Distribution   .  .  .  .  .  .    28
- Agricultural Credit .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    30
Reform Measures in Trade.and Industry .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    30
Administration of the Proposed Credit .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    33
IV.  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    34
V.   LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .      36
VI.  RECOMMENDATION  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    37
ANNEX   I:   Social and Economic Indicators Data Sheets  .  .  .  .    38
ANNEX  II:   The Status of Bank Group Operations - Bangladesh            43
ANNEX III:   Supplementary Credit Data .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    58
ANNEX  IV:   Progress Report on the Tenth Imports Program Credit         65
ANNEX   V:   The New Industrial Policy .  .  .  .  .      .  .           71
ANNEX  VI:   Utilization by Sector of Previous Imports Program
Credits  ..76
ANNEX VII:   Use of Fund Resources: Bangladesh    ..77
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



, I                                                                                                                                                                                I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I



BANGLADESH
ELEVENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:              PeopleTs Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:                SDR 100.8 million (US$110.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard
Purpose:               The proposed Credit will support improvements
in domestic resource mobilization and budgetary
management, in agricultural and food policies,
and in trade and industrial policies.
The credit will provide foreign exchange to
finance essential imports.
Estimated              The proposed Credit would be available for
Disbursements:       disbursement in two tranches: US$ 55 million on
effectiveness and another US$ 55 million subject
to a review of the Government's economic develop-
ment policies, in particular the implementation
of the Government's public investment budget.
This review is to take place not later than
April 15, 1983. Disbursements are expected to
be completed in FY84.



I, I                                                                                                                                             I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I                                               



iN` khATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
ELE\m    IHPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
TO THE PEOILE-S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Eleventh Imports Program Credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for
SDR 100.8 million (the equivalent of US$ 110 million), on standard IDA
terms, to provide foreign exchange for financing essential imports. The
Credit would support improvements in domestic resource mobilization and
budgetary management, in agriculture and food policies, and in trade and
industrial policies.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A. Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh: Recent Economic Develop-
ments and Selected Development Issues" (Report No. 3768-BD) was issued on
March 3, 1982.
3.      The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.  Its
economy was disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged by the strug-
gle for independence, and the country suffered from devastating floods and
harvest failures. Agricultural and industrial production recovered to
their pre-independence levels only in the mid-1970s. Inflation, engendered
by harvest failures and large budget deficits, declining real wages, rapid
population growth, labor unrest and political instability added to the
difficulties. In these early years, Bangladesh's policy makers were by
necessity preoccupied with matters of relief and rehabilitation and the
need to shape a national government out of a provincial administration.
The First Five-Year Plan (FY74-78) had to be scrapped and replaced by a
scaled-down and refocussed three-year "Hardcore Programme" (FY76-78).
4.      Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the past decade provided planners the opportunity to turn their
attention from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of develop-
ment. Substantial real increases in aid disbursements between FY75 and
FY80 permitted rising public investments without recourse to deficit
financing. Between FY75 and FY80, real GDP growth averaged about 5.8% per
annum, despite several serious setbacks in agricultural production. Output
in manufacturing rose by about 6.3% annually between FY75 and FY80, most of
this growth taking place outside the jute industry. The final years of the



-2-
decade also witnessed a number of encouraging economic policy developments
such as a strengthening of budgetary policies, improvements in agricultural
and food distribution policies and steps to promote a more active role by
the private sector in developing the economy.
B. Overall Developments and Medium-Term Outlook
5.      The economic progress of the second half of the last decade has
been followed by a period of financial and economic difficulties which were
temporarily complicated by the political vacuum following President Zia-s
death in May 1981. GDP growth was still high (7% in real terms) in FY81,
when foodgrain production reached a record level in response to favorable
weather, improved input supplies and increased private involvement induced
by favorable incentives. FY82, however, was a year of economic stagnation:
agriculture suffered from drought, and the economy experienced a recession
caused-by lagging rural incomes and consumer demand, a decline in the real
level of public investment and a 20% fall in the volume of raw materials
imports. The background to these difficulties was a marked deterioration
in the external economic environment. The sharp increase in the prices of
petroleum and other imported goods since 1979 coincided with a slump in
export prices for jute and jute goods and with stagnating aid disburse-
ments. Imports had to be cut substantially -- with serious consequences
not only for industrial producers dependent on imported inputs, but also
for government revenue because of the associated reduction in import duty
and counterpart funds receipts. Moreover, the Government incurred substan-
tial expenditures on domestic foodgrain procurement in FY81 to support
farmgate prices in a record crop year. To finance its deficit, the Govern-
ment drew on central bank credit in excess of the ceilings agreed with the
IMF, which, together with the failure to complete the exchange rate review,
led to the suspension of the EFF arrangement. The IMF provided assistance,
however, in FY82 under its Compensatory Financing Facility to compensate
for the sharp fall in jute prices and jute export earnings and again in
early FY83 for further shortfalls in export earnings and for the rising
cost of foodgrain imports (see paras. 32-34 below).
6.      Prospects. for FY83, and for at least the two following years, are
for slow GDP growth. Agricultural production should recover from the
set-back of FY82, but overall growth will be constrained by the shortage of
foreign exchange. On the basis of expected availabilities of concessional
assistance, export earnings and workers remittances, merchandise imports
during the next three years may have to be held in real terms to only 85%
of the average FY81-FY82 level. Maintaining at least some development
momentum under these circumstances will require that growth in private
consumption be kept at a low level.  This is particularly true for FY83
when the financing of the Annual Development Budget (which has been reduced
by 14% in real terms below the previous year's revised budget) will allow
little, if any, growth in real private consumption (implying a drop of



-3-
perhaps 2-3% on a per capita basis). Prospects for FY84 and FY85 are
somewhat more favorable, as the decline of the terms of trade is expected
to end. Private consumption could grow moderately, perhaps by 3-4%
annually, slightly above the population growth rate, and the FY85 develop-
ment budget may be about 10% above the FY81 level in real terms.
7.      In assessing the effects of the likely reduction in per capita
consumption in FY83 on different segments of the population, it is useful
to distinguish between effects of the slowdown of economic growth and
effects of the Government's adjustment measures. The economic recession,
caused mainly by unfavorable external developments and by poor harvests,
will principally affect the non-agricultural part of the economy, reducing
the growth of manufacturing, construction, transport and commerce. Much of
this part of the economy is in the public sector where lower output is more
likely to be followed by underutilization of labor than by retrenchment. In
the private sector, however, some labor force reductions may occur until
economic growth resumes. The expected recovery of agricultural production
will at least partly shield a large part of the population, including
subsistence farmers, from the most severe effects of the recession: it
should restrain the rise in food prices which, while reducing income growth
of farmers producing for the market, would benefit the non-agricultural
population and particularly poorer consumers. The effects of the Govern-
ment's adjustment efforts on real incomes will also be most strongly felt
in the non-agricultural sectors where average incomes are higher than in
the economy as a whole. Higher taxes, higher utility tariffs and higher
prices of commodities marketed by public sector suppliers will impinge
mainly on non-agricultural incomes. Increased prices of agricultural
production inputs still allow markedly positive returns on the use of such
inputs. The conclusion from this rough assessment is that the recession
and the adjustment measures are bound to lead to a reduction in average per
capita consumption in this generally poor country, but that the effects
will not be predominantly felt by the poorest segment of the population.
8.      Maintaining development momentum in the current and the next two
financial years will require, in addition to considerable political deter-
mination, careful husbanding of the country-s limited financial resources.
It will be more important than ever since Bangladesh became independent
that resources throughout the economy are allocated to high priority uses.
Increasing efficiency in the mobilization and management of resources has
thus become a central concern for government economic policies and, accord-
ingly, the proposed Credit aims at supporting government policies leading
to this objective.



-4-
C. Balance of Payments
9.      The main characteristics of Bangladesh's balance of payments are
a massive structural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid.
Export earnings cover less than 30% of the import bill.  A sharp decline in
export prices of raw jute and jute goods (which account for two thirds of
total merchandise export earnings) and of major non-traditional exports,
notably leather and fish products, led to a 15% decline in export earnings
in FY81 and a further 15% fall in FY82 despite significant growth in export
volume. At the same time, import prices of crude petroleum, petroleum
products and other essential commodities increased sharply, and as a result
the terms of trade declined by 22% in FY81 and a further 15% in FY82. The
rapidly tightening foreign exchange constraint necessitated a 14% reduction
(in real terms) in FY82 imports below the FY80 level.
10.     The current account deficit has been considerably smaller than the
trade deficit, due mainly to the inflow of workers' remittances from the
Middle East; these remittances, which have been rising rapidly until FY82,
have become the second most important source of foreign exchange earnings
(after jute). The FY82 current account deficit of US$ 1.45 billion was
largely covered by aid disbursements of US$ 1.20 billion, equivalent to
about half of merchandise imports. Project aid disbursements, which had
been increasing substantially (reflecting in part the country's growing
absorptive capacity as well as a build-up in the project aid pipeline),
levelled off in FY82 as public investment had to be cut because of the
shortage of domestic finance. The latter was associated with the shortfall
in commodity aid disbursements, with the suspension of the EFF arrangement
and with insufficient domestic resource mobilization efforts.
11.     The balance of payments position is expected to be even more dif-
ficult in FY83 than it has been in the past two years. Export earnings are
projected to increase by about 9%, but the terms of trade are likely to
decline by a further 3%, in spite of a slight recovery in jute and jute
goods prices.  The main difficulty, however, arises from the fact that
with reserves depleted, short-term liabilities already at fairly high
levels, and debt service obligations rising -- the current account deficit
will have to be limited to the level that can be accommodated by the only
modestly higher level of expected aid disbursements. This is a significant
difference from the preceding year in which the need to constrain imports
was buffered by a drawdown of reserves and increased foreign short-term
borrowings.  Tentatively estimated, the FY83 merchandise import bill will
have to be cut by some US$ 150 million from the already reduced FY82 level,
to about US$ 2,200 million. In real terms, this will be 13.5% less than in
FY82 and almost 20% less than in FY81. The most serious consequence of
this import reduction will be the decline in the availability of essential
raw materials and production inputs and the concomitant reduction in
government revenue.



-5-
12.     The scarcity of foreign exchange resources mandates that they are
utilized as efficiently as possible. At present, the allocation of the
import bill over various end uses is determined: (i) by aid agreements for
most capital goods and food imports, (ii) by quantitative allocations for
petroleum, fertilizers and a number of other basic products, and (iii) by
market forces for other raw materials and consumer goods in a secondary
exchange market where foreign exchange earned through workers' remittances
and certain non-traditional exports is sold at a premium over the official
exchange rate determined by demand and supply. Partly due to tightened
import restrictions, but more importantly due to the decline in economic
activity and to the substantial depreciation of the official exchange rate,
the premium in the secondary market declined from 25% in October 1981 to
nil towards the end of FY82. To improve the efficiency of foreign exchange
allocation, the Government has recently channelled substantially more
import goods to the secondary exchange market and decided to adjust the
official exchange rate more frequently, taking into account trends of the
exchange rate premium in the secondary market as well as the competitive-
ness of domestic production.
13.     Service payments on external public medium and long-term debt
totalled US$ 92 million in FY81. Bangladesh's debt service ratio was about
12.9% in FY81, following some debt relief measures undertaken by various
donors, and remained at this level in FY82; by the mid-1980s it might
exceed 20%, however, unless careful debt management policies are pursued
and aid is provided on concessional terms. Total outstanding and disbursed
external medium- and long-term public debt amounted to US$ 3.85 billion as
of December 31, 1981, with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting
for close to 30% of this total. In FY81, the Bank Group accounted for
11.3% of Bangladesh's total debt service payments; because assistance is
now entirely in the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group
will only rise slowly.
D. Public Finance
14.     The stagnation in the real level of aid receipts in recent years
and the deteriorating terms of trade have had a major impact on government
finance. Customs revenues and counterpart fund receipts from commodity aid
disbursements, two main sources of government revenue, stopped growing,
while current expenditures continued to increase. The budgetary surplus
available for financing the Annual Development Programme (ADP) remained
below the expectations set out in the Second Five-Year Plan, and the
original ADP had to be scaled down in mid-year by 12% in FY81 and by 10% in
FY82. In FY81, the budgetary situation was aggravated by the need to
procure a large amount of foodgrain to maintain farmgate prices at incen-
tive levels. The FY82 drought had the opposite budgetary effect, as large
sales of foodgrains from public stocks generated budgetary revenue.



-6-
15.     The outlook for FY83 is even more somber than it was in the two
preceding years, chiefly because of the sharp reduction in the country's
capacity to import. Bangladesh is unusual in the degree of dependence of
government revenue upon import duties and aid-generated counterpart funds;
taken together, these account for 62% of total revenue (current and capi-
tal) in the FY83 budget. In the final stage of the FY83 budget preparation
it became clear that the initial aid expectations had been too optimistic
and that the budget had to be scaled down and additional revenue measures
taken. Introducing the budget, the Government announced a number of
adjustment measures aimed at permitting continued implementation of the
most important parts of the development program under conditions of finan-
cial stability. To this end, the ADP was reduced from the earlier
announced level of Tk 33 billion to Tk 27 billion -- 14% less than the
revised FY82 ADP and 19% less than the revised FY81 ADP in real terms. The
ADP Core Program of high-priority projects was reduced from Tk 25 billion
to Tk 22 billion. A favorable aspect of the Government-s action is that
this ADP reduction was effected at the outset of the financial year rather
than in the course of it (as had happened in FY81 and FY82). The iden-
tification of a Core Program of high-priority projects within the ADP,
itself an important innovation of the FY83 budget process, made it easier
for the Government to reduce the draft budget along priority lines. In the
process, the number of projects in the ADP was reduced from 1,500 to 1,100.
A further favorable development is the Government s decision to restrict
full ADP funding initially to the Core Program only: to ensure that spend-
ing on the Core Program can proceed without financial constraint throughout
the year, spending on non-core projects will remain limited to unavoidable
ongoing expenses (mainly wages and salaries). Only if the resource posi-
tion permits, the Government will consider relaxing the spending limitation
on non-core projects; the prospects for this should become clear by the
time the Government introduces its revised budget in January 1983.
16.     Current (non-developmental) expenditure growth in FY83 is being
limited to 14%, only slightly above the expected inflation level. This
increase includes a salary adjustment benefitting primarily lower paid
government employees.
17.     On the revenue side, the Government introduced new tax measures
expected to yield Tk 1.17 billion (about 0.5% of GDP) in FY83. In addi-
tion, a number of substantial subsidy and pricing adjustments have been
made. The fertilizer subsidy was reduced through a 14% weighted average
price increase which should save approximately Tk 0.5 billion in FY83.
Since August 1979, the Government has more than doubled fertilizer prices;
as a result, the average unit subsidy has declined from 50% in FY79 to less
than 20% in FY83, and the total subsidy has declined from 9% of the ADP
in FY79 to an expected 3.6% in FY83. Similar progress has been made,
through a series of price increases, in reducing the foodgrain subsidy.
Following increases cumulatively totalling 55% between FY79 and FY81,



-7-
ration prices of wheat and rice were increased by 11% and 8%, respectively,
in July 1982; the unit subsidy on rice, as high as 46% in FY78-80, has now
been reduced to 18%, and the unit subsidy on wheat, 29% in FY78-80, to 13%.
Indirectly the budget will also benefit from increases in petroleum
products prices (41%), electricity tariffs (40%) and natural gas prices
(13.3%) and from the adjustments for the effect of these increases in the
prices of such products and services as fertilizers, newsprint, paper and
public transport.
18.     The combined effect of these adjustment measures will be a shift in
resources in FY83 from the private to the public sector amounting to about
Tk 7.2 billion (2.8% of projected GDP). Without these measures, the ADP
would have had to be reduced even further, to Tk 20 billion. Viewed
against the expectation of low or no GDP growth, the size of the adjustment
package is impressive. This resource shift away from the private sector
will be primarily felt in private consumption (see paras. 6 and 7); the
squeeze on private investment will be somewhat mitigated by the limitation
on bank credit to the public sector implied by the budget package, which
will allow some growth in real terms in bank credit to the private sector.
E. Development Planning and Policy Issues
19.     The Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP), covering FY81-FY85, was drafted
when resource prospects were thought to be relatively favorable. The
Government is now revising the scale and composition of the SFYP in the
light of subsequent developments. Even if achievement of several important
goals has to be delayed beyond the original target dates, the SFYP's
original priorities should continue to receive highest attention:
(i) achievement of self-sufficiency in foodgrains by FY85; (ii) reduction
of the population growth rate; (iii) progress towards mass literacy through
free universal primary education; and (iv) energy development, particularly
through accelerated exploitation of known reserves of natural gas. In each
of these four areas, the Government has prepared, or is preparing,
implementation plans comprising specific project portfolios as well as
policy and institutional improvements; IDA and other donors have been
providing technical advice in the drafting of these sectoral implementation
plans.
20.      The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is
considerable. Surface and groundwater resources permit substantial expan-
sion of irrigation, which in turn will permit increased fertilizer use and
shifts to high-yielding foodgrain varieties. The Government has formulated
a Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP) aimed at the attainment of
the SFYP target of 20 million tons of foodgrain output. While this target
is feasible, its achievement will require considerable improvements in the
provision of inputs to farmers, including an expansion of the private
sector-s role in the provision and servicing of agricultural equipment and



-8-
inputs. Other necessary requirements are adequate levels of foreign aid to
finance imported inputs, improved extension services and training, and
appropriate producer incentives. The scarcity of financial resources and
delays in institutional improvements have already compelled the Government
to undertake a revision of the MTFPP.
21.     Reducing the population growth rate will require more determined
and effective birth control and public health efforts than have been made
thus far. Recently, the Government has improved the coordination of birth
control and public health activities and improved training programs for
field staff.
22.     The planners recognize that the attainment of general literacy will
take longer than five years, but they have set themselves the ambitious
target of introducing universal primary education and enrolling 90% of all
children of primary-school age by 1985. This program is to be supplemented
by a national non-formal mass education scheme for those already past
primary-school age.
23.     With net oil imports pre-empting over 60% of Bangladesh's export
earnings, a key element in improving the balance of payments will be the
development of the country's indigenous energy resources. There is room
for immediate to medium-term improvement through (i) accelerating the
development of natural gas resources which would permit substitution of
natural gas for oil and (ii) more efficient use of traditional and commer-
cial energy, to be induced by raising energy prices to economic levels and
implementing certain quick-yielding investments designed to lead to a more
efficient energy use in industry. The Government is also working on a
longer-term Energy Sector Plan covering further oil and gas exploration,
development of gas and gas-based products for exports, reforestation,
increased use of propane and other liquid petroleum gas products in rural
areas and transport, and further development of electricity generation
based on natural gas.
24.     Implementation of a Plan aimed at effecting such significant depar-
tures from past trends requires not only adequate financial resources but
also the managerial and technical ability to carry out development projects
and institutional reforms. In this respect, the SFYP strains the country-s
limited availability of managerial and technical skills. The ongoing
mid-term review of the SFYP presents an opportunity to translate the Plan's
objectives into an operational implementation program of realistic dimen-
sions. More work and considerable discipline will be needed in identifying
core programs and projects and ensuring that their implementation will be
protected in a situation of resource scarcity. A critical factor will be
the extent to which project implementation can be improved. Although
immediate improvements can be made, it is unlikely that efforts of public
agencies alone would be sufficient. The Government recognizes that in key
areas, such as minor irrigation and manufacturing, reliance will have to be



-9-
placed on the private sector. This should be an important feature of the
SFYP revision. The Government also believes that, to a certain extent,
activities such as education and rural development should be carried out in
a decentralized fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and
grass-roots participation.
25.     Over the past few years, a series of studies undertaken by the
Government, IDA, and other organizations have concluded that existing trade
and industrial policies distorted resource allocation in industry. The
Government is now preparing a program for trade and industrial policy
reform -- a medium-term program of actions to be pursued across a broad
front, including modifications in the tariff structure, the pattern of
domestic indirect taxation, investment incentives, export policies and the
mechanisms for industrial promotion and planning.
F. Need for Program Aid
26.     Bangladesh-s need for non-project aid (commodity aid, cash aid,
program aid) is well established. It arises from the inadequacy of the
country's domestic savings to finance its investments and the similar
inadequacy of its foreign exchange earnings to cover import requirements.
Large inflows of external capital are required every year merely to sustain
a very modest growth of per capita income. In spite of substantial
improvements in domestic financial resource mobilization efforts over the
past five years, savings currently constitute only about 5% of GDP.
Although investment, at around 16% of GDP, is less than what would be
needed to generate rapid growth, external assistance is financing about 70%
of total investments.
27.     A corollary of this savings/investment disequilibrium is a similar
imbalance in the country-s external payments position. Export earnings
during the last five years averaged only 32% of import payments and, mainly
due to the deterioration in the terms of trade, this proportion declined to
28% in FY81 and to only 26% in FY82.
28.     Since there are limits to the extent that the components of any
country's development program can be formed into projects suitable for
external financing, it is impossible to transfer to Bangladesh the amount
of external assistance required to sustain even a modest rate of economic
growth by means of project financing alone. In Bangladesh, aggregate
expenditures on externally aided projects do not usually exceed 50-60% of
the total ADP, and since external financing rarely exceeds 75% of the cost
of individual projects, the limit for project financing is reached when it
approaches an amount equivalent to 40-45% of total ADP expenditures. Sub-
stantial program assistance is therefore required to provide the additional
external financing needed if the development program is to be carried out.



-10-
29.     The need for non-project aid will be particularly strong in the
next three years because of the expected balance of payments difficulties
and the concomitant slowdown in the growth of government revenue. Even
with substantial domestic resource mobilization efforts, domestic financing
is unlikely to cover more than 15-20% of the ADP in FY83-85; this leaves at
least 80% of the ADP to be financed from external sources. While the
country's ability to absorb project aid has increased in recent years, the
share of project aid in the total investment program is unlikely to rise
above 40-45%, as noted above, leaving at least 35-40% of the investment
program to be financed through non-project aid. Furthermore, to the extent
that Bangladesh succeeds in its drive to become self-sufficient in
foodgrain production, food aid will decline; this will intensify the need
for commodity aid and program assistance -to compensate at least partially
for the reduction in counterpart funds generated by food aid.
30.     Similar structural constraints exist in the pattern of external
trade. Even with growing import substitution in the case of foodgrains,
fertilizers and energy, the amount of foreign exchange available for raw
materials imports will be very small because of poor earnings prospects for
jute and jute goods exports, the small base from which non-traditional
exports are now beginning to grow, and the apparent slowdown in the growth
of workers' remittances. Without commodity and program assistance, there-
fore, the supply of imported essential raw materials and intermediate goods
would have to be curtailed drastically and production in the industrial
sector reduced correspondingly.
31.     Bangladesh's need for commodity and program aid has long been
recognized by aid donors. Nevertheless, a shift in the composition of aid
commitments occurred in FY80 and FY81, as donors increased the volume of
direct project financing in response to Bangladesh's improving capacity to
absorb project aid. The associated reduction in commodity aid was one of
the factors forcing the Government to make substantial cuts in planned FY81
and FY82 development expenditures. Alerted to Bangladesh's crucial need
for non-project aid, donors made a modest shift in favor of commodity
assistance in their FY82 and FY83 commitments, but the value of that assis-
tance in real terms remains well below the average FY75-FY79 level.
G. Relations with the IMF
32.     Bangladesh's need for program-type assistance is also reflected in
its relations with the IMF. Bangladesh has made extensive use of Fund
resources in recent years, under the oil and compensatory financing facili-
ties, under a Standby Arrangement for SDR 85 million in early FY80, and
under a three-year Extended Fund Facility Arrangement for SDR 800 million
which became effective in December 1980.1/
1/ Bangladesh's use of Fund resources is summarized in Annex VII.



-ll-
33.     The EFF program aimed at supporting Bangladesh's development objec-
tives through the adoption of policies and measures designed to achieve
fiscal, monetary and external payments stability. Particular emphasis was
to be given to: (i) accelerating public financial resource mobilization
through broadening the tax base, introducing new tax measures and improving
the financial performance of public sector enterprises and utilities;
(ii) increasing private savings and investment; and (iii) strengthening the
external payments position by adjusting the exchange rate to more realistic
long-run levels and by introducing a package of incentives and policy
reforms to encourage increased non-traditional exports and workers- remit-
tances. The program also included credit ceilings designed to limit bor-
rowing by the Government and by public sector corporations as well as the
growth of domestic credit and of total liquidity to rates consistent with a
domestic inflation rate of no more than about 11% per annum.
34.     As already indicated (para. 5), performance during FY81 with regard
to budget, credit and exchange rate policies fell short of the EFF targets,
and drawings were suspended in July 1981. The Government subsequently
succeeded in reducing the budget deficit and domestic credit expahsion and
accelerated the depreciation of the Taka, but by that time Bangladesh-s
financial circumstances had drastically changed. Due chiefly to the terms
of trade deterioration, the shortfall in foreign aid and the lack of timely
response to these developments, the EFF program was no longer realistic
and, at the Government's request, the EFF Arrangement was cancelled. The
IMF provided assistance, however, in FY82 to compensate for the sharp fall
in jute and jute goods export earnings and in early FY83 for a further
deterioration in the terms of trade and for higher foodgrain import costs.
PART II -- RESOURCE MANAGEMENT: PERFORMANCE AND POLICIES
A. Introduction
35.     The prospect of scarcity of financial resources in FY83 and in at
least the two following years warrants a shift in the focus of development
policies towards the achievement of higher efficiency of financial resource
mobilization and utilization throughout the economy. Only if the best
possible use is made of productive capacity in all economic sectors and if
investible resources are put to the highest priority use will it be pos-
sible to achieve modest economic growth in the next few years.



-12-
36.     Possibilities to achieve improvements in efficiency are numerous,
and many of them are already the subject of government action. The most
direct opportunity to improve resource allocation and utilization lies in
changing the composition of the development budget and the procedures
applied in its execution. More indirectly, the Government can also
influence resource mobilization and allocation through its pricing, sub-
sidy, marketing and credit policies, its policies regarding the private
sector and the activities of development and financing institutions and
promotional schemes. In agriculture, the prospects for more rapid and more
efficient growth lie in the achievement of substantial improvements in the
productivity of land and water use. The Government's primary objective,
embodied in the MTFPP, is to achieve foodgrain self-sufficiency by promot-
ing minor irrigation services, improving production techniques, rationaliz-
ing pricing policies, upgrading infrastructure and marketing facilities and
strengthening the private sector's role in the supply of production inputs.
Additional momentum in the growth of the economy, especially in terms of
diversifying and increasing export growth, will eventually have to come
from the industrial sector. Government initiatives taken in recent years
show increased recognition of the type of policies needed to promote
industrial development and to encourage a more active role of the private
sector in this process. There remains, however, considerable room for
improving existing procedures which tend to hamper rather than encourage
industrial investment and for adjusting trade and pricing policies to
promote those industries most appropriate to the country's resource endow-
ment and economic situation.
B. Development Budget
37.     As an instrument for managing public financial resources and
allocating them to their most effective use, the budgetary process has
suffered from several deficiencies. They originated with the absence of
any formal arrangement to ensure that information related to the budgetary
situation was gathered and brought to the attention of policy-makers in a
timely and systematic manner. The consequence was a tendency to
over-estimate the prospective availability of domestic and external resour-
ces and to propose an unrealistically large ADP at the beginning of the
fiscal year. Substantial reductions in the ADP itself and in resource
allocations to individual projects thus became inevitable later during the
year, and this in turn severely disrupted development efforts. The problem
was especially evident in FY81 and FY82 when the original ADP had to be cut
back in mid-year by 12% and 10%, respectively. The ADP revision process in
those years proved difficult and protracted, since in many cases staff had
already been hired, expenditures incurred and commitments made. As a
result, many projects did not receive their financial allocations for the
second half of the year until well into the fourth quarter.



-13-
38.      The over-ambitious size of the ADP fostered an environment charac-
terized by a tendency to include too many projects and to fund a substan-
tial number of projects which had not yet been subjected to an adequate
examination of their technical and economic feasibility and desirability.
In theory, such unapproved projects -- those which have not been approved
by the inter-departmental Project Evaluation Committee (or, for larger
projects, by the Cabinet-level Economic Committee of the National Economic
Council) -- should receive only a minimum amount of funding, and even then
only on a temporary basis. In practice, however, many such projects have
received full funding for years and have absorbed a large share of total
ADP resources. Between FY80 and FY82, for example, the number of projects
in the ADP increased from 1,405 to 1,726, and the number of approved
projects constituted less than half of the total.
39.     It was perhaps inevitable -- with resource availability falling
significantly short of the expenditure demands embodied in the ADP -- that
the release of funds was used as a device to ration scarce financial
resources among an excessive number of projects. However, the release
procedures, involving the need to secure approval for each quarter's
release from the Finance Division (or, for unapproved projects, from the
Planning Commission), could not easily discriminate between projects of
different priority or quality, making it inevitable that all projects
tended to suffer from poor implementation caused by inadequate or delayed
funding. As a result, relatively few projects were being completed and
economic returns were reduced in the process.
40.     A related problem was the growing gap between debt service obliga-
tions of public sector corporations and autonomous agencies to the Finance
Division on the one hand and actual collections on the other. The latter
were largely deducted from the fourth quarter's ADP releases, although (in
principle) all corporations are supposed to pay these obligations on a
quarterly basis. The over-estimation of expected collections has created
difficulties for budgetary planning, and the deductions from ADP alloca-
tions have adversely affected project implementation in an indiscriminate
fashion. In FY81, for example, actual debt service collections amounted to
Tk 1.4 billion, compared with obligations of Tk 3.8 billion, and many
projects -- whether good or bad -- received little if any of their ADP
allocation for the last quarter.
C. Agriculture
41.     Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy, accounting for 55% of
GDP, 70% of employment and, directly or indirectly, over 80% of merchandise
export earnings. About 72% of agricultural value added in FY82 originated
in the crop sector, the rest in livestock (16%), fisheries (8%) and
forestry (5%). About 22.6 million acres are under cultivation, at an
ayerage cropping intensity of 140%. The most important crop is rice, grown



-14-
on about 75-80% of the gross cropped area; jute is the principal export
commodity and accounts for roughly 6% of gross cropped acreage; a variety
of other crops (including wheat, pulses, oilseeds, sugarcane, tobacco, tea,
potatoes, spices and vegetables) account for the remainder. Agricultural
productivity remains low, with rice yields averaging little more than
0.5 tons per acre.
42.     Bangladesh's fertile soils and abundant, yet greatly underexploited
water resources (particularly of groundwater) hold high potential for                     a
increasing agricultural productivity and production -- but there are also
major constraints to agricultural development, such as heavy population
pressure on land, climatic hazards, inadequate control over the water
regime, a very poor transport system, pervasive poverty and inadequate
purchasing power. Any effective policy to raise significantly the level of
agricultural output and the rate of long-term growth must provide for more
timely and adequate supplies of modern farm inputs as well as for incentive
agricultural input and output pricing.
43.     With assistance from IDA and other aid donors, the Government is
addressing these concerns. Its agricultural production strategy in recent
years has focussed heavily on three main elements: first, efforts to reduce
farmers- risks associated with the unpredictability of water supply on
their fields; second, efforts to increase both cropping intensity and
productivity; and third, efforts to reduce the economic risks faced by
farmers in an environment of price uncertainty. To these ends, government
attention -- in the form of policy formulation and implementation as well
as of investments and the provision of incentives for private investment --
has been focussed on the development of drainage, flood control and irriga-
tion facilities, on the provision of modern production inputs (HYV seeds,
fertilizer, pesticides), and on the maintenance of adequate production
incentives through direct market intervention for farmgate price support.
44.     The MTFPP, formulated with support from IDA, contains the policy
framework and a set of priority investments which are expected to lead to
the attainment of foodgrain self-sufficiency in the second half of the
1980s. The MTFPP places special emphasis on the expansion of minor irriga-
tion, on small-scale drainage and flood-control projects, on the provision
of fertilizers and other essential recurrent farm inputs, and on the
development of the transport, storage and marketing infrastructure needed
to support agricultural development. Implementation of the MTFPP invest-
ment program has been impeded by a variety of problems -- most notably by
the scarcity of financial resources which, as already noted (para. 20), has
led the Government to initiate a revision of the MTFPP. By comparison with
other sectors, however, progress has been generally satisfactory, as the
Government has accorded priority to the funding and implementation of MTFPP
projects.



-15-
45.     Crop production in Bangladesh can only be increased through greater
cropping intensity on available land and through improved productivity.
The expansion of irrigation coverage (currently no more than 15% of total
agricultural acreage and about 30% of the potential) will be the principal
means for increasing cropping intensity. Earlier emphasis had been on
large-scale gravity irrigation and flood control projects, but since the
early 1960s priority has increasingly been placed on the fielding of
low-lift pumps for surface water pumping and of tubewells for groundwater
exploitation. These "minor" irrigation facilities offer the best prospects
for quick-yielding and high-return expansion of irrigation; they also are
well suited to private (individual or group) ownership and management.
46.     The procurement and distribution of minor irrigation equipment has
traditionally been the responsibility of public sector agencies -- mainly
of the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC) which has
successfully introduced and popularized minor irrigation in the country.
The volume of activities has now become too large, however, for BADC to
handle effectively. It has also become evident that public ownership and
subsidized seasonal rental of minor irrigation equipment imposes an exces-
sive financial burden on the Government and provides insufficient incen-
tives for proper maintenance and optimal utilization of available equip-
ment. As there has also been strong private sector interest in direct
ownership as.well as in procurement, marketing and servicing of irrigation
equipment, the Government has increasingly turned to outright sale of
equipment by public agencies and to direct involvement of the private
sector in the procurement and sale of new irrigation equipment.
47.     Similar steps have been taken in other areas to improve the
economic environment for farmers and the growth prospects for agriculture.
Fertilizer distribution has been partly turned over to the private sector,
and the distribution of pesticides is entirely in private hands. Short-
and medium-term institutional credit for agricultural production and
investment financing has been made available and access to such credit
improved. Procurement prices for rice and wheat have been raised close to
world market levels for comparable grades in order to provide sufficient
producer incentives in the face of rising production costs, and the number
of foodgrain purchasing centers operated by the Ministry of Food (MoF) has
been greatly increased to ensure that farmers obtain incentive output
prices at harvest time.
48.     The Government has also taken steps to mobilize more private
resources for agricultural development and to use resources more effi-
ciently. Subsidies on fertilizers, irrigation equipment and diesel fuel
have been reduced or eliminated entirely through price and rental rate
increases. Irrigation equipment is now sold to private owners, as the
traditional, heavily subsidized, rental programs are being phased out.
Subsidies on foodgrains distributed through the Public Foodgrain Distribu-
tion System (PFDS) have been progressively reduced in an effort to reduce



61S-
the budgetary cost of such distribution and to redirect more effective
consumer demand into the open grain market. Extension efforts have been
intensified in order to spread modern cultivation technology and increase
farmer knowledge of efficient resource management and utilization.
49.     These efforts have shown positive results, particularly in terms of
rising foodgrain production.  Minor irrigation continues to spread rapidly,
equipment maintenance and utilization is improving, distributional and
servicing difficulties are gradually being reduced, an increasing share
of total development spending on agriculture is being shouldered by farmers
themselves, and consumers of farm output (particularly of foodgrains) are
benefitting from the rising output at lower unit production costs and in an
environment of greater price stability. At the same time, the experience
of the past two years has pointed to the urgent need to continue with
further rationalization of agricultural development policies and programs
and to carry through as rapidly as possible the reforms already initiated.
D. Trade and Industry
50.     Although accounting for less than 10% of GDP, the manufacturing
sector is important in the Bangladesh economy. It produces basic consumer
goods, supplies agriculture with key inputs, generates about 60% of the
countrys export earnings (mainly in the form of jute products) and employs
about 3.5 million people. Large- and medium-scale units account for about
55% of the sector-s contribution to GDP and employ about 350,000 people.
51.     As a result of nationalization of many industries following inde-
pendence, most of the large- and medium-scale enterprises are in the public
sector, which now consists of approximately 300 units organized under the
administrative control of seven sector corporations (jute, textiles, chemi-
cals, steel and engineering, food, minerals and forestry). These account
for about 50% of the value added in manufacturing and 85% of manufactured
exports. Although the number of industrial activities open to private
investment has been expanded, the public sector corporations continue to
dominate basic industries. To date, denationalization/disinvestment of
industries in the public sector has been on a minor scale, but plans are
being formulated to return a large number of jute and textile mills to
private ownership.
52.     Since FY75 industrial production has improved, although slowly, as
a result of improved availability of raw materials, intermediate goods and
spare parts, and of rising domestic demand for manufactured products.
Private sector manufacturing output grew at an average annual rate of about
8%.  However, output of public manufacturing enterprises grew by only 3.5%
per annum -- mainly because of the poor performance of such subsectors as
textiles and pulp and paper. Many industrial enterprises suffer from low
capacity utilization due to a host of shortages and bottlenecks: irregular



-17-
and insufficient supply of raw materials, equipment breakdown and poor
maintenance, shortage of trained labor, frequent power outages, inadequate
transportation, lack of spare parts caused by foreign exchange shortage,
and insufficient working capital which prevents adequate procurement of
spares and components and, in some cases, even of raw materials.
53.     The mixed performance of the public sector is also the result of a
number of weaknesses in government policies and institutions -- including
labor policies which induce over-employment, inadequate incentives for
improving labor productivity, lack of appropriate systems for financial
monitoring and budgetary control, and price controls hampering the gener-
ation of profits. These are compounded by weaknesses in the administrative
structures of the sector corporations, including the tendency toward
over-centralization of authority. Thus, low capacity utilization is merely
a symptom of many serious problems affecting production efficiency. Under
previous IDA imports program credits, specific action programs were
developed with the Government to help rectify these problems, particularly
in the jute, fertilizer, textile, and pulp and paper industries.
54.     Policy changes adopted since 1975 have contributed to greater
participation by the private sector and an increased growth rate in the
manufacturing sector, but little progress has been made in rationalizing
public industrial investment as an aid to improving efficiency and capacity
utilization. Since FY76, 65% of public industrial investment has been
concentrated in five large import-substitution projects; some of these,
particularly those in the engineering sector, were poorly conceived and
have resulted in a waste of investment funds. This concentration has also
meant that many long-needed investments for the rehabilitation (which
includes balancing, modernization and replacement) of existing plants have
been unduly postponed. However, some progress has been made over the past
two years in redressing this imbalance, with major rehabilitation programs
being implemented in the jute and fertilizer sectors and programs proposed
for the cotton textile and pulp and paper sectors.
55.     Since 1978, the Government has sought to develop, with IDA assis-
tance, a comprehensive industrial development strategy on the basis of the
policies and objectives identified under the various lending and technical
assistance programs for the sector. A first step was the formulation of a
comprehensive export development program (EDP), which included steps to
remove supply constraints for non-traditional exports, increase the effec-
tiveness of export incentives, and improve data collection and analysis
necessary to monitor export performance.



-18-
56.     Although the draft SFYP recognizes the importance of private
investment, insufficient attention has been paid so far to the provision of
a policy environment conducive to more vigorous growth of private invest-
ment. Existing policy instruments, such as the Industrial Investment
Schedule (IIS) and approval procedures for private investment, tend to
hamper or restrict private sector activities. Tariff and tax policies
distort incentives and often discourage industrial activities that work to
Bangladesh's comparative advantage. The New Industrial Policy (NIP),
promulgated in June 1982, addresses many of these concerns and also
provides a basis for substantial disinvestment of industries in the public
sector. The Government, with assistance from IDA, has been in the process
of formulating a reform program as a basis for major corrective actions
across a broad front of trade and industrial policies. This reform program
and the NIP are discussed below in the context of the proposed Credit
(paras. 95-104).
PART III - THE CREDIT
A. Introduction
57.     The proposed Credit was appraised by a mission which visited
Bangladesh in May/June 1982. Negotiations took place in Washington from
August 30 to September 8, 1982; the Bangladesh negotiating team was led by
Dr. A. H. Sahadatullah, Member, Planning Commission, Ministry of Finance
and Planning.
58.     The objective of the Credit is to support a broad range of improve-
ments in public financial resource mobilization and budgetary management,
in agricultural and food policies, and in trade and industrial policies.
To this end, the Credit will provide foreign exchange to finance essential
imports. Progress under the Credit will be regularly monitored by the
staff of IDA's Resident Mission in Bangladesh; in addition, a formal review
will be conducted during March/April 1983.
59.     The policy focus of imports program credits to Bangladesh has
evolved considerably since they were first initiated. The primary
rationale for the first three program credits was to address the critical
rehabilitation needs of the country after independence. Beginning with the
Fourth Imports Program Credit, the emphasis was changed to lending based on
a program with a specific focus on the factors inhibiting the efficiency of
the country's two largest industries, jute and cotton textiles manufactur-
ing. Under the Fourth and subsequent credits, specific measures were
developed for these industries to improve: (i) capacity utilization,
through mill maintenance and improved spare parts availability;
(ii) production planning and control; (iii) raw material procurement; and
(iv) financial performance through asset replacement programs, capital



-19-
restructuring, product rationalization, pricing policy adjustments and
rationalization of production facilities. In addition, a number of studies
were initiated as first steps towards formulating long-term development
programs for the jute, cotton textile and pulp and paper industries. By
FY78, sufficient progress had been made in these industries to allow the
Seventh and Eighth Imports Program Credits to focus upon export development
and the structural problems of the industrial sector as a whole.
60.     The Ninth (IPC-IX) and Tenth (IPC-X) Imports Program Credits
shifted the policy focus to agriculture, supporting policy improvements to
increase the production as well as the efficiency and equity of the dis-
tribution of foodgrains. These policy improvements concerned the alloca-
tion of financial resources to agricultural development, encouragement of
the private sector's role in the supply of irrigation equipment and in the
storage and trading of foodgrains, improvements in public foodgrain
procurement and distribution policies, strengthening of agricultural plan-
ning, and rationalizing prices of agricultural inputs. Progress achieved
in these areas under IPC-X is summarized in Annex IV.
61.     The major issues and the Government-s policy intentions associated
with the Eleventh Imports Program Credit (IPC-XI) have been discussed
above. The following sections outline actions taken or to be taken by the
Government to address these issues.  These measures, broadly summarized,
are designed to improve overall resource management through (i) specific
improvements in the preparation and implementation of the development
budget, (ii) further agricultural policy changes and institutional improve-
ments on the pattern established under IPC-IX and IPC-X, and (iii) recent
policy initiatives in trade and industry. The Government's actions in
these areas have been supported by a continuing dialogue between the
Government and IDA carried on in the context of economic and sector studies
and the preparation of earlier program credits.
62.     An important feature of the proposed Credit, as of previous program
credits, is that the policy improvements associated with it are the result
of an ongoing dialogue between government officials and Bank staff and are
being implemented continuously, and not necessarily only from the effec-
tiveness date of the Credit onwards. This policy dialogue has a wide
basis. It consists of discussions on policy and institutional improvements
throughout the project cycle of the numerous projects in the IDA portfolio,
on the results of sector reviews carried out by Bank staff or jointly by
the Government and the Bank, and on medium-term sectoral implementation
plans formulated by government officials with advice and cooperation from
Bank staff, as well as of discussions in the context of the Bank's economic
work. Decisions based on this dialogue are taking place continuously and,
as the discussion in the following paragraphs shows, many of the policy
improvements envisaged under the proposed Credit are already in various
stages of implementation.



-20-
B. Improved Procedures for the Annual Development Programme (ADP)
63.     The Government has placed high priority on introducing measures
to improve the efficiency of financial resource use in the public sector.
In particular, modifications in the Government's budgetary process are
needed to ensure that available resources are realistically determined and
then channeled to priority sectors and to the most desirable projects
within sectors.
64.     Resource Estimates.  The first step in improving the budgetary
process is the formulation of realistic and more frequent estimates of the
availability of domestic and external financial resources. The respon-
sibility for this task is vested with the Resources Committee which in the
past usually met prior to the finalization of the July budget and again
prior to the publication of the revised budget in January. For such meet-
ings, the Committee members (Secretary, Finance Division; Secretary, Exter-
nal Resources Division; and Member, General Economics Division, of the
Planning Commission) could call upon their staff to prepare technical
papers in support of the resource forecasts, but these efforts have often
been unsystematic and uncoordinated. In early FY83, the Ministry of
Finance and Planning (MFP) established a working-level secretariat to the
Resources Committee. In order to have this secretariat functioning
immediately, a small group of experienced staff from the Ministry, familiar
with the requisite projection techniques, was organized to work under the
general supervision of the Chairman of the Resources Committee (Secretary,
Finance Division). Ultimately, a new unit is to be created to serve as a
permanent secretariat. It would initially concentrate on collecting and
analyzing, on a monthly or quarterly basis, information on critical
economic indicators such as tax revenues, expenditures, aid inflows and
foodgrain supplies and offtakes. It is intended that this information
would serve as the basis for more accurate and frequent forecasts of the
resource position and that the Resource Committee would meet at least
quarterly and if necessary more frequently to review the situation.
65.     The Core Program.  In order to insulate the key sectors and
projects against the disruptive effects of unexpected resource shortfalls
and to establish priorities within the investment program, the Government
decided to formulate, beginning with the FY83 Budget, a "Core Program
within the ADP. The Core Program consists of a list of projects with
well-defined priority status, based largely on their technical and economic
merits, for which the release of funds as authorized in the ADP will not be
constrained by limited overall resource availability. Each of the projects
belonging to the Core Program has been identified as such in the ADP, and
actions have been taken to ensure that fund releases for it are essentially
automatic and consistent with needs. The principle underlying the Core
Program is that it is useful to determine before the beginning of the
financial year which projects should continue to be funded if a shortfall
in financial resources below the budgeted amount were to occur in the



-21-
course of the financial year. This procedure is a significant improvement
over the practice of recent years in which development projects were sub-
jected to across-the-board delays and reductions in the release of funds
whenever resource availabilities fell short of the budgeted amount. In the
FY83 ADP, the Government designated about 500 projects amounting to about
Tk 22 billion as the Core Program (out of a total of 1,100 projects amount-
ing to about Tk 27 billion). As pointed out earlier (para. 15), the
likelihood that the FY83 Core Program will be carried out without financial
restraint has been strengthened by the Government's decision to limit
spending in the first half of the year chiefly to the Core Program and to
consider relaxing spending restrictions on non-core projects only with the
introduction of the revised budget in January 1983.
66.     "Unapproved" Projects.  The Government-s approval procedures
provide a means for ensuring that projects to be included in the ADP meet
certain standards of economic desirability and technical feasibility.
Partly because of the availability of external aid funds for specific
projects, there have been instances, however, in which project implementa-
tion was started before the project approval procedure was completed. The
Government recognizes that the proliferation of such "unapproved" projects
in the ADP in recent years has affected the overall quality of the ADP and
impeded project implementation (since unapproved projects are subject to
cumbersome fund release procedures). Efforts are underway to streamline
the project approval process and reduce the number of unapproved projects
in the FY83 ADP. Moreover, it was decided that only approved projects
would be eligible for inclusion in the Core Program. To streamline proce-
dures further, it was also decided that projects approved by the inter-
departmental Project Evaluation Committee would not require formal approval
by the Cabinet in order to be treated as approved projects for fund release
purposes.
67.     Taka Release Procedures.  The formulation of a Core Program is
operationally meaningful only if the procedures for the release of local
currency for projects in the Core Program are streamlined.  The recent
report of an interministerial committee to review fund release procedures
has led to a number of actions to speed up Taka releases and to improve
project implementation. These include provisions: (i) to allow core
projects of autonomous bodies to secure Taka releases for the first three
quarters of the year without Finance Division approval; (ii) to permit
autonomous bodies to secure a half-yearly fund release at one time for
projects with lumpy or indivisible investment components; and (iii) to
delegate much greater powers in financial and operational matters to
project authorities. To ensure effective project implementation, the
Government will moreover organize a seminar at the outset of each year to
make project staff fully aware of the fund release procedures that will be
followed in the course of the financial year.



-22-
68.     Public Enterprises  Debt Service.  The large shortfall in recovery
of budgeted debt service receipts in recent years reflects the poor finan-
cial performance of autonomous bodies. Improvement in the debt servicing
capacity of these bodies obviously lies in measures to improve their finan-
cial performance. Actions are required in the short run, however, to
-'Jinimize the adverse consequences of shortfalls in debt service collections
on the budgetary situation. An initial step was taken in the course of the
FY83 budget formulation, when a more realistic forecast of Tk 1.06 billion
in interest payments likely to be received was made (compared with the FY82
budget estimate of Tk 1.94 billion). As a permanent improvement in the
budgetary process, MFP initiated, in the preparation of the FY83 budget,
the practice of establishing with each autonomous body the level of
feasible debt service payments to be made during the fiscal year and of
instructing the concerned administrative ministries to deduct the debt
service payments then established from ADP releases on a quarterly basis
rather than to wait until the last quarter as has often happened in the
past. In cases where debt service obligations substantially exceed the
feasible level of payments, the autonomous body will be required to submit
a comprehensive program of capital restructuring and financial rehabilita-
tion. MFP will review these programs and recommend measures to improve
profitability, reschedule the debt and/or restructure the capital. MFP has
already begun reviewing the enterprises which are most in need of financial
reform.
C. Agricultural Policy Improvements
Pricing and Fielding of Minor Irrigation Equipment
69.     The development of minor irrigation has been accorded top priority
in the drive towards foodgrain self-sufficiency, but major problems still
impede progress -- most notably low capacity utilization of equipment and
unacceptably high costs incurred by public sector agencies responsible for
the development of minor irrigation. The joint GOB/IDA review of the minor
irrigation sector, completed in FY82, recommended that (i) the private
sector assume a primary role in the procurement, marketing and servicing of
minor irrigation equipment, and (ii) subsidies on minor irrigation equip-
ment be eliminated wherever possible.
70.     Achieving these two fundamental objectives requires the implementa-
tion of a set of specific policy measures. Most important among these are:
(i) elimination of rental programs for irrigation equipment provided by
public sector agencies and outright sale of all new equipment; (ii) sale of
all currently rented equipment, and increased rental fees to encourage
purchase by users; (iii) elimination of subsidies by pricing all equipment
at full current replacement cost -- or, where that would cause inequities,



-23-
at the STW-equivalent price;I/ (iv) unrestricted private sector import of
irrigation equipment, elimination of all discrimination against the private
sector in duty/tax/credit facilities, and phasing out of public sector
involvement in the procurement, import, marketing and servicing of minor
irrigation equipment; (v) provision of adequate medium-term credit; and
(vi) protection of domestic manufacture of irrigation equipment solely by
means of rational and efficient import duty and duty drawback schemes.
71.     Successful implementation of the new irrigation policy mandates
the elimination of a number of inconsistencies and bottlenecks. The
Government has taken steps to help achieve these objectives, but progress
-- as outlined below -- remains uneven:
(i) All new minor irrigation equipment distributed by BADC and
Bangladesh Krishi Bank (BKB) is now sold rather than rented, and
beginning in FY83 the Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB)
will also adhere to a "sales only" policy for new LLPs. BADC's DTW
and LLP rental programs and BWDB's LLP rental scheme will be run
down, and all (used) rental equipment is to be sold by June 30,
1984. STW and HTW sales prices have been set at the full current
replacement cost level, so as to eliminate subsidies and permit
private suppliers to compete with the public sector; the subsidy
implied in BADC's LLP sales prices has been reduced to 25% of cost
in FY83 and is to be eliminated entirely by FY84; and
STW-equivalence pricing for DTWs will be achieved after a four-year
transition period.
(ii) Public sector procurement, import and marketing of minor irrigation
equipment are to be phased out, but progress has been uneven in the
past. Private importers are now receiving import licenses (par-
ticularly for engines) and credit, but not yet always in sufficient
numbers and on time. Duty discrimination between public and
private importers of engines has been eliminated, and past dis-
crimination against the private sector in the import of components
(pipes and strainers) is now being ended. Private import of spare
parts has now been allowed through the free (or secondary) foreign
exchange market. And public agencies now charge at full cost for
spares and maintenance services.
1/ Under this principle, agreed upon by the Government and IDA in the
context of the joint review of the minor irrigation sector, shallow
tubewells (STWs), low-lift pumps (LLPs) and hand tubewells (HTWs) will
be sold by all public sector suppliers at their full current replace-
ment cost, while deep tubewells (DTls) will be sold at a price that
equates the cost of water discharged by a DTW to that of a STW.



-24-
(iii)  Farmers and farmers' groups are receiving institutional medium-term
credit for the purchase of new equipment, but unsatisfactory
refinance and guarantee provisions continue to make this type of
credit unattractive for the banks.  Sales of used equipment by
public agencies have been hampered by the lack of credit facilities
for would-be buyers, but the Government has now decided to make
credit available through commercial banks for the purchase of used
equipment from BADC and BWDB and to place used irrigation equipment
on the list of items eligible for medium-term credit through the
TCCA/KSS cooperative system (Section 4.01(e) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
(iv)  The appropriate structure, level and means of protection for domes-
tic assembly and production of irrigation equipment, which would
also ensure efficiency, still remain to be determined.
72.     FY83 sales prices for equipment sold by public sector agencies were
aninounced in July 1982. The new STW prices satisfy the principle of
full-cost pricing (with full cost defined as current replacement cost,
including reasonable mark-ups); LLP prices have been raised substantially
closer to the full-cost level (the implied subsidy has been reduced to 25%
ot cost) with the intent of moving to full-cost pricing next year; and DTW
sales prices have been increased in accordance with the agreed pricing
schedule which will achieve STW-equivalence pricing over a four-year
period. The announcement of public sector sales prices this early in the
fiscal year provided sufficient lead time for private importers and dis-
tributors of irrigation equipment to assess the market and to arrange for
credit, supplies, and marketing and servicing facilities.
73.     Public sector STW sales prices for FY83 were determined on the
basis of a uniform pricing formula, applicable to both BADC and BKB, which
covers all cost elements: the c&f price of imported engines; the ex-factory
(or market) cost of domestically manufactured pumps, pipes, strainers and
accessories; 15% duty and a 20% mark-up on all imported items; and a
realistic mark-up on domestic items. All items already in stock will be
costed at their current replacement cost. In future, the Government will
determine the full current replacement cost of STWs and 1-cusec LLPs at the
beginning of each fiscal year, and all public suppliers of such equipment
(BADC, BKB and BWDB) will charge sales prices equivalent to this cost
(Section 3.06, and Schedule 3, paragraphs Bl(a) and Bl(b) of the DCA).
74.     To ensure that the private sector is in a competitive position with
regard to the domestic manufacture or assembly of irrigation equipment and
components thereof, the Government will ensure that private suppliers are
charged the same import duties and benefit from the same duty drawbacks as
public suppliers of minor irrigation equipment. Public sector enterprises
locally manufacturing or assembling minor irrigation equipment and com-
ponents thereof will sell these at the same prices to private and public



-25-
purchasers (Section 3.06, and Schedule 3, paragraph B2 of the DCA).
Private importers and distributors of shallow tubewell and low-lift pump
engines will not be required to purchase locally manufactured or assembled
engines as a condition for obtaining the necessary import licenses (Section
3.06, and Schedule 3, paragraph B3 of the DCA). The Government will also
issue sufficient import licenses to private suppliers for the import of
minor irrigation equipment (Section 4.01(b) of the DCA).
75.     A schedule of annually rising sales prices and rental rates for
DTWs has been agreed upon in the context of the Second Deep Tubewells
Project supported by IDA; it reflects the Government's intention of moving
towards STW-equivalence pricing for DTls and of shifting from rental to
outright sale of DTWs. In pursuit of the same objectives, rental rates for
LLPs have been doubled for the FY83 irrigation season, and LLP sales prices
have been raised to reduce the subsidy on such sales to 25% of cost.
Future increases in LLP sales prices will be accompanied by a simultaneous
and corresponding increase in rental rates (Section 3.06, and Schedule 3,
paragraph Bl(c) of the DCA).
76.     Until recently, the rationalization of minor irrigation policy
focussed only on BADC and BKB, although other public agencies have also
been involved in this sector. The Government is now extending these policy
reforms to these agencies as well in an effort to bring about consistency.
(a) LLP distribution free-of-charge in the context of the Cabinet
Division-s Canal Digging Program, which had seriously undercut
BADC-s LLP sales efforts, has been suspended.
(b) BWDB has been fielding LLPs through subsidized rental programs
in conjunction with its gravity and canal irrigation schemes.
The Government has now decided that BWDB's LLP distribution
program will correspond to that already initiated by BADC.
Specifically, BWDB will sell its stock of rental LLPs (Sec-
tion 4.01(d) of the DCA) and has increased its LLP rental rates
to the same levels as BADC.
(c) In addition, BWDB will henceforth permit farmers and farmers'
groups within BWDB project areas to purchase STWs from any
public or private supplier (Section 4.01(d) of the DCA).
Fertilizer Pricing and Logistics
77.     The Government intends to eliminate the fertilizer subsidy by 1985
and has repeatedly confirmed this objective, although there is some concern
that further fertilizer price increases might reduce farmer demand. The
large size of the fertilizer subsidy itself, which exceeded Tk 1.1 billion
(about 33% of cost) in FY81 and rose to almost Tk 1.3 billion (just over



-26-
32% of cost and 5% of the ADP) in FY82, impinges on the availability of
fina-._ial resources for the development of even more essential elements of
agricultural modernization -- especially irrigation, drainage and flood
s toLL J Additional investment in irrigation facilities is more effective
in inducing increased foodgrain production than continued subsidization of
~erlizers, and greater irrigation coverage will in turn generate addi-
tional demand for fertilizer. Moreover, fertilizer prices are substan-
tially lower in Bangladesh than, for example, in India (thereby encouraging
fertilizer smuggling into India), while rice and paddy prices are supported
by the Government at higher levels than in neighboring countries.
78.     Each year's ADP contains a specific allocation to cover the fer-
tilizer subsidy. Historically, budgetary planning included the determina-
tion of fertilizer sales prices which were to be effective from the first
day of the fiscal year. During the past three years, however, the Govern-
ment pQstponed successively further into the fiscal year price increases
required to contain the fertilizer subsidy. Such postponement required a
larger absolute price increase to achieve the same budgetary result and
also caused the subsequent short-term demand and sales contraction to occur
at peak fertilizer application periods. Implementing the price increases
on July 1, on the other hand, has the favorable effect of moving the price
shock into the middle of the monsoon, when fertilizer sales are low.
79.     In view of these considerations, the Government increased fer-
tilizer sales prices on July 1, 1982, by a weighted average of about 14%.
This is expected to reduce the fertilizer subsidy as a whole during FY83
to less than Tk 1 billion and to below 20% of cost. Without these price
increases, the subsidy would have totalled some Tk 1.5 billion in FY83 --
equivalent to about 30% of cost.
80.     Also on July 1, 1982, the Government modified the structure of
fertilizer retail sales prices. The prices of major fertilizers relative
to each other had evolved in a piecemeal manner over time, and the degree
of subsidization for different fertilizers varied substantially. Farmers
responding to signals provided by this price structure often did not use
the agronomically optimal fertilizer combination on their crops and soils,
and dealers were encouraged to engage in fraudulent sales practices. The
recent price adjustments have led to a more rational relative price struc-
ture which should correct some of these problems.
81.     In an effort to improve the efficiency of fertilizer distribution,
all retailing and most of the local and sub-regional wholesaling of fer-
tilizer have been turned over to the private sector. Most recently, BADC
closed 243 of its Thana Sales Centers (TSCs) in December 1981. About 80%
of BADC's sales now take place from its roughly 90 Primary Distribution
Points (PDPs), the remaining 20% from TSCs operating in remote Thanas. The
system has evolved in stages and is performing satisfactorily    responding
increasingly well to market signals of demand and supply.



-27-
82.     A remaining anomaly is the fixing of retail prices which include
fixed dealer commissions in lieu of market-determined cost and profit
margins. This fixing of official retail prices has been largely ineffec-
tive. Farmers are willing to pay higher prices to obtain fertilizer --
particularly during supply shortages -- and dealers' commissions are
generally too low to make fertilizer trading attractive in more remote
areas, since they do not even cover the transport costs incurred in moving
fertilizer over longer distances. Increased commissions and bulk purchase
discounts have made fertilizer trading more profitable, but supply still
tends to be better near BADC wholesale outlets than elsewhere.
83.     The Government has recently eliminated controls on fertilizer
retail prices in the Chittagong Division, and as a result retail prices
there increasingly reflect actual distribution costs. The Government is
reviewing these developments and, depending on the conclusions of its
review, intends to abolish the fixing of retail prices and the payment of
fixed dealer commissions in other parts of the country next year. Instead,
only wholesale prices payable at PDPs and TSCs would be fixed. Bulk pur-
chase discounts would continue to be provided, but the applicable minimum
purchase quantity requirements may be changed to correspond more closely to
multiples of 7-ton truck loads.
84.     BADC has periodically experienced logistical bottlenecks and
storage constraints which have impeded its ability to lift fertilizer from
domestic factories and caused production stoppages until BADC offtake
caught up with the inventory accumulation at the plants. This could become
a serious threat in the near future because domestic fertilizer production
capacity will more than double when the new plant at Ashuganj reaches full
production and because unrealistically high sales and import targets
threaten to lead to inventory accumulations at BADC warehouses. The Food
and Fertilizer Policy Monitoring Secretariat (FFPMS) in the Planning Com-
mission is monitoring the situation in an effort to identify the problems
and propose remedial measures.
85.     Further improvements in fertilizer distribution, and reductions in
BADCGs costs, could be achieved through direct fertilizer lifting by
dealers or dealer groups from the ports and factories. Two major problems
need to be addressed: (i) present official wholesale and retail prices are
set below ex-factory and c&f import prices (except for urea produced at
Ghorasal and Fenchuganj),l/ making direct purchases from the ports and
factories unattractive to dealers, and (ii) the present scale of individual
1/ The present ex-factory price of urea from the new factory at Ashuganj
is also below BADC's wholesale price, but under existing project agree-
ments it will have to be raised substantially to cover production costs
and generate a 10% return on equity.



L g-
dealers- purchases is too small to make direct lifting frio  pcrts  a/or
factories economical. Charging the official BADC wholesale prices, dis-
counted for movement and storage costs which dealers would be assuming,
could overcome the pricing problem, but suitable means to accommodate the
necessary cross-subsidization between fertilizer factories and BADC would
need to be devised. The formatiorn of dealer associations could be a viable
method for encouraging large-scale bulk purchases directly from ports and
factories.  Tie Government intends to forra an Inter-agency task force to
study the matter and to prepare specific recommendations for implementation
in time for ttie FY84 fertilizer sales season.
86.     Under the on d fertilizer marketing system, BADC was the sole
importer and distributor of fertilizers. With the bulk of fertilizer
requirements imported, the need to hold substantial inventories was cru-
cial, and BADC built up a sizeable network of storage facilities. The
rapid growth of fertilizer consumption during the 1970s and particularly
the launching of the Secornd Five-Year Plan and of the MTFPP led to the
formulation of a National Fertilizer Storage Plan (NFSP) which calls for
650,000 tonas of fertilizer storage capacity for BADC at PDPs.  Predicated
on several assumptions which no longer hold, the NFSP needs to be reviewed
and modi fied before further investments are made which may later prove to
be superfluous. TT,e Government has, therefore, initiated a review of
projected fertilizer storage requirements for 1985 and 1990; it is to be
completed in early 1983, and its findings and recommendations will be made
the basis for a revised storage construction program for BADC.
Foodgrain Procurement and Distribution
88.    The Goverrinent's foodgrain procurrement and distribution policy is
being changed gradually into a market-oriented price stabilization instru-
ment whhich aims at improving producer iLacentives, consumer welfare and food
security. Ir addition, the Government-s direct involvement in domestic
grai1n trading is being reduced in favor of greater private sector involve-
ment. One further step to increase competition in the private grain trade
and to help make the farmgate grain price support system operated by the
Ministry of Food (MoF) more effective is the abolition of Approved Grain
Dealers (AGDs). The Government has over the past two years abolished AGDs
at 50% of MoF's purchasing centers, and beginning with the FY83 aus
procurement season all AGDs have been abolished (effective on August 1,
1982), except in a few remote areas in the Chittagong Hill Tracts and in
Bandarba-s district.
89.     Procuremenrt prices should be announced before planting.  Techni-
cally, the procurement prices in eeffect for the preceding crop remain
applicable for the next crop unless a price change is formally announced.
With rising production costs, .owever, such9 "tacit" price announcements do



-29-
not provide the desired price certainty and producer incentives. Accord-
ingly, the Government decided last year to announce the applicable procure-
ment prices for each successive major grain crop prior to planting, even if
there were to be no changes in these prices from the preceding crop, and
implemented this policy improvement beginning with the FY82 winter grain
crop season.
90.     Belated procurement price increases, long after planting of a
particular crop has ceased, have been effected when the crop turned out
smaller than expected and rising market prices would not permit procurement
of the targeted volume. Such late price increases, however, merely draw
more grains from private into public stocks from a crop whose size can no
longer be increased through price-induced farmer efforts and investments.
The recommended policy response to crop shortfalls is to release grains
from public stocks into the market at near-market prices when the latter
rise above predetermined levels and, if necessary, to replenish stocks
through imports (preferably aid-financed). Accordingly, the Government
intends to refrain from raising procurement prices once planting and the
crucial phases of the growth cycle amenable to yield-increasing farmer
investments and activities are completed; procurement price increases
announced after that time will only become effective with the next follow-
ing crop.
91.     Subsidized grain distribution constitutes a major burden on the
budget, averaging 12.4% of the ADP during FY78-81. The size of this sub-
sidy, provided largely to urban and relatively well-off consumers who have
access to the PFDS, suggests that these resources should be both more
effectively targeted to the poor and used for productive investments.
Moreover, with some 1.5 to 2 million tons of grains distributed through the
PFDS annually, access of the more affluent consumers to these supplies at
prices well below market prices has a serious detrimental impact on overall
effective demand and, thus, on output prices obtainable by farmers.
92.     In recent years, the Government has taken a number of steps to
contain the subsidy: reducing the ration quota, changing the ration mix
away from the more highly subsidized rice towards wheat, increasing the
ration prices for both rice and wheat, and channelling more grains through
open market sales. However, procurement prices for wheat, paddy and rice
have also been increased repeatedly to prevent a serious erosion of
producers incentives in the face of rising production costs, partly
offsetting the positive budgetary effect of ration price increases.
93.     On'July 1, 1982, the Government increased ration issue prices by
Tk 20/md to Tk 191/md for rice and by Tk 10/md to Tk 130/md for wheat.
This reduced the unit subsidy on domestic rice to Tk 42/md (from 26.4% to
18.2% of cost) and on domestic wheat to Tk 19/md (from 19.5% to 12.8% of
cost). In addition, the Government has announced that ration issue prices
will be increased further when already announced higher domestic foodgrain
procurement prices become effective later during the course of FY83; these
ration price increases will be of a magnitude sufficient to prevent the
unit subsidy from increasing to more than Tk 42/md for rice and Tk 19/md
for wheat (Section 3.06, and Schedule 3, paragraph B4 of the DCA).



-30-
Loricultural Credit
94.     Since 1976, there has been a rapid expansion in agricultural credit
ex;naUed, accompanied by substantial changes in the overall institutional
framework of agricultural financial institutions. As a result, there now
wide disparities among the various agricultural credit programs, and
there is an urgent need for rationalization. The Government and IDA have
therefore initiated a joint review of rural credit policies and programs.
This review will cover all issues related to the expansion of institutional
rural credit, including the cost of credit, the financing of rural credit
programs, organization, management and lending procedures, and the
appropriateness of current guarantee programs.
D. Reform Measures in Trade and Industry
95.     In response to the need to reform industrial and trade policies,
the Government promulgated its New Industrial Policy (NIP) in June 1982.
The NIP provides for: (i) increased participation of the private sector in
the expansion and development of the manufacturing sector; (ii) simplifi-
cation of the Industrial Investment Schedule; (iii) simplification of
investment approval procedures; (iv) reduced control over the prices of
essential commodities; (v) improved export financing facilities; and
(vi) disinvestment of a large number of jute and textile mills. The NIP is
an important policy statement; properly and speedily implemented, it can be
a major instrument for establishing the right pre-conditions for more rapid
industrial development.
96.     Industrial Investment Schedule (IIS).  The IIS, which is updated
annually, was intended to be a planning instrument indicating investment
priorities and providing technical and economic information to would-be
investors. It has, however, only poorly served its intended function as a
means for informing and guiding private investment into priority areas, and
has in fact often been a restrictive instrument. The NIP addresses these
concerns by increasing (from 22 to 41) the number of subsectors in which
private investment will no longer require formal sanction by the Department
of Industries and by providing additional information in the IIS of inter-
est to potential investors.
97.     While these actions correct some of the weaknesses in the IIS, they
do not redress the reduction, in real terms, of investment sanction levels
resulting from capital goods inflation and the devaluation of the Taka over
the last ten years. However, the Government will, by March 15, 1983,
increase the sanction limits to the extent required to raise their value in
real terms to the average level prevailing in 1978 (Section 3.06, and
Schedule 3, paragraph B6 of the DCA). The Government has also indicated
that, by April 1, 1983, it will make available to IDA a time schedule for
the progressive removal of sanctions over private investments.



-31-
98.     Investment Approval Procedures.  In spite of a number of steps in
recent years to streamline investment approval procedures, they have
remained cumbersome and restrictive. Delays occur in obtaining sanctions
from the Department of Industries and the Investment Board, in obtaining
clearance and recommendations for incentives and import licenses, in
registration and in financing. As proposed in the NIP, the Government has
recently (i) increased the sanctioning authority delegated to financial
institutions and the commercial banks; (ii) introduced greater flexibility
as well as streamlined various controls exercised by the Department of
Industries and the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports; (iii) provided
for automatic registration of projects financed from non-government foreign
exchange; and (iv) established a "one stop" investors' center which would
make it unnecessary for foreign investors to deal separately with a number
of different approval institutions.
99.     Price Controls.  Under the Essential Commodities Act, the Ministry
of Industry and Commerce controls the prices of a number of important
manufactured goods. There has been a considerable reduction during the
past years in the number of items controlled (from 47 to 8). The Govern-
ment has continued this process by recently lifting price controls on
several more items (electric bulbs, bicycles and higher-priced cigarettes)
and has prepared a timetable for lifting price controls on the remaining
items (with the exception of one or two particularly sensitive com-
modities). In addition, the Government has decided to allow public
industrial sector corporations to adjust, in consultation with the con-
cerned ministries, the sale prices of the products of their enterprises by
up to 10% to reflect increases in the foreign exchange cost of imported
inputs and in their energy costs without the need to secure prior govern-
ment approval (Section 3.06, and Schedule 3, paragraph B5 of the DCA).
100.    Budgetary Control and Financial Monitoring of Public Sector
Manufacturing Enterprises. Although their losses constitute a significant
drain on public resources, few financial control data are available on the
performance of public enterprises. The information that is available is
often delayed in presentation and is of little use for formulating overall
budgetary policy or for taking corrective action within the units. The
Ministry of Finance and Planning has commissioned UNDP to undertake a study
addressing these concerns and, upon review of this study's findings and
recommendations, intends to develop and implement a standardized public
industrial enterprise monitoring system.
101.    Export Incentives.  The NIP, as well as other recent government
actions, has improved the system of export incentives. A notional duty
drawback system for imports of materials used in export production is to be
introduced in phases to replace the present flat rate duty drawback. Addi-
tional incentives are being introduced through modifications in the Import
Entitlement Certificates (IECs). These certificates permit exporters to



-32-
import directly some of their production inputs and/or to sell part of
their foreign exchange earnings in the free (secondary) foreign exchange
market where they could usually expect to realize a significant premium
over the official exchange rate. The Government has recently increased the
maximum rate of entitlement to 80% and has decided that the rate of entit-
lement will henceforth be based on the domestic value added rather than on
gross sales values. All non-traditional exports will automatically qualify
for a rate of 40% and will be moved into the 60% or 80% grouping upon
determination of their domestic value added content.
102.    In addition to depreciating the Taka vis-a-vis Sterling and the
US Dollar, the Government took a number of measures during FY82 (such as
reducing the number of items that could be imported exclusively through the
secondary foreign exchange market and increasing margin requirements on
opening letters of credit) that contributed to a substantial reduction in
the premium over the official exchange rate attainable for foreign exchange
sold in the secondary market. To restore incentives, the Government
recently decided to attempt to increase the premium by shifting imports of
a significant number of consumer commodities back to the secondary market.
103.    Trade and Industrial Policy (TIP) Reform Program.  Studies carried
out in recent years have shown that existing industrial and trade policies
have discouraged the type of production for which Bangladesh has a compara-
tive advantage and have in turn prejudiced the prospects for more rapid
industrial and export development. With IDA's assistance, the Government
is preparing a comprehensive program to review the entire trade and
industry policy regime. The program involves technical assistance for the
following seven components: (i) establishing sector planning and project
identification procedures; (ii) implementation of an Effective Protection
Study and strengthening of the Tariff Commission; (iii) implementation of a
study of the net value added of industrial products as a basis for the
allocation of IECs; (iv) implementation of a study on investment incen-
tives; (v) improvements in the promotion of private industrial investment;
(vi) identification and development of new export product lines; and
(vii) Improvement of industrial statistics.
104.    The letter of invitation for consulting services has been issued
and selection is expected by November 1982. Although the program is
expected to take about two years to complete, some preliminary recommenda-
tions are expected in about a year's time.  It is a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed Credit that the Government shall have signed the
contract wi4th the foreign consultants required for carrying out the TIP
Reform Program, such consultants being selected in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants (Section 4.01(c) of the DCA).



-33-
E. Administration of the Proposed Credit
105.    Eligible Items.  The funds provided under the Credit would be used
to help finance all imports other than a short list of excluded items
specified in Schedule 1 of the draft Development Credit Agreement. Imports
directly financed from other sources would not be eligible for IDA financ-
ing, and there would be no displacement of alternative financing available
to Bangladesh, either generally or for commodities eligible for financing
under the Credit. Not more than 25% of the proceeds of the Credit would be
used to finance the import of any commodity or group of commodities falling
within a single 2-digit Division of the Standard International Trade Class-
ification (SITC), Revision 2.
106.    Procurement would be limited to gG*Jds from countries eligible under
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.  Both public and p':ivate sector
imports would be eligible for financing. Responsibility for public sector
procurement will rest with the various sector corporations concerned, while
procurement for the private sector will be made either through the Trading
Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB) or by individual private sector organiza-
tions. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports (CCIE) will be respon-
sible for issuing all licenses for imports under the proposed Credit and
for proposing the allocation of funds to private importers. Procurement
procedures of the Government and its sector corporations have been reviewed
in detail, at least annually since 1975, and are in line with Bank Group
guidelines. These procedures will cover about 80% of the total purchases
under the proposed Credit. Except for proprietary items, all imports
costing the equivalent of US$ 500,000 or more will be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). As was the case with the Tenth
Imports Program Credit, IDA will review procurement decisions after such
contracts have been signed and prior to the submission to IDA of the first
withdrawal applications in respect of such contracts. Non-proprietary
items costing less than US$ 500,000 will be procured through normal
procurement procedures for such purchases which generally include the
invitation of bids from no fewer than three suppliers. Any contracts
involving proprietary items or equipment needed for standardization may be
let on a negotiated basis, but the award of such contracts will be subject
to prior approval by IDA.
107.    Disbursement.  Disbursements will be made against the foreign
exchange costs of qualifying imports on the basis of withdrawal applica-
tions prepared by Bangladesh Bank and forwarded to IDA. To expedite the
procurement process, it is expected that the Government will finance the
purchase of goods costing less than US$ 100,000 through its own resources
and then request reimbursement from IDA. To facilitate rapid disbursement
of the proposed Credit, it is a condition of effectiveness that the Govern-
ment will have issued to potential end-users at least 50% of the import
licenses for goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the proposed
Credit (Section 4.01(a) of the DCA).



-34-
I 083    Thic proceeds of the proposed Credit will be made eligible for
withdrawal in two tranches of US$ 55 million, the first to be eligible for
-I.:rawal on Credit effectiveness and the second subject to the Government
having issued import licenses for the full amount of the Credit and the
-sso-iation being satisfied that the Government is following sound economic
development policies (Schedule 1, paragraph 2 of the DCA). The Associa-
tion's judgment in this matter will be based on an exchange of views not
later than April 15, 1983 about the Government's economic development
policies, in particular with regard to the carrying out of the Government's
puiblic investment program (Section 3.08 of the DCA).
109.    Taka Fund.  As under previous imports program credits, the Govern-
ment will deposit Taka funds, equivalent to the amounts withdrawn from the
proposed Credit, in an account currently being maintained with Bangladesh
Bank and will utilize these funds for development expenditures under its
development programs.  The Government will furnish to IDA quarterly reports
on amounts actually released from this account to projects financed by IDA
(Section 3.04(c) of the DCA).
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
110.    Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of
eleven credits, amounting to US$ 147.11 million, made originally to Pakis-
tan before 1971. In addition, a consolidation loan of US$ 54.90 million
and credit of US$ 31.04 million to cover liabilities arising from projects
located in Bangladesh and completed prior to independence was approved in
1974. As of March 31, 1982, 58 new credits have been approved, totalling
US$ 1,804.70 million; of these, US$ 765 million have been for import
credits (ten imports program credits and two fertilizer imports credits).
Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as
of March 31, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. On
June 18, 1976, Bangladesh became a member of the IFC, and three investments
(for a shipbuilding company, an investment promotion company and a leather
factory) have been approved.
111.    The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(19 of the 46 new projects approved since independence, and two fertilizer
imports credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the
Government's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on
projects that provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer
transport, irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and storage
facilities. In addition to agricultural projects, emphasis is also being
placed upon complementary infrastructural projects in sectors which



-35-
facilitate agricultural development or which reduce bottlenecks interfering
with the economy's overall performance. In the power sector, for example,
IDA plans to emphasize rural electrification and elimination of shortages
of generation capacity or distribution facilities which have been a major
impediment to utilization of existing industrial capacity.
112.    Industry has been the main beneficiary of the ten imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the
economy, program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA
operations in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from
three fertilizer production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation
project, several DFC and small-scale industry projects and three IFC loans.
113.    The size of Bangladesh's population problem makes this a
high-priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive capacity. IDA
has made two credits in support of the Government's population program,
which is now making some progress. Improved education and availability of
trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field has emphasized
agricultural, technical and vocational training, as well as primary educa-
tion.
114.    Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded satisfac-
torily. Project disbursements have lagged behind expectations, owing
largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts,
employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these
delays were serious constraints that included a shortage of qualified
staff, overcentralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficien-
cies. IDA and the Government have given increased attention to regular
monitoring and supervision in order to identify and resolve potential
problems. IDA is providing assistance, both under specific projects and
under technical assistance credits, to improve planning, project prepara-
tion and implementation capabilities.
115.    In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position and
large savings/investment gap, IDA credits should continue to cover all
foreign exchange costs. For the same reasons, local currency expenditures
are also being financed by IDA in cases where the percentage of foreign
exchange costs in total project costs is relatively low.
116.    Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on economic policy and
development strategy. It is also designed to enhance the coordination of
external assistance within the framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group.
Recent activities have concentrated on food policy, irrigation strategy,
industrial investment strategy, development of domestic energy resources
and increased domestic resource mobilization.



-36-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
117.    The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Republic of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agree-
ment are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
118.    Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are referred to in paragraphs 57-109 and in Annex III of this
report and in Schedules 3 and 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreement.
The following are conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Sec-
tion 4.01 of the DCA):
(a) The Government shall have issued import licenses in respect of
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit covering
foreign exchange allocations aggregating not less than
US$ 55,000,000 equivalent;
(b) The Government shall have issued import licenses in respect of
minor irrigation equipment required for the carrying out of ongoing
irrigation projects in such quantities and technical specifications
as shall be satisfactory to the Association;
(c) The Government shall have signed the contract with the foreign
consultants required for the carrying out of the TIP Reform Program
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.07 of the DCA and in
a manner satisfactory to the Association;
(d) The Government shall have issued an administrative order instruct-
ing BWDB: (i) to promptly offer for sale, with a view to completing
such sale by June 30, 1984, BWDB's stock of rental low-lift pumps,
(ii) not to increase BWDB-s rental stock of low-lift pumps by any
acquisition thereof, and (iii) not to restrict farmers from buying
shallow tubewells from sources other than BWDB in areas where
BWDB's projects are being carried out.
(e) The Association shall have received evidence, satisfactory to the
Association, that the Government has taken all necessary steps to
ensure that farmers and farmers' groups have access to credit from
banking and cooperative institutions for the purchase of used minor
irtigation equipment.
119.    I am satisfied that the proposed Credit is in conformity with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



-37-
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
120.    I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by
Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
October 27, 1982



-38-                                            Annex I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            144.0                                  MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME                 MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      97.3               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC               ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   40.0         70.0     130.0               261.4                    890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         ..        24.9       39.7               448.7                    701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 53491.0      68117.0   88513.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5.1           7.6       11.0                17.3                     32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       141.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         321.3
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KK.                       371.5       473.0      600.7               158.1                    255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    561.9        703.0      889.0               355.9                   1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.3        46.3       42.8                36.8                     39.9
15-64 YRS.                          52.5        51.0       54.6                59.7                     56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.2         2.7        2.6                 3.5                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9         2.4        2.6                 2.0                      2.3
URBAN                               3.6         6.3        6.5                 3.3                      3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      53.5         49.2      45.3                29.3                     31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      28.1         22.7      18.2                11.0                      9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.6         3.4        2.9                 2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       373.0    1607.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..       8.9/c              19.3                     36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          106.0       101.0       97.0               108.1                    115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    87.3        84.7         ..               97.3                     106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           43.9        42.7         ..                56.9                     54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         9.1         8.7         ..                20.0                     13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      24.8        23.0       20.0                10.9                      6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.3         41.6       46.3                57.8                     59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           159.0       150.3      136.1                89.1                     63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-        45.0       53.0/d              32.9                     32.0
URBAN                                ..         13.0      15.0/d              70.7                     51.9
RURAL                                ..        47.0       55.0/fi             22.2                     20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         6.0        5.0/e              18.1                     37.7
URBAN                                ..           ..      40.0/e              72.7                     65.7
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                 4.7                     24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               ..      8427.2/f 12691.9/c             3297.8                   8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..     76808.3   40489.7/i            4929.3                    4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                ..      7021.5/g  4499.3/c             1100.4                   1047.5
URBAN                                ..       818.57j   627.4/c              301.3                    651.6
RURAL                                ..           .. 23362.4/1c             5815.7                   2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..                  ..                     27.0
NOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..         5.9/h      5.8
URBAN                                *.         6.171i     6.1
RURAL                                ..          5. 97h    5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..       3.5
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..



-39-
Annex I
Paep 2
TABLE 3A
SANGLADZ9 -SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTEZ AVEiAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTlMATE)-
MOST RECENT       TN  INCOME                  MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC              ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 47.0         52.0      65.0                97.4                      96.2
MALE                  66.0        68.0       79.0               101.0                     99.8
FEMALE               26.0         34.0       49.0                87.8                     92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  8.0         19.0      25.0                53.0                     37.6
MALE                  14.0        29.0       38.0                63.8                     41.1
FEMALE                 1.0         8.0       11.0                41.3                     34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)   1.0           0.8       0.7                 1.7                     20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              ,,         45.1      43.8                37.7                     35.5
SECONDARY                            ..         26.4      24.9                20.2                     25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        21.6         23.0/h    26.0/c              52.1                      73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          0.4       0.4                 1.5                      9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          6.0       8.2                35.4                    116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..       0.5                 3.2                     37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..           ..       4.7                16.4                     53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                3.6                       2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    19251.6       23611.0   31477.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   15.2         16.6      17.5                29.5                      33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              87.0         86.0      74.0                70.0                      52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.0          3.0      11.0                15.0                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                36.0         34.7      35.6                40.0                      38.5
MALE                                 58.7         55.9      56.9                51.8                      50.5
FEMALE                               11.4         11.9      12.9                23.8                      26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3         1.4        1.3                 1.0                      1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3/i          ..      14.6/k
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44. 57        44.1/    42.2/.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.97!         8.7T/     6.97*k
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.97i        19.67f    18.27.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     139.0/c             133.8                     194.7
RURAL                                .,           ,.     111.0/r             111.1                     155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                 ..                     178.2
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                 ..                     164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      86.0/c              43.8                      24.4
RURAL                                 ..          ..      86.0/7              51.7                      41.1
Not available
. Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each Indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betveen 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /a 1975; /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; /I 1972; /h 1973; /i 1964;
/J. 1967;  Mk 19747
May 1982



40                                                      ~~~~~~~Annex i
r:0tt 40 fOOIC   0000
a.ti000illo  oear0 . .00* of .0. 1004 of *hbtd.dho.4 deftstslocAM04  noos.fle...t4by dhtffthtn  Ototl.   -1oI ...tit9  the dat.- I Th. a a0t. .    on
the)4..,, "l.ofL to GesoIh.  td0cr; 00 ftsetCoA, in001015 00 .,04 4hOOSOOCo5   om."05  sallO  4Sf*-0.05. 10000  ottri
ThA  W.adces. *rrape  -f  (I.) thA saft 0...17 kroop 5f th. coh)iOt  -0t0t  004 12) A I00... try p-  nItt  .a          h,t 000*   v .t. e COcO  ths 00. 000-0  OftOp
Of 0h.  -015C  0000  (O. pt fot   "RlgO Id000*   01lt t.p0A,t-` SCOOp ~th. 'M14410 0000  North AtI10. A0   4  10400 4t  L.00' hi  ...*5  05.t ....ot0ar
*slo,co-lt ral odfmitte).  tn oh. t.lEvv..c tOk*o ohio  the ao.r.904 *ta Pp..lti.t ..I toCd aoh*h..,iQ mao. to, tact  Lodhotof,   sod  00.0               Y 001-at
".,loittf of  h04 ~oooate.* I . o ...o  ha.4 dAt. E., sNthat  lar   St.o. th. so-mg. of 000000  mo  tot  indlotot-  dt9td. O, the ...t4hlohlt  Of d.ta
n..  1, A0                                       I.or.a.twaaOfa..4otg O-- 000000?The-                                    Are -tIV                       thero!p .
Od. Lt0aft           to...                                                                      PoplatcO   pi  t.to.It.o- ttalirht.  nd  onI- POoItho  (000
101- It-L   raa            Pma.iof hetg 1-04  C.. and tledd o..I ..  1979 4.,..             00000.. 00   oc.1  Lode L    9terr.eoIeOee   f  Opa hd
cncl.al- 1.510.0. adOf roctasl ,. o."a t."-ottft1   00 P005.0.001                         -11tlbl. it p0114 as4 pl10.t. 0000         W0  ap.tt,allo. p ht,tl. 504t-
Io  rps..  tsf        arket .04 kiCthOt 0.0450 00 TO 110  WOdt-  1009 data.                 hoblttoct..   OetegoescbLteh-ess fcp.-.-Oty stajdfo
byto lag  ... phel to .ahllt,eot. pOt-idttg PtloliPtlp  -sto-
cocoa o  o.  oot,edlo, 0000  a.Word OoltLol. (07040   o.olo  900        at   Ieha  ce-tt, 00t P.Ot-eteol  staffed ho A phOsolo eho  ho.
1970, otd 1900 cato                                                                                 ..Ca  ga-.st. l..... .W4000,. tto.. 'hoch 022.  0  -pateo a-         o
Oatis, .s  cror-tdo A liaied r4st. Of eedlool teoiliti-           V.,o pA1hOs-
Ct10091  tO001o'ttoa  0 oool a9ootlOO   se- p040; 1900, 1910. cId 1979             cOo.ioiht    opta. ot  10010404 oOIy  M.,o -00,0
Octl Ptoltbo. 04-lot t--os.Oa  - 0. of Jolt 11 1000. 1000. -04 19300                .GVISM
hOof at,  aittt iso  ci  co.tAre. to   000    c0115    fNoe0   00*0.r 0010 mole,                                    e0ly s   og.  O  0iY   o be XlIlotoed 00
sot   otOctoo  10.00. 17000  ltd 1900 tOt                                              th. hsoaAolo. for  s             Aoelol  opoe...
fopolttso VcOtot 50.                                         Ottttn  ,aatroV Ontnte Ot 0000tst,l  cyhst .04  oo.1 -Otarae 000
Pcriaooloo too.ot1000 - -1000  PopoLta-tot ptjectill  An. 0..44 O1900          0       ..   -crto  Perfc   0  1   r.o   c   orlOoplsdcoaolO
000*  o.colo 00  1. a0  c - aastd  h,t0  ,,-511a0  -d. f.r,0.tty -at,,.              dtaaL.ao, c.oovio            eli0anlh   o.pcotdocttsn
Prooto    .oto   s tr          tallsp.y      towoteaf oh 000. 1-0.1  o__o.-                 cOtOoe   pcte.
lOglil  ,ooooocosO  00t  OOctOOtOttO                        LI00'  a   010  00* 000   0015000   oocsofotlotf-ccc.-e.0400 
ott.1   oOd  -04.1  LIE. aoP-ttsOo  eta,ltolds At 07.5  ec-.~ Th. 0a0-                     C.  otlcA.1 dm110-        0hotOitpIn100    attnscroto
Al,400 lo-  0001-07  -afe 01. hate ott.. LoAl.  --taio   "I'll0 00o   ctl  ris   o  Iel Oalooorotay
(0001110   -000dlte  -c  o-tS  la-ss . a0  poetV.117 p1Adijpedreoa
E0I _th          'h"005 Al0 'S."OOttOed .000     th...ai. taOfoO .1 OfIOtOtily         100001100
ttd F-Ilitl004000poctt P0055e                                                           idio--i totlltto501
0000s000  psriatit-1 A  -ca ttoo   apiot   cOor  1. co  rot  Ott-o..Pl. 0lshol-ttO,01,00f.0j-c                                            toa.  0.  0  fol
Of,. 0000Oco  1 All0 00 th. dcooth ra-. 0,4 ala  the ag  strootoco t-                   _001.oo   l  et0   h   fhaylnI1   esrto.o  .P_Otio
Ocotciot.10. Is A01000  s-Op al.tr Oatmall   mtte. 400100  to                       p01501alt-t,VOsatn;nosi  gtlOacclia   cd h-il
oh.  ftl--.0t fod  of -iht tot rep-daclloo rota.  h-0.0 .h slt-iatto                         Y-I* ht.  Ad)attoo lot 401V,-ot 1.-*0h. lf Ortist!  d ... co; "I
00000  ,opl. oO    -401              Theolo    0. I-. oatot  pVitO  Ai.e  c                   _.lto .100 ..,h   vt-O-  0450t40  oo-Ille-o  nt ...oa.  100 P--oso
OAitOOOOd.   000h bash. c   h  prlotd oaasaiooa0   h  pofIoto                                 at_  tO:     olo0p0100   bVai.oOoo   tshO
1th! .oor 2000. ash oh. -atc Of daslO, of tonall,, race to ralc-Ooocrjtt..    oo.010a 0.1-                                              000000 ..    cO..e. coa..
Yo0t -octi-   PlOuo.oatoOoI ..09000,h5 00 lccao Esor,Y PNlasl.a-hf o_ooornp0 E.0   lo,ooc ltt
(1c- 0111 00-ahe.alyp of It to 17 ytar of oga.oo. epOds                                                                                          A00 .              S.... ttrily
Ooy~~~~~,oo1,n 1000-0,0                        trOslot,A-               f-Ii                             t .d-.thti-id.
Oc-to  I....   olo  oo.co  poour 96lo3.t 110 h-AtOtac)  f                                 OotoohcOs 00000*h       (otoo                    g- hcotdty   -OOOt -t l .tOn -tiO
Oat     ke,s.oftctoc   ,4M - Cooooc.h ec Ahoy, toy agito -ra               4                 cOtly -r At d .rtsaOf seOshry Oo-stothotld,
001,1 0040, 0070 And 0979 0.5..                                                           4t100hyt it -000000  a,-&L"-,--"-,-,  -  Otsl t                IO.t  00009
_tt..olc  0.,  (0000  (oot)     114.0  (0-14  -ete, ohohdo-9.e  Ill-                  prloU."  da d .0II4s.1 1,00   ir4.   to         . rc0y   of   _ ttcoo   000.
hi nor), andoetlrr  (00 1000Y 00  0000) 0  PCO0S0tOO0. Of elg-ye*0 hoot               stritc      -g0000
180100: 1000, 1900, sed 1900 data.                                                          501  lhte 0t.             - .ooO uOd .lot.t 040104 001. 00 t4ss .0 oft0-)
Pscot0Cro'- Nt.' .th I-    (- - so..  -OItta Ston  -ct   cI octl  -                       cA apeoootoo  00 tota  Otals PoPlathst .0    1) Y r All ... 0e,
Voor pNI              I9ooObc150)-600   0000.io1970-dO.
KAt. tw10   100-6. 1-40,00 1-97-80 11-ttttOh.                                                   0000h -04  0100*004N  k ioOtloO-  aaaootoce   cts.ooo
Ito,  100 . D h  ULt hono0     da.. 0. 0000 pP             y thsaad  of  cOd-pOor            &4.50teta    ..0.    il  p4-e-001 -0All0type.1000M                  0.. .000
pt mloo0   00. 100.nt 1900 data.                                                       00100         otldLholt...,6
000.aleotoo: 1000. 1000. 004 0090 dot-o.                                           0 000e000t 00 soW., oesal 0..   p.r  0ooaho   taol;yoc,oo
Conaooiototc   - hot.o  ifOa  of degtr      ..ool)08I0Oos.   ecit.i   000a  Y54  n  oo.  toot Oahstto   t a
PstoO A.oo  - Oc-co.-ty   A_.oelIcto      oa  A_00.1 00eb   Of A5tpa.                  7  oohe.loo .oao    Op ti.oo    T V  o               st  f or bttOdo..oCt.0
loI  1a05A00U-l.i.  I0t00o   aoo  *0.0Al           - Ptat.co  estolo                        It ooOt              Id Yto ,ata   agwrso09 I000tOt  f TV  wot  .0  . L. 2cs
soMa 00 o014-so og. i-tOyot  .0-0   OyOteOl   .0c   0                                      tca    ChOf "aOtyO(.  ttto`-     0  toa1""d) - 01.1,0t A1. 0000 Pet idt
2-71-1043) - 1.4- M   P.,  ~AOlhcatitl.00.4-    -th0h   o   ttOt   .500000.  -0-h co.dO.
L0*   hho  Vooto   c  Cato 0a0.01  00- 104.0of .0                     . -Stt  .....i        COc0  Ootcal -it*oa.s.00Cpt   n   ..-8.45   0   oro
At,.0   of  tee       X b sh t   TW t oref  Athct0000    t-o,ry Ia lag. of.d ldLA 0
oa-ccto    -.eo. rrnd-o  P,ics  _.tthtst 1061_40. 1900. - .       M4 1090  Oata.           000.0 1        ... Po te hoA-Adal - Ooos.alkalp etiOlaOt.0.  old
-. 000  arlp Of I001.'cOO   f t.Oir0*tO   - 000.54 700 ft..4fOo.- Add -Alw.i5 d b.t 0,010410  h....slt-o. 00000,                                                 -0.
eta.gy  ,0500.150  ofAetfo   opic  avelob     ha  -ott P00 opisa                               -rn000  pop.lOthc4O f all .lat.   0foOtt10  0  ts4000.  0
P.r cfa.  XZIb oOI  tPpoll..0005*l0.l prwtdatN., f00Ott. Is..                                to  0000rlb00t  190. 1970 00d 1900 000.
Adot.   0   s    Lge    stoOtk.  Met waoo.dt   Istod.0001d. .i-   s.dt                  hnA..pp-po         I001  100          A,0  -5 p,.ota... of ~Octl leNorfc-ts
_setela  o.s4 hof- hodpooec*g  0  boon  10  i 45,loloa.c O             oot-, t                        a no    0A.00  fort. L. 00-.0, or....toy, h-;'.,ld  0
-,0 00. -s -104 by 740 A     0. Me e rtc01ga  -.td  fan 0.0-I -sti-                         f 1.0000 .. 0000000*. Of  -oto104  farco;  9644  1070 ..00 loO 0000.
MIY 044 000100 .... Ahetiltgdasoet-. rOaO                . hoop ulgOce. aS.                  InoscylpOtO                t  f..0trt. L0.11g  coooytctos.   .aftastlg
004 sao .Ol_eOs;n  ofp0 -100.  s  A.ll Mtl 10 "erAdt fo-  -oc  At                               1004  lecrlto _ * j-.taes sd S.. 00 p.,Aoste" oh 0004  11000 f.r,,.~
hcoa.tOl  1*00101001-00.1900 *0  1900 4ats.                                             190   90  0410  c
tsr 0000.0.0,07 o  OrotO,,)Ota0 oa  Oat  - PnOIh  00.teO   000loIa              Prh0*sO    oe   roct  A.  b1..010..04 0.15-*i   Loo.A t#sElo. 
OtIe.ned00 for.01  --I004l0.0000   Op U0SDA ors-id. Eor  hsta-                               or       sOof total. 0*100   0,0*f.1. PtPoIoio o0 f 011 sg.. OpoI.p
aOlvn.  f00 fran  Of total proaeNo Per 4.0 504 00 Sto.a 02 aoho  9.0                   I000  190. .d  MOS  d.to..T.oae0.4O  1LO'. p-titiopsOottt
Pt1.loo   _0.0. of .0'00 10 gr-i  so-ld Na cottal 00-0.1.  Tlo.ttoodd                                    A . . At c .-s  .outort-0  othe ltPo.tui., AM4 1000  i-0 OtOl.d   A
000. .,.Io~ IrcOossft.. Of 75 Or-t of 004p.1 p05010*00 Ad )2 gram  of                         f.,  .0 hteot   A. Otis 0.htol   50.5.
ocai     tt00o A.    co.oa. for co    tlf             edoaa  Or 000 Lt 00. Th0000                                         uttl..fnA.0 01      Oooo  pOptIato   d000  is -04 h  .04 0.0I
01.4OtOtltl $-Y    0 19 ole6..1   0it pt   ti10-0   90  O   91dt.                     1002t0k0t
trtao OaO  iro.h8 o  100.-       Aaleo   04.       -I0 .0 th. PAI dta,                        of hOo*00014..
0ft1  .  P.000010-tt  -L.   16~190.    14   .,.l  100Ah1011000
00 000004 10,0. 0070 ond 108   a                                                       .04  h0010 08 L... tr-t.4 Atsh -ootat-b1. 0000104.
bOot (totahto Nt. (ar hsoandh- 00.1  t,tto   Wle'co        -a.,ho  0  0c           t-eotmtt  dhol.olo. P00.O     " 1000  "0. I  N -t  -"lO.400   tOc
If tot Tar tttotod ELot 1jI00*1 1960, 1970 00d 1909  dOts.                                   AbOttat  700-00  Ot-om  i;1.001  0.0 Mt oo   0.0,1  Obo. shh      li0..
00.5  o  Gl so---  (Pooao  f  so...    tl  AtsOl. orhao. an  Erot   -  0-OO                     ytt.1   0009000  4000 pi..' t-a.Oco    Tt-to   coOttt 
ber o Ap.01   Otl.ohtyO  root1)  -Ish t..entl. ac.. . .o .0. AAil.od I                              oPe                                                               I.
-i0.y,o   sA 0)c  Ott p00004NrNOt.-00.   th*900    lo   s                                     odOloosoOOv100 Add                  l Ia .0-Ottrd of  oro pecpIA
ft..000*  Pi tha, lt 09000 J-A.cbllOo.10   rOo4                   701  le*00  0000  of th.  -.ory,  UOoO. -01 0J. oon    ot01   04
rot0*0  ,OeydtO-  108-0  00ad         h- 200lI l A.tr        h ro   a. I..0 my No100 tt h odOc.-t lor 010000 cost 00 llcya00ctsoon
do  "tha. to.  .-ood *    plsOthrOO.4o ptte h  f 0.  407  10b fsoetOo  the..I             -9000".r.I                                                          ~_01
IcOcs. Eo-h ...s picso.l (ooysOO  of yopoaitlo    - ts1.  orm  00d   00081 
7000*4   fthalo r.*petl.t  popoIlf.s..  10000. 4100.1 ...       0014
00. oO.oal   004 4             -000 .h*5  or alfast-  Itelteet. of  =.   s000a0
I     1t  , - 1 11I!~ 1,1I. _-   ,olotho  41014.4 Opom orf Py0ligpho.i-                                                     tcooso d S-cs1*00 010400
00*0.qs.185t4too. .04101 .oaolto otOerttp 1-01.                                                                 OOScMIoa  t  Olcls  0.00
lytlsos 0  1-0gO. Pea,-d  pop.1sOc         -104.  by tt., oh P-atilaOat                                                                   MtY 10
-Isl  iimiusals tatt osta."  .     A000.5000 tOsoc. ootoltro   0
-Otrh4 0001104-10.



-41-                                                         Annex I
Page 4
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:       91.5 million (January 1982)
GNP Per Capita: US$120 (PY81)
Amount              Average Annual Increase (X)         Share of GDP at Karket Prices (X)
(million US$            (in constant FY75 prices)                  (in current prices)
in current prices)
Indicator                                       FY81               FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-81          FY60       FY70       FY75      FY81
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a                         11,989                4.0       -0.6        6.0         100.0      100.0      100.0    100.0
Agriculture Ia                                  6,423                3.1       -1.3         4.3          59.9       56.9       62.5      53.6
Industry /a                                     1,680                7.9       -3.2         6.0           7.7        9.6       11.3      14.0
Services 7a                                     3,887                4.9        3.3         8.8          30.1       30.0       26.2      32.4
Consumption                                       11,701                4.4       -0.7        5.7          92.4       92.8       99.1      97.6
Gross domestic investment                          2,064               10.9      -10.9       20.2           6.9       11.3        8.1      17.2
Exports of goods & nfs                               859                0.8     -11.7         5.7          10.0        8.3        3.2       7.2
Imports of goods & nfs                             2,635                8.8      -12.0        3.6           9.3       12.5       10.4      22.0
Gross national savings                               639               26.5     -17.7        -8.4           0.9        6.1        1.0       5.3
Amount                                                  Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)
(million US$                                                        (in current prices)
in current prices)
FY81                                                   FY73      FY75      FY80      FY81
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                                  710.8                                                100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Primary /b                                         165.2                                                 40.4      29.6      24.3      23.2
Manufactures                                       545.6                                                 59.6      70.4      75.7      76.8
Merchandise imports                                2,524.0                                                100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Food                                               342.4                                                 44.1      41.5      29.1      13.6
Petroleum                                          490.1                                                  3.2      11.1      15.7      19.4
Machinery & equipment                              580.0                                                 13.8       9.6      20.0      23.0
Other                                           1,111.5                                                  38.9      37.8      35.1      44.0
FY74       FY75       FY76       FY77       FY78       FY79       FY80       FY81
PRICE AND TERMS OF TRADE INDICES (1972/73-100)
GDP Deflator                                                  140.6       240.5      183.1      177.2      203.6      216.8      249.2      264.0
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                        7.9661      8.8759   14.8521   15.4667   15.1215   15.2228   15.4777   16.3447
Export price index                                            103.7       123.5      107.1      111.8      127.7      167.5      200.9      178.6
Import price index                                            152.8       194.8      186.2      183.1      179.4      218.0      250.3      283.9
Terms of trade index                                           67.9        63.4       57.5       61.1       71.2       76.8       80.3       62.9
As % of GDP
(at current prices)
FY73     FY75      FY77    FY80       FY81
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                            5.0       5.4      9.5      10.6      12.0
Current expenditure                                                        6.5       4.5      7.8       7.8       7.6
Current surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                        -1.5      +0.9    +1.7    + 2.8    + 4.4
'apital expenditure                                                        8.8       3.1      9.5      13.5      12.1
Foreign financing                                                          7.1       2.4      6.0       8.3       7.7
FY60-70    FY70-75    FY75-80    FY80-81
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                                                           4.2        -0.7         5.8         7.9
GNP per capita growth rate (E)                                                 1.5       -3.3         3.0         5.2
Energy consumption growth rate (X)
not available
not applicable
/a At market prices.
75 Raw jute, tea and (in FY81 only) rice.
ASADD
April 15, 1982



-42-
Annex I
Page 5
BANGLADESH
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$, in current prices)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Actual                                                  Projected
FY74      FY75       FY76       FY77       FY78       FY79        FY80      FY81          FY82       FY83
Net exports of goods                                -551    -1,050        -885       -454       -859       -946    -1,645    -1,813         -1,780    -1,938
Exports of goods                                   374        352        381        411        490        610        727        711          640        732
Imports of goods                                  -925      1,402    -1,266        -865    -1,349    -1,556    -2,372    -2,524           -2,420    -2,670
Net exports of services                              -21         12        -24        -29        -32        -27          3         11          -70       -120
Workers- remittances                                  19         34         62         81        113        143        210        377          400        450
Current account balance                             -553    -1,004        -847       -402       -778       -830    -I,432    -1,425         -1,450    -1,608
Direct private investment                             ..         ..         ..         ..         ..         ..         ..
MLT loans (net)                                      276        498        498        238        398        420        581        481          501
Grants & grant-like flows                            174        382        245        265        393        553        591        616          650    -1,608
Other capital flows (net)                             45        275         52        -20        -38        -19        141        304          199
Change in reserves (- - increase)                     58       -151         53        -81         25       -124        119         24          100        -
International reserves (end of period)               115        266        213        294        269        393        274        250          150        150
Reserves as months of imports of next year          0.98       2.52       2.95       2.62       2.07       1.99       1.30       1.24         0.67       0.63
Actual
FY74        FY75        FY76        FY77        FY78        FY79        FY80        FY81
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                    173.8       382.3       244.7       264.8       392.6       553.2        590.8       616.4
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                   287.4       518.9       563.5       268.3       435.3       476.8       631.4        531.0
Concessional                                     201.4       458.4       533.0       244.1       400.8       456.4       601.6       509.6
Bilateral                                      150.4       342.8       389.9       144.0       261.9       212.6       272.7       255.2
IDA                                             51.0       112.5       127.8        86.1        88.2       152.5       152.1       170.9
Other multilateral                               -           3.1        15.3        14.1        50.7        91.3       176.9        83.4
Non-concessional                                  86.0        60.4        30.4        24.1        34.5        20.4        29.8         21.4
Official export credits.                        40.6        45.2        16.5         5.6         1.7         3.3        16.8         2.0
IBRD                                             -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -
Other multilateral                               5,4         0.3         1.1         0.5         0.5         0.1         0.3         0.8
Private                                         40.0        14.9        12.8        18.0        32.3        17.0        12.7        18.6
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding and disbursed (end of period) 492.8    1,352.6    1,795.9    2,051.5    2,569.2    2,949.2    3,215.6    3,584.8
Official                                         383.3    1,232.8    1,669.0.   1,939.8    2,435.6    2,808.3    3,068.8    3,462.1
IBRD                                             -          54.9    -  54.9         54.9        54.9        54.9        54.9        54.9
IDA                                            105.6       255.3       379.8       465.9       554.2       706.7       858.8    1,028.5
Other                                          222.8       922.6    1,254.3    1,419.0    1,826.5    2,046.7    2,155.1    2,378.7
Frivate                                          109.5       119.8       106.9       111.6       133.6       140.9       146.8        122.7
Undisbursed Debt                                   580.8    1,019.4        947.5    1,015.8    1,335.4    1,659.1    1,716.7    2,068.4
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                         18.0 '      31.3        87.4        58.5         69.2        95.1        93.7        92.0
Interest                                           7.3        10.1        21.9        28.4        32.1        38.1        43.3         42.0
Payments as Z of export earnings                     4.8         8.9        22.9        14.2        14.1         15.6        12.9        12.9
Payments as Z of GNP                                 0.2         0.2         1.2         0.9         0.8          1.0         0.8         0.7
Average interest rate on new loans (Z)               3.2         2.0         1.7         1.6          1.5         1.4         1.4         1.6
Official                                           2.9         2.0         1.6         1.5         1.3         1.4          1.2         1.5
Private                                            5.1         2.3         7.8         6.4         6.2         6.1         6.9          7.2
Average maturity of new loans (years)               26.1        35.5        41.6        40.1        37.7         35.9        33.6        35.9
Official                                          28.3        35.8        42.2        40.8        38.6        36.3         34.2        36.2
Private                                           13.3        15.3        11.3        11.0         9.5         14.8        19.3        18.5
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (%)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                   -           4.0         3.0         2.6         2.1          1.8         1.7         1.5
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbursements
IBRD debt service/total debt service                 -           -           1.8          5.6         4.8         4.1         3.7         4.0
IDA DOD/total DOD                                   21.4        18.8        21.1        22.7        21.6         24.0        26.7        28.6
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements         17.7        21.7        22.7        32.1        20.3         32.0        24.0        32.1
IDA debt service/total debt service                  1.3         3.1         2.5         5.3         5.4         4.6          6.0         7.3
As 1 of Debt Outstanding
at End of FY81
TERM STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (Z)
Maturities due within 5 years                                         13.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                        36.8
Interest structure of debt outstanding (Z)
Interest due within first year                                         1.6
= not available.
ASADD
April 15, 1982



-43-
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1982)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                            US$ Million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower           Purpose                  Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 21 credits fully disbursed                    54.90  684.32
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                       -     14.00      0.68
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)            -     25.00      2.77
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                      -       7.50     1.00
487    1974   Bangladesh   Telecommunications II             -      20.00     6.80
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer               -      62.00     3.53
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                        -      15.00     4.08
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Ir-rigation               -      27.00    13.45
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation              -      22.00     8.34
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training -        12.00     4.24
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                 -      16.00     6.44
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank            -      25.00     3.90
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                 -      16.00     3.14
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                 -      21.00    12.25
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research            -      10.00     3.86
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II         -       5.00     2.42
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                              -      21.00    14.17
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II              -      25.00    19.41
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry II           -       7.00     3.72
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research             -       6.00     2.25
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control        -      19.00    14.33
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III          -      10.00     5.80
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries             -       6.00     5.20
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training               -      25.00    21.00
921    1979   Bangladesh   Population &  Family Health II  -        32.00    29.12
934    1979   Bangladesh   Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                   -     28.00    27.60
941    1979   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                    -     22.00    11.96
/a   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



-44-
ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                       US$ million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower           Purpose                  Bank      IDA  Undisbursed
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                -        25.00    23.21
964    1979   Bangladesh   Highways II                      -       10.00      8.89
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII             -       50.00      2.84
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pumps                   -       37.00    21.94
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply II    -          20.00    19.39
1023   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation               -        29.00    28.84
1032   1980   Bangladesh   Jute Industry
Rehabilitation               -        20.00    16.22
1042   1980   Bangladesh   Mangrove Afforestation           -       11.00    10.32
1044   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports II            -       25.00      1.74
1054   1980   Bangladesh   Education IV (Primary
Education)                   -        40.00    37.25
1065   1981   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry III         -       35.00    34.70
1071   1981   Bangladesh   Imports Program IX               -       65.00    17.70
1091   1981   Bangladesh   Bakhrabad Gas Development        -       85.00    72.20
1096   1981   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Transport
Project                      -        25.00    20.20
1117   1981   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II        -       50.00    49.90
1124   1981   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance IV          -       16.00    16.00
1140   1981   Bangladesh   Hand Tubewells                   -       18.00    18.00
1147   1981   Bangladesh   Agricultural Credit              -       40.00    40.00
1184/b 1982   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood
Control II                   -        27.00    27.00
1194   1982   Bangladesh   Imports Program X                -      100.00   100.00
1204/b 1982   Bangladesh   Chittagong Urea Fertilizer    -          15.00    15.00
12057wb 1982   Bangladesh   Textile Industry Rehabili-
tation                       -        30.00    30.00
1215/b 1982   Bangladesh   Extension and Research II        -       27.00    27.00
Total                                                54.90  1,982.82   869.80
of which has been repaid                            -         0.40     -
Total now outstanding                               54.90  1,982.42   869.80
Amount sold                                           0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       54.90  1,982.42
*  Total undisbursed                                              869.80   869.80
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
T_   Not yet effective.



-45-
ANNEX II
Page 3
/a
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS   (as of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1979      Highspeed Shipbuilding          Ship-
and Heavy Engineering           building
Co. Ltd.                                          1.20    0.36    1.56
1980      IPDC                            DFC                -       1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                      1.20    1.41    2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -           -       -
Total commitments now held by IFC                            1.20    1.41    2.61
Total undisbursed                                            0.65     -       0.65
/a   The following IFC investment has been approved but not yet signed:
1981    Asia Leather Industrial
Company Ltd.                Tannery            2.1      .2      2.3
C.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 31, 1982 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date:  January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation of the tubewell component is complete and a PCR
has been issued. However, the credit remains open to permit completion of a
delayed pilot command area development component which is also being financed
under the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD).
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them.  They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-46-
ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The project closed on December 31, 1981. The Bangladesh Agricultural
Corporation (BADC), the project lead agency, has been requested to initiate
the preparation of the PCR. It has been agreed that disbursements will con-
tinue through April 30, 1982 against items contracted prior to December 31,
1981.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975;  Effective Date:  September 30, 1975;  Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project design has been modified and the Closing Date extended
to June 30, 1984, to permit the irrigation of a wider area while retaining the
number of primary pumping stations and sluices included in the original project.
Civil works in the original project area are completed. About 735 low lift
pumps were fielded in the FY80 boro season irrigating about 30,000 acres. How-
ever, extension and cooperatives staffing constraints continue to inhibit full
utilization of existing irrigation facilities. They are, however, improving.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall project implementation is about 2.5 years behind schedule
with about 60 percent of works completed. Construction contracts for remaining
structures were awarded by WDB in early 1981. Works on embankments, a major
project component, have not started.  The current project cost estimates prep-
ared by WDB are about 30 percent higher than the appraisal estimate. WDB has
been urged to adopt additional cost saving measures, with particular regard
to the requirements for the embankments, which are likely to be substantially
reduced. Construction works for the hatchery complex, training hostel and
staff quarters related to the fisheries component are expected to be completed
by April 1982. Fish seed production on a commercial basis has started in 1981
and will reach full capacity in 1982.
Cr. No. 631   Rural Development Project:  USS16.0 Million Credit of June 3,
1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
After initial difficulties, project implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily with project management much improved. The supply of irrigation
equipment and inputs is now satisfactory and the rural works program is making
good physical progress. However, contract supervision and maintenance of com-
pleted works need improvement. GOB has requested that the credit closing date
be extended by one year to allow full completion of components which were
initially delayed.



-47-
ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 724   Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Progress in procurement has been satisfactory. All 10,500 pumpsets
have been procured. About 55% of the pumpsets have already been sold. The
construction of workshops is proceeding with a modified program and workshop
equipment has been ordered.
Cr. No. 725   Muhuri Irrigation Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Project implementation is about two years behind schedule. Recent
delays were experienced because of equipment break downs, lack of heavy equip-
ment for excavation, and heavy rains. This has been resolved through the
purchase of new equipment and the renting of others. Construction works
of Feni Regulator considerably improved. Prequalification for the closure dam
and embankments, the only remaining major works, has been done. The design
for the works produced by the consultants is much more sophisticated than
envisaged at appraisal. Though revised cost estimates are not available
to IDA, it is estimated that the cost overrun on this component could be
substantial.  BWDB has been asked to prepare alternative design proposals.
Cr. No. 729   Extension and Research rroject:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
The project continues to make satisfactory progress; all procurement
has been completed and efforts are-being made to speed up the civil works
program to ensure completion before credit closure at June 30, 1982. Although
the extension service is now well structured and better disciplined, the
methodology needs continued improvement. Good extension/research linkages
have been established; the research program now places more emphasis on
off-station work aimed at finding practical solutions to farmer problems.
Cr. No. 765   Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Farmers have been encouraged to use higher quantities of fertilizer,
resulting in higher yields. As expected, higher jute production forced marginal
jute farmers to switch to rice production in the aus season. Consequently rice
production has increased. IDA credit on lending problem has also been solved.
Staff travel allowance is inadequate and that is hampering production credit
recovery effort. Staff housing component may be scaled down.



-48-
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 787   Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project had a slow start due to administrative difficulties,
problems in land acquisition and material shortages. Implementation of the
project's 145,000 ton procurement storage component is now progressing satis-
factorily, but the storage rehabilitation and relief storage programs have
been taken up only recently. Quality control operations are yet to be improved,
and paddy dryers still need to be procured. Consultants have been engaged for
engineering, quality control and paddy drying; and the pilot marketing project
is doing well at the Muktagacha Thana Central Cooperative Association, the
first one to participate in the project. The project is now anticipated to be
completed by December 31, 1982, six months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 828   Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 Million Credit of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The Project is making satisfactory progress. The BARC headquarters
building is complete and fully operational. BARI station developments are
almost complete at Jessore and Janalpur, but Hathazari is behind schedule.
The Research Grant Scheme is operating well and supports 40 research sub-
projects in eleven institutes. An evaluation and monitoring system has been
inaugurated. The foreign training component finances 31 PhD students at 15
universities. All Project funds fully committed.
Cr. No. 864   Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Of the three sub-projects financed under the project, Chenchuri Beel
(CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) are expected to be completed on schedule in
mid-1983. Delays have been experienced, however, in the implementation of the
Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE). Agreement has recently been reached on
retirement of the embankment and disbursement for this part of the project is
expected to accelerate.
Cr. No. 890   Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
After a slow start, construction of civil works in the central
hatchery complex has commenced in January 1982. It is hoped that the imple-
mentation delays can be made up at least partially and that the central
hatchery will go into operation by June 1983. Total project costs are
estimated to increase by Tk 26 million (23%). Such increase will necessi-
tate an additional government input of Tk 18 million. .IDA-s share of the
increase can be absorbed within the Credit amount because of Taka devaluation
of about 19% since appraisal.



-49-
ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 955   Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project:  US$25.0 Million
Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date: May 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
A total of 19 subprojects have been approved to date. Construction
has been completed on nine subprojects, and tendering is in progress on the
remainder.
Cr. No. 990   Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Three thousand two-cusec LLPs and 1,500 one-cusec LLPs, the Phase I
sales program, were delivered in October 1980. Orders have also been placed
for the remaining 4,000 LLPs. Sales for the first phase has begun with about
1,000 LLPs sold. A detailed project Action Plan has also been prepared.
Cr. No. 1042 Mangrove Afforestation Project: US$11.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date:  September 26, 1980;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
Overall progress is satisfactory. The Project Director and all key
personnel are in post. The PTU consultant was appointed and visited the areas
in July 1981. It has been agreed that SPARRSO (formerly Bangladesh Landset
Program) should undertake the five year Remote Sensing Program and a draft
scheme has been prepared; Landset imagery tapes obtained in February will be
processed shortly; aerial photography was recently completed.
Cr. No. 1140  Hand Tubewells Project:  US$18.0 Million Credit of July 8, 1981;
Effective Date: February 11, 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project staff are in place and tendering procedures for raw materials
to fabricate 90,000 tubewells are complete. However, procurement procedures
are being held up by inadequate budgetary allocations. A minimum of six months
lead time is required for procurement and local fabrication, and delays could
affect tubewell availability and sales in the 1982/83 boro season. Price
parity between BADC carry-over stocks and project tubewells is yet to be
established. Planning Commission has been alerted to both of these problems.
Cr. No. 1147 Agricultural Credit Project: US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 9, 1981; Effective Date: October 6, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This project is designed to provide long-term credit for investments
in minor irrigation and other agricultural development. The privatization of
shallow tubewell sales has not made much progress, primarily due to the price
differential between public sector and private sector sales and the reluctance
of government to issue import licenses to private dealers. Appointment of
consultants to assist Bangladesh Bank, the implementation agency, is yet to
be made.



-50-
ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 1184 Second Drainage and Flood Control Project: US$27.0 Million
Credit of January 8, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1215 Second Extension and Research Project: US$27 Million Credit
of March 16, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
This Credit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527   Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland,
UK and US, for a total of about US$190 million equivalent, in addition to the
IDA credit. The project is about three years behind schedule because of the
additional site works required to protect the proposed plant from earthquake
risks and initial delays in the placement of orders and construction planning.
Because of the additional site works, the delays and currency fluctuations,
supplemental financing was necessary and has been obtained. Plant has been
mechanically completed. Despite continuing minor commissioning problems,
production of urea was started in December 1981, about six months later than
anticipated at the time of supplementary financing, and total project costs
are likely to be close to that approved at the time of IDA supplementary
financing but with an increase in foreign exchange requirement of about
US$12 million.
Cr. No. 632   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The institutional upgrading program instituted under the credit is
continuing with improvement in BSB's operations, especially in the areas of
loan accounting and staff training. Areas of operational weakness, partic-
ularly project appraisal and loan collections are receiving close GOB/IDA
supervision.
Cr. No. 825   Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 Million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implement-
ing Banks have developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed
ahead of schedule. There has been significant improvement in institutional



-51-
ANNEX IT
Page 9
capabilities of the commercial banks; and staff of the Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation have begun preparation of subsector and area studies
for small industry promotion.  The project was fully committed by the com=nr-
cial banks in July 1980.
Cr. No. 980   Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 Million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date:  April 21, 1980;  Closing Date:  February 28, 1982
Implementation of action programs undertaken under this and preceding
import program credits are proceeding satisfactorily, although GOB has yet to
make the full FY81 infusions of equity agreed for public sector units in the
Jute and Textile Sectors. This situation will be monitored by forthcoming
mission to Bangladesh. As of March 31, 1982 the credit has been fully commit-
ted, while disbursements were US$47.2 million. Allowing for processing of pay-
ments in the pipeline, the credit should be fully disbursed within the next few
months.
Cr. No. 1023 Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$29 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate
fertilizer manufacturing companies has been accomplished, and project financing
agreements have been executed. Cons-altants for providing engineering services
have been selected and their contracts approved.
Cr. No. 1032 Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$20 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been fairly satisfactory though some
delay has been experienced in the recruitment of consultants. Tender Notices
for procurement of spares have been issued and those for the construction of
two new training centers are in preparation.
Cr. No. 1044 Second Fertilizer Imports Project: US$25 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982
As of March 31, 1982 US$23.26 million had been disbursed. The credit
was closed on March 31, 1982 and payment for commitments in the pipeline will
continue.
Cr. No. 1065  Small-Scale Industry III Project:  US$35 Million of October 17,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The credit became effective on January 15, 1982. The credit com-
ponents of the project are moving well, particularly in the area of small-
medium sized projects. Progress is also satisfactory on the technical and
marketing service components of the technical assistance elements of the
project.



-5 h
ANNEX II
Page 10
Cr. No. 1071 Ninth Imports Program: US$65 Million Credit of October 17, 1980;
Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Progress on implementing ongoing action program requirements
continue satisfactorily albeit somewhat behind schedule. During FY81,
GOB has initiated a number of the policy changes required under the credit,
particularly in the areas of agriculture/irrigation policy.
Cr. No. 1117 Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II Project: US$50.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: August 12, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
This project continues IDA's involvement with BSB initiated under
Cr. 632-BD. Institutional upgrading programs initiated under that credit
are being continued and GOB/IDA are monitoring carefully BSBs operation
in the areas of loan recoveries and project appraisals. Action is also
underway to strengthen BSBs sectoral review capabilities.
Cr. No. 1194 Tenth Imports Program US$100.0 Million Credit of January 26,
1982; Effective Date: February 22, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
This Credit became effective on February 22, 1982.
Cr. No. 1204 Chittagong Urea Fertilizer Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of
February 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1205 Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$30.0 Million Credit
of February 10, 1982; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 621   Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date:  June 30, 1976;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
The project is nearing completion. All buildings in the three
new ATIs have been completed and only minor works, for which contracts have
been let, remain. Of the four existing ATIs, construction and renovation
are virtually complete. As a result of student strikes in 1981 no first year
students were enrolled and the institutions are currently operating at only
about 50% capacity. Staffing is adequate and most have received in-service
training under the project. The AMTI course has been successful and an
extension of three years is now under consideration. RMB is closely super-
vising the project and GOB have been asked to ensure that all taka funds
necessary for completion of the project by June 30, 1982 will be provided.



-53
ANNEX II
Page 11
Cr. No. 912   Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of May 31,
1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is encountering major problems in the areas of manage-
ment and institution building. The Project Implementation Unit is not opera-
ting well, largely as a result of the lack of a full-time Project Director,
and also because the Project Manager is a consultant to the Government
and therefore lacks financial authority. The functions of other PIU staff
are still not clearly defined, and the Chief Technical Adviser of the ILO
technical assistance team has recently resigned.
The National Council for Skill Development and Training has not
functioned well since its inception, having met only once in two years.
The various sub-committees have also only met irregularly. The appointment
of staff for the Secretariat is lagging considerably behind schedule, and
as yet, no site has been acquired for the headquarters building.
The In-Plant and Instructor Training Programs are progressing,
but at a slower than planned rate because of difficulties in financing the
recurrent costs. The Revolving Fund established to facilitate this process
has not been replenished. Tenders have been called for the construction of
the five new Technical Training Centers, but the program is still about 18
months delayed. As a result of the February/March supervision, the Govern-
ment has been advised that quick actions were needed to solve these problems.
Cr. No. 1054 Fourth Education (Primary) Project: US$40.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 1, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
The project was declared effective on December 1, 1980. Activities
planned for the first year (1981), particularly the establishment of the
project implementation infrastructure, staff training, base line evaluation,
materials production and distribution (girls uniforms and textbooks), and
the formation of the Directorate of Primary and Mass Education, Local Educa-
tion Authorities and School Management Committees, have all been substantially
completed. The second year program has begun, but some delays are evident
primarily in the construction program. The Government's decision to concen-
trate on school repair and other minor works during the first year of the
national UPE has delayed the start of construction on the schools to which
IDA funds have been targeted. There is also some evidence that the recurrent
training started during the first year may not, as yet, be achieving all of
its intended objectives. The Government has recognized these issues and
have taken appropriate steps to remedy the situation.



-54-
ANNEX II
Page 12
Population Project
Cr. No. 533   Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: September 30,
1982
Except for Part A (Training and Service Facilities), implementation
of five of the project-s six main parts was completed in mid-1980. Progress
in implementation of the Training and Service Facilities part of the project,
in respect of which the original Closing Date was extended initially by one
year, has improved slightly during the last six months, although it is still
slow and therefore unsatisfactory. Although 9 of the 21 project training
and service facilities were fully completed by September 30, 1981 and 4 more
were expected to be handed over by December 31, 1981, the remaining 8 will not
be completed until mid-1982.  In the circumstances and at the Government's
request, the Closing Date has been extended for a second and final period
of nine months to September 30, 1982 to permit full project completion and
disbursement of credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 921   Second Population and Family Health Project:  US$32.0 Million
Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project execution, except for the first tranche of the Family Welfare
Center s component, effectively commenced only in July 1980, about one year
behind schedule. While the Information, Education and Motivation (IEM) and
Research and Evaluation parts of the project are proceeding satisfactorily,
the civil works and Family Welfare Centers- components of the service
delivery and training parts of the project are significantly delayed and
their completion within the original four year implementation period (July
1979-June 1983) is no longer feasible, owing not only to the initial one
year delay in implementation but also to weak implementation capacity of
responsible agencies, and the impact of budget cuts following the Government's
revision of its Second Five-Year Plan. These problems combined with the
de facto devaluation of the Taka since appraisal, will result in significant
savings. A two year extension of the project implementation period or a
reduction in the projects infrastructure components to match implementation
capacity with subsequent reallocation of the IDA credit are currently being
discussed with the Government.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408   Highways Project:  US$25.0.Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
All works under the project are now complete. Arbitration on the
Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims has been completed, and the results are
awaited. The Closing Date of the credit extended to March 31, 1981 has been
extended to December 31, 1982 to enable the use of uncommitted credit balance



-55-
ANNEX II
Page 13
to cover short term protective Feni Bypass pavement work, and to meet the cost
of eligible components of the arbitration. Significant failures have appeared
on Feni Bypass.
Cr. No. 735   Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit
of September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Spare parts for BIWTA vessels, navigation aids, hydrographic and
cargo handling have been ordered, and tenders for telecommunication equipment
have been issued.  Most spare parts for BIWTC cargo vessels and BIWTA service
vessels have been delivered and are on order. Consultants appointed to carry
out studies on IWT sector, fleet scheduling of BIWTC and accounting systems
for BIWTA and BIWTC have submitted their reports. Implementation of the
recommendations of the accounting studies is in progress. At the request of
the Borrower the closing date has been extended to December 31, 1982.
Cr. No. 964   Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
Project implementation has been seriously delayed by the Borrower s
failure to award construction contracts in reasonable time. This failure has
resulted, and continues to result, in increased project cost due to inflation.
The problem appears to result from factors outside the control of RHD, e.g.,
the ineptitude of the "Procurement Committee" and standard Government proce-
dures which are in conflict with IDA procurement principles.
Cr. No. 1096   Fertilizer Transport Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: July 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Trial dredging at Chittagong Port has been completed and results
of the survey are expected by mid-1982. Also dredging work at the inland
river port of Baghabari has been completed and pontoons are to be in place
shortly. Tenders for procurement of railway material have been issued.
Progress on other project components has been slow, but regular supervision
missions are providing assistance to speed up implementation. Disbursement
of funds, on the other hand, has been satisfactory.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 487   Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Effective Date:  July 23, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project execution is largely behind schedule due to previous
delays in procurement, civil works and reduced output of the domestic telephone
cables and switching equipment factories. Difficulties were also experienced
in completing the local construction and installation of the systems. TTB, a



-565
ANNEX II
Page 14
Government board since April 1979, is making significant progress in organiz-
ing its finances and accounts, and in managing its operations and development.
TTB funds have until recently all been deposited in an overall Government
account. This was changed and, since July 1981, TTB has a designated bank
account to which all funds are deposited and withdrawn. Thus, TTB has achieved
a level of financial autonomy that will permit it to adjust its development
program within the overall framework of the agreed budget. Training on com-
mercial accounts is about to be completed and commercial accounts will be
prepared from FY82/83 onward. In general, financial performance of TTB is
reasonably good. Covenants under the project are now being complied with.
TTB has recently taken final procurement action to commit the funds remaining
under the project. Works related to last procurement will be completed by
June 1983. Adequate actions as would be required to further improve TTB's
management, operations and development capability, will be considered under
the proposed third telecommunications project.
Technical Assistance Credits
Cr. No. 872   Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date; January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
35 subprojects, totaling about $9.0 million have been approved and
a further 10 subprojects, totaling about $9 million have been approved in
principle. Those that are finalized first would be considered under this
credit (with the remainder being funded under the Fourth Technical Assistance
credit).
Cr. No. 1124 Fourth Technical Assistance Project: US$16.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: June 10, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on June 10, 1981. A number of
proposed subprojects have been agreed in principle and steps are being taken
to secure consultant services.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934   Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Foreign consultants (Motor Columbus - Switzerland) have been ap-
pointed as scheduled and have begun design work. Project execution is about
one year behind schedule due to administrative difficulties in preparing maps
for the project areas and to the inability of the beneficiary (Power Develop-
ment Board) to provide adequate local staff for project implementation. To
imptove the situation, local consultants have been appointed in September
1981.



-57-
ANNEX II
Page 15
Cr. No. 1091 Bakhrabad Gas Development Project: US$85.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date:  June 16, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Pipeline design and preparation of procurement documents is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. After initial delays due to unseasonal rains and
materials shortages, BK-2 well has been completed. Production tests confirm
the adequacy of reserves of the Bakhrabad gas fields, and the procurement
of materials and services for the pipeline portion of the project has been
authorized. Pipeline materials and construction contracts are expected to
be awarded in time to complete crossings and other preliminary phases during
the 1981/82 dry season and the entire pipeline the following year, in line
with original schedule.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941   Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  USS22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
DACCA WASA's consulting engineers have completed design and it is
expected that procurement will be completed by mid-1982. Physical progress
is one year behind schedule. Early delays resulted from slow startup and
sluggish procurement but are currently due to land acquisition problems, which
have recently been mostly overcome, and shortage of local currency with which
to pay civil works contractors. Also, recently, DACCA WASA raised its tariff
by 30% and GOB paid off all arrears.
Cr. No. 1001 Second Chittagong Water Supply Project: US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Effective Date: April 9, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
After early delays in selecting consultants for the project a firm
is in place and design is now well advanced. Selection of a second consultant
for a sewerage/sanitation study has been made. An expatriate financial
adviser has proved effective. Procurement has started but implementation will
be about 1-1/2 years behind schedule. A tariff increase is needed and WASA
has problems in collecting arrears from Government departments; there is also
a land acquisition problem. GOB has been asked to ensure that all of these
matters are quickly resolved.



-58-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 7
BANGLADESH
ELEVENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
Identification of Credit             February 1982
Appraisal mission                    May/June 1982
Post-appraisal mission               August 1982
Negotiations                         August/September 1982
Date of effectiveness (planned)  December 1982
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
1. As conditions of Credit effectiveness, the Government
will:
(a) issue at least 50% of the import licenses in
respect of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the proposed Credit (paragraph 107
of the text);
(b) issue import licenses for minor irrigation
equipment in quantities and technical
specifications satisfactory to the Association
(paragraph 74 of the text);
(c)  sign contract with the foreign consultants
required for carrying out the TIP Reform
Program (paragraph 104 of the text);



-59-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 7
(d) issue an administrative order instructing
BWDB to phase out its rental program for LLPs
and allow farmers in BWDB project areas to
purchase STWs from whatever source they prefer
(paragraphs 76(b) and (c) of the text);
(e) ensure that farmers and farmers' groups have
access to institutional credit for the
purchase of used minor irrigation equipment
(paragraph 71(iii) of the text).
2. It is proposed that the proceeds of the Credit be
eligible for withdrawal in two tranches of US$ 55
million, the first tranche to be eligible for
withdrawal on Credit effectiveness and the second,
subject to the Government having issued licenses for
the full amount of the Credit and the Association
being satisfied, following an exchange of views with
the Government, that the Government is following
sound economic development policies. nTe exchange
of views is to take place not later than
April 15, 1983 (paragraph 108 of the text).
3. The Government will deposit Taka funds, equivalent
to the amount withdrawn from the proceeds of the
proposed Credit, in an account currently being
maintained with Bangladesh Bank and utilize these
counterpart funds entirely to finance its development
programs (paragraph 109 of the text).



-60-
AREFEY TIT
Page 1 of 7
BANGLADERP: IMPORTS PROGRAM CREIET XI
Policy Ies.es and Measures
Sector and Policy Issues                                Actions Already Taken                                           Steps to he Toker
I. PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCIAL RESOURCE
MOBILIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
1. Resource Mobilization
(a) Increasing budgetary               - Neu ta- measures, expected to georrote Tk. 1.17           - Progress in implerentarion of new
resources through additional         hillies additional recesnes (about 0.5% of GSTP)            tax measures to be reviewed d-ring
tax measures                         in PY83, introduced in the FY83 hedget                      October 1982 economic mession
(b) Reducing budgetary outlays         - Curreot (non-deoelopmental)  -spenditore growth
for non-develop-ent                  liGited to 14%, taking into account salary
expenditures, pablic sector          adjostmrnt for loser-paid gover-nent employees
Gooses and subsidies                 and ea.ected tnflatics
- Electricity, petroleon and -atural gas
prices increased by 40%, 41, and 13.37,
respectively, to cover costs and sake a
contribhtion to capital investment is PFR3;
prices of other romsodities and servic
affected by power, petroleoc and gas price
increases (snoh as paper, f-rtilioerr and
transport) raised to account for higher
production CoStS
- Public sector industrial corporations have               - Public sector pricing tO he reviewed
bero athorized to adjost, in coesultation                  periodically to enscre that future
with their administrative ministry, sales                   increases is costs, inclodigp those
prices of the products of their e-terprises                arising from e-chanRe rats deprecition
by op to 10% to rover increases oi forefgn                 are tahen into oCe-ot
eschbnge costs of imported inputs snd in
energy costs, without prior appr.oal from
the Gover-ent
- PYE3 fertili-er -ubsidy reduced (hy Pk 0.5               - Review of ferti3izer cot, sopply and
hillion) through 14% weighted average price                sale sitoation sched,oled for October 19iR
increase, effective July 1, i4P2
- FYM3 fooderain sobsidy reduced (by Tk 0,2                 - Forther ratiosm imo     price ivoreasen
hillioc) through 11% increase in ratios issu,e             scheduled for ne-enher T4R7 in oreAr to
price of rice sod 8% increase is ratios issue              beep unit subsidy unchanged when irc- aced
price of wheat, effective July 1, 192                     procurement prices hecome effective
2. Resource Manage-ent
(a) Appropriate planning of            - Fv83 Acnual Pevelopsent Progra-me (AnP)
budgetary resourees and              reduced from earlier anno-nced level of
outlays in the short-tern            Tk 33 billion to Tb 27 billion So resoonse
to the constrained resource avaieahllity
- iborbicg-level secretariat to the Resources              - Resources Committee to review  nore frene-rtly
Committee established in ea-rl  Pv83 to                     developments in re-sorce availahilitv, cm rhe
mnuitor resource availahility and budgetary                 basis o1 data conpiled  and anaiyse-  performed
developmeesr  (with tenporary and part-tine                by the worklig-ievel secretariat, and to
staff draws free  other agencies)                          pro-ide appropriate policy advice to FCEFC
- Statns and staffing of working-level Re-oarces
Conrittee secretariat to he core f1mm
established
(b) Protecting priority projeets    - Core Program  of high-priority projects, to                  - Protested status and streanlined food release
in the face of resource              be protected against fPnd release delays and                procedures for core projects and fundinf and
csnstraints                          reductions caused by overall ficancial resource             implentatfin performance of the Care Proprar
shortfalls, established and identified as sorh             tc be reviewed with COR during Oetnher 14R?
is the FYR3 ADP                                            economic mission
- pumber of projects in the Fp81 APP reduced
from 1,500 to 1,100
- Fund release procedures for Core Eomeres
streamlined
- Core Program censists of for-ally anproved
projects only
(c) Improving pace of                   - SOB study of local currency release procedures           - Progress to he reviewed with COR during
project imple-estation                for ADP projects has been followed by imple-               October 1982 economic mission
meptation of a somber of actions to streaoline
and speed up fond releases -nd to inprove
project implementation:
(a) Csre Projects receive local currency release
for firrt three q-orters of the rear witho-t
recuiring separate Oioance Division approval
(b) Atito.o.o.s bodies are permitted to secure
half-yearly fond release at a tine for
projects with lumpy or idioislble invesmetnt
comp-eets
(c) Project authorities have received increased          - MFP will coedact training seminars at the
delegation of powers in financial and                   outset of each year to familiarize Prcjeet
operational matters                                    staff with applicahle fund release proced.res



-61-
AP'TFX TIT
Page 4 of 7
BAPGLADESR:  IMPORTS PROGRM  CREDIT YT
Policy Issues and Measures (Continued)
Sector and Policy Issues                          Actions Already Taken                                                Steps to he Tabee
(d) Improving financial and            - As as initial step, a realistic forecast of               - As a permanent feature of the budgetary
management practices and             interest payments likely to be made during                  process, the Ministry of Fincoce and Plancing
organization of autonomous           the year by autonosous bodies has been                      (MFP) will establiuh durine each vear's budget
agencies                             included in FYR3 budget estimates                           preparation with each asutonoaos body the level
of feasible debt servYce paymeots to be mnde;
adninistrative minictries i]l ensure that debt
service payments due are dedectod on a -uarceriy
banij from ADP fund releoses rather thaen ony
once during the last quarter
- PFP bas began a review of the need for capital
restructuring and financial rebabilitation
starting with tbe financtally weakest autonomous
bodies
IT.  AGRICULTURE
1. Minor Irrigation
(a) Reducing subsidies on             - Phasing out of public sector rental programs              - Pale of used TI.ps and PTC's to cnrtfine
misor irrigatios equipneot          for laI-lift pomps (LLPa) and deep tubewells                unt1l entire stock Is sold
(DiTWs) by aellfig all used existitn acock hy
June 30, 1984                                            - Paskiog arrangements to enusre  iccaute
nediun-term credit to hovers of used minor
irrigation equipment to be inmroved
- Reformulation by BW'PB of its lLP distribution           - BtilR to estabitsh and announce applicable
policy to correspond to tbat initiated by                  sales prices for used liPs
hADC, beginning with FY83 irrigation season
- Used irrigation equipment included among
itens eligible for TCCA/nSS medium-tern credit
-FY83 rental fees for LLPs and Ptrim  doubled              - LLP rental fees to be progressively raised,
(as isterlt  measure)                                      In line witb future sales price increases;
agreed achedule of annually rising 0TW
rental rates to be Implemented
- All new STWs, LLPs and  iTWs to be sold at               - LLP sales prices to reach full replacement
their fall current replacement cost;                       cost level in FVP4
all new DTWis to be sold accrding to prtuing
schedule (established under IDA s Second iT'W            - Agreed DTW pricing schedule to ho incleneoted
Proejct) whereby the STTT-equivaleoce price                over four-wear period
will be reached in four years
- vy83 sales prices aor all teca of ninor
irrigation equipment have bees annoonced;
escept for DIVa and LL.', they satisfy the
principle of full current replacement cost
pricing
(b) Improving utilization and         - Move to full-cost sales pricing for all
maintenance of minor                minor irrigation equipment (see above)
irrigation equipment
- Equipment sales more effectively targeted                - Ongoing; new sales programs are specifically
to farmers  cooperatives                                   targeted to better cooperatives
(c) Increasing role of the            - Medium-term credit to cooperatives lncrea..d              - Progreas to he reviewed in the conteat of
private sector in minor             from November 1981                                          oint GOg/IDA review of rural credit policies
irrigation procurement,                                                                         and programs
marketing and maintenance
- Private sector apare parts imparts liberalizud           - Progress to he reviewed
- Medium-term credit to private importers and              - Progress to be reviewed
distributors provided
(d) Prowmting domestic manufac-    - Private sector imports of raw materials and                  - Progress to be reviewed
ture of irrigation equipment        components liberali.ed
- Public sector procurene.t, Import and
marketing of minor Irrigation e-oip.eet
being phased out
- Modification In import duty, sales tao                   - Progress to he reviewed periodicaliw
and duty drawback schemes to ensure equal                  and private sector parity sitation
treatment for privat.ensd public onctar,                   to he monitored
to ensure competition between imported and
domestically manufactured equipment, and to
provide appropriate protection for domestic
equipment assembly and nanufaeture



-62-                                                               ANNEX III
Page 5 of 7
BANGLADESH: IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT XI
Policy Issues and Measures (continued)
Sector and Policy Issues                          Actions Already Taken                                              Steps to be Taken
2. Fertilizer Pricing
and Distribution
(a) Improving distribution and        - Fertilizer sales prices increased by weighted            - GOB will undertake, jointly with IDA,
utilization of fertilizers,         average of 14% on July 1, 1982                            a review of fertilizer costs in October
while reducing budgetary                                                                       1982, with a view to eliminating the
costs                            - Fertilizer price structure rationalized                     fertilizer subsidy by FY85
- Fertilizer retailing and most local and                 - GOB inter-agency task force to consider
sub-regional wholesaling turned over to the               feasibility of improving fertilizer
private sector                                            distribution further through direct
lifting of fertilizers by private dealers
and dealers' associations from factories
and ports
- BADC's fertilizer storage requirements
are under review
- Elimination of controls on fertilizer                   - GOB will review consequences of this
retail pricing in Chittagong Division                     liberalization before deciding whether
to extend it to other (or' all) parts of
the country in. FY84
3. Foodgrain Procurement
(a) Providing adequate price         - Procurement prices increased to                          - Future increases in domestic procurement
incentives and reducing             remunerative floor levels, but below                      to be determined in accordance with
price risks for farmers            expected average annual market prices                      principles of providing incentives, price
security and price stability
- Procurement prices announced before crop
sowing/transplanriting
- Procurement prices announced remain in effect
during crop season; increases announced after
sowing/transplanting becoming effective for
only for next following crDp
- Competition in grain trade increased by                  - Retention of AGDs in remote areas of
abolition of Approved Grain Dealers (AGDe),               Chittagong Hill Tracts and Bandarban
except in certain remote areas                            district to be kept under review
- Ongoing expansion of Food Ministry-s grain              - Need for further expansion of public storage
storage and procurement capacity                          and procurement capacity under review
4. Foodgrain Distribution,
Storage and Stock Management
(a) Reducing budgetary impact         - Ration issue prices for foodgrains from                 - Future increases in domestic foodgrain
of foodgrain subsidy                Food Ministry warehouses increased on July 1,             procurement prices in FY83 to be offset
and procurement                     1982, reducing the unit subsidy on domestic               by simultaneous ration issue price
rice from 26.4% to 18.2% of cost and on domestic          adjustments to prevent increases in the
wheat from 19.5% to 12.8% of cost                          respective unit subsidies
- Improved food budgeting, including proper               - Study on proposed reforms in food budgeting
accounting for economic subsidy, grain stock              procedures being reviewed by IDA
valuation, separation of capital and recurrent
costs, etc.
(b) Stabilizing foodgrain supply   - Introduction of Open Market Sales (ONS) of                  - Progress to be reviewed, with the aim of
and consumer prices during          paddy, rice and wheat from public stocks during           effecting further shifts from traditional
lean seasons                        periods of short market supply and rising prices          ration distribution to oCs
(c) Directing public sector           - Size of ration entitlement reduced repeatedly
foodgrain distribution to
the needy                         - Composition of ration entitlement changed in
favor of lower-priced wheat, and distribution of
foodgrain under Food-for-Work programs expanded
(d) Improving utilization of          - Improving food stock handlipg in public                 - Studies and actions in progress
public sector grain storage         storage through regular inspections, pest
capacity, and reducing              control, disposal of infested stocks, proper
losses during storage               first-in/first-out stock rollover, etc.
(e) Promoting private sector          - Adequate differentials established between
paddy processing                    procurement prices for paddy and milled rice
(f) Supporting private sector         - Credit to finance private grain stock holding            - Private sector response to be reviewed
grain storage and marketing        and storage construction expanded
- Restrictive grain trade regulations and                 - Progress to be monitored
anti-hoarding rules liberalized
- Dissemination of market information through
public media
- Standardization of market weights and measures,          - Implementation in phases, initiated
with move towards metric system                           July 1, 1982



ANWEX TII
-63-                                                                 Page 6 of 7
BANGLADESH: IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT XI
Policy Issues and Measures (continued)
Sector and Policy Issues                           Actions Already Taken                                                 Steps to be Taken
5. Agricultural Short-Term Credit
(a) Rationalizing financial            - Joint GOB/IDA review of agricultural credit
policies for the major               policies has been initiated, covering issues
short-term agricultural              related to credit expansion, cost, refinancing,
credit programs                      guarantee provisions, organization, management
and lending criteria and procedures
6. Agricultural Situation
Monitoring
(a) Monitoring implementation          - Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP)
of MTFPP                             monitoring system being set up with TA from IDA
(b) Monitoring foodgrain               - Food and Fertilizer Policy Monitoring                      - Staffing of FFPMS to be strengthened
availability and demand              Secretariat (FFPMS) established                              and scope and timeliness of monitoring
to be improved
III. TRADE AND INDUSTRIAL POLICY REFORM
(a) Liberalizing investment               - New Industrial Policy (NIP) has been                       - Program for phasing out controls over
licensing and controls                  announced, containing statement                              private investments to be prepared by
of intent to remove investment sanction                     April 1983
controls in all but several essential
industries
- Authority of development finance institutions             - Sanction limits by development finance
and commercial banks to approve investments                 institutions to be doubled by March 19B3
increased
- Registration of projects financed from sources
other than the Foreign Exchange Budget made
automatic
- Controls by Department of Industries and                  - Procedures to be reviewed and adjusted,
Chief Controller of Imports and Exports made                if necessary, in April 1983
more simple
- One-step office for handling of all licensing
requirements of private domestic and foreign
investors established
(b) Liberalizing price                 - Rationalization or liberalization of prices of             - Further adjustments scheduled for
controls                             a number of items listed in the Essential                   July 1983, following review in April 1983
Commodity Act. The Government has continued
this process by lifting recently price controls           - Additional items to be freed upon review
on several items and has prepared a timetable
for lifting price controls on remaining items
with the exception of one or two particularly
sensitive commodities
- The Government has authorized public sector
industrial corporations to adjust, in consul-
tation with their administrative ministries,
sales prices of the products of their enter-
prises to reflect increases in the foreign
exchange cost of imported inputs and in energy
costs by up to 101, without prior Government
approval
(c) Promoting export growth            - Modification of the Import Entitlement                     - A1l  new non-traditional export items to
and diversification                  Certificate (IEC) system, basing the rate of                 be included automatically in the 40%
entitlement on domestic value added rather than             entitlement category and to he moved
on gross sales value and increasing the highest             to higher entitlement categories upon
entitlement rate, for items with high domestic              determination of their domestic value
value added, to 80%                                         added content
- Flat duty drawback system introduced for 13               - Notional duty drawback system to he
export commodities (flat rate determined on the             expanded to the remaining nine items
basis of the standard cost of production to                 currently eligible for flat duty draw-
minimize procedural delays); notional duty                  hack upon review of private exporters-
drawback scheme introduced on June 1, 1982,                 response to new procedures
for four of these 13 items



-64-                                                               ANNEX III
Page 7 of 7
BANGLADESH: IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT XI
Policy Issues and Measures (Continued)
Sector and Policy Issues                         Actions Already Taken                                              Steps to be Taken
(d) Implementing the Trade           - With IDA assistance, a TIP Reform Program               - Contract with foreign consultants to be
and Industrial Policy              has been formulated which addresses major                 signed by November 10, 1982
(TIP) Reform Program               concerns and issues and which outlines the
studies and types of expertise necessary to            - Foreign consultants to commence their
promote industrial and export development;                assignment by December 1982
the program involves technical assistance for
the following components:
(a) establishing sector planning and project
identification procedures;
(b) implementation of an Effective Protection
Study and strengthening of the Tariff
Commission's operations;
(c) implementation of a study of the net value
added of industrial products as a basis for
the allocation of Import Entitlement
Certificates;
(d) implementation of a study on investment
incentives;
(e) improvements in the promotion of private
industrial investment;
(f) identification and development of new
export product lines; and
(g) improvement in industrial statistics.



-65-
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 6
BANGLADESH
PROGRESS REPORT ON THE TENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
1.      The Tenth Imports Program Credit (IPC-X) sought to support the
policy measures introduced or planned by the Government to improve the
technological and economic environment for increasing foodgrain production
and the efficiency and equity of foodgrain marketing and distribution. The
Credit thus built on the objectives and achievements of the Ninth Imports
Program Credit (IPC-IX). The measures envisaged specifically under IPC-X
concerned issues in foodgrain policy rationalization, implementation and
management (e.g., public grain procurement, distribution and stock manage-
ment) and overall agricultural sector policy improvement (e.g., investment
budgeting, MTFPP monitoring, input and output pricing and distribution, and
minor irrigation development).
Foodgrain Policy
2.       Public Foodgrain Procurement.  The Government-s domestic foodgrain
procurement policy has undergone significant change in recent years, having
been transformed into a dual-purpose policy instrument: originally con-
ceived and long operated exclusively as a mechanism for replenishing public
grain stocks needed for supplementing the food supply in urban areas and as
insurance against natural disasters and famine, it has now assumed the
additional and equally important function of a stabilization instrument for
producer prices. As a consequence, the setting and achieving of physical
procurement targets has been de-emphasized, while the maintenance of
remunerative post-harvest farmgate grain prices has become the primary
objective of domestic grain procurement by the Ministry of Food.
3.       As a result of a poor aman crop, market prices for paddy, rice and
wheat rose well above the official procurement prices during FY82 (about
40% higher for rice and 27% higher for wheat). In view of the shortfall in
domestic foodgrain production, the Government did not attempt to enforce
its procurement target (already reduced substantially in response to early
indications of a disappointing crop), and actual procurement amounted to
less than 300,000 tons for the year as a whole. Procurement prices were
increased by about 9%, effective with the beginning of aman procurement in
December 1981, roughly in line with general inflation since the last pre-
vious increase of November 1980; as in the previous year, however, this
increase was announced far too late to have any positive impact on farmer
incentives, investment decisions and production planning, and, thus, on
crop size. To cope with the grain supply shortage and stabilize market
prices, the Government correctly -- although with limited success --



-66-
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 6
attempted to line up additional food aid imports, and eventually decided to
purchase grains on commercial terms in the world market.
4.      The differential between rice and paddy procurement prices was
increased in two steps in December 1981 and June 1982 to reflect the
increased cost of milling. This restored the incentive for private husking
and milling of paddy to be sold to the Food Ministry, preserving jobs in
the rural rice processing industry and at the same time reducing the volume
of grains to be moved and stored by the Food Ministry. The timing of
procurement price announcements was improved, advancing it (effective with
the FY82 winter grain crops) to the time of crop sowing or transplanting
when it has the greatest impact on farmers' price expectations and produc-
tion response. To improve competition in the rural grain trade, the
Government abolished AGDs at 50% of the Food Ministry's grain purchasing
centers in November 1981.
5.      Public Foodgrain Distribution.  The Government has taken a number
of steps to change the PFDS -- from one designed primarily to provide
subsidized foodgrains to the urban, industrial and civil service sectors,
to one aimed increasingly at stabilizing market prices throughout the year
at levels within the reach of the urban and rural poor. In keeping with
this objective, open-market sales (OMS) of rice and paddy from public
stocks when market prices exceeded predetermined levels were initiated in
July 1981 -- complementing wheat OMS initiated two years earlier. The
volume of OMS operations in FY82 was limited (about 155,000 tons),l/ in
part because of the shortfall in domestic production and procurement and
the consequent depletion of public stocks below levels considered adequate
to undertake OMS effectively.  Grain distribution through Modified Ration-
ing and the Food-for-Work program (at prices well below OMS and actual
market prices) was increased, in an effort to protect low-income consumers.
Distribution through other channels of the PFDS (such as statutory ration-
ing and subsidized sales to priority groups) declined marginally.
6.      The measures taken marked a welcome shift towards more effective
protection of low-income consumers, but greater progress could have been
achieved in reducing the volume of grain distributed through statutory
rationing and other distribution channels for privileged priority groups.
It would have been possible, for example, to increase the share of grain
channelled through OMS and to initiate OMS earlier; this would have had
a significantly greater stabilization effect on market prices than con-
tinued reliance on traditional rationing channels. The Government con-
tinued to reduce the large subsidies incurred in public foodgrain distribu-
tion -- by reducing the ration quota, by changing the ration mix away from
1/ Including so-called Free Sales of larger quantities at OMS prices to
grain traders.



-67-
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 6
the more highly subsidized rice and towards wheat, and by raising ration
issue prices substantially (the most recent increase became effective on
July 1, 1982).
7.      Public Foodgrain Stock Management.  Excessive stock spoilage and
losses arising from inadequate organization, procedures, staffing and
budgetary allocations have become serious problems as the volume of grain
held for long periods in public storage has expanded rapidly in recent
years with the increasing share of domestically procured grain in total
Food Ministry stocks. The problem is bei.ng dealt with in the context of
ongoing projects supported by IDA and by other donors. The Food Ministry
has initiated more frequent and reliable physical inventory controls to
provide accurate and up-to-date information concerning the volume and
quality of available stocks. In addition, some corrective measures relat-
ing to staffing and organization and to the allocation of financial resour-
ces have been taken. The findings of two studies on specific measures to
deal with these problems will be reviewed by the Government and IDA to
arrive at recommendations for appropriate remedial actions to be taken by
the Ministry of Food.
8.      Foodgrain and Fertilizer Monitoring.  The FFPMS in the Planning
Commission is now fully operational. The quality of its monitoring of food
and fertilizer requirements and availability needs to be further improved,
however, particularly with regard to accuracy and timeliness of information
obtained and disseminated.
Agricultural Policy
9.      Investment Budgeting and Implementation.  In keeping with the SFYP
objectives and MTFPP targets, the Government substantially increased the
share of financial resources allocated for agricultural development in the
original FY82 ADP. However, the across-the-board reduction effected in the
revised FY82 ADP (in January 1982), necessitated by the shortfall in actual
resource availability from earlier expectations, included a dispropor-
tionately more severe funding cut-back for the agricultural sector (because
of the relatively larger Taka component in agricultural development expen-
ditures). Steps have been taken, however, to improve the overall planning
and budgeting procedures for the FY83 ADP to ensure that priority continues
to be accorded to the funding and implementation of agricultural develop-
ment projects.
10.     In view of the delays in project implementation caused by delayed
and/or insufficient release of funds, the Government has-undertaken a
review of the problems; its findings, shared with IDA, included several
key recommendations to improve local currency release procedures and
project implementation -- specifically the streamlining of administrative



-68-
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 6
and fund release procedures for approved project expenditures, identifica-
tion of protected priority projects, and broadening of authority for
project managers in financial and operational matters. All of these,
implemented in early FY83, are expected to improve the pace and efficiency
of agricultural development project execution.
11.     MTFPP Monitoring.  The Government has established a monitoring and
evaluation cell in the Ministry of Agriculture which is responsible for
monitoring progress in implementing the Ministry-s projects (including
those contained in the MTFPP) and for advising decision-making authorities
on problems, bottlenecks and delays encountered and on the apparent causes
of such implementation problems. In addition, the Project Monitoring
Bureau (previously the Project Implementation Bureau) performs a similar
function for all ongoing development projects. The effectiveness of this
monitoring system for the MTFPP has so far been less than satisfactory,
however, mainly because insufficient resources, particularly in terms of
qualified full-time staff, have been allocated to these monitoring units.
The Government is working with IDA on suitable measures to make the system
more effective.
12.     Fertilizer Pricing.  Over the past few years, the Government has
taken steps to increase the share of agricultural development expenditures
borne by the private sector by reducing subsidies on fertilizer and irriga-
tion equipment and eliminating them entirely on diesel fuel. Fertilizer
prices were increased by 26% in December 1981, passing on to farmers the
full increase in the cost of both imported and domestically produced fer-
tilizers as well as in BADC-s handling costs and containing the budgetary
impact of the fertilizer subsidy to about Tk 1.2 billion in FY82. This
price increase did not have any significant detrimental impact on fer-
tilizer offtake.  Fertilizer prices were again increased on July 1, 1982,
by about 14%, and the fertilizer subsidy in FY83 is not expected to exceed
Taka 1 billion.
13.     Minor Irrigation Policy.  Achievements of the MTFPP targets will
depend crucially on performance in the minor irrigation sector. Minor
irrigation (STWs, DTWs, LLPs and HTWs) is to account for about half of the
total financial outlays planned under the MTFPP for water resource develop-
ment and to provide 80% of the increase in irrigated acreage. BADC has
successfully introduced minor irrigation in Bangladesh, but the cost of
providing equipment and support services by public agencies on a con-
tinually increasing scale has become unacceptably high. Underutilization
and inadequate maintenance of equipment provided under rental programs had
also become major problems. To address these concerns, the Government has
turned increasingly towards equipment sales -- with the ultimate objective
of removing all subsidies and inducing the private sector to play the lead
role in the financing, ownership and management of minor irrigation
facilities. In pursuit of these objectives, the Government has begun to
implement a number of key measures:



-69-
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 6
(i) Rental programs for DTWs and LLPs are to be run down rapidly, with
BADC's used rental equipment now being sold at discounts reflecting
age and type. BADC's rental charges for LLPs were increased by 30%
and for DTWs by 50% for the FY82 irrigation season, to reduce the
budgetary subsidies and to provide adequate incentives for the
purchase of such equipment. All new minor irrigation equipment
procured by BADC after June 30, 1981, has been sold rather than
rented out. (Similar arrangements have now been worked out for
the BWDB, which had lagged behind in implementing the national
minor irrigation policy rationalization.) Unsatisfactory progress
regarding the actual implementation of this new policy relates
mainly to slow sales of used rental equipment and the continuation
of LLP rentals by BWDB until very recently. Steps to rectify these
problems have been taken at the beginning of FY83 in the context of
IPC-XI.
(ii)  Progress in sales of minor irrigation equipment by public sector
suppliers (BKB and BADC) has generally been satisfactory. Over
20,000 new STWs were sold (mainly financed with medium-term credit
provided through both commercial banks and the cooperative sustem)
by BADC and BKB in FY82; as a result, the total number of STWs in
operation in FY82 was above the MTFPP target. LLPs sold accounted
for about 20% of total LLP fieldings, and 1-cusec LLPs in par-
ticular sold very well.  The total number of LLPs in operation in
FY82 was some 30% below the MTFPP target, however, because drought
limited the availability of surface water for LLP irrigation.  DTW
sales by BADC totalled 1,400 in FY82, and applications received
(with down payments) exceeded this number by about 50%, indicating
strong farmer demand. DTWs in operation in FY82 were about 50%
of the MTFPP target; with all units ready for operation included,
the number would come close to 100% of the MTFPP target.
(iii) Progress on privatization, other than that achieved through sale
rather than renting out of minor irrigation equipment by public
sector agencies, was unsatisfactory. Sales of minor irrigation
equipment to farmers by private dealers were slow. Import licenses
were not issued to private dealers in sufficient numbers or on
time, despite a large number of applications, and as a result the
envisaged private sector pipeline for 1,800 STWs (under IPC-IX)
could not be fully established. Availability of medium-term credit
to support the import and sale of STWs by the private sector was
also a problem. The Government has now taken measures to ensure
adequate and timely issuance of import licenses and sufficient
credit availability for private sector STW marketing. Further
imports, adding to already large in-country stocks of new minor
irrigation equipment, by public sector distributors and the con-
tinuing subsidization of public sector distribution of minor



-70-
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 6
irrigation equipment were two other major causes of the unsatisfac-
tory volume of private sector STW sales. Public sector imports of
new STWs are now being ended, and the subsidies implied in past
public sector STW sales prices are scheduled to be eliminated with
the FY83 irrigation season, so as to achieve parity between private
and public sector suppliers.  Some progress had already been made
in this regard, in the context of IPC-IX, when BADC-s FY82 STW
sales prices were increased to reflect the 15% duty paid (and
passed on to farmers) by private importers.  A pricing schedule for
FY83 was established in consultation with IDA, and measures to
overcome other outstanding problems were recently taken by the
Government following the scheduled joint progress review with IDA.
(iv) Actions were taken to ensure greater availability of medium-term
credit, particularly through the TCCA/KSS system (the most effi-
cient rural credit delivery system), to support the sale of minor
irrigation equipment. Further corrective measures to ensure ade-
quate refinance and guarantee provisions and deal with administra-
tive bottlenecks in medium-term credit programs have been taken
recently.
(v) The import of spare parts for minor irrigation equipment by private
dealers is now permitted through the free foreign exchange market
(Wage Earners Scheme and Export Performance Licenses), and BADC
has begun to charge unsubsidized prices for spares. Both these
measures will significantly improve the ability of the private
sector to perform competitively and effectively in servicing minor
irrigation equipment.
(vi) Finally, the Government has introduced duty-drawback schemes and is
studying other proposals (under the Trade and Industrial Policy
Reform Program supported by IDA) to ensure adequate incentives and
protection for efficient domestic manufacture of engines, pumps and
other components of minor irrigation equipment.



-71-
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 5
THE NEW INDUSTRIAL POLICY
Introduction
1.        For a number of years the Government of Bangladesh and IDA have
maintained a dialogue on issues affecting industrial development. Progress
has been made in formulating policy changes but generally these have been
fragmented and implemented on a subsector basis. IDA's 1978 Industrial
Sector Mission to Bangladesh 1/ crystallized the key issues affecting
industrial development and proposed a number of changes to improve the
climate for development.
2.        At the time, the Government used both controls (direct regulatory
policies) and instruments (indirect policies of economic origin) in shaping
industrial development. The main controls were: import licensing; the
investment schedule; limits on investment; allocation of areas of
activities or public and private investment; investment approval proce-
dures. The main instruments are: customs duties; taxes and incentives;
policy on foreign investment; the mechanisms and institutions for
industrial finance.
3.        The mission indicated that particular controls could be improved
by: lengthening the period of import licenses in the light of more careful
checks on licensed firms; expanding the use of open general licenses when-
ever possible; allocating licenses to promote multiple shift operations;
reviewing the functions of the investment schedule in the light of improved
industrial planning; permitting private investment in all cases except
where public enterprises were already dominant and efficient and no extra
capacity was therefore required (however, in taking these decisions the
trade-off between potential excess capacity and possible large increases in
efficiency would have to be considered); simplifying procedures for
approval of projects. Improvements in instruments could include
rationalization of the tariff structure after upgrading of the Tariff
Commission and an analysis of effective protection. Taxation concessions
and related incentives could be granted to expanding firms as well as new
firms as the system should reward expansion of output, not simply expansion
of capacity. A loss carry-forward provision could be introduced, restric-
tive requirements on use of tax-holiday profits removed and capital-gains
tax on share-trading profits lowered.
1/ See Report 2191-BD, "Bangladesh, Issues and Prospects for Industrial
Development," dated December 5, 1978.



-72-
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 5
4.        Although many of these changes were accepted in principle by the
Government, it felt that there was a need to examine their impact in
detail, and it proceeded slowly with implementation. Since 1981, however,
the frequency of dialogue with the Government has increased, and specific
changes to controls and instruments have been developed. Thus, by June 1,
1982 the Government was ready to announce its New Industrial Policy (NIP).
Objectives of the NIP
5.        The objectives of the NIP are to:
(a) expand the manufacturing sector with increased participation
of the private sector;
(b) limit the role of the public sector to the establishment of
basic, heavy and strategic industries;
(c) encourage optimum utilization of existing capacity including
measures for balancing, modernization and replacement (BMR);
(e) encourage investors to move away progressively from "assembly"
to intermediate and basic manufactures;
(f) protect and promote local industries by reasonable tariff
measures or banning imports where there is adequate domestic
capacity;
(g) limit the growth of monopoly investments;
(h) improve the efficiency and profitability of public sector
enterprises;
(i) promote export-oriented industries;
(j) encourage efficient and economic import substitution;
(k) make prompt extensive and effective use of local resources,
and maximize indigenous manufacturing content;
(1)  promote geographical dispersal of industries on economic
grounds;
(m) encourage linkage between large and medium and small
industries;
(n)  ensure that the quality and price of locally manufactured
goods are maintained at a reasonable level;



-73-
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 5
(o) create additional employment opportunities in the
rural areas through promotion of rural and cottage industries;
(p)  develop an indigenous technology base and encourage judicious
application of appropriate technology.
Classification of Industrial Sectors
6.        Under the NIP, the number of sectors closed to the private sector
has been reduced to six: defense, atomic energy, air transport, telecom-
munications, generation and distribution of electricity and mechanized
forestry operations. In key sectors such as jute, textiles, pulp and paper
etc., private investors are now allowed to set up units either on a private
sector only basis or in collaboration with the public sector.
The Public Industrial Sector: Performance and Efficiency
7.        While overall production of public industrial units has been
restored to FY70 levels, low capacity utilization and poor profitability
persist in many firms. However, in many cases profitability is not the
result of poor performance but of government controls over prices. The aim
of the NIP is to address the major issues affecting the performance of the
public sector. This is to be done on five fronts. Firstly, the Government
plans to introduce an effective monitoring system which would build on the
Management Information Systems currently under implementation in a number
of IDA financed sector projects including jute, textiles, fertilizers,
shipping, etc. The Government has already requested UNDP funding for such
a project and the consultant is expected to commence the assignment soon.
Secondly, the Government plans to reduce the size of the public sector by
divestment of selected units. A divestment program has been drawn up and a
number of units have already been offered to the private sector. Thirdly,
in order to stimulate the capital market and raise additional funds, up to
49% of the Government's shareholdings in profitable units will be sold to
private investors or to mutual trusts. Fourthly, the management of large
units, such as the Machine Tool Factory, Chittagong Dry Docks, etc., will
be entrusted to outside agencies on a management contract basis.  Discus-
sions are underway on such a contract for the operation of the Machine Tool
Factory. Finally, in order to create a favorable investment climate, the
Government has decided, in principle, to return the Bangladeshi owned jute
and textile mills taken over in 1972 to their original owners on the same
basis as before nationalization. Procedures for the return of the units
have yet to be finalized.



-74-
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 5
The Private Sector
8.        The focus of the NIP for the private sector is concentrated on
(i) the simplification of the Industrial Investment Schedule through reduc-
tion of subsector allocations; (ii) provision of additional investment
information including the availability of project profiles; (iii)
simplification of investment sanctioning procedures by expanding the list
of free sectors, fixing time limits for sanctions; (iv) decentralizing
sanctioning authority; and (v) establishing a "one stop" office for the
processing of investor-applications, etc.
Cottage Industries
9.        A major thrust of the NIP is the proposed creation of additional
jobs in the rural areas through the development of rural and cottage
industries. A major effort will be made to reactivate traditional hand-
icrafts and to identify new cottage industries particularly agro-based
industries, etc. In this area the Government will build upon the small
scale industry projects financed by IDA and other donors.
Export Oriented Industries
10.       The NIP offers a number of new facilities and incentives to
export oriented industries. These include: (i) the provision of increased
levels of working capital (up to 90%) from the banking system; (ii) more
liberal repayment terms of bank loans; (iii) greater coverage of the Export
Credit Guarantee Scheme; (iv) the introduction of a system of notional duty
payments on imports used exclusively for export items; and (v) enhancement
of entitlements under the Government's Export Performance Licensing Scheme.
Foreign Investment
11.        Under the NIP Foreign Investment will continue to receive sup-
port and the Government has indicated that it would welcome foreign par-
ticipation in joint ventures on mutually beneficial terms and conditions.
Foreign investments will be encouraged specially in: (i) new enterprises,
particularly those requiring specific technology available to the foreign
investors, which will make an additional net contribution to the economy;
(ii) undertakings in which more intensive use of natural resources is made;
(iii) capital intensive technologies, the products of which will be either
import substitutions or export-oriented; and (v) existing public or private
sector enterprises where an injection of foreign capital or technology will
mean an increase in productivity and an improvement in the product.
Implementation of NIP
12.     The Government's stated objectives imply a radical change to its
past industrial policies. However, the speed and actual degree of this



-75-
ANNEX V
Page 5 of 5
change can only be decided by the Government in the light of political
circumstances. While the change cannot take place overnight, it must take
place with certainty, and in accordance with a timetable that will convince
local and foreign investors that the Government is committed to the shift
from a controlled economy to one more influenced by market forces.
However, whatever the speed of change, a key first step in the implementa-
tion of the NIP is to raise the efficiency of the public enterprises. The
areas that the Bank and the the Government are presently cooperating on --
the review of Trade and Industrial Policies and the rehabilitation of major
sector corporations -- should provide the basis for developing a program
that should result in implementation of the NIP in the foreseeable future.



-76-
ANNEX VI
UTILIZATION BY SECTOR OF PREVIOUS IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDITS
(in US$ million, as of September 10, 1982)
First    Second   Third    Fourth   Fifth    Sixth    Seventh  Eighth   Ninth/a   Tenth/a
(345-BD) (458-3D) (515-BD) (591-BD) (676-BD) (752-BD) (866-BD) (980-BD) (1071-3D) (1194-3D) Total
Agricultural Equipment           8.4        *         -         *         *         *         *        *         1.5          *       9.9
Diesel Fuel for Agriculture    *            *         *         *         *        *         *         *         8.8        6.3      15.1
Pesticides                        *         *         *         *         *        *         *         *         1.3        0.6       1.9
Fertilizers & Raw Materials
for Fertilizer Manufacture  5.5         2.2       9.0       4.1      10.0       4.4       6.8       9.7         *         5.       57.5
Components, Chemicals, Raw
Materials, Spare Parts,
Equipment and Packing
Materials for:
Jute Industry                    1.6       3.8      4.9       5.7       7.5       5.7       1.8        *          *          *       31.0
Textile Industry                 9.8      11.4     18.6      50.0      28.5      27.9      30.6      11.3       14.5        7.5    210.1
Paper & Board Industry           0.9      2.9       6.5       0.6       1.2       5.6       5.2       2.6        0.4         -       25.9
Food & Allied Products
Industry                      3.1       2.8        *         *         *         *         *         *          *          *        5.9
Chemical & Pharmaceutical
Industry                      7.3       9.6       7.3      15.3       5.0       4.1       6.2       6.8        9.6       10.3      81.5
Sugar Industry                   0.3       1.0       0.9      0.8        *         *         *        0.5        0.4         -        3.9
Steel & Foundry Industry         0.5       7.3      9.6       8.7       3.0      15.5      17.0       6.2       11.1        5.9      84.8
Selected Export-Oriented
Industries                     *         *        0.7       0.9       2.0       0.7       0.5        -         0.5        0.9       6.2
Commercial Vehicle Industry   6.3          3.4       2.7      2.7         *        *         *         *          *          *       15.1
Small-Scale Industry             1.5       0.4      0.5         *         *        *         *         *          *          *        2.4
Construction Industry            1.3       4.3     14.3      11.2      17.8      11.1       6.9      12.9       16.1        7.3    103.2
Shipbuilding Industry            3.3      0.9         *         *        *         *         *         *          *          *        4.2
Telecommunications Industry   0.2           *         *         *         *        *         *         *          *          *        0.2
Totals                      50.0      50.0      75.0    100.0       75.0      75.0      75.0      50.0       64.2       44.6    658.8
* = not eligible.
/a SDRs converted into US$ equivalent using original exchange rates:
(i.e., 1 SDR - 1.3131 US$ for 1071-BD;
1 SDR - 1.1442 US$ for 1194-3D).
Source: IBRD, Disbursements Division.



-77-
ANNEX VII
USE OF FUND RESOURCES: BANGLADESH
(in millions of SDRs)
Gross Credit Drawings
Regular                                                              Undrawn Balance
Compensatory      Oil      Stand-By    Trust               Repurchases                 Net/d        of Agreed
and Buffer    Facility   and EFF        Fund                  and                     Credit      Stand-Bys or
Stock Drawings  Drawings  Drawings  Borrowing  Total/a  Repayments/b  Charges/c  Drawings              EFF/e
1973                                -                -          -                       0.8           -             -
*             1974            -            40.4       29.9         -        70.3          -           1.7         70.3           1.4
1975            -            36.9      21.9         -         58.8        20.5          6.0         38.3          62.6
1976          39.1           14.7      43.4         -         97.2        33.0         11.1         64.2            -
1977            -              -          -       13.4        13.4        41.4         12.8        -28.0            -
1978            -              -          -       38.4        38.4        17.7         11.8         20.7            -
1979            -              -       57.0       37.9        94.9        63.0         10.7         31.9          28.0
1980            -              -      142.0       32.0       174.0        70.5          9.6        103.5         686.0
1981            -              -      106.0         .5       106.5        32.6         16.0         73.9         580.0
Jan.-Aug.
1982      131.2/f            -         -          -        131.2/f      35.6/g       31.2/h       95.6            - /L
Projected:
Sept.-Dec.
1982                                                                     2.5           * 
1983                                                                       5.3         33.7
1984                                                                      68.4         32.3
1985                                                                      91.7         25.5
1986                                                                     124.2         15.0
1987                                                                     101.5          8.7
1988                                                                      45.8          4.0
1989                                                                      32.3          2.5
1990                                                                      22.1          1.2
1991                                                                       4.9          0.1
/a  Use of Fund credit (regular stand-by drawings, EFF drawings, oil facility drawings, compensatory facility
drawings, and buffer stock drawings) plus Trust Fund borrowing.
/b  Repayments through Repurchases and Repayments of Trust Fund borrowings.
7c  Interest on Credit Drawings and on Trust Fund borrowing.
Td  Total drawings and borrowings minus total repurchases and repayments (a - b).
/e  Undrawn balance of stand-by or EFF agreements.
/f  Includes Compensatory Financing Facility of SDR 71.2 million in August 1982 (vide, IMF Press Release No. 82/43,
August 25, 1982). Also includes overcompensation of SDR 23.1 million under Compensatory Financing Facility
drawing of February 1982 (see footnote g below).
/g  Includes repurchase for overcompensation under Compensatory Financing Facility of SDR 23.1 million in August 1942
(see footnote f above).
/h  Full year 1982.
/i  EFF was cancelled at the request of the Government on June 21, 1982.
Q  See footnote h above.
Source: IMF.



