/ CL I CREDIT NUMBER 1300 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Eleventh Imports Program)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
Dated9zc<, 1    w, 19.ý c


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1300 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated9ac0 a t',Me, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "BADC" means Bangladesh Agricultural Development Cor-
poration, a corporate entity established under the Bangladesh
Agricultural Development Corporation Ordinance, 1961 (Ordinance
No. XXXVII of 1961), and includes any successor thereto;
(b) "BKB" means the Bangladesh Krishi Bank, an agricultural
development finance institution established under the Bangladesh
Krishi Bank Order, 1973 (P.O. No. 27 of 1973);
(c) "BWDB" means the Bangladesh Water Development Board,
established and operating pursuant to the Bangladesh Water and
Power Development Boards Order 1972 (P.O. No. 59 of 1972) or any
successor thereto;
(d) "MOF" means the Ministry of Food of the Borrower;
(e) "Policy Improvements" means the collective measures the
Borrower intends to take in pursuance of sound economic develop-
ment policies, including inter alia those associated with the
Borrower's public investment budget as well as those set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement;


﻿-2-
(f) "Tk" or "taka" means the currency of the Borrower;
(g)  "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M. No. 34/Rev.2
(1975);
(h)  "TIP Reform Program" means the Borrower's Trade and
Industrial Policy Reform Program to be carried out as a sub-
project under the Fourth Technical Assistance Credit No. 1124
between the Borrower and the Association, dated March 31, 1981,
and described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(i) "Sanction Limit" means the maximum amount of investment
that the development finance institutions of the Borrower are
authorized to approve as the cost of a single industrial project
in the private sector.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to one hundred million eight hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 100,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit 'may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Astociation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Project is a part of the Borrower's pro-
gram:  (i)   to  make  available  foreign  exchange  to  eligible
importers for the import, into the Borrower's territory, of goods
and services necessary for the carrying out of the Policy
Improvements; (ii) to continue and consolidate ongoing export
development programs; and (iii) to carry out the Policy
Improvements.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the-goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay t3 the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue fromu
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.08. Service charges and commitment charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1993, and ending October 1,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.10. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿-4-
Section 2.11. The authorized representatives of the Bangla-
desh Bank are designated as representatives of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause it to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) promptly upon receipt of appropriate applications
from the eligible importers issue, or cause to be
issued, such import licenses as shall be required
to carry out the Project;
(ii) make available, or cause to be made available to
the eligible importers promptly as needed, such
amounts of foreign exchange as shall be reqt .red
to import goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit; and
(iii) take all such action as shall be necessary to
facilitate the timely importation of goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be
insured, or cause adequate provision to be made fDr the insurance
thereof, against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the purposes
described in Section 2.03 hereof.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit; (ii) enable the Association's repre-
sentatives to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Association all such information as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the program
(referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement) of which the
Project is a part, the cost of the Project and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(b) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(c) The Borrower shall, not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Association, prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, the benefits derived and to be
derived therefrom, the performance by the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation of their respective obligations under this Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall deposit amounts in taka
equivalent to the amounts disbursed by the Association pursuant
to Section 2.02 of this Agreement, in an account currently being
maintained with the Bangladesh Bank, which amounts are to be
described in accordance with standard practice, as the proceeds
from "IDA Credit No. 1300 BD".
(b) The amounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section shall be utilized entirely to finance the Borrower's
development programs.
(c) The Borrower shall, not later than July 31 of each
calendar year, inform the Association of the local currency pro-
visions made in the Borrower's Annual Development Program for the
fiscal year which began on the preceding July 1, for the develop-
ment projects being financed by the Association.


﻿- 6 -
(d) The Borrower shall inform the Association on a quar-
terly basis of the amounts of taka allocated or released for the
projects being financed by the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association may otherwise agree
the Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, the actions
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement for the purpose of
carrying out the Policy Improvements.
Section 3.07. In order to assist the Borrower in the carry-
ing out of the TIP Reform Program the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association,
such consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines on the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
the World Bank as Executing Agency," published by the Bank in
August, 1981.
Section 3.08. The Borrower and the Bank shall, not later
than April 15, 1983, exchange views cn the progress achieved in
the carrying out of the Policy Improvements. Prior to such
exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
for its review and comments a report on the progress achieved in
the carrying out of said Policy Improvements, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Section 4.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions that:
(a) the Borrower shall have issued import licenses in
respect of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit


﻿-7-
covering foreign exchange allocations aggregating not less than
$55,000,000 equivalent;
(b) the Borrower shall have signed the contracts with the
foreign consultants required for the carrying out of the TIP
Reform Program in accordance with the provisiGns of Section 3.07
of  this   Agreement  and   in  a  manner   satisfactory  to   the
Association;
(c) the Borrower shall have issued an administrative order
instructing BWDB: (i) to promptly offer for sale, with a view to
completing such sale by June 30, 1984, BWDB's stock of rental
lowlift pumps; (ii) not to increase BWDB's rental stock of
low-lift pumps by any acquisition thereof; and (iii) not to
restrict farmers from buying shallow tubewells from sources other
than BWDB in areas where BWDB's projects are being carried out;
and
(d) the Association shall have received evidence, satis-
factory to the Association, that the Borrower has taken all
necessary steps to ensure that farmers and farmers' groups have
access to credit from banking and cooperative institutions for
the purchase of used minor irrigation equipment.
Section 4.02. The date YyLrl       10 1 q3       , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Sect'on 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 4.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.04 (c) and (d), 3.06 and 3.07 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date 10 years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 5.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the External


﻿-8-
Resources Division of the Ministry of Finance and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as the representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca
Bangladesh
Cable address:                   Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                       SETU BJ 65886
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address,                   Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64415 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿9
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By              V
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By           A    -
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   All goods imported into the People's Republic of Bangladesh
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, except that no
withdrawals shall be made in respe.-t of:
(a) expenditures for goods to be supplied under a contract
which a national or international financing institution
or any other agency shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(b) expenditures for goods intended for a military        or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption;
(c) without limitation to the foregoing paragraphs (a) and
(b), expenditures for items included in the following
SITC groups or sub-groups:
Group    Sub-Group    Description of Items
112        -         Alcoholic beverages
121        -         Tobacco, unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
122        -         Tobacco, manufactured
667        -         Pearls,  precious   and  semi-precious
stones, unworked or worked
688        -         Uranium  depleted  in  U235 and    tho-
rium, and their alloys, unwrought or
wrought, and articles thereof, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium depleted in
U235 and of thorium
718       718.7      Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof,
n.e. s.
897       897.3      Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' wares (includ-
ing set gems);


﻿- 11 -
(d) expenditures for items under SITC Group 661, Subgroup
661.2, in the form of clinker;
(e) expenditures for items under SITC Group 672, Subgroup
672.5, other than billets imported exclusively for use
in rerolling mills;
(f) expenditures for items in any single SITC Division in
excess of 25% of the total amount of the Credit;
(g) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(h) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(i) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the  Borrower   on  goods,   or  on   the  importation,
procurement or supply thereof.
2.   Without limitation or restriction upon any other provisions
of this Schedule, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall
have reached the equivalent of SDR 50,400,000 unless (a) the
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views which
shall take place pursuant to Section 3.08 of this Agreement, of
the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of
the Policy Improvements referred to in such section, and (b) the
-Borrower shall have issued import licenses in respect of the
remaining goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
3.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 3 of this Schedule, con-
tracts for goods shall be let through international competitive
bidding under procedures consistent with those set forth in Part
A of the current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" dated March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), subject to the modifications set forth in
paragraph 2 below.
2.   The Guidelines are hereby modified as follows:
(a) By the deletion of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines and
the substitution therefor of the following:
"1.2 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner (see also para. 3.1) of the opportunity to
bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply
for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, prequalify, or
bid, in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the
Borrower's country and by at least one of the following
methods:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication, Devel-
opment Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international -circula-
tion; or
(iii) notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in these Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) By the addition at the end of paragraph 2.9 of the
Guidelines of the following:
"As an alternative, bidding documents may require the
bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."


﻿- 13 -
(c) By the deletion of sub-paragraphs (a) and ('1 of para-
graph 2.10 of the Guidelines and the substitution f       subpara-
graph (a) of the following:
"(a) Payments under the contract will be made in the
currency in which the price has been stated in the success-
ful bid."
(d) By the deletion of the third sub-paragraph of paragraph
3.8 of the Guidelines and the substitution therefor of the fol-
lowing:
"Customs duties and import taxes should be excluded for
the purpose of comparison among bids for the supply of
goods."
(e) By the deletion of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
3.   Whenever the Borrower and the Association shall be satisfied
that goods of a specific type, design or manufacture shall be
required in the interest of equipment standardization or of other
valid considerations relating to the efficient utilization of
existing productive capacity, such goods may be procured on a
negotiated basis on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. In addition, contracts or purchase orders for goods
(other than proprietary items) estimated to cost the equivalent
of less than $500,000 each may be awarded on the basis of the
normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods, up
to an aggregate amount of $15,000,000.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of the advertising and tendering procedures
followed and such other information as the Association shall rea-
sonably request.
5.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect


﻿- 14 -
thereof, any relevant documentation and information the Associa-
tion may reasonably request to support withdrawal applications
thereunder.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Policy Improvements
A.   General
1.   Policy Improvements under the Credit concern the allo-
cation and utilization of resources to industrial and agricul-
tural development.
2.   Dates by which actions are required to be taken pur-
suant to this Schedule may be extended by notice from the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower.
B.   Actions to be taken
1.   The Borrower shall, or shall cause BADC, BKB and BWDB
to:
(a) not later than July 15 of each fiscal year, assess the
full current replacement cost on July 1 of such fiscal year per
unit of unused shallow tubewells and unused 1-cusec low-lift
pumps to be marketed by BADC and BKB and of unused 1-cusec low
lift pumps to be marketed by BWDB each fiscal year in a manner
satisfactory to the Association which shall include, inter alia,
duties, taxes and incidental costs and shall reflect the taka
exchange rate applicable on such date;
(b) commencing August 1 of each fiscal year, charge buyers
unit sales prices for such items sufficient to cover such costs;
and
(c) adjust rental rates for 1-cusec and 2-cusec LLPs in the
same proportion and as of the same date as unit sales prices are
adjusted pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of
this Section.
2.   The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) the import duties
imposed and duty drawbacks granted by the Borrower in order to
protect domestic manufacturers and/or assemblers of irrigation
equipment and components thereof shall be equally extended to
private and public sector manufacturers and/or assemblers of such
equipment and components; and (b) irrigation equipment and
components thereof locally manufactured or assembled by public
sector enterprises shall be sold at the same price to public or
private sector purchasers of such equipment and components.


﻿- 16 -
3.   The Borrower shall ensure that the issuance of licenses
for the importation of shallow tubewell and low-lift pump engines
shall not require from importers or distributors, directly or
indirectly, the purchase of locally manufactured or assembled
engines.
4.   The Borrower shall increase, or shall cause MOF to
increase, the ration issue price of foodgrains as of the same
date as any increase in the procurement price for foodgrains
becomes effective and in an amount, in taka per unit of weight,
of not less than the amount of such increase. For the purpose of
this section the ration issue price shall be the price charged by
the Borrower for foodgrains sold from stocks held by MOF and the
procurement price shall be the price paid by MOF for locally pro-
duced foodgrains.
5.   The Borrower shall enable public sector industrial cor-
porations to adjust, in consultation with the concerned Ministry,
the sale price of the products of their enterprises to the extent
required to cover any change in the foreign exchange cost of
imported inputs and in the fuel and energy costs for the produc-
tion of such products, and the Borrower shall not require any
prior governmental approval if such adjustment does not exceed
10% of the original price of such products in effect prior to
such adjustment.
6.   The Borrower shall, not later than March 15, 1983,
raise the Sanction Limit to the extent required to raise the
value in real terms of such limit to the avr   -e level prevailing
in the Borrower's fiscal year commenc-       a July 1, 1977 and
ending on June 30, 1978.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
The TIP Reform Program is designed to review the Borrower's
trade and industrial policies and consists of the following
parts:
(a) establishing sector planning and project identification
procedures;
(b) implementation of an Effective Protection Study and
strengthening of the Tariff Commission operations;
(c) implementation of a study of the Net Value Added of
Industrial Products as a basis for the allocation of Import En-
titlement Certificates;
(d) implementation of a study on investment incentives;
(e) improvements in the promotion of private industrial
investment;
(f) identification and development of new export product
lines; and
(g) improvement of industrial statistics.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and aMxed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   LQ       day of
198 .
FORSECRETARY


