Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24302
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(PPFI-P9640; PPFI-P9641; IDA-28350)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.7 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR AN
URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE AND PILOT DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
06/24/2002
Water and Urban II
Country Department 15
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 23, 2002)
Currency Unit = Mauritanian Ouguiyas
MRO 1,000 = US$ 3.58
US$ 1 = MRO 279.5
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADU                   Agence de Developpement Urbain
AGETIP                Agence d 'Execution des Travaux d 'Interet Public (Public Works Executing Agency)
AMEXTIPE              Agence Mauritanienne d'Execution des Travaux dI'nt&ret Public pour l'Emploi (Public
Works Executing Agency of Mauritania)
AMM                   Association of Mauritanian Mayors
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CCEP                  Construction Capacity and Employment Project
CIDA                  Canadian Intemational Development Agency
DCL                   Direction des Collectivites Locales (Local Government Directorate)
DIU                   Urban Infrastructure and Pilot Decentralization Project
FRD                   Fonds Regional de Developpement (Development Regional Fund)
ICR                   Implementation Completion Report
IDA                   International Development Association
KfW                   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MOI                   Ministry of Interior
NGO                   Non Governmental Organization
PIP                   Programme dInvestissement Prioritaire (Priority Investment Program)
PPF                   Project Preparation Facility
PRSP                  Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAR                   Staff Appraisal Report
SDR                   Special Drawing Rights
TTL                   Task Team Teader
TORs                  Terms of Reference
WDR                   World Development Report
UDP                   Urban Development Program
Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo, AFRVP
Country Director:    A. David Craig, AFC15
Acting Sector Manager:    Richard Verspyck, AFTU2
Task Team Leader:     Christian Diou, AFTU2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAURITANIA
URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE AND PILOT DECENTRALIZATION
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    10
6. Sustainability                                                                        11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         13
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                        15
9. Partner Comments                                                                      16
10. Additional Informnation                                                             16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     1 9
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   24
Map IBRD 25935
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P034106                                      Project Name: Urban Infrastructure and Pilot
Decentralization
Team Leader: Christian Diou                              TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 24, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Urban Infrastructure and Pilot Decentralization  L/C/TF Nuimber: PPFI-P9640;
PPFI-P9641;
IDA-28350
Country/Department: MAURITANIA                                          Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: UM - Urban Management
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/14/1994                             Effective: 08/16/1996        08/16/1996
Appraisal:  09/22/1995                               MTR:                       03/15/1999
Approval:  03/26/1996                              Closing: 12/31/2000         12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA/MINISTRY OF
PLANNING/AMEXTIPE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                        E.V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     A. David Craig                            Jean-Louis Sarbib
Sector Manager:      Richard Verspyck                          Alberto Harth
Team Leader at ICR:  Christian Diou                            Jean-Marie Lantran
ICR Primary Author:  Samir Kanoun
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institztional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were classified as:



a) Four development objectives: (i) reduce poverty by improving access to basic urban infrastructure; (ii)
develop the local private sector by improving competitiveness of construction and consulting firms; (iii)
support an initial pilot phase of decentralization so that local governments can better plan and manage
urban infrastructure assets and services and improve resource mobilization; and (iv) improve public sector
management by using transparent procedures and delegation of authority.
b) Three project objectives. (i) create temporary employment by building or rehabilitating, urban
infrastructure assets; (ii) help municipalities to create or rehabilitate basic urgent infrastructure assets; and
(iii) provide necessary skills to municipalities to enable them to manage these assets, and strengthen the
Ministry of Interior, Posts, and Telecommunications for the efficient exercise of its tutorship role.
The objectives were timely. They were clearly spelled out and justified in the body of the SAR and their
scope delineated.  The first, second and fourth development objectives are realistic and should be
interpreted as deepening relevant impacts of the Construction Capacity and Employment Project (CCEP)
(Credit No 2455-MAU) completed in June 1998. The poverty reduction objective is defined as improved
access to services and generation of temporary employment.
The third development objective aims at partial support to the initial phase of decentralization. While
limited in scope, this objective was ambitious and optimistic about the pace of development of municipal
capacity to deliver services and raise revenues and the local government directorate's (DCL's) capacity to
effectively assume its tutorship responsibilities.
No log frame was prepared for the project. However, three sets of performance indicators were provided in
the SAR.   Two of these are largely process indicators that apply mostly to the activities of the
implementing agency, "Agence Mauritanienne d'Execution des Travaux d'Interet Public pour l'Emploi"
(AMEXTIPE), including eight quantitative performance targets that were agreed to at negotiations and
were to be monitored during supervision. The third set is comprised of sample municipal perfornance
indicators to guide the preparation of city performance contracts.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.
3.3 Original Components:
The project components were:
(a) a program of poverty-oriented, labor-intensive works subprojects in participating cities, consisting of
rehabilitation or construction of urban infrastructure and community facilities (US$20.5 million); and
(b) capacity building (pilot decentralization) (US$3.5 million):
(i)    at the municipal level, to enhance managerial capacities through the introduction of
municipal management tools, including provision of equipment and training (US$2.0
million); and
(ii)   at the national level, to strengthen the monitoring capacity of the Ministry of Interior,
Posts, and Telecommunications and to prepare new municipal regulations (US$1.5
million).
The two components are well interwoven and tailored to meet the objectives of the project. The investment
component focuses on temporary employment creation and improved access to urban infrastructure. The
- 2 -



capacity building component introduces: (i) a set of simple urban planning tools, including assets
inventories, referential urban plans, and priority investment programs (PIPs), which enhance
municipalities' capacity to identify their infrastructure needs and program investments; and (ii)
performance contracts and annual financial and management audits, intended to allow municipalities to set
targets for improving service delivery, the maintenance of their assets, and their financial performance, as
well to track progress in reaching these targets. The component also provides for equipment and funds for
studies and consultants to improve DCL's capacity to prepare and disseminate clarifying regulations,
unified procedures and policy studies to guide further steps in implementing the government's
decentralization programs. In essence, the second component is designed to: (i) strengthen the capacity to
implement the first component; and (ii) to ensure sustainability of the project.
3.4 Revised Components:
There were no revised components.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry of the project was satisfactory.
The project is consistent with three main priorities of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of May 1994:
poverty reduction, private sector development, and enhancement of economic management. Its objectives
are also consistent with the Govenmment's Municipal Policy Declaration that lays out key elements of the
decentralization process: (a) enhanced management of municipal infrastructure assets (clear
responsibilities, delegation of contract management, selection of projects based on economic criteria); (b)
enhanced resource mobilization at local and national levels; and (c) capacity building at the local and
national levels. The municipal policy declaration was announced during project preparation and attached
to the SAR.
The project was built on a large body of work and experience in Mauritania, the region and the Bank. It
capitalized on experience gained through the highly satisfactory Construction Capacity and Employment
Project. It also benefited from the knowledge developed through other projects in Africa, particularly the
Urban and Decentralization Development Project (UDDP) in Senegal, which had introduced a series of
simple but effective urban management tools. The broad principles outlined in the Bank's 1994 World
Development Report (WDR) (Infrastructure for Development) and the Bank's 1995 Municipal
Development Review also influenced its design.
The preparation of the project was based on a programmatic approach and the design and institutional
setup already in place through the CCEP. It was also greatly reinforced by the experience accumulated
during the CCEP, particularly for all aspects related to delegated contract management. Several other
factors also contributed to strengthening project preparation and readiness, including: (i) the creation of an
Urban infrastructure Committee composed of representatives of cognizant ministries, which drafted the
Government's municipal policy and formulated the basic principles governing urban infrastructure
management, "le Comite Technique charge de la decentralisation"; (ii) the first congress of mayors, (held in
Nouakchott during project preparation), which provided a thorough diagnosis of problems encountered at
the municipal level as well as recommendations for addressing these problems; (iii) interest and ongoing
involvement of other donors in decentralization and poverty alleviation; and (iv) the existence of a fully
operational implementing agency (AMEXTIPE), which was set up under the CCEP.
The Govemment Municipal Policy Declaration (June 1995) and the three-day workshop, Journees sous la
tente, attended by the Govemment, civil society and Intemational Development Association (IDA),
established a clear framework for dialogue between the Govemment and IDA.
- 3 -



Eligible categories of subprojects and selection criteria for participating cities were specified for the first
component at appraisal. The actual selection of cities and subprojects on the basis of the established
criteria was deferred to project implementation. This ensured that subprojects were demand driven and
enabled participation of local governments and communities in the selection process. Activities under the
capacity building component were relatively well defined for the municipal level. They were less so for
national level capacity building, as their definition had to await the results of major studies that were
conducted during project implementation. Completion of key sector work on decentralization and
municipal finance during preparation and a stronger involvement of the government, especially the DCL,
could have contributed to better integration and sequencing of the capacity building subcomponents and to
better assessment of the problems and the actions required to address them in a meaningful way.
A procedures manual was prepared and several workshops and dissemination events took place, including a
three-day launch seminar in Nouakchott from May 20 to 22, 1996.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project outcome is rated satisfactory as it achieved most relevant objectives.
With respect to project specific objectives, the project met the first such objective by creating
approximately 46,281 men-months of temporary jobs, or more than twice the number projected.
The second project objective was also substantially met as 125 delegation of contract management
conventions covering 149 infrastructure construction and/or rehabilitation projects completed in 13 cities
compared to 150 projected in the SAR. Street addressing and plot numbering were also completed or
substantially advanced in these cities.
The number of contractors which have won at least one contract is 93 (versus a 240 forecast). Given the
size of the country and the civil works market, the 240 target was unreallistic. The number of municipal
contract signed was 13, one per eligible city. They were annually renewed. The 20 target was set up
during project preparation when the eligibility criteria for the cities were unknown.
The third project objective of improved municipal capacity to manage assets was met, only to the extent
that the introduction of asset inventories and referential urban plans helped municipalities improve their
infrastructure planning capabilities. Similarly, the operational capacity of Ministry of Interior (MOI) to
assume its tutorship role was enhanced by the provision of office and transportation equipment, funds for
training, studies and consultant services provided to DCL. It should be noted however, that the capacities
of both municipalities and DCL are still at an early stage of development. Gearing up these capacities with
the tasks involved requires a sustained long-term effort. Organizing and staffing the vital departments of
both municipalities and DCL remain to be done and are important prerequisites to any further capacity
development. Strengthening revenue collection capacities should continue to be a major focus of municipal
capacity building efforts.
As the key perfonnance indicators were specific to AMEXTIPE and the labor-intensive works component,
and as no set of qualitative and qualitative performance targets were otherwise developed for tracking
achievement of the development objectives, the following assessments are given for each stated objective:
- 4 -



To reduce poverty by improving access to basic urban services:
The project improved access to basic services in 13 cities, which account for 85 percent of the urban
population or 1.2 million inhabitants. Out of 149 subprojects launched, 144 were fully executed targeting
the most under-serviced neighborhoods, which are usually home to low-income households and an
additional 5 subprojects are being completed. They were identified on the basis of inventories of municipal
assets, which highlighted service deficits in various neighborhoods. Two-thirds of the subprojects were for
educational and social infrastructure. They contributed to reduction of crowding, improvement of hygiene
and security in schools, access to primary health, and, to a lesser extent, access to productive assets. The
distribution of these subprojects among the various infrastructure categories will be given in Section 4.2.
To develop the local private sector by increasing the competitiveness of construction and consulting
firms:
While the CCEP had contributed to this same objective, the project was able to further develop the local
private sector. The number of construction companies and consulting finns registered with AMEXTIPE
stands at 517 and 146, respectively. Entry into both sectors is easy and free from any prior condition other
than simple administrative registration. All but one subproject were contracted to local construction
companies and the same is true for project design and supervision contracts.
However, despite the quantitative achievements in promoting private sector activities, there was a
qualitative lag, which the project was not designed to fully address. Both construction and engineering
companies are small, lack professionalism and have intermittent activity, very weak financial standing and
low turnover. To remedy the lack of professionalism and the resulting lack of quality, the project
earnarked some funds for the training of private consulting and construction companies. These remedies
were not commensurate with the extent of the problem with respect to quality of works, and were only
partially implemented.
The lack of professionalism in Mauritanian construction and engineering firms stems from several
deep-rooted causes, such as the generalized low skill levels, the weakness of quality control, and the
difficulty in enforcing standards. The situation is compounded by the fact that there is no established
building tradition. Settlement of nomadic populations and urbanization are very recent events, dating
mostly from the sixties.
Improving the competitiveness of Mauritanian construction and engineering firns will require a long and
sustained effort that is way beyond the scope of AMEXTIPE. Capacity building programs focusing on the
most prominent weaknesses and impediments should be developed and specific institutions should be
assigned to implement them.
AMEXTIPE's role in increasing the competitiveness of local construction and engineering firms should be
limited to: (a) ensuring transparent procurement procedures, rapid payment of invoices, selection based on
strict criteria emphasizing post-qualification, strict quality control of engineering studies and works, and
enforcement of contractual obligations; (b) encouraging dissemination of know-how by: (i) grouping its
procurements in order to reach contract sizes which are attractive to foreign and mature Mauritanian
construction companies; (ii) encouraging both partnerships between Mauritanian and foreign companies
and subcontracting to small construction companies; and (c) disseminating the relevant observations of the
technical audits among construction and engineering firms and/or their professional associations. Acting
beyond this scope would dilute the responsibility of AMEXTIPE and divert it from its main mission.
- 5 -



Low tumover for both construction and engineering firms warrants concem. Only one third of the
construction and engineering firns registered with AMEXTIPE are active bidders. Most of the others bid
intermittently. The table below summarizes the average turnovers generated by the labor-intensive works
subprojects for the various categories of firms:
Category          No. of       No. of firms  Total      Average      Average
contracts    awarded      amount      amount per   turnover per
awarded      contracts    US$ '000    contract     firm
Engineering           124          35            281.9        2,273        8,054
Monitoring            144          na             239.8        1,665
Works                 149          88           8,227.7      55,219      *93,496
* Three firms were awarded 20% of all contracts and 64 got one contract each.
To support an initial phase of decentralization so that local governments can better plan and manage
urban infrastructure assets and services and improve resource mobilization:
The referential urban plans, inventories of assets, and priority investment plans, introduced by the project,
provided elected local officials and municipal staff insight into the prevailing physical conditions in their
cities. These tools provided them with accurate and comprehensive assessment of land use, geographical
distribution, and general condition of urban infrastructure and public facilities in their cities. A synthesis
of these assessments was widely disseminated and allowed local and government officials to benchmark
conditions among various cities and among different neighborhoods of the same city. This infornation,
along with the subproject selection criteria, made it possible for local governments to identify the most
urgent needs and prioritize and target investments.
An additional outcome of the assets inventories was an increased awareness of both municipal and
government officials of the extent and spread of under-serviced neighborhoods and urban poverty. This
increased awareness and the resulting political will increased readiness for the preparation of the US$70
million IDA-financed Urban Development Program (UDP) to upscale initiatives in under-serviced
neighborhoods citywide. The UDP became effective on April 30, 2002 and was launched in June 2002.
City performance contracts and annual audits were also introduced by the project. These were intended to
allow mayors, municipal councils, and interested citizens to benchmark municipal performance and define
the measures needed to improve city management, financial resources, and service delivery. However, in
view of the weak financial management systems at the local level, additional measures were eventually
required to enhance the utility of these tools and improve performance. Thus, three years after the start of
the project, the annual audits were transformed into technical assistance missions aimed at enhancing the
accounting and budgeting capacities of municipalities. It is expected diat such missions will upgrade the
quality of municipal accounts to auditable accounts and proactively ensure fulfillment of performance
contracts through better budgeting and closer follow up.
Improve public sector management by using transparent procedures and delegation of contract
management:
There is a widely shared perception that AMEXTIPE continues to have transparent procedures and that
contractors are selected on the basis of objective criteria set forth in the manual of procedures and bidding
documents. This, combined with the celerity of payment (80 percent of invoices paid within 30 days),
- 6 -



continues to generate interest in bidding for AMEXTIPE contracts (six to eight bidders per contract
awarded). Delegation of contract management is currently an accepted practice. The recent creation of the
urban development agency "Agence de D&veloppement Urbain (ADU)" will further extend the use of such
practice. ADU has been created under the UDP: (i) to execute all investment projects in Nouakchott
through delegation of contract management conventions with the state and the municipality; and (ii) to
carry out selected urban development planning, coordination, and control activities. AMEXTIPE will use
its full capacity to handle the increased volume of investments projected in secondary cities within the UDP
and in the whole country within other projects.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Labor intensive works subprojects:
The project was to finance US$15.4 million worth of labor-intensive works subprojects consisting of
rehabilitation or construction of urban facilities of various categories. A total of 149 subprojects were
completed in the 13 regional capitals and 5 additional subprojects are nearing completion. The table below
summarizes the number of projects and the relative costs per category of infrastructure.
Category               Number of subprojects        Percent of total cost
Primary schools                           42                        33.25
Social infrastructure                     61                         28.70
Revenue generating subprojects            25                         17.97
Municipal management                      12                         5.76
nfrastructure
ccess roads and environmental            9                          14.32
nfrastructure
Total                                   149*                        100
* Out of 149 subprojects launched, 144 were fully implemented. Five are still under implementation with
Govemment financing.
Schools and social infrastructure dominated, with 103 subprojects accounting for about 52 percent of total
investrnents. Subprojects in this category included school construction or rehabilitation, school furnishing,
school latrines and fences, conmmunity youth centers, women's centers, childcare centers, and primary
health centers. Revenue generating subprojects accounted for about 18 percent of the total cost. They
included rehabilitation and/or construction of new markets, slaughterhouses, livestock enclosures, and taxi
stations. Subprojects in other categories included limited road and sewer systems' rehabilitation as well as
materials for street addressing and plot numbering.
Box I
Schools were crowded with classroom holding up to 120 pupils sitting on bare concrete floors. Under the
project, classrooms were rehabilitated and new schools built and all were furnished with tables. The
number of students per classroom has gone down to about 60 pupils per class. Pupils are sitting on chairs
and have tables allowing them to read and wTite more comfortably. In addition, they have access to
decent latrines and they walk shorter distances to school.
Nouakchott and Nouadhibou consumed 40 percent of the investments, which is commensurate with their
share of the urban population (37 percent). Investments per capita averaged UMI,838, ranging from
UM549 in Nouakchott to UMI 9,875 in Akjoujt.
IDA disbursements for this component were projected at US$7.87 million, of which US$7.164 million for
works and US$0.709 million for design and supervision. Actual disbursements were US$7.385 million, or
-7 -



94 percent of projections.
The capacity building component (Pilot Decentralization):
Urban management tools
Thirteen referential urban plans were developed based on a unified method for all participating cities.
These plans not only served as a basis for the preparation of priority investment plans and the development
of a pipeline of subprojects, but continue to be used and were last updated in 1998 for 11 cities. The use of
foreign consultants in the preparation of the Referential plans for Nouadhibou and Nouakchott made it
possible to pilot and test these tools and to train local consultants in their use.
City performance contracts were prepared at the start of the project. They have been amended annually
based on the recommendations of the municipal audits and the new annual priority investment plans.
Municipal audits have been carried out annually for all participating municipalities. As noted previously,
these audits have been supplemented by technical assistance missions to improve accounting and budgeting
capacities.  City development strategies have been carried out through a participatory process for
Nouakchott, Nouadhibou, and Kaedi.
A major urbanization and land management study was carried out and served as the basis for formulating
the Government's urban development policy and for the design of the UDP.
Decentralization and tax reform studies
A cornprehensive decentralization study was carried out, which outlined the strengths and weaknesses of
decentralization process and reform in Mauritania. Additional follow on studies were undertaken to
analyze and provide recommendations for addressing critical issues that were identified in the
decentralization study. These follow-on studies focused on the following topics: (i) a framework for
concession of municipal services to the private sector; (ii) clarification of the roles and responsibilities of
the state and municipalities; (iii) the Regional Development Fund; and (iv) the regularization of the transfer
of assets from the state to municipalities.
Training
Several training events were organized that benefited government officials, elected mayors, municipal staff
and focused on: (i) the dissemnination of the tools introduced by the project and the municipal procedures
manual; (ii) street addressing and plot numbering; (iii) urbanization and land management; and (iv) on the
job training for construction foremen/project supervisory.
Development ofMOI capacity to play its tutorship role
Additional office space, computer equipment, office furmiture and five cars were provided to DCL to allow
it to operate effectively. Funds allocated to training and consultant services under the project allowed DCL
to improve its training delivery capacity and to train its personnel.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR sets a minimum ERR of 12 percent. While no ex-post IRR calculations were available at the
time of writing this report, review of the technical reports and discussions with the AMEXTIPE technical
team indicated that the sub-project selection criteria were strictly respected and financial and economic
- 8 -



rates of returns have been calculated during subproject evaluation. Ex-post ERR have been calculated for
similar subprojects under the CCEP and are as follows without labor shadow pricing:
Subproject Category                       ERR
Rehabilitation of public facilities       21% to 119 % with an average of 36%
Road enhancement or rehabilitation        31% to 47% with an average of 38%
Revenue earning projects                  190/oto 41% with an average of 33%
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No ex-post financial rate of returns were available. The SAR sets a minimum of 15 percent financial rate
of return on revenue earning infrastructure.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional impact of the project is substantial. Considering that the poverty oriented-labor-intensive
subprojects component is a repeat of CCEP, it can easily be said that the project's main contribution was
the implementation of the institutional and capacity building component.
At the municipal level:
The planning tools that were introduced by the project are now widely accepted by municipalities and local
consultants have acquired the capacity to apply these tools and to assist municipalities. Simnilarly, city
performance contracts and annual audits have become accepted as standard management tools.
It is still too early to evaluate the impact of street addressing and plot numbering, on local revenues, as
these activities have only recently been completed or are still being completed in most cities. In
Nouadhibou, where street addressing was completed earlier, there was a 30 percent increase in the tax base
in the first year. Notwithstanding street addressing and plot numbering, the project did not have a major
impact on municipal revenue collection capacity.
Participating municipalities rely almost exclusively on delegation of contract management to AMEXTIPE
for the execution of their projects. They also rely heavily on local private consultants for planning,
auditing, and project design and evaluation. These institutional arrangements have allowed municipalities
to substantially leverage their otherwise meager management capacity, while still giving them the authority
and capacity to decide on their investment priorities based on preferences of their constituencies.
At the national level:
DCL's capacity to assume its tutorship role has perceptibly improved. Studies conducted under the project
(as well as the assets inventories, city performance contracts, and municipal audits) provided DCL with an
insight into the current situation of municipalities. They also provided a basis for its dialogue with
municipalities and other ministerial departments on measures to be taken and reforms to be introduced.
The administrative procedures manuals published by the DCL have been instrumental in unifying
management and accounting procedures and clarifying regulations. The publishing capability and the
mobility gained as a result of the project allowed DCL to have a more frequent presence at the local level to
verify and explain the use of the manuals and the various planning and management tools. Funding for
training under the project allowed DCL to develop a capacity to plan and deliver training using consultants.
Introducing the above-mentioned tools and improving the capacity of MOI to assume its tutorship
-9-



responsibilities are major undertakings, the impact of which will take a long time to materialize. While the
tools are accepted they still need to be fully internalized and fully mastered by municipalities, private
consultants and DCL. They also need to be legally formalized and further integrated into the formal
administrative processes (municipal councils deliberations, municipal budgets, national budgets, etc.).
DCL has still to archive the referential urban plans, "Programme d'Investissement Prioritaire" (PIPs) and
audits and to build the necessary databases. Improvements should be made in the use of tools, such as in
the selection of sub-project sites and a greater community involvement in planning and design of
infrastructure projects.
The decentralization, tax reform, and urban development studies were instrumental in building a consensus
on the priorities for deepening the decentralization reforms. These priorities include: (i) the clarification of
the roles and responsibilities between the state, the regional administrations, and municipalities; (ii)
adequate funding of all municipal mandates; (iii) tailoring the roles and responsibilities as well as the
funding to the types and sizes of local govemments; (iv) simplifying the tax nomenclature; (v) formalizing
links between communities and the govemance structure and increasing community involvement in decision
making, service provision and infrastructure investment; and (vi) promoting local development.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Adverse economic events led to a gradual devaluation of the national currency during the period before July
1998. The resulting price increases for imported construction materials exerted unbearable pressures on
the finances of construction companies. This led to a complete halt of activities on all AMEXTIPE
worksites for a period of approximately 18 months, which corresponds to the time it took to compensate the
contractors.
Several municipal elections took place during project implementation. As a result, several training and
dissemination efforts had to be repeated to ensure that new officials were familiar with project procedures
and management tools. The turnover of municipal officials also contributed to long delays in finalizing
subproject selection and approval.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There were several generic factors that contributed to delays in implementation and which ultimately
resulted in a need to extend the project by one year. The project experienced major payment delays, mainly
to foreign consultants, due to cumbersome foreign exchange control procedures. This led to a slow-down
in implementation of the institutional components, particularly those related to decentralization reform, as
completion of the study on this subject was delayed by about a year.
Compensation of contractors for tax and duty exemptions under the project was problematic during the
early stages of the project. This caused financial damages to contractors and reduced their willingness to
bid for AMEXTIPE contracts. T he problem was remedied in 1999 by introducing simpler procedures.
Changes in the allocation of land needed for the construction of subprojects slowed down implementation
as they altered the coherence of the PIPs, caused major revisions in design, cost increases, and delays.
These changes were often required as Govemors allocated the original sites to other beneficiaries. Land
management is a state responsibility despite the decentralization regulations in place. Lack of clear
responsibility in land allocation made it difficult to mobilize project sites and therefore resulting in delays in
works execution. Municipalities should be required to provide proof of irrevocable land transfer and
ownership before PIP approval. They should be made accountable for safeguarding the transferred land
- 10-



and liable for any additional costs resulting from any unjustifiable change in subproject location.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
AMEXTIPE was slow in adapting its organization and redeploying its staff to meet the challenges of an
increased volume of activity. It resisted use of intermittent consultants to reinforce its capacity during peak
workloads. It also resisted the recruitment of a quality control engineer to help control quality and train
both AMEXTIPE staff and private consulting firms to improve the quality of the studies and supervision.
An unresolved conflict about the organization of the technical department and the level of compensation of
its staff led to the sudden resignation of most project managers during a critical period of project
implementation. This massive and sudden resignation caused disturbances in the control and supervision of
subprojects under implementation, delayed the launching of new subprojects and caused unsatisfactory
implementation ratings in 1999.
Cooperation between AMEXTIPE and DCL in the implementation of the institutional and capacity
building component was not always good. Bank supervision teams had to intervene very often to solve
conflicts about activities and implementation schedules for the component.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Disbursements were slow during the early stages of project implementation due to several factors
mentioned elsewhere in this evaluation including: (i) AMEXTIPE focus on completing the IDA-financed
education project; (ii) the devaluation of the local currency (Ouguiya) which brought project
implementation to a halt; and (iii) cumbersome and lengthy procedures for compensation of tax exemptions;
(iv) AMEXTIPE redeploying its procedures and its organization to meet the challenges of an increased
workload.
Actual disbursements for the project under the IDA Credit is about 92 percent. The two cofinancing
initially identified materialized only partially (US$3.5 million (est.), versus US$6.4 million forecast).
However, an important amount of cofinancing (parallell financing) was identified later and made effective.
As of today, AMEXTIPE is implementing a US$35 million portfolio, representing 7 different programs
(agreements covering the 1997-2003 period, UDP not included).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Four major factors make sustainability likely:
*      The Govemment agreed to transform the "Fonds Regional de Developpement" (FRD) and
increase its amount fivefold. This will result in a net increase of transfers to municipalities of
between UM750 million (US$3 million) to one billion (US$4 million) a year, depending on the
amount that will be kept for spending at the discretion of the Ministry of Interior. This
increase will give municipalities the potential to sustain investments in amounts higher than
those under the Urban Infrastructure and Pilot Decentralization Project (DIU), which averaged
UM400 million per year. It will also improve their capacity to operate and maintain both
existing and new infrastructure. It should be noted that part of the transfers will be used to
finance recurrent expenses.
*      Local capacity to prepare investment plans and projects has been strengthened under the DIU,
and could be further developed if the level of activities requires it.
*      Delegation of contract management is currently an accepted practice and the transparent and
- 11 -



efficient procurement procedures put in place and widely known and accepted. AMEXTIPE
could be expanded or other "Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'lnteret Public"
(AGETIIP)-type project execution agencies easily created to handle an increased number of
projects. The recent creation of ADU is a confirmation of the institutionalization of delegation
of contract management.
The assets inventories undertaken through the DIU increased the awareness of both citizens
and decision-makers on the magnitude and geographic spread of under-serviced urban areas
and created a strong political will to improve livability in those neighborhoods and in urban
areas in general.  Under-serviced neighborhoods constitute about 30 to 35 percent of
Mauritanian cities. They are home to the poorest households in these cities. Imnproving the
living conditions in these neighborhoods is considered one of the pillars of the Government's
poverty alleviation efforts and is a priority clearly expressed in the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP). It is the rnain objective of the follow-on UDP.
Sustainability would have been further enhanced if the project achieved more progress in strengthening
municipal revenue collection as well as operation and maintenance capabilities. These issues will be more
aggressively dealt with under the UDP. Under UDP, investments in urban infrastructure are considered
public investments, the cost of which should be recovered through imnproved collection of the real estate tax
(taxe fonciere) and the residency tax (taxe d'habitation). The street addressing and plot numbering
activities completed under DIU will help improve such collection. Similarly, the municipalities agreed to
devolve the management of all revenue-generating assets envisaged under the project to the private sector.
Relevant trade associations expressed interest in managing these assets and participated in the studies
leading to their preliminary design. The projected rental fees will ensure acceptable financial and economic
rates of return.
Under the UDP, municipal investments will be intensified and will concern a larger number of cities. The
new Program attempts to move from a focus on subprojects to a focus on programs and program selection
criteria that take into account city-wide engagement, cost recovery, better assets management, along with
other considerations. More importantly, the program extends participatory approaches by including greater
community involvement in setting priorities and selecting programs, and the tools have been upgraded to
introduce new elements, such as the City Development Strategies developed for Nouakchott, Nouadhibou,
and Kaedi through a participatory process involving all stakeholders. The Association of Mauritanian
Mayors (AMM) will be included and funded to improve its training capacity and to integrate Mauritanian
municipalities into relevant regional and international infornation networks.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All infrastructure built has been transferred to its final beneficiaries and is currently in use. A high level of
appreciation for these infrastructures has been noted in the technical audit and no operation and
maintenance problems are foreseen.
Managemnent of revenue generating infrastructure has been in most cases devolved to the private sector or
trade associations. However, due to the delay in completing the institutional studies there are still no
unified procedures nor framework for concession of municipal infrastructure and services to the private
sector. Such procedures and frameworks could improve the financial return of such infrastructure and
ensure better enforcement of the concession contracts particularly as concems maintenance levels, hygiene,
etc.
It would be useful to conduct an assessment of the impact of the infrastructure built within approximately
two years with a view of distilling lessons for future design. Investigation of the following three aspects
- 12 -



could be quite valuable: (i) ways to deepen and enlarge the impact of the infrastructure built; (ii) ways to
leverage municipal management and financial capacity with greater involvement of cormmunities and the
private sector in service provision and in infrastructure; and (iii) ways to promote local economic
development and ensure sustained investment in urban infrastructure.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance at identification, preparation, and appraisal was satisfactory. As noted earlier, a
participatory approach was adopted and lessons were drawn from other projects with similar objectives.
Access to two Project Preparation Facility (PPFs) provided an opportunity to pilot the urban management
tools and enhanced readiness for implementation. Correspondence during project preparation revealed
thorough discussion of important issues, such as selection of subprojects, implementation arrangements,
and level of municipal counterpart funds. Conditions for negotiations and effectiveness were simple,
pertinent and satisfied on time.
The staff mix and continuity at preparation and appraisal were adequate. Urban planners, engineers, and
municipal finance specialists provided the core expertise. Peer reviewers and other Bank staff provided
valuable inputs.
7.2 Supervision:
The quality of supervision is rated satisfactory.
There was continuity in supervision. The same task team leader conducted the supervision mission from
the start of the project until the original project's closing date, accompanied, as needed, by other staff.
Supervision missions were carried out regularly, except during the extension year when only one partial
supervision mission took place. The new task team leader (assigned to the project shortly before the project
closing) conducted the ICR mission in February 2002.
A mid-term evaluation was carried out in February 1999. Prior to that, the project's performance and the
component ratings were satisfactory to highly satisfactory.  Project components ratings changed to
unsatisfactory at mid-term for the works and the management component, due to slow levels of
implementation. Shortly after mid-term AMEXTIPE prepared an action plan satisfactory to IDA and the
ratings were upgraded to satisfactory by the end of 2000 as the pace of implementation improved.
The aide-memoires of supervision missions were usually thorough. Problems were identified in a timely
fashion and recommendations for solving them were consistently provided. Supervision teams provided
prompt comments on term of reference (TORs) and major institutional studies. They also provided
relevant advice for solving payment problems, evaluating compensations to construction companies
following the local currency devaluation, and simplifying the procedures for payment of tax and duty
exemptions. They maintained a constant dialogue with municipal authorities and the Ministry of Interior
on decentralization and municipal development issues.
The project was subject to two quality of supervision assessments. They both rated the quality of
supervision as satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performnance:
Overall bank performance was satisfactory, with Bank staff cooperating closely with the Govemment DCL
and AMEXTIPE in advancing the agenda of the project and developing a longer term vision. This
- 13 -



culmninated in the design of the UDP which builds on the work carried out under the DIU.
Review of the correspondence during preparation indicated a thorough discussion of the major issues
surrounding the design of the project and the delineation of its focus. Issues discussed included the
selection criteria for subprojects and participating municipalities, counterpart funding, the definition of the
respective roles of municipalities, DCL, and AMEXTIPE, content and validation process of city
perfornance contracts, and Municipal and conmmunity responsibilities for subproject selection.
Appropriate expertise was assembled for project preparation and appraisal. The urban planning and
management tools were pilot tested in Nouakchott and Nouhadibou during project preparation. A
prominent international consultant led the effort, developed appropriate procedure manuals, and trained
local consultants in the use of these tools.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation*
Borrower participation is rated satisfactory. The Government set interministerial and other committees to
pilot project preparation and promulgated a municipal policy declaration that served as a basis for the
dialogue with IDA. It committed to the legal covenants and promptly satisfied the conditions for
negotiations and effectiveness.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance was satisfactory.
The Government fulfilled its commitments under the project and insured the full autonomy of AMEXTIPE.
Counterpart funds were provided in a timely fashion and all covenants were respected with the exception
of: (i) the delegation of contract management law covenant, which was only partly fulfilled (a draft law and
enabling decrees governing delegation of contract management have been prepared, but have not yet been
promulgated); and (ii) AMM. With respect to the AMM, the covenant has also been partially fulfilled.
While the AMM, did not receive funding under the project it did receive assistance from other sources,
such as sister cities. Capacities of the AMM to play a more meaningful role have improved but still need
more development.
When solicited, the Government was very responsive and promptly solved the issues brought to its
attention, such as the payment procedure for tax and duty exemptions to contractors.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Review of the financial and technical audits and the PSRs revealed that the implementing agency has
accumulated some delays in reporting and in project implementation culminating around mid term as
AMEXTIPE focused its effort during that period on completing the IDA-financed education project.
However, corrective actions were taken as part of AMEXTIPE action plan and investment targets in the
works component were substantially reached by the extended closing date. The financial audits raised no
particular issues and the technical audits confirmed adherence to procurement and project selection
procedures. AMEXTIPE consistently lowered its costs. It moved from a cost reimbursement regime to a
fixed fee regime (8% of disbursements) in early 1997.
The performance of AMEXTIPE on procurement and administration of the institutional component was
less satisfactory. Disbursement for this component was 71 percent of projections as of May 9, 2002.
Quality of construction and engineering studies was a recurring issue. Procurement errors were noticed
- 14 -



during peak periods, but were corrected before a no-objection was granted. Several contracts were
cancelled for lack of performance.  Supervision of construction by both AMEXTIPE and project
supervisory contractors is still weak. Concerning the latter point, it should be noted that the contracts
amounts were very small (about US$80,000 on average) and the pace of construction was very slow. The
cost of proper supervision would have been excessive for such contracts.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall performance and participation of the Borrower during preparation and implementation were
satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The project has clearly demonstrated that the delegation of contract management and reliance on private
consultants are powerful and successful means of leveraging the otherwise limnited municipal capabilities.
In this project, municipalities teamed up with AMEXTIPE and private consultants to identify infrastructure
needs, prepare investment programs, and select, design, and execute subprojects. This partnership was
effective in that consultants and AMEXTIPE alike contributed technical know-how and professionalism,
while municipalities provided intimate knowledge of the preferences of their constituencies. It allowed
municipalities to leverage their otherwise weak capacities.
Both municipalities and DCL needed a minimum core in-house capacity in order to be able to effectively
use the management tools introduced by the project (city performance contracts and audits). Organizing
and staffing the relevant vital services of municipalities and DCL and building their capacities should have
accompanied the introduction of these tools or even preceded it.
Enhancing the competitiveness of local construction and engineering firms requires sustained efforts by an
appropriate mix of specialized institutions. Such responsibility is well beyond the scope of AMEXTIPE
and is incongruent with the need to enforce stringent post qualification and other selection criteria needed to
ensure quality, low cost, and timeliness. Similarly the creation of new construction and engineering firms
should be commensurate with corresponding increases in the level of activity in the sector. Adopting
performance criteria such as the number of enterprises winning a contract may be incongruent with the
need to ensure turnovers allowing the sustainability, and growth of these enterprises.
AMEXTIPE had the primary responsibility for the implementation of institutional and capacity building
component, under a delegation of contract management mode. The lack of real involvement of the DCL in
implementation was an important source of conflict between both institutions, caused excessive delays and
required numerous actions that diverted AMEXTIPE from its main activities. Adequate involvement of the
Government in institutional and capacity building component is required to ease the implementation of the
reform program.
Although devaluation of the Ouguiya was difficult to forecast, specific mechanisms should have been
identified earlier to mitigate a potential devaluation and shorten the reaction time of the implementing
agency.
Some indicators selected during project preparation were not appropriately defined and their target not
realistically estimated. More attention should be paid to a proper definition of the set of indicators to make
sure that they will really reflect the achievements of the project.
- 15-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
On 'the overall, the project has been successfully implemented. Under the infrastructure component, 149
sub-projects have been carried out, benefitting 13 communes, and generating thousands of jobs. Despite a
difficult environment (construction materials prices constantly increasing, weak capacity of firms in the
construction sector, ...) the key performance indicators are being rated as satisfactory. On the institutional
side, the studies undertaken under the project have contributed to the deepening of the decentralization
process carried out by the Government. Urban and municipal management tools were also developed
during project implementation.
AMEXTIPE's role was important in: (i) generalizing the principles of competition and transparency in the
execution of contracts; (ii) the emergence of private operators in the construction sector and the increase in
competitiveness of enterprises as well as (iii) the realization of a broad socioeconomic infrastructure
program.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments from KfW: The program "Decentralisation et Developpement Communale" under KfW
financing, which is part of the Urban Infiastructure and Pilot Decentralization Project, has suffered some
delay in implementation after the signature of the financing contract in November 1999. This delay was
primarily due to the difficulties that the communes had concerning the elaboration of proposals for
investment sub-projects financing with respect to the urban development plans, and the parliamentary
elections of the previous year, which absorbed the administrative capacities of the conmnunes during most
of the year 2001. The current calendar of the project envisages bidding invitations to be launched without
delay and completion of the construction works by June 2003.
No comments were received from CIDA.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
None.
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Category                        Indicator                          Pro ect
SAR        Actual
Beneficiary       No. of conventions of delegated contract           150        *125
management
Works             No. of contracts signed (design, supervision,      300         420
works)
Payment           % payment to contractors within 30 days of          95         NA
invoice
Jobs              No. of man-months generated                     20,000      46000
Private sector    No. of contractors which have won at least one     240        **93
development       contract
No. of consultants which have won at least one       70        **35
contract
Municipal         No. of investment priority programs set up          20          26
development       No. of Municipal contracts signed                   20       *** 13
Source: AMEXTIPE
* including 9 conventions which have been signed but later cancelled
* Adapted from AM EXTIPE's evaluation report, June 2002
*   These contracts have been amended yearly until 1999
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Appraisal                                                   % of
PROJECT COMPONENTS            estimate               ACTUAL (US million)                appraisal
(US million)                                               estimate
IDAGo     v. & Benef.I Others2     Total
Investment program                   20.050     10.446        2.089      1.091     13.626       68%
Works                                17.000      7.408        2.074      1.010     10.493       62%
Equipment                             0.400      0.644        0.000      0.000      0.644      161%
Management costs                      2.250      1.979        0.015      0.081      2.075       92%
Sudies                                0.400      0.415        0.000      0.000      0.415      104%
Municipal capacity building           1.770      0.625        0.000      0.000      0.625       35%
Planning tools                        0.840      0.266        0.000      0.000      0.266       32%
Management audits                     0.780      0.188        0.000      0.000      0.188       24%
Training                              0.130      0.171        0.000      0.000      0.171      131%
Municipal PM                          0.020      0.000        0.000      0.000X     0.000        00/a
National level capacity building      1.280      0.764        0.000      0.000      0.764       60%
DCL                                   0.610      0.307        0.000      0.000      0.307       50%/o
Studies                               0.670      0.457        0.000      0.000      0.457       68%
Non allocated                         0.900
Total with original cofinanciers     24.000     11.834        2.089      3.500     17.423       73%
Other co- or parallel financing                                         35.000
TOTAL                         |      24.0001    11.8341       2.0891    38.5001    52.4231     218%
X Beneficiairy contribution is calculated based on an average exchange rate of I US$ = 238 UM and include counterpart funds
(i) DIU U$1.593 million, (ii) KfW US$0.118 million; (iii) ACDI US$0.073 million; and (iv) tax refunds by Govemment
US$0 29 million.
I Original cofinancing includes (i) Canadian funded "Programme de lutte contre la pauvrete dans les quartiers peipheriques de
Nouakchott" US$0.505 million; and (it) KfW "Programme allemand d'Appui aux Collectivites Locales: US$3. 144 million.
Other co- or parallel financing include all operations through AMEXTIPE for the period 1997-2003, including IDA-financed
operations, but excluding the UDP Credit).
Source: AMEXTIPE
Project Costs by expenditure category (actual in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure category            IIDA       Gov. &       Total
Contribution Benficiairy
contribution
1. Grants under part A                 7.408       1.883       9.292
2. Consultant services                 2.349                   2.349
3. Goods and vehicules                 0.644                   0 0.644
4. AMEXTIPE operating expenses         0.881       0.127       1.008
5. Refunding ofPPF                     0.121                   0.121
6. Unallocated
SA-A                                   0.431                   0.431
Total                                11.834        2.011     13.845
Source: AMEXTIPE
- 18 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
An economic analysis was done at the time of appraisal, but no ex-post evaluation was carried out at the
time of ICR. However, for the preparation of the Urban Development Program, an economic analysis was
carried out on similar investments. The results confirmed the economic feasibility of the sub-projects
(economic rate of return (ERR): water supply - 16 percent; markets - 13 percent and roads - 32 percent.
-19-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
MonthWYear    Count          Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
0211994                     2   Construction Specialist/TL,
Research Assistant
05/1994                     3   Construction SpecialistlTL,
Transport Specialist,
Urban/Agetip Specialist
10/1994                    2    Construction SpecialisttTL,
Research Assistant
03/1995                     5   Construction SpecialistlTL,
Urban Division Chief, Urban
Planner, Municipal Finance
Specialist, Research Assistant
07/1995                     4   Construction Specialist/TL,
Urban Division Chief, Urban
Planner, Research Assistant
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/1995                     1   Construction SpecialistlTL
(all preparatory works were
handled in the previous
mission)
Supervision
06/1996                     5   Construction SpecialistSTL,       HS           HS
Urban Planner, Municipal
Finance Specialist, Research
Assistant, Consultant
11/1996                     1   Highway EngineerlTL               HS           HS
03/1997                     2   Highway Engineer/TL,              HS           HS
Municipal Finance Specialist
06/1997                     1   Highway Engineer/TL               HS           HS
10/1997                     2   Highway Engineer/TL,              HS           HS
Principal Urban Specialist
03/1998                     2   Highway Engineer/TL, Financial    S             S
Specialist
06/1998                     1   Highway EngineerlTL               S             S
11/1998                     2   Highway Engineer/TL,              S             S
Institutional and Finance
Consultant
02/1999                     5   Highway Engineer/TL, Urban        U             S
Planner, Principal Procurement
Specialist, Financial Analyst,
Institutional and Finance
Consultant
05/1999                     2   Highway Engineer/TL,              U             S
Institutional and Finance
Consultant
-20 -



11/1999                    5   Highway Engineer/TL, Urban       U            U
Planner (2), Economist,
Financial Specialist, Institutional
and Finance Consultant
07/2000                    4   Highway Engineer/TL, Urban       S             S
Planner, Procurement Specialist,
Institutional and Finance
Consultant
10/2000                    4   Highway Engineer/TL, Urban       S            S
Planner, Procurement Specialist,
Institutional and Finance
Consultant
02/2001                    1   Highway Engineer/TL
ICR
01/2002                    5    Senior Municipal                S             S
Engineer/TL, Urban
Planner, Procurement
Specialist, Disbursement
Assistant, Urban Consultant
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             58.0                     139.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                  21.6                      52.7
Supervision                            84.6                     258.4
ICR                                     7.0                      18.0
Total                                 171.2                     468.2
-21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM       O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                       O H  OSU*M       O N  O NA
N Physical                              OH   *SUOM       O N  O NA
M Financial                             OH   *SUOM       O N  O NA
M Institutional Development             0 H  * SU O M    O N  0 NA
Li Environmental                        O H  OSUOM       O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction               O H  O SU * M   O N   O NA
Oi Gender                         OH OSUOM ON * NA
L Other (Please specify)          OH   OSUOM      ON    * NA
F Private sector development            0 H  0 SU 0 M    0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management              O H   * SU O M   O N  0 NA
LiOther (Please specify)                O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
0 Lending                                           OHSOS OLU OHU
Z Supervision                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS       OU    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
0 Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS O S     O U   0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       O U    O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS       OU     O HU
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
World Bank Mission Aide-memoire (February 2002)
Technical Evaluation Report - Prepared by consultant Babaly Deme (March 2002)
Final Completion Report - Prepared by AMEXTIPE (June 2002)
- 24 -



- 25 -






IBRD 25935
I      I                          I]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
18           16-          14           12          10n             Former -O. ,2
At antic Span-nh  *   ALGERIA
Ocean  ,Sohatroi
MAURITANIA                                            )    0'MAURITANIA          MALI
PRIMARY ROADS                               /M A L IN         h
SECONDARY ROADS                                           _      Neo.o.   *Iotbooutj
TRACKS                                  ,*. SENEGAL                           NIGER
RAILROADS                             -              Doko,    /         -   \*  NIGER
O   SELECTED TOWNS                                         G GNBEA-    *      *    toft\ 
-IS M  GUINEA            IN 
 REGION CAPITALS                  ..                     ISAU                      A UNA~
28, ~   AIRPORTS               M-D__R_0CC0                I  Cak,y__\ '_iE DIVOIRE    > 
28'                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~28'
PORTS                                                    8      The -h-  -dor-e- -c--lor-,8dThob-d--t -n-
-  -   REGION BOUNDARIES                                     To Trndoof  and- ter torot, simon on
INTERNATIONAL                                                      t,h mop do no- mply, on lie prtr ol
BOUNDARIES                                        -/  .       on t qe legnI ta of.W , er-y ierrmt nt
any endor-ement o r-cceptoce of
-oo  b-ud-tin
26         100    200   300                   I __ - - -                         ALGERIA      26-
KILOMETERS                                     Am  Ben TtI,
A,4  I a1 nti c                    rTo La'Youn  Bir Mogrein  -'                 ''N
Ocean              X FORM ER                          TIRIS
-24'                v     SPA NISH          !         ZEMMOUR                                 24-
SAHARA           I
'd& k  Zou6rat        -- -- -i
To6f,  T rine.        1/               ;
,                 I ~~~~~~~~~~To61il2 '                                    22__
22j                                                                                           22-
Nou6adhib Eo                                                                      \
la Goudrr*               /       ,     ,_Oodn 
DAKHLET                At Tla>W          A D       R A R/ C
l8i NOUADHI jU                                          - -- t|
Nou6m9h6rO    ,    IJ                    /i
' ,?rp  2_  L  _   .g 4                 jHODH ECH 
-itoLaIn                           / " TAGANT
eJ  - A9ul161 Fol Tamaso/  'T'~1Kdjik'a -_ oTc-    C H ARG U I
/| SULoumis~-~ L o  h    eo_I Ab  d> t         ' .. F., ):dg I 1   a
NOUAKCHOTT;  I, , 
ARA-                                      16 Koo       H     i / 2        i      Bosstkoonool  16'
,/                           o  P S '&)5Lib,,bi ; 
9 - >       S E N E G A L   Gouroye f                              M   A  L I
St~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~yO el Al/O
P 140  180   1IKII  16 ~    14'          12) 101'                    89            60       4'
el A 6io -  d3 1-  \  l                      EEBRUARY 1995









IMAGING
Report No.:         24302
Type:     ICR



