Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                      CREDIT NUMBER 2835 MAU
                              Project Agreement
          (Urban Infrastructure and Pilot Decentralization Project)
                                  between
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                    and
                 AGENCE MAURITANIENNE D'EXECUTION DES TRAVAUX
                        D'INTERET PUBLIC POUR L'EMPLOI
                                 (AMEXTIPE)
                            Dated April 16, 1996
                                                     CREDIT NUMBER 2835 MAU
                             PROJECT AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated April 16, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and AGENCE
MAURITANIENNE D'EXECUTION DES TRAVAUX D'INTERET PUBLIC POUR
L'EMPLOI (AMEXTIPE).
       WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement, of even
date herewith, between Islamic Republic of Mauritania (the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to nine million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 9,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
AMEXTIPE agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association, as are set forth in this Agreement;
       (B) by a Convention entered into between the Borrower and
AMEXTIPE on December 9, 1992, as amended pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement, the proceeds of
the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement
will be made available to AMEXTIPE on the terms and conditions
set forth in said Convention; and
       WHEREAS AMEXTIPE, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Page  2
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in
this Agreement;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                             Definitions
       Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement , the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                             ARTICLE II
                       Execution of the Project
       Section 2.01.  AMEXTIPE declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering,
environmental and public works practices, and shall cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
       Section 2.02. (a) AMEXTIPE undertakes that, unless the
Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, Sub-
projects shall be selected, appraised, financed and carried out
in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
       (b) AMEXTIPE shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Sub-project in such a manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of  the Borrower, the Association and AMEXTIPE; (ii) comply
with its obligations under this Agreement and the Convention,
and (iii) achieve the purposes of Part A of the Project.
       Section 2.03. Except as the Association and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
       Section 2.04.  AMEXTIPE shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement.
       Section 2.05.  AMEXTIPE shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Convention.  Except as the Association
and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, AMEXTIPE shall not take
or concur in any action  which would have the effect of
assigning, amending, abrogating, or waiving the Convention, or
any provision thereof.
       Section 2.06. (a) AMEXTIPE shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, under the  Convention, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
       (b)   AMEXTIPE shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by AMEXTIPE of its obligations
under this Agreement, and under the Convention.
       (c)   Without limitation to the generality of the
Page  3
foregoing, AMEXTIPE shall participate in the annual reviews and
the midterm review referred to in paragraphs (3) and (4),
respectively, of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement
and, to this end, shall: (i) furnish to the Borrower and the
Association such reports as may be required for that purpose,
and in such detail as the Borrower or the Association shall
reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project;
and (ii) following each such review, promptly take, or assist
the Borrower in taking, any corrective action deemed necessary
to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the
Project, or to implement, or assist the Borrower in
implementing, such other measures as may have been agreed upon
between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the
Project.
       Section 2.07 (a)  Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.02 of the General Conditions and, except as the
Association and the Borrower may otherwise agree, AMEXTIPE
shall carry out, by semester and annually, a technical and
management audit of the Project according to terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association.  The  audits of the first
semester of each fiscal year shall contain a detailed
description of the implementation of Sub-projects, training
programs and studies, and the status of procurement performance
under the Project, and assess the compliance with the rules and
procedures specified in the Convention,  and the laws and
regulations applicable in the territory of the Borrower; the
annual audit shall focus notably on the quality of services
rendered by the Project, the quality of supervision, and the
relation between AMEXTIPE, the Implementing Enterprises and the
various entities associated with the implementation of the
Project at the national and local level.
       (b)   AMEXTIPE shall, not later than four months after the
end of each first semester, and five months after the end of
each annual period referred to in subparagraph (a) above,
furnish to the Association the reports of said management and
technical audit, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
                              ARTICLE III
                   Management and Operations of AMEXTIPE
       Section 3.01. (a) AMEXTIPE shall carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and
public works practices, and under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
       (b)   AMEXTIPE shall ensure that the positions of its
director general, technical director and financial director
shall be filled at all times by persons with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Association.
       Section 3.02. AMEXTIPE shall at all times operate and
maintain its equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound financial and
technical practices.
       Section 3.03. AMEXTIPE shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a) AMEXTIPE shall maintain procedures
Page  4
adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project and
of each Sub-project and to reflect, in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices, its
operations and financial condition.
       (b)   AMEXTIPE shall:
             (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of
                   income and expenses and related statements),
                   including those for the Special Account,
                   audited each semester, and annually, in
                   accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                   consistently applied, by independent auditors
                   acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than four
                   months after the audit period at the end of the
                   first semester of the fiscal year  and five
                   months after the end of each annual audit
                   period: (A) certified copies of its financial
                   statements for such audit period as so audited,
                   and (B) the report of such audit by said
                   auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
                   the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
           (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and financial statements as well as the audit
                   thereof, as the Association shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                       Cancellation and Suspension
       Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
       Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of AMEXTIPE thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
             (i)   the date on which the Development Credit
                   Agreement shall terminate in accordance with
                   its terms; or
             (ii)  the date fifteen years after the date of this
                   Agreement.
       (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall
promptly notify AMEXTIPE of this event.
       Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
       Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement
between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by
Page  5
mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which
it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
         For the Association:
             International Development Association
             1818 H Street, NW
             Washington, DC 20433
             United States of America
             Cable address:                   Telex:
                   INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, DC              82987 (FTCC)
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                              197688 (TRT)
       For AMEXTIPE:
             Agence d'Execution des Travaux
             d'Interet Public
             pour l'Emploi
             B.P. 5234
             Nouakchott, Republique Islamique de Mauritanie
                                              Facsimile:
                                              (222) -2- 575 13
       Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any document required or permitted to be executed,
under this Agreement on behalf of AMEXTIPE, or by AMEXTIPE on
behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement,
may be taken or executed by the Director General of AMEXTIPE,
or such other person or persons as the Director General shall
designate in writing, and AMEXTIPE shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
       Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
                                                    Regional Vice President
                                                                     Africa
                         AGENCE D'EXECUTION DES TRAVAUX
                         D'INTERET PUBLIC POUR L'EMPLOI
                         By /s/ Amadou Diaw
                                                  Authorized Representative
Page  6
                                   SCHEDULE 1
                      Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:    Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:      General
       Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.
Part B:      International Competitive Bidding
       Except as otherwise provided in Part D of this Section,
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with provisions of Sections II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:      Preferences
1.     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
       In the procurement of goods, in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in
the territory of the Borrower may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions
of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1
through 6 of Appendix 2 thereto.
2.     Preference for Domestic Contractors
       In the procurement of works in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant
a margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and
2.55 of the Guidelines and paragraph 7 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D.      Other Procurement Methods
1.     Limited International Bidding
       Vehicles and computers up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $480,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.     National Competitive Bidding
       Works estimated to cost less than $ 250,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,240,000
equivalent, and goods estimated to cost up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines and the regulations of
the Manual of Procedures.
3.     Shopping
A.     International Shopping
Goods, for which less than five suppliers acceptable to the
Association are to be found in the territory of the Borrower,
and estimated to cost less $20,000 per contract and , up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $80,000 may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines and the regulations of
the Manual of Procedures.
Page  7
B.     National Shopping
       Goods, for which at least five suppliers acceptable to the
Association are to be found in the territory of the Borrower,
and estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $40,000
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines and the
regulations of the Manual of Procedures.
Part II  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.        Procurement Planning
          Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for Sub-projects to be
carried out during the following six months (covering the
period July 1 through December 31, and January 1 through June
3o, respectively) shall be furnished annually, prior to
December 31 and  June 30, respectively, of each year until the
completion of the Project, to the Association for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with
the provisions of said paragraph.
2.        Prior Review
          With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, and works: (i) to cost
the equivalent of $250,000 or more, and (ii) for which less
than five bidders have submitted acceptable bids, or, as the
case may be, (iii) the lowest acceptable evaluated bid has not
been selected, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.        Post Review
          With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.     Employment of Consultants
1.        Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultant' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the
Association shall be used.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Association review shall not apply to: (i) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (ii) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (iii) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (iv) amendments to
Page  8
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (v)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
                             SCHEDULE 2
   Terms and Conditions of Grants for Sub-projects under Part A
                         of the Project
1.     Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in
carrying out Part A of the Project, AMEXTIPE shall apply the
procedures and guidelines set out in the Manual of Procedures
and AMEXTIPE shall not amend, abrogate or waive the Manual or
any provision thereof, which in the opinion of the
Association, will materially or adversely affect the
implementation of Part A of the Project.
Eligibility Criteria for Sub-projects
2.     Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1
above, Sub-projects shall be eligible for financing out of
the proceeds of the Credit only if such Sub-projects have
been reviewed and approved by the Borrower and the
Association in accordance with paragraph (2) of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement, and meet the following
eligibility criteria:
       (a)   Sub-projects referred to in Part A, paragraph (1)
of Schedule 2 to the Developement Credit Agreement shall have
an economic rate of return of at least 12%;
       (b)   Sub-projects referred to in Part A, paragraph (2)
of Schedule 2 to the Developement Credit Agreement, shall
have been requested by the Ministry of Education;
       (c)   Sub-projects referred to in Part A, paragraph (3)
of Schedule 2 to the Developement Credit Agreement, shall be
justified because of scarcity of existing Sub-projects of the
same category in the same economic zone;
       (d)   Sub-projects referred to in Part A, paragraph (4)
of Schedule 2 to the Developement Credit Agreement, provided
that: (i) total cost for each Sub-project  under this
category shall not surpass hundred million Ouguiya  (UM
100,000,000) for N&N, and fifty million Ouguiya (UM
50,000,000) for all other Municipalities; (ii)  the financial
rate of return  shall be at least 15%; (iii) the Sub-project
is intended to be manged by private operators, and (iv) an
environmental assessment for the Sub-project, satisfactory to
the Association, has been completed; and
       (e)   Sub-projects referred to in Part A, paragraph (5)
of Schedule 2 to the Developement Credit Agreement, shall
have an expected additional tax revenue, over the next three
years, up to a minimum equivalent to at least 200% over the
cost of investment for such operation.
Terms and Conditions of Grants
3.     The amount of each Grant to be made for the benefit of a
Municipality to finance a Sub-project shall be determined on
the basis of the following criteria:
       (a)   the type of Sub-project in question;
       (b)   the size and financial strength of the
Municipality; and
       (c)   the contribution to be made by the Municipality out
of its own resources towards the financing of the Sub-project
Page  9
set forth below:
       (i)   Subprojects under Part A of the Project, paragraph
(1) of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, 25% by
N&N and 10% by all other Municipalities;
       (ii)  Subprojects under Part A of the Project, paragraph
(2) of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, 25% by
all Municipalities;
       (iii)  Subprojects under Part A of the Project,
paragraph (3) of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement, 20% by N&N and 10% by all other Municipalities;
       (iv)   Subprojects under Part A of the Project, paragraph
(4) of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, 50% by
N&N and 25% by all other Municipalities;
       (v)    Subprojects under Part A of the Project,
paragraph (5) of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement, 10% by all Municipalities.
4.     AMEXTIPE shall not disburse the proceeds of any Grant
unless  it has been furnished evidence satisfactory to it
that the Municipality has deposited its financial
contribution to the Sub-project for which a Grant is to be
made into the Project Account.
Implementation of Sub-project under Part A of the Project
5.     Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, each Municipality for which a Grant is to be
made shall delegate the authority for the carrying out of the
Project to AMEXTIPE.
6.     Thereafter, AMEXTIPE shall enter into Sub-project
Agreements with the Implementing Agency selected by AMEXTIPE
to carry out the Sub-project which shall include provisions
giving it rights adequate to protect its interest and those
of the Municipality, the Borrower and the Association,
including as appropriate the right to:
          (a)      require the Implementing Agency to carry out
the Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate technical, environmental,
financial and commercial practices and to maintain adequate
records, and to provide, promptly as needed, the fund,
facilities and other resources required for this purpose;
          (b)      require that the works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit under a Sub-project shall be procured
according to the provisions of Part E of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
          (c)      inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Association, DCL or the Municipality
concerned by the Sub-project, if the Association, DCL or the
Municipality concerned by the Sub-project shall so request, the
works, plans and construction sites included in the Sub-
project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents; and
          (d)      obtain all such information as the Association,
DCL or the Municipality concerned by the Sub-project shall
reasonably request, relating to the administration, operations
and financial conditions of the Sub-project.
Page  10
