MICROFICHE COPY
Report No, :P- 5841-BO    Type: (PR)
Title:  ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNICP,L ASSI5Slt
o-                                            Author: VASILIADES, I.
Ext.:319 Z3 Room:15 005 Dept.:LA3DR
P (A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
sr
g
O'
f                                   I                                          0
II                                                                                        I
A                                                                                           v
$'



CURRANCY AND            L
Currency Unit - Boliviano (Bs)
Exchange Rate Effective June 1992
US$1.00 = Bs 3.8992
US$0.2665 = Bs 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA
ECAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASEO       -    Asociacion Ecologica del Oriente
CDC        -    Centro de Datos para la Conservacion
aEC        -    Intedisciplinary Center for Community Studies
DNAPVS   -    National Directorate for Protected
Areas
EAP        -    Environmental Action Plan
ECC        -    Environmental Congressional Commissions
ETA        -    Environmental Impact Assessment
FAN        -    Friends of Naure Foundation
FONAMA  -    Fondo Nacional Para El Medio Ambiente
(National Emnronmental Fund)
GET        -    Global Environment Trust Fund
GOB        -    Government of Bolivia
LIDEMA   -    Liga para la Deensa del Medio Ambiente
MACA       -    Ministry of Agriculture
SDC        -    Swiss Development Cooperation
SEMTA    -    Servicios Multiples de Tecnologias Apropiadas
SENMA    -    Secretaria Nacional del Medio Ambiente
(National Envionment Secreariat)
SNAP       -    National System of Protected Areas
TFAP       -    Tropical Forestry Action Plan
UNDP       -    United Nations Development Program



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
BOL V'
RONMBTE TECCA ASSISANCE ER0M (EA
Credit and ProWect ,aEY
Borxws:        Republic of Bolivia
National Environentl Secretaia (SENMA), National
Environmeal Fund (FONAMA), line ministe and NGOs
Amount:       SDR 3.3 mIlion (US$4.8 miion equivalent)
ZeTms:       Standard IIDA term
Elnaing Plan        Government                    US$0.5 million
VDA                          US$4.8 mfllion
NGOs and Beneficiary
)mmunlties                  US$0.2 milion
TOTAL                        US$5.5 million
Economi Rate gf Reuz         N.A.
Staff A   gurais n Report: N.A.
IBRD 24Q1I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipien, Jinty in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witho' Worl I Bank authorization.



m=AiND         - IONx or 233 F3BSDUU
Fo Tim      DUV3ZiOPIN_Soca
On a 1a39153 CR392
20 233 RIPUBLIC Or ROLM&I
1.   I submit for your approval the following  eordum and recomedation
on a proposed development credit to the Republic of Bolivia for SDR 3.3
million (US$4.8 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with a maturity of
40 years to help finance an environmental technical assistance project.
Backoround and RIv 3nvIronMntal Issues
2.   Bolivia has maintained masroeeonoml  stabllity since 1985, and the
growth rate of CDP has recently accelerated (reaching 4 1% in 1991) such that
per capita income is growing. Wlth the support of the Bank, the IM  and
several bllateral donors, the Government continues to pursue a comprehensive
rogram of structural reforms. The progres achieved to date and the agenda
for on-going reforms is fully documented in the recent Pollcy Framework Paper
and the Updating UconomLc Memorandum.TM
3.   Having stabilLzed its economy, Bolivia must now focus on stimulating
Linreased growth and poverty reduction. Incom growth will depend in part on
suitable use of and invewtments in Bolivia's abundant supply of natural
resources (hydrocarbons, mlnerals, extensive forests -th eighth largest
tropical forst in the world- and sizeable stretches of land suitable for crop
and livestock production) particularly in the Nastern Lowlands. The overall
development of its resources however, has not been managed in accordance with
sound practices or in the context of clear policy guidelines for sustainable
development and conservation.
4.    DeforestatLon, soil orosion, water pollution and loss of natural
habitat aro the key environmental problems. DeforestatiL estimates range
from 80,000 to 140,000 hectares annually. 8il *rosd on, a consequence of
deforestation, geologlcal formations (in the Andes), drought, and overuse of
land, affects 30-40% of the total territory of the country. Water .ollution
caused by household waste water and industrial waste dlicharger especially
from mines, poses serious health hazards to a wlde cross-section of the
BolivLan population. Bollvla is also losing its unique flora and fauna
resources, mainly as a conseqence of deforestation, contraband trade, and
migration to the Lowlands. Indiscriminate land clearing, road construction,
poor utilization of land, water and forest resource threaten the
sustainability of agriculture, forestry and biodiversity. Key constraints to
improved environmental management includes (i) lnadequate policy, legal and
I/  8ee BOLrMIV    Policy Framework Paper, 1992-95, SecM92-1144, August 19,
1992, and BOLIVIA: Updating UconomLc Xemorandum, Report No. 11133-BO, October
8, 1992.



I
regulatory frameworks (Ui) weak institutional structures, along with the
absnce of clear'_ dsf ned responsibilities for environmental protection and
management  and (III) perhaps most importantly, a severe shortage of technical
capacity.
Institutional and Leaal Framework
5.   Inht  ±uL=gM Lral-warA.  The Government of Bolivia, NGOs, and
international funding agents combine with local community groups and
indigenous peoples to make up the protagonists in onvironmental protection
efforts. In the institutional context of the Bolivian Government, each
ministry has some involvement with environment-related activities, e.g.
through finance, investments, policy making, education, justice, etc. The
principal ministries with direct responsibilities include: ministries of
Agriculture, Social services and Public Health, Education and Culture, Mines
and Metallurgy, Xnergy and Hydrocarbons, Urban Planning and Housing, Exports
and Economic Competitiveness, Transportation and Planning and Coordination.
In addition, the government structure incaudes a second level of public
institutions that work at the sub-national level. This Includes the Regional
Development Corporations located in the nine Departments, responsible for
overseeing and guiding development within their respective territory, and the
non-autonomous units within existing ministries that are guided directly from
the headquarters. An important constraint to environmental management is the
absence of communication and coordination among the principal environmental
actors. In particular, at the Government level there is no distinct
coordinating mechanism across ministries and the private sector. Overlapping
NCO activities demonetrate the lack of coordination and clear policy focus.
6.    Leal and Reuatorv Pramewok.  Prior to April 1992, when the broad
Environmental Law was approved, Bolivia had no legal structure for
environmental m      et.  The legal/regulatory system is inefficient.  There
are approximately 174 laws, regulations, decrees and resolutions, often
overlapping and wlth conflicting provisions. At the same time there is an
absence of enforcement mechanisms, and lack of budgetary resources and
qualified expertLe. In many cases, laws governing key activities such as
mining and timber harvesting have few, if any, provisions that would encourage
sustainable resource management or prrtect public health and the environment.
7.      N.gxgatMnz   Initiati.m.  The Government's awareness of the need to
address environmental issues supported by concerned citizens, EGO groups and
donor agencies has led to the following recent-initiativess (i) an
Environmental Action Plan (UAP) establishes a permanent environmental planning
process, identlfies key environmental issues, incorporates public
participation as an essential element in environmental plannlng, guides the
actions of government agencies, the private sector and NOfs and promotes
envlronmental planning at the national, regional and local level; (Li) the
Ntional 2X&Wnmnal 8wrotariat (UENMA), established in January 1991 under
the Office of the President, is responsible for formulating environmental
policies, monitoring and coordinatlng implementationl (iLL) the National
Environmental Fund (NORMA), established in December 1990 under the Office of
the Ptesident, coordinates and administers national and external financial
assistance for the environment; (iv) a new Environmental Law defines in broad



3
terms the institutional framework to meet the conaervation and development
need of Bolivia including LENMA's and FONAMA's role in environmental
management and their coordinating role with the other government agencies.
The Law incorporates the need for environmental impact aessssments of
investments, creates the Rational System of Protected Areas(SNAP), and
generates broad needs for new or amended legislation and corresponding
adjustments in institutional arrangements for program impl_mentation; and
(v) the ause for the Environment, decreed in January 1990, establishes a five
year moratorium on new forestry concessions.
8.    Th New IntitutLonal Structure   SMMa and FONAMA are the two main
institutions at the federal level %3 it are to play a critical role in
formulating and implementing environmental policies.  EMMa and FONAMA are not
only tnew", but are charged with meeting a previously nonexistent
environmental policy mandate. From an organizational or professional staffing
point of view, there was very little on which the Government could build.
given the complexity of defining a basic environmental strategy, the
Government has moved quickly to create a legal and an organizational framework
for environmental action. The new institutional structure under the new Law
includes, LEMMA, PONAMA, nine departmental secretariats (8EDMNAS) under the
auspices of SUMMA, as well as nine departmental envJxonmental councils
(COMMAS). CODBMAS will be responsible for formulating environmental policies
in their respective departments, while 8DEMMAS will be responsible for
executing such policies. It is important that SEMMa consolidate its role as
the leader in the field, and strengthen its capabilities before 8EDEMAS are
established. in ome departments strong development corporations may assume
the functions of SEDENX.
9.   8EMA is attached directly to the Presidency, and it. secretary is a
member of the National Cabinet and the National Economic Council (COMEPLAN).
Be also chalrs PONAM's board. Charts 3 and 4 outline the network of inter-
relatLgJnshi between F NAMA, 8BMa and other major public and private sector
agencies. LNMA has access to cabinet level decision makers, and its
participation in CONEPLAN provides an opportunity to introduce environmental
consideration into the national development strategy. SEMMA's Advisory
Council will allow ESMMa to bring private sector participation into policy
fonmulation and will strengthen its ties to environmental groups and to the
profit-making private sector. The Council will constitute ad hoe "special
committeesO to consider industry-specific problems. The BAP and the broad
participatory process in drafting laws and regulations would ensure that
sector ministries, state enterprises, private sector agencies and the public
at large take part in the formulation of ea .^onmental policies, norms and
regulation. ESMMa, through COMMAS, will keep close communication with
departmental and municipal authorities, and local groups to ensure that
national environmental strategies reflect local needs.
10. SENMA has the legal standing needed to function as the principal policy,
regulatory and support agency for strengthening environmental management  It
is adequately organised and staffed. It has a staff of 22 professionals with
expertise in economice, biodiversity, forestry, pollution control,
environmental planning, agronomy, chemical and industrial engineering,
onvironcental legal matters and management and administration,  Annex A



4.
describes SENMAs organizational structure includlng the function of its four
departments.
11.  Sut-a has prepared a three-year (1992-95) Action Plan. The plan
includes a series of institutional building activities, while at the same time
it focuses on specific actions to solve priority onvironmental problems.
12. P12DM. FONAMA was established in December 1990 with strong donor,
national and international NGO support, particularly by the Naturs
conservancy. it has had good success in identifying potential projects and in
securing donor commitments for their financing. There is still a need for
stronger participation and cooperation of other agencies. It has the basic
staff and organizational capabilities to implement the project and to continue
its fund raising activities. FONAMA w11 support 8ENMA by securing donor
funding to address investment needs without engaging directly in project
implementation. it reports directly to the President. Its Board is chaired
by the Environmental Secretary. It has a professional staff of 12. FONAnA is
empowered to administer grants and credits, but will finance projects only on
a grant basis. It has a three year investment program of around
US$126 million, (around 161 projects), comprised of proposals from NGOs and
public institutions. Donor commitment ranges around US$S5 million including
the US$22 million from USAID under the "Enterprise for the Americas
initiative". FONANA's focus has been mostly on the "green "issues. Its
project portfolio includes only a few proposals relating to industrial
pollution, toxic wastes, or water quality. Closer coordination between
BUMA's Policy Planning Department and FONANA, and the chairing of POUMA' s
Board by the secretary General of 8ENMA, should ensure that FONAMAs future
investment program reflect better the country's overall priorities.
Gavernntnt 8trateov
13. The Government needs to translate the above initiatives into concrete
actions by formulating realistic policies, and addressing the formidable
constraints to improved envirormental management. The broad participatory
process of preparing the NAP has been successful in strengthening political
commitment, and facilitating local group participation and broad
communication. The preparation proces has also been successful in attracting
the international community's financial and scientific support. Government
strategy, set out in the NAP, is to formulate and implemant policies to
protect and improve the environment while working toward sustainable
development. To achieve this objective the Governent would strengthen the
institutional, legal and regulatory framework including environmental norms,
moitoring and enforcement mechanism. It would also support related training
programs. This is a long-term process which will require both time and a
steady flow of financial and technical assistance. Concrete results from
these efforts would not be expected in the short-run.
14. The challenge facing 8NNA, as the primary player in this area, is
formidable, in view of the experience from other countries as to the time it
takes to establish and develop an effective environmental protection agency.
Additional challenges include the national shortage of trained and experienced
environmental specialists, and tho difficulties in recruiting, and retaining



5
core staff. Bxpectations shall therefore be modest as to the scope of SNMNA's
activities, and the pace at which mechanism can be put in place to
effectively manage the country' s natural resources. Nevertheless, SUIMA -s
expected to assume and exercise a coordinating and commanding role in
developing and implementing an integrated environmental protection program.
To do so, it will nee to draw on both technical and financial support from
private and public agencies with approrriate resources and capabilitiet
15.  Nhile ESMMA would be supportlng the process of establishing an iffeative
legal and regulatory system, it will also focus on introducing economic
incentives to foster environmentally sound development. Its Policy Department
will undertake a research program to review sectoral policies and to provide
guidance to reforming policies that are both economically inefficLent and
damaging to the environment. It wlll also focus on instruments that address
market failures, l.e., taxes on emissLon and toxlc wastes, fees on timber
extraction etc. The effective management of natural resources will rqulre a
combination of regulations and economic incentlves focused on changlng
behavior in ways that encourage environmental conservation, while
acknowledgLng the limited administratlve capabilities of the regulators.
16.  Under the Government*' decentralizatLon strategy responsibility for
nvironmental protectlon is to be transferred to local authoritLes. In
particular SUDRMM, municipalities, regional development corporations, and
local groups will become increasingly involved in monitorlng and enforcing
compliance wlth laws and regulations. sowever, decentralLsatLon would
require, flrst, that LEMMA develop a strong natlonal presence to assume its
overall pollcy and coordinating role, and second, the strengthenLng of local
instLtutional capacity and availability of resources.
Ratigonal for IDA Xnvole]b"ti,and Lessons k2arn2d
17. Rationale for IDA Involvement. IDA can play a crLtical role in
assisting the Government to formulate and implement environmental policles by
strengthening the Lnstitutional capaclty through approprlate training, and a
rationalizsed legal system. Institutlonal development is a long-term procese.
The rationa1Lzation of Bolivia's legal and regulatory system, including the
establishment of norms and enforcement mechanisms, is a mammoth task that will
take several years. IDA would support the Government's lintial steps in this
process. A follow-up IDA operation is envisaged to continue supporting this
process. IDA's proposed operation would be an umbrella operation focuaLng on
the broad institutLonal and legal system, and on initiatives on social
awareness of environmental issues.  A CRT financed BiodLversity Conservation
Project, being processed in parallel, would complement the above initLatives
by strengthening Bollvia's administrative capacity to effectively manage and
protect it. most diverse and threatened ecosystem. Several future IDA
operations and other donor supported initiatives will undertake complementary
actions to assist in the process. Future IDA operations are planned to focus
on specLfic seatoral onvironmental anagement issues includLng regulatory
reforms and instLtutional mechanisms for enforcement. These include projects
relating to Land Titling, Forestry and 8nvironment, Environment, Mining and
Industry, and Hydrocarbon Sector Deregulation. IDA is in a positLon to be
effective because, although the institutional set-up is new, the political



6
commitment to take action is real. IDA'" assistance is also expected to be
catalytic in generatLng additional external financlng to support BolLvLa's
envLronmental efforts. Annex  describes donor inLtLatlves ln the
envLroQmental fiLld.
18.  fL8gM  of NMerLence. As the Uastern Lowlands project wlth important
eavlronrental components is still at lts LiLtLal stage of implementation, it
Ls too early to draw lessons from it. However, general lessons of experience
from implementing projects Ln Bolivla, especially free-standLig technlcal
assistance projects, point to the following constraLnts: (i) implementation
delays caused by complexlty of project doslgn, lnadequate supervLiLon and weak
project managoment; (LL) polltlcal patronage in the procurement of
conultants; and (li') mnsustainable institutLonal development due to lack of
permanence in the civll servlce. More specLflc lessons of experlence from
lndustrialized and developLng countries in setting up environmental agencles
and Lmplementing envlronmental programs effectlvely poLnt to the followLng
implementation constraints: (i) environmental gencies have normally limited
technical and budgetary capaelty to coordinate enforcement of ccmpliance with
environmental norms; (LL) technical information is usually absent or
ncomplete to enable institutions to formulate and lmplement approprlate
envlronmental policiLes and (LLL) institutional structures normally lack
mechanisms to enable the central environmental agencies to gain support from
and coordinate their program wlth other government agencies and the prlvate
sector. In desegnlng the proposed operation, the above lessons have been
taken into account bys (i) reaching an up-front agreement with the Government
an budgetary support and on includlng SEMNA in the first phase of the ongoing
civil service reform program; (ii) incorporating training programs for the
staff of SUMW and FONAMa to gain experLence in environmental resource
management, and for the staff of Se396 and line manistrLes ln obtaining
technical expertise in BIAs; (iL) providing wlde participation of the public
and private sector in the permanent planning process incorporated in the BP
and in the Council of 8ENMA, whLch is expected to strengthen cross-sectoral
communication; and (iv) introducing flexibilLty into the project design
through a mLd-term revlew and follow-up actions as needed. FLnally, to
address the heavy supervisoLn requirments, the Swiss TechniLal Cooperation
Agency is considerLng financLng a consultant to supervise this project and the
Diodiversity Conservation Project out of the Bank's ResLdent Office in La Paz.
Women and Natural Resource Manaaement
19*  In Bollvia, womn play a central role In agrioAl-ural production, food
processLng, and in the household economy in general. They constitute the
majorLty of food producers; in the Altiplano, for example, women perform an
estimated 80% of agrieultural and animal husbandry labor. Women's role as
producers also links them closely to environmental degradation eoncerns as
degradation of resources-soil eroslon, water contamlnatLon, deforestation-all
have dlrect and severe impacts upon their daily lives. Soil degradation
affects the capacity to produce; when water supplies near home are
contaminated and deforestatlon spreads, women must travel farther to collect
water and wood. Additional time commitments leave them wlth lses time for
other responsibilties. Water conservation is more cost effective for
increasing the supply of water than seekLng water in far away plac,



7
Despite the women's high level of involvemont in natural regource mandgement
and the impacts of environmental degradation on their daily lives, women
receive little or no legal or social recognition of their role as producers
and as a consequence they ha". limited access to relevant education or
extension services.
20. There is a growing awareness of women's issues in Bolivia, and numerous
groups and local communities of women have organized to address women's
concerns. Most groups have taken an integrative approach, noting that, as
poverty falls most heavily on women, the best way to improve women's lot is to
improve the productive capacity of the community as a whole. A number of
women's groups contacted during the preparation of this project, indicated
concern for environmental issues, which they see fundamentally linked to
improved conditions for women in general, and they are not seen as distinct
activities.
21. The impact of environmental degradation upon women's daily lives is
immense, and the linkage between environmental issues and basic prociuction
concerns is fundamental. The proposed operation would therefore benefit from
giving special attention to the education of women who provide a chief llnk to
the younger generation, and an opportunity to reinforce environmental values
and messages. Specifically, the environmental aducation component targeting
rural communities is designed to target women as well as to take into account
Ln its design the concerns and knowledge of local women. Moreover, this
component will involve community organizations in on-site demonstrations of
environmental practices, with attention to womens role in production
decisions and resource managemnt.
22. On the policy level, MENMA has expressed its commitment to incorporating
gender aspects into its Three-Year Plan through identification of areas where
women either play a critical role in resource management, suffer the effects
Of environmental degradation, or can be catalysts for environmental
protection. BUENA's Departments of Legal Affairs, Environmental Quality,
Environmental Policy, and Protected Areas will each roview the incorporation
of gender issues into their work program. Based on this review, BEIA will
incorporate in its national strategy the participation of women in
environmental programs and activities. In addition, SDENA will review with
iONAN& the environmental investment program for Bolivia to assess how these
projects are targeting women and incorporating environmental issues related to
women's role as producers.
Proiect Objectives and Desarintion
23. Proisot Obiectives. The proposed project would strengthen key
Governmnt ervironment-related institutions to formulate environmental
policies and to promote sustainable resource managementg develop the human
resources necessary to plan, evaluate and implement action programt support
initial steps towards a rationalized and more effective legal and regulatory
system; and support oducation initiatives to raise social awareness of
environmental issues.
24.  pr.ieCt g RgaggtJgn. Project components would includes



8
a) lastitutional strengthenLng of key agencies with nvhronmental
responsibilities, including BENOA and FONANAt b) strengthening the
environmental legal and regulatory framsworkp and c) Environmental education.
2lAiled PEroiect RGOLeOURini
25.   In*ttutLonal 8tr rueyMpaUS82.5 mlion. The basic Lnstitutional
mission of BSENA is to promote the sustainable use of natural resources bys
(L) formulating and overseing the execution of envLru-imentally sound
policiLem (iL) formulating environmental regulations, coordinating and
monLtorLng enforcement and compliance; (LLL) promoting the establishment of a
natlonal land use plan to facilltate appropriate use of natural resources;
(iv) developLag the design of the Natlonal System of Protected Areas - SNAP
and overeeLng its implementation; and (v) establlihLug an lnformation system
whlch will be needed for desLgaLng specLfic policLes and addressing concrete
problems. Although the TFAP has not yet been fully Lncorporated in the
context of the national environmental agenda, SUMA nas been tentatively glven
responsLbility for the planaLng aspects of the TFAP. The sectoral forestry
policies would be centered in the agency (or agencLes) that the Forestry Law
will deflne for such purpose. FONAHA i likely to play a role ln the
iavestment side.
26.  The LnstitutLonal development component for SENMA (USt2.0 million) would
includs: (i) traLning ln envlronmental planning and manageamnt disciplines
for SBENA s higher level staff Lacluding short vlsits to other environmental
agencies in the regLon and elsewhere  (il) environmental lmpact assessment
trainLng for BeMUA staff and staff from other relevant agencLes including line
ministries and reional development corporations  (ill) development of
technical capabilities in BUM'E s PlannLng Department to analyse pollcy
options ln the context of sustainable development, and provide guldance
between the choice of economic instruments and environmntal outcomesp
(iv) natural resource and environmental economics traininag (v) dissemLnation
of lnformation on environmental issues by SUENA to the public at largel
(vi) technical assistance to strengthen UENMA's internal administrative and
financial management unitp and (vii) financing for the purchase of computers
and vehicles.
27.     The institutional development component for FONANA (US$.5 milllon)
would include: (i) consultant services to asslst in setting up a system for
evaluating and approvLng investment proposals, and asseseing trade offs
between economic and environmental goals; (ii) technLcal assistance to assist
FOMaA to set-up a mechanism to collect information on planned and ongoing
environmental activlties, to enable FONAMA to influence investment decislons,
and avoid overlapping or conflicting inltiatLves; (iiL) support to the Project
Coordinating Unit to manage and coordinate project implementation; and
(iv) the fLnancing of serviees of a procurement agent and an external auditor.
28.  Evironmental Laaal and Reaulator CoMnnt  UBS .6 milllon. The
EnvLronmental Law generates broad needs for new or amended legislatlon ante
corresponding adjustments in institutional arrangements and program
impleentation. As a preliminary step, the Gornment wlll need to promulgate
regulations that are central to start-up activities for implementing the new



9
Environmntal Law. These regulations includet operating procedures for 8ENMA
and FONAMA, general implementing regulations for the new Law, regulations for
environmental impact assessments, basic regulations for pollution control,
regulations for implementing the SNAP, and regulations for implementing the
Protected Areas Law and the Forestry Law. Under tho proposed operation
financing would be provided fors (i) consultants to assist BSNMA to
promulgate or assist other agencies to promulgate substantive regulations, and
to provide needed technical assistance to the two navironmsntal Congresrional
Commissions to review laws (see Annex D)t (ii) workshops to support #-he
participatory process in drafting regulationsl (iii) training prograas to
promote better understanding and awareness of environmental legal issues at
the government and private sector levell and (iv) operational expenses
including initial support to set up a legal library in  ENA. SENNA is
receiving support in this preparatory process from the rundacion Ambiente y
Recuros Naturales (YAlN), an environmental MGO based in Argentina having wide
expertise in environmental legal issues. PAN will help to identify
international experts who can assist 8BNMA in carrying out its work. FARN
will be responsible for the quality of the consultant's work, will review and
comment on all laws and regulations and will also help SENN with training and
capacity building.
29.  Enironmental Education *USS.9 M&Jlion. The objective of this
component is to develop the capacity of the primary school system in Bolivia
to yrovide environmental education to primary school students. It would
support the Government's bottom-up approach of building social awareness in
its environmental strategy. A final evaluation report will be produced to
provide methodologies and guidelines for reforming the primary school
curriculum. The experience of this pilot operation would be used to
subsequently develop nationwide programs. a Convenio was signed prior to
Negotiations between the Ministry of Education and the implementing agencies
indicating the Ministry's support to this operation, and its intent to
incorporate the outputs from these pilot projects into tho school curriculum.
The proposed operation would support a pilot project in the Municipality of La
Paz and three pilot projects in selected rural communities in three ecological
zones of Boliviat Altiplano, Lowlands, and Valleys. The pilot project in the
Municipality of La Paz will (i) provide teacher training to facilitate the
transfer of knowledge of environmental issues to primary school studentsg
(ii) introduce environmental education material into the primary school
system; and (iii) provide t' e inistry of Education with materials and
methodologles for curriculum reform. The pilot projects in the three
agroecolog a-l zones, in addition to addressing points (l)-(iii) above, will
provide practical training for "grupos de base' focusing on specific
environmental problem in each of the three selected ecological zones. This
sub-component will place heavy emphasis on targeting women's groups.
Prolect tanaue_ent and Imnlementation Arrangement.
30.  FONAM  will have the overall responsibility for project management and
administration.  ONANA ha made excellent prog-ess in establishing a simple
organizational structure, hiring a sall number of competent professionals,
and formulating its work program.  An Operation Manual was prepared with PPF
funds. The Project Coordinator ha strong administrative and managerial



10
skills, as is demonstrated in the work done in managing and supervising the
pr paratory activities undertaken with PPF support. A Technical Coordinator
as well as a Procuraeent Expert will be financed under the proposed operation
to assist the Project Coordinator.
31. While FONAMA will have the overall responsibility for project management
and coordination, a number of agencies will participate in the actual
Implementation of the various components. First, the Legal Department of
SBNHA with consultants, assistance will have the responsLbility of carrying
out work under the legal component. In carrying out its work, it will
coordinate closely with the environmental commissions in Congress, as well as
with relevant public and private agencies. Second, the Environmental QualLty
Department of SNMa will be responsible for implementing the training
component. While the Department will receive consultancy assistance, it will
also coordinate closely its work with line ministries, regional development
corporations and other local agencies. Third, the Interdisciplinary Center
for Comunity Studies (CIEC), an environmental ROO, will be in charge of
implementing the pilot project in the Municipality of La Paz. Founded in
1984, CIUC has been one of the lead institutions in developing and
implementing successfully both research and action oriented environmental
education projects. CIUC, in implementing this component, will work closely
with the Ministry of Uducation and the Municipality of La Paz. The Liga par-
la Defensa del Nedio Ambiente (LIDUNA), an umbrella environmental moo, will
administer the implementation of the pilot projects in the three ecological
areas. Three NGOs, CISC, Servicios Multiples de Teonologias Apropriadas
(SUMTA), and the Asociacion Bcologica del Oriente (ASNO) will execute the
pilot projects in the Valleys, Altiplano and the Lowlands, respectively. As a
condition of disbursement of the IDA proceed allocated to respective
components, contractual agreements will have been signed on behalf of the GOD
through FONAMA with all the implementing agencies (CISC, LIDUMA, S8NMA and
3CC) defining responsibilities in the carrying out of the respective
components.
ftstalnabilitv Monitorina and tunervision
32.  EustainabiblUtv  Sustainability of benefits would depend on how
effectively natural resource management dimensions are integrated into policy
formulation at the macro and sector level. SMNM's policy department will
focus on this objective. In addition, sustainability would depend on SENMA's
and FOiwa's ability to attract and retain qualified staff and their ability
to build the required credibility to get national and international support.
SIMA and FONaNA have at this time an excellent group of professionals, and
are expected to undertake a small and concrete set of initiatives which they
should be able to implement successfully. Incremental salaries for four key
positions in SNUN will be financed by IDA on a declining basis, while at the
same time assurances have been obtained that 8ENM would be incorporated into
the first phase of the civil service reform program, once it is put into
effect. SimNa'a recurrent costs for the protected areas, supported under a
parallel GNP operation, will be covered by a trust fund.
33.  Monitorina and Ivaluation. FONAA will be responsible for monitoring
project implementation. SUNNA and the NG0o will report to FONAMA on progress



11
made every three montho, at which tim IONAIa will have the option to call a
meting to dicuss problem  indicated in the progress report.  FONANA will
report to IDA every six months on the project implementation status of each
ccmponent, identifying problms and actions taken. Annual reviews and a mid-
tesm review will be carried out jointly with FONNAM and IDA in order to enable
both inastitutions to ,ollow closely project implementation progress, and take
v-2cessary actions as needed. The specific objectives, implementation and
performance indicators, included iA Tables 1-4 under each component, and
Annex D will form the focus af these revlews. Qualitative lndicators will
also be reviewed, i.e., the extent to which ONNAMA's investment propo^alh
reflect the GoverCment's policy prioritLes, the expansion of its scope beyond
purely "green issues", and the number of concrete initiatives underway. BEMa
will be evaluated on its effectiveness to build fruitful working relationships
with the private sector through the Advisory Council and lnfluence Its
actions, the extent to which it has been able to influence the integration of
environmental concerns lnto policy formulation, and on progress made in
enforcLng regulations and reviewing environmental impact assessments.
34.  lDA Suuervysion. Based on past IDA experlence in supervliing projects
in Bolivia, and partLcularly free-standlng technical assistance projects, IDA
supervLiLon of project liplementatLon is expected to be resource intenslve,
particularly at the liLtial stage of implementation. The Swiss Development
CooperatLon (kDC) will provide funding (US$.6 milliLon) for a consultant to
supervise this project, along with the BLodLversity ConservatLon Project that
L being financed by OGT and SDC, from the Bank's Resident Office in La Paz.
In addition, IDA will still need to follow-up wlth two supervlilon dLssions a
year. MiLsLon teams should includo specialLts ln institutional development,
environmental law, envlronmental economice, and ZIA training.
Proieat Cost. Financina. Procurement Disbursements and Audits
3S.   Proiect Cost and Finanoina. The total cost includlng contingencies is
estimated at US$5.5 mlllion equlvalent wlth a foreign exchange component of
US$1.5 million. IDA will finance US$4.8 million or 87% of total project cost,
net of taxes, including 100% of foreign costs and 82% of local. The GO8 and
NGos wlll finance 13% of total. The relatively high percentage of local cost
financing is justlfied by the unusually high proportlon of local costs, the
GoWvermnts budgetary constraints and the need to incorporate a wide scope of
activities to ensure simultaneously a significant impact on the country's
institutional, legal and envlronmental pollcy framework. Schedule A iadLcates
the details on project cost including the financing plan. Assurances were
obtalned during negotiations for the provision of counterpart funds on behalf
of 8UN  starting with 1993 through 1996 and thereafter minimum amounts in
local currency equivalent as follows. US$116,000, US$123,500, VS$150,300,
US$164,600.
36.   PrMaMoLlk. NONANA wtll be reoponsible for all prcurement under the
project ln accordance with Bank/IDA guLdelines (May 1992). All contracts over
US$50,000 wlll be procured by a procurement agency outeLde PONAMA. FONANA has
the legal capacity to be directly responsible for contracts estimated at below
U8S50,000. Standard procurement documents to be used by both VONAMA and any



12
external procurement agency were approved by IDA during negotiations. All LCD
contracts will be Subject to IDA prior review. This represents 50% of goods
and works to be financed under the IDA credit. FONAMA will retain all
procurement documentation for other contracts for review by IDA during
supervision missions.
37. Schedule B summarizes procurement arrangements under the Credit.
Vehicles, personal Computers and associated software valued above US$25,000
will be purchased following LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Minor equipment
and other office materials valued at below US$25,000 but not exceeding an
aggregate amount of US$120,000 equivalent would be purchased on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three qualified
suppliers. Purchases of materials and services (printing of materials, rent
for training space) under the various training activities would also be
procured through shopping procedures.
38.   Procurement of consulting services will follow the August 1981 fAok/ID
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants including prior IDA review.
39.   2*sbureMent. The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over a
five-year period. The Project would be implemented over a four year period.
The closing date would be June 30, 1997. A wide range of preparatory
activities are underway with the support of two PPFs which should ensure a
quick and smooth start up implementation. Disbursements would be made against
100% of the cost of consultants, local and foreign; 100% of training costs,
local and foreign; 100% of foreign and local expenditures (ex-factory) and
85% for locally procured imported item for vehicles, equLpment, computers,
and 100% of incremental salaries for the first two years, 80% the third year
and 50% the fourth year. IDA would disburse against SONs for equipment and
vehicles for contracts valued below US$25,000 and for all incremental salaries
and all operating costs.
40. Accounts and Audit. FONAMA would maintain accounts for all expenditures
funded under the Credit. S8NHA and the selected NGOs would maintain separate
accounts for project execution. Project accounts, the Special Account and
procurement procedures would be audited annually by independent auditors
satisfactory to IDA including an audit of Statements of Expenditures. The
audit reports would be submitted to IDA no later than six months following the
end of the Government's fiscal year. A special account would be opened in the
Central Bank with an initial IDA deposit of US$400,000 (equivalent to four
months of estimated disbursements).
Justification and Risks
41.   *nenfitg.  Bolivia has an abundant supply of natural resources for which
early planning and management is critical for sustained development. The
proposed operation is needed to assist the Government to design a policy
framework including a legal\regulatory system, institutional strengthening,
and training to enable it to respond to environmental needs. The development
and implementation of an onvironmentally sound natural resource management
policy would reduce over the long-term economic losses to the country.
Environmental education will raise social awareness of environmental issues



13
and would directly benefit rural communities by informing them of methods in
the sustainable use of their environment. The environmental aspects of
ongoing and planned IDA operations would be further strengthened with support
from this operation. In addition, IDA would be an important vehicle for
mobilizing additional external financing.
42.   ELaka would includes  (i) a slow start up ln the pace of project
implementation, given the fact that the implementing agency is new; (iL) sound
recommendations by legal expertise might not be fully taken into account in
preparing laws and regulations, as pressures from vested interests
(iadustrialists, miners, indLgenous groups) could result in a legal framework
that may not fully reflect overall national interests; similarly congressional
approval of laws is likely to be slowl (liiL)  ENMA     likely to face the
expected dLfficulty of establishing its credibllity as a new institutLon with
limited budgetary resources; (iv) political action to monitor and enforce
envlronmental laws and regulations might be affected both by lack of budgetary
resources, and by the weakness of institutlons to cope with pressure from
special interest groups; and (v) SBEN's inability to maintain its current
organizatLonal and staffing arrangements and focus on its normative role.
These risks would be mitigated by the fact that the Government has thus far
demonstrated a high level of commitment to address environmental problems.
Institutional strengthening support provided under thls operation, and the
selection of a competent project coordinator and other competent staff already
S.c place in UEMNA and POOaMA would mltlgate the rlsk of slow project
mplementatLon. The wlde particlpatory process envisaged in preparing laws
and regulations and the information and traLning associated with it, is likely
to reduce the risk of establishing a legal framework that does not qulte
reflect the broad natlonal interest. To establish its credibility SWENA would
initially deal with a limited scope of activities for which there is wlde
consnsus concerning the need for priority action. The establishment of the
Advisory Council with partLelpatLon from NGO community and the private sctor
would enhance BUENA's coordination efforts. With regard to the sustainability
of incremental recurrent costs, an agreement has been reached that IDA would
finance these costs on a declinlng basls, while at the same time UENMA will be
incorporated into the first phase of the new civil service reform system to
ensur sustainability of project benefits at the end of this operation.
Special rrangements made for an lntensive supervlsion are likely to minimize
overall project rLsks.
Aarements Reached and Recommendatlon
43.  During negotiations agreemnts were reached on:  (i) counterpart funds;
(il) the organizational structure of UENMA and FONAMA not to be changed
wlthout prior consultation with IDA; (iii) UENMA's and FONAMA's three year
action plan and investment plan respectLvely (iv) SBENA and FONAMA remaining
staffed with individuals with experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA;
(v) key staff in ENNA and FoNANa supported by the proposed operation not to
be changed without prior consultation with IDA; (vi) on a time frame for the
traLinng program; (vii) performance targets and implementation indicators,
annual and aid-term reviews; (viii) FOUMa submittlng its annual investment
program and lts consolidated budget to IDA for review and comments; (ix) SBENA
submitting to IDA its annual work program every year including its



14
consolidated budget for review and oamuentse (x) SENMA submitting draft laws
and regulations for IDA's reviewg (xi) FONAlA submitting to IDA semi-annual
progress reports on project impl_mentations (xii) reporting, procurement and
audit rgpirementet and (xiii) FONANA submitting to IDA annual updates on
ongoing and proposed environmental projects and programs.
44.  DurLng negotiations the following documents were reviewed and found
satisfactory: the Estatutos Organicos of SENMA and NONAA, FONAMA's Operations
Nanual, SERMso three-year Action Plan, FONAHA' s Investment Program, draft
contractual arrangements between FONANA and implementing agencies, TORe for
consultants including TORa for a procurement agent and an external auditor.
Review comeente have been incorporated in the documents.
45.  On November 16, 1992, the Presidential Decrees enacting the Estatutoo
organicos of SKIXh and 1OAM and the Manual of Operations of PONAMA were
signed.
46.  As conditions of effectiveneoss  (l) the agreement to be entered into
between the Government and ONAHA hae been duly issued p (ii) EONAMa would have
signed a contract with a procurement agent with conditions satisfactory to
IDA; Ciii) FPONA would have hired consultants to set up a system to evaluate,
prioritize and approve invoetment proposals and a system to collect
information on planned and ongoing environmental activities; (iv) SERM would
have signed a contract with a consulting firm to assist in carrying out the
ZA training.
47.  As a condition of disbursement for the CIEC, LIDEER, SENMA, and ICC
subcomponents, the GCO would furnish copies of signed implementation
agreements.
48. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Dy Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 18, 1992



15
Schedule A
8OLIVA: ENVlRONNENTAL TECNNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUNMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Component                               Local    Foreign   Total
...................... ......-.........---------(USS mlltion)----
t. InstitutIonal Strengthenng              1.78      0.73      2.51
A. SENA                                  1.25      0.70      1.96
B. FONANA - PCU                          0.52      0.03      0.55
II. Logol and Reguattory System            0.29      0.36     0.65
III. Enmironmental Education               0.94      0.00     0.94
A. Urban P1tot Project                  0.41      0.00      0.41
B. Rural Pflot Project                  0.S3      0.00      0.53
IV. Unatlocated                            0.13      0.13      0.26
..............................
Totat Base Cost                            3.14      1.22      4.36
ContirWencies                              0.09      0.04      0.13
PPf Ref inancing                           0.81      0.22      1.03
=on=                       a=W
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         4.04      1.49      5.53
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Local    Foreign   Total
.CUSS mtltion) -
IDA                                        2.50      1.27      3.?7
(.IDA PPF Refinancing)                    0.81      0.22      1.03
Government - SENMA                         0.S5      0.00      0.55
NOOs and Beneficiary Comainities           0.18      0.00      0.18
ww=*uU3VS         J    _,uw h
TOTAL                                      4.04      1.49      S.53



16
PSe"  of 2
8OLIVA: ENVIRONMTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUMIARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(In US$ million)*
Procurement Nethod
ProJect Elemwnt                          LC8   Other (a)    N.A.  N..F.lb)  Total
1. Goods
Cooputer equipment                      0.04                                   0.04
(0.04)                                 (0.04)
Vehicles (3 Jeeps)                      0.08                                    0.08
(0.08)                                 (0.08)
Other naterfals and minor                         0.12               0.08       0.20
offic  equipmnt Cc)                            (0.12)                        (0.12)
2. Technical Assistance (d)                          1.81                          1.81
(1.81)                       (1.81)
3. Training Support (e)                              1.04                          1.04
(1.04)                       (1.04)
4. AdSinistrative Support
0.29     0.2?      0.56
Incrementat salaries   SEEMA                               (0.29)             (0.29)
Personl - PCU and emnvlro ntal                    0.13                          0.13
education program staff                        (0.13)                        (0.13)
Other operating expses (f)                                  0.26     0438       0.64
(0.26)             (0.26)
5. PPF Refinancing (IDA)                             1.03                          1.03
TOTAL                                      0.12      4.13      0.55     0.73       5.53
(0.12)    (4.13)    (0.55)   (0.00)    (4.80)
*    IDA financing appears in brackets
ESTIMATED IDA DIS8URSENNTS
In SUS million
--------------------IDA Fiscal Year-----.-. --.---
93        94        95       96         97
Annual                                     1.38      1.33      1.13     0.60       0.36
Ctumlative                                 1.38      2.71      3.84     4.44       4.80



-  * a  vd % 
F* q -  tt 
3..
0~~~~~~z *4.
j~~~~~ 
I:~~~ -



18
Schedule C
BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Timetable of Xev Prolect Processina Events
(a) Time taken to prepare:
(b)  Prepared by:                        National Enviroranental Secretariat
National Fund for the Environment
with IDA assistance.
(c)  First IDA mission:                  April 1991
(d)  Appraisal Departure:                April 1992
(0)  Negotiations:                       September 1992
(f)  Scheduled Board Date:               December 1992
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:      June 1993



19
5bshes
INVIRPMMA 27MG  AN;zMAC4
A.  SI)12 OF BAE  LOS   ANS         IDA CRZOZTS IN B3VA (as of 2wne 30, 1992)
Aout  ieee
Ctedit     J AFisca                                     _---r-nds-
RUmber      year   5orro  v           Purpose           Bank       ZDA     bursed
I. Loans and 22 Credits Closed                           274.7.8   301.30      0.13
1090       2.1987  Bolivia  Tinanc al Kgt (VIM)                  11.10      0.38
18180      1987  Bolivia  Power Soctor Rehab                      6.8O.S    0.55
18280      1987  BoLvia  Reconstr. Import Cr. 1 .              47.10       3.03
18420      1988  Bolivia  La Paz Municipal Deft                  15.00      2.86
19770      1989  Bolivia  Econ Mgt St:ength Opa                   9.70      3.13
20120      1989  Bolivia  Export Corridors                       37.00     22.82
20130      1989  Bolivia  Mining Sector                          3S.00     32.S3
20920      1990  Bolivia  IntratGe Xealth Devt                   20.00     17.59
21190      1990  Bolivia  Eastern Lowlaads                       35.00     33.42
21270      1990  Bolivia  social ?nv.stst Fund                   20.00     19.50
21340      1990  Bolivia  Private Enterprise Devt                16.10     16.20
19253 (S)  1991  Bolivia  FLaancial Sector - C                   14.50      0.70
21870      1991  BolLvia  Water Supply & Sewerage                35.00     33.16
22160      1991  Bolivia  Technology Devwt                       21.00     19.69
22790      1991  Bolivia  PubLic ninancial Mgt Xi                11.30     10.5S
22980 (5)  1992  Bolivia  Structu:al Adjustment Credit           40.00     26.12
22980 CS)  1992  BoliviLa  Structural Adjustment Credit          10.40     11.26
23220      1992  Bolivia  Agro EZxprt Dev Prog                   22;50     23.67
23950      1992  Bolivia  Road Maintenance                       80.00     83.S5
487.90    360.84
TOTAL                                274.78   789.20
of which repaid                    168.06    13.18
Total held by Bank & IDA             106.72   776.02
Amount sold                            0.0S
Of which repaid                      0.05
Total Undisbursed                                        360 .84
8.  STAT SMt  OF ITC IESTZIETS (as of June 30, 1992)
Loan    EquLty    Total
(In millLons of U.S. dollars)
Total gross commitments                                    73.05    11.62     84,67
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, and sales                                   11.68      1.20     12.88
Total commitments now held by IFC                          61.36    10.42     71.79
Totai undisbursed                                         40.32      2.62     42.95



20
Page 1 of 8
ENVIRONMENT L TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJCT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONEN1
Institutional Develooment
1.    The fundamental institutional development objective of the proposed
project is to inject environmenltal protection and sustainable resource use
considerations into public and private sector decision-making in Bolivia.
Measures toward this objective would center ont
a.    Strengthening the new National Secretariat for the Environment
(SENMA) to: (i) analyze and formulate environmental policies at the
national level; (ii) rationalize the legal and regulatory system;
(iii) undertake educational and consciousness raising initiatives; and
(iv) establish its credibility as a normative and regulatory body with
the organizational structure, financial resources, professional skills,
and institutional and political support needed to affect the behavior of
public and private sector actors; and
b.    Strengthening the National Fund for the Environment (FONANA) to
identify investment initiatives and secure financing to address crucial
environmental problems.
2.    This will requires
a.    convincing the population, through educational and other measures,
that responsible natural resource use management and protection of
endangered resources is in its own self-interest;
b.    incorporating environmental and sustainable resource use issues
into public sector economic policy making, resource allocation,
and investment decision-making processes, within the broader
context of national growth, employment generation, and poverty
alleviation objectives; and
c.    changing private sector investment and resource management
practices through the use of fiscal and other incentives and
disincentives, the clarification of tenurial rights and security,
and the development of practical regulatory and enforcement
mechanisms.
3.    These are issues that, until recently, figured little if at all in
public debate in Bolivia. Thus, SENMA and FONANA are not only "new"
institutions, but they are charged with meeting a previously nonexistent
policy mandate. Prior to 1991, Bolivia had no formal institutional or legal
framework for environmental policy making or the promotion of concrete public
or private sector action to repair past damages and pursue more sustainable
natural resource management practices in the future. The Ministries of



21
ANNEXA
Page 2 of 8
Planning and Finance dealt independently with economic policy management and
with taxation and budgeting issues with clear environmental impacts. All of
the key "line ministries" -- including Agriculture, Energy and Hydrocarbons,
Mines and Metallurgy, Transportation, Urban Planning and Housing, and Social
services and Public Health -- managed service or investment programs with
obvious environmental protection or resource management implications, yet none
had a mandate which required priority attention to these issues. A similar
situation existed with regard to the nine Regional Development corporations,
the principal local government institutions in Bolivia. There was no national
environmental law. Over 174 separate codes or regulations, often overlapping
or conflicting, have few if any provisions that promote sustainable natural
resource use.
4.    Gradually successful pressures for government action were mounted by
:oncerned citizens, professionals within ministries with responsibilities
related to environmental issues (e.g., the Ministry of Agriculture and Peasant
Affairs - "MACA"), national and international NGO groups, and donor agencies,
including the Bank. Over the last two to three years, the Government's
awareness of the need to address environmental problems, has grown as
indicated by the following initiatives.
a.    The Environmental Action Plan (ZAP) establishes a permanent
environmental planning process, identifies key environmental issues,
incorporates public participation as an essential element in
environmental planning, guides the actions of government agencies, the
private sector and NGOs and promotes environmental planning at the
national, regional and local levell
b.    the National Environmental Secr,etariat (SENMA), established in
January 1991 under the Office of the President, is responsible for
formulating environmental policies and monitoring and coordinating
implementation;
c¢    the National Environmental Fund (FONAMA) established in December
1990 under the Office of the President by Supreme Decree and was
ratified by the Environmental Law of April 27, 1992. It coordinates and
administers national and external financial assistance for the
environment;
d.    the approval by Congress of a new Environmental Law which:
defines in broad torms the institutional framework to meet the
conservation and development needs of Bolivia including SENMAfs and
FONAMA's role in environmental management and their coordinating role
with the other government agencies; incorporates environmental impact
assessment of investments in the Bolivian legislation; creates the
Rational System of Protected Ares (SNAP); and generates broad needs for
new or amended legislation and corresponding adjustments in
institutional arrangements for program implementation; and
e.    the Pause for the Environment, decreed in January 1990,
establishes a five year moratorium on forestry concessions.



22
AENMX A
Page 3 of 8
5.    The Government now faces the challenging task of translating these
significant organizational and political accomplishments into practical work
aimed at aihieving concrete results. This transition from planning to action
is a difficult process. it will be particularly challenging and time
consuming in a country setting where the objective of SENMA's and FONAMA's
work was -- until only recently -- accorded very little Importance, where
major improvements in resource management and environmental protection will
Imply Lncreasingly difficult changes In behavior, and where, eventually,
significant financing and difficult economic trade-offs will be required.
Realistic SW(A/FONAMA institutional development and project implementation
strategies must reflect both the complexity of tbeir missions and the limited
resources and authority that they will be able to bring to bear at the
beginning of this effort.
6.    SENNA will function as a "normative", policy formulation and rule
making-agency. Change will be sought through a mix of mutually-reinforcing
but gradually more difficult actions, including: (a) educational and
consciousne raising activities, (b) participatory planning and community
action programs, (c) collaboration in the formulation of new economic policies
and the environmental impact analysis of proposed public sector investments,
and modifications in the behavior of the profit-seeking private sector.
Responsibility for almost all direct action programs and for enforcement will
be delegated to line ministries, the Regional Development Corporations, and
private sector actors   SENMA could, however, take direct enforcement action
in critical situations.
7.    PONAMA will support SENMA initiatives by securing donor funding for
programs and individual projects, and overseeing implementation. All FONAKA-
supported programs will be executed by other agencies.
8.    Initial activities to support the transition from organizational to
practical action will build on existing work plans and organizational
capabilities while also strengthening SENMA's ability to undertake more
challenging initiatives in the futuire. It would includes
a.    The continuation of ZAP-initiated programs to increase public
awareness of the importance of environmental problems, develop
community-based planning systems for their mitigation, and support
long-term natural resource management planning ("ordenamiento
territorial");
b.   the rapid initiation of FONAMA-financed investment programs now
aimed at the maintenance of biodiversity and the management of
"protected areas";
c.    the creation of procedures for the routine involvement of SENMA in
the resource managment planning and environmental impact analysis
work now required by law for proposed investments; and
d.    the strengthening of SENMA's ability to influence private sector
resource management and investment decisions, through increased



23
ANNEXA
Page 4 of 8
contact and communication with private sector groups, and, where
needed, the use of its regulatory powers.
9.    The proposed project will assist SEMA-PONAMA as follows
a.    The lnstitutional development subcomponent for SENMA would
includes (i) training in environmental planning and management
disciplines for SENMAs higher level staff including short visits in
other environmental agencies in the reglon and elsewhere;
(ii) environmental impact assessment training for SENMA staff and staff
from other relevant agencies including lihe ministries and Regional
Deve 3pment Corporations; (iii) development of technical capabilities in
SENMA's Planning Department to analyze policy options in the context of
sustainable development and to provide guidance between the choice of
economic instruments and environmental outcomes; (iv) training for SRNMA
and FONAMA staff in environmental economicse (v) dissemlnation of
information on environmental issues by SENMA to the public at large;
(vi) technical assistance to strengthen SENMA's internal administrative
and financial management unit; and (vil) financing for the purchase of
computers, office equipment and vehicles.
b.    The Lnstitutional subcomponent for FONAMA would finances
(i) consultant services to assist ln setting up a system for evaluating
and approviLg investment proposals, and assessing trade offs between
economic and environmental goals; (ii) technical assistance to assist
FONAMA to set-up a mechanism to collect information on planned and
ongoing environmental activities to enable FONAMA to influence
investment decLsions and avoid overlapping or conflicting initiatives;
(Lii) support to the Project Coordinating Unit to manage and coordinate
project implementation; (v) the services of a procurement agent to
assist in the project procurement activities and an external auditor;
(iv) computer, and office equipment.
10.   In large part, the success of this institution building strategy will
depend on establishing SEMA's credibility with other national and
international organizations.  Key Ministries, particularly 'lannins and
Coordination, will need to draw on SENMA for environmental planning assistance
and ensure that SENMA can play its legally-mandated role in investment project
planning and review. Line ministries will have to establish clear procedures
for working with SENMA, as they develop their own environmental protection and
resource management programs. Regional Development Corporations will need to
assist SENMA in meeting local needs until there is a clearer requirement for,
and financing becomes available for the regional Departmental Environmental
Socretariats (SEDEMAs) called for under the National Environmental Law.
11.   Chart 1 outllnes the network of inter-relatLonships between SENMA and
FONAMA and the major public and private sector actors involved in
environmental policy. The National Secretary of SENMA has cabinet rank and
responds directly to the President. FONAMA also is attached administratively
to the President. This ensures that both agencies have access to Cabinet
level decision makers. SENMA's Advisory Council is being structured to ensure



24
ANNEX A
Page 5 of 8
profit-making private sector as well as environmental group participation.
The National Secretary of SENMA is the President of FONAMA's Directive Board,
which also includes representation from the Ministries of Planning, Finance,
and Foreign Affairs, three of the nine Departmental Environmental Councils
(CODEMas), and a representative of a national environmental NGO.
12. Annual supervision missions will review SENMA progress toward long-term
institutional development objectives as well as its performance on more
specific ETAP tasks. A major mid-term project review will center on the
degree to which SENMA strategies and programs appear sustainable over the
long-term. Particular attention will be given tos (a) the extent to which
SENMA has been able to participate in and influence the activities of other
ministries; (b) its effectiveness in supporting increased attention to
environmental issues in donor-funded projects; (c) its ability to translate
community-based initiatives into concrete results; (d) the effectiveness of
its relationships with the private sector; (e) professional staff satisfaction
and retention; and (f) its ability to secure additional funding from both the
national government and donors.
13.   During supervision and at mid-term, IDA also will review FONAMA's
progress toward longer term institutional development goals. These will
include: (a) the relationship of its investments to SENMA-defined policy
priorities; (b) its ability to expand the scope of its activities beyond
purely "green" environmental issues; and (c) the number of concrete
initiatives which it has underway (as contrasted to proposals in its
portfolio).
14.   SENMA and PONAMA Orxanization and Staffina.  SENMA is attached to the
PrAgident, and the Secretary National of SENMA is a member of the National
Cabinet and the National Economic Planning Council. He serves also as the
Chairman of FONAMA's Board. The fact that SENMA reports to the Ministry of
the President will assist in securing needed political support, in developing
working ties with the key Ministries of Planning and Coordination and Finance,
and facilitating involvement in environmentally-related activities of line
ministries and the Regional Development Corporations.
15. The Natlional Secretarv is responsible for overseeing long-term policy
and program planning in SENMA and FONAMA, securing and setting priorities for
the use of budget resources, appointing and overseeing the activities of
senior SENMA managers, and intervening directly to resolve major problems.
The *political" responsibilities of this ministerial-level position center, on
securing support for SENMA's programs, by ensuring that its initiatives
reflect environmental priorities, building ties to private and public sector
organizations involved in environmental issues, and pacing proposed changes to
the country's "absorptive capacity".
16. The Executive Coordinator will have principal operating responsibility
for and authority over the implementation of SENMA programs. He will assist
the National Secretary in long-term program and budget planning, coordinate
relations with FONAMA, and oversee and support SENMA's four national program



25
ANEX 
Page 6 of 8
directors. He will have ex offigio membership on SENMA's Advisory Council and
on FONAMA's Directive Board.
18. A SENMA Advisory Council will provide the National Secretary and the
Executive Coordinator with outside advice while also strengthening SENMA ties
to environmental groups and the private sector. The membership of an interim
Council is now being expanded temporarily to provide this private sector
representation.  The Council also may constitute d b   "Special Committees"
when assistance is needed in considering industry-specific, technical, or
other specialized problem areas. For example, livestock producers and timber
industry representatives might be asked to participate in the definition of
"buffer zone" management policies, or mining industry representatives to
develop proposals for controlling run off and contamination and for financing
investments in environmentally sound technologies.
19. SENMA's four principal Departments include: (a) Environmental Policy;
(b) Legal Affairs; (c) Environmental Quality; and (d) Protected Areas.  These
departmants, which are quite small, will function as an integrated working
team. Additional offices include a Management Support and Budget Unit and a
Natior.al Environmental Information System Unit, both reporting directly to the
Executive Coordinator.
20. The Environmental Policy Department (DPA) will play the determining role
in the success of SENMA's efforts to establish itself as a normative agency.
This Department was built around the team that is executing the Bolivian
Environmental Action Plan (EAP), and it already has had substantial success in
beginning local, participatory planning programs; increasing public awareness
about environmental problems; and assisting in the formulation of the General
Environmental Law. However, the Department now faces a need for major changes
as it moves to meet responsibilities related to economic policy planning and
national physical planning ("ordenamiento territorial").
21. The proposed project will assist the DPA In developing needed skills in
economic and financial analysis by financing a senior, full-time environmental
economist for at least two years, to develop a problem-oriented, research
program with environmental focus. Proposed SENMA/DPA work on cadastral, land
tenure, taxation and physical land and natural resource use planning
("ordenamiento territorial") is unlikely, however, to have a significant
impact until underlying -- and highly politicized -- cadastral, land tenure,
and taxation problems are addressed.
22. The Legal Affairs Department (DAJ) has adopted a practicable strategy
for implementing the General Environmental Law, and work on drafting
implementing regulations and procedures is underway. The DAJ will center its
initial efforts on establishing an overall legal framework for environmental
action, while coordinating with concerned line ministries for sector-specific
legislative initiatives.
23. The Enyironmental Oualitv Deoartment (DCA) will provide SENMA with
access to the technical skills needed to develop its own environment quality
research and monitoring capabilities, cooperate with other SENMA departments



26
ANNEX A
Page 7 of 8
in setting environmental goals and standards, aasist line ministries and
private agencies in developing in-house environmental monitoring and impact
analysis capabilities, and establishing ties with specialized consulting and
engineering firms to meet SENMA responsibilities for industry or resource
specific tasks.
24.   The Deoartment of Protected Areas (DPA) will undertake two complementary
sets of tasks. It will establish broad policies for the identification,
protection, and management of Protected Areas; define policies with regard to
multiple use of natural resources in these and adjacent "buffer zone" areas.
A complementary GEF-funded "Biodiversity Conservation Project", cofinanced by
the Swiss Government, will assist the Department in the actual development and
management of the "National System of Protected Areas" (SNAP). The German and
the Dutch Governments are also likely to provide support to this initiative.
25.   The Manacement SuDoOrt and Budoet Unit will provide assistance in two
broad areas. First, it will assist SENMA and FONAMA to use their budget
planning and execution process to ensure that staff and financial resource are
allocated in accordance with environmental policy management priorities.
Second, it will consolidate and streamline internal administrative and support
systems, establish sound financial management systems and accounting controls,
and ensure that IDA record-keeping and reporting requirements are met.
Accounting and expenditure control systems for all donor financed activities -
- including PAMB programs -- would be consolidated.
26. SENMA's long-term organizational plans include the establishment of the
Delpartmenal Environmental Seceariats (SEDEMAs) mandated by the General
Environmental Law. As ETAP activities would fully tax SENMA's current
prcfassional and managerial capabilities, no support would be provided for the
early establishment of these offices. Should individual Regional Development
Corporations offer to finance their establishment with their own resources,
appropriate changes could easily be made.
27. FONAMA is well organized. Mission-recommended changes centered
primarily on strengthening its investment portfolio analysis capability and
establishing satisfactory ETAP project management arrangements.
28. FONAMA's organization is simple and practical. An Executive Director
oversees three Departments: (a) Fund Raising, (b) Technical Programs, and (c)
Administration and Finance. Separate "Administrative Councils", including one
for ETAP, will be created to manage programs and maintain separate accounts
for funds from individual donors. The membership of these Councils will
lnclude representation from SENMA, FONAMA, the organization executing the
specific project(s), and, in some cases, the donor agency (e.g., USAID).
29. Oversight for PONAMA programs will be provided by a Directive Board,
chaired by the National Secretary of SENMA. The eight person Board will
include representatives from the Ministries of Planning, Finance, and Foreign
Affairs, three of the nine Regional Environmental Councils (CODEMAs), and one
from a national NGO.



27
ANNEXA
Page 8 of 8
30.   FONAMA has seventeen staff of whom twelve are professional (executive
director, deputy director, technical manager, fund raising manager,
administration and finance manager, auditor, attorney, accountant, coordinator
of the ETAP/Diodiversity account, economist, project evaluator, project
administrator). The core professional staff of ten includes an Executive
Director and his Deputy; separate Managers for Fund Raising, Technical
Programs, and Administration; four junior professionals, one in monitoring,
one in evaluation, one in economics and one expert in biodiversity; and a
lawyer, an accountant, and an auditor.



28
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4
BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING/TRAINING
1.    In order to develop, implement, and manage environmental policy, the
National Environmental Secretary (SENMA) will need to upgrade its human
resource capacity of both senior and mid-level management. To achieve this
objective, the proposed operation would support the following initiatives.
2.    Trainina in Environmental Plannina and Manacement.  The four department
directors and the executive coordinator will be given the opportunity to visit
environmental agencies whose work program and level of effort closely
approximates the activities to be undertaken by SENXA. The objective of these
visits will be to provide each Director with the opportunity to gain practical
management experience related to the specific program objectives of his
Department.  The expected outDuts related to this training includes  improved
g2licj   gevelo=ment and implementation, the development of environmental
reaulations and standards, the desion and imolementation of Environmental
Imact Assessments EEIAI, systems for inter-ministerial policv develooment,
and mechanisms for Private sector inout into policy formulation. Based on
discussions held during the appraisal mission the training will take place in
the following locations: Executive Coordinator-Environment Ministry, State of
Rehenane-Westfalia, Germany; Director of the Legal Department-EPA, Legal
Department, USA; Director of Policy and Planning-Environment Ministry, State
of Parana gr Sao Paolo, Brazil. The Director of Environmental Quality will
visit either Environment Canada or the Environment Department of the State of
California.
3.    The Executive Coordinator has contacted the above institutions to inform
them of SENMA's interest and arrangements are underway to establish an
effective working program.
4.    Environmental Impact Assessment Traininq.  The institutional capacity to
undertake Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is weak in most developing
countries. In Bolivia, only a few individuals have had the appropriate
training and practical experience. At the same time Bolivia and donors
require EIA's be undertaken of development projects. Training in ZIA is
necessary not only to ensure that the environmental impact of development
projects is fully taken into account, but will also serve as an input for the
establishment of a strong institutional base for environmental planning and
policy making.
S.   Chapter IV of Title III of Bolivia's new Environmental Law provides a
general framework for the establishment of Environmental Impact Assessment
(EZIA) of development investments for both the public and private sectors.
Organizations which expect to play a role in the design and execution of a
particular project are required to prepare an Environmental Impact Declaration
(DIA). SENMA in coordination with corresponding sectoral agencies or public
enterprises will be charged with the management and monitoring of



29
ANNEX B
Page 2 of 4
environmental impact and the establishment of plans for environmental
protection and mitigation.
6.   Irn April 1992 with support from the PPF the Department of Environmental
Quality (DNNA) implemented a one week introductory seminar on Environmental
Impact Assessment (ETA). The target groups were both senior level government
officials and technicians. SENMA also commissioned the services of an
international consultant to assist in the design of the EIA training program.
These activities laid the groundwork for a 3 year EIA training program.
7.   The DNNA will be responsible for the establishment of guidelines and
procedures for carrying out EIA's. Specifically, the Department will
undertake the following activities.
(a) Establish categories and screening processes for projects which
will require EIA;
(b) evaluate project specific EzA's and prepare "Declaraciones de
Impacto Ambiental (DrA)" which permit or reject the implementation
,of development projects;
(c) develop and elaborate processes, norms and regulations for
undertaking BrA and detail the coordination of EIA's with line
Ministries and other public sector and private sector entities;
(d) establish monitoring and control procedures;
(e) establish systems for dissemination of EIA to the public; and
(f)   incorporate results of EIA into environmental policy and planning.
8.   As part of the institutional development and strengthening the proposed
operation will support a series of training activities in Environmental Impact
Assessment (ZIA). The obiectives of the EIA training program are:
(a) develop and implement 5 short courses focussing on the
agricultural, energy, mining, industrial and transportation
sectors. Activities in these sectors have substantial impact on
resource use and environmental quality and tend to attract the
largest amount of both foreign and domestic investment.
International and local firms will participate in the planning and
execution;
(b)   provide on  he job training for 10 professionals from SENMA, the
sector Ministries and public enterprises at an Environment
Ministry or related agency outside of Bolivia; and
(c) implement 9 recional workshops for regional development
corporations, municipal governments, the private sector and
NGO's.



30
Page 3 of 4
9.    A select group of professionals from SENMA, FONAMA, sectoral ministries,
public enterprises, regional development corporations, municipal and local
governments and the private sector will participate in the training
activities. A total of 245 trainees will attend the three training programs.
National and local level institutions will gain the required expertise for
carrying on the requirements under the established environmental legislation.
10.   Research Prio2rties in Environmental Economics.  one of the most
important challenges facing SENMA will be the development of environmental
policies which promote both economic growth and environmental protection.
During the last 18 months with support from the Dutch Government, the German
Government and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID),
the Department of Environmental Policy (DPA) of SENMA has undertaken research
and implemented country wide workshops targeted at the preparation of
Bolivia's Environmental Action Plan (EAP).  The results of this work are
providing inputs into policy dialogue among such diverse interests as forest
concessionaires, small and large scale farmers, indigenous groups, ecologists
and environmental planners, the mining industry and the energy sector.
11.   The DPA of SENMA has developed a three year plan which will build on the
activities of the EAP. The overall objective of the plan will be to establish
the institutional framework at the national, regional and local levels for
environmental policy analysis and development and environmental monitoring.
An important component of the DPA work plan will be the establishment of an
interdisciplinary research program which analyzes environmental issues and
problems from both a natural and economic sciences perspective. The
effectiveness of SENMA at the policy level will be directly related to the
develoPment of DPA's capability in these areas.
12.   The proposed operation will provide support to DPA for the development
of a research program which builds on the analytical work undertaken by the
ZAP and incorporates environmental economics into DPA's three year work plan.
DPA with the assistance of an international consultant will design a research
agenda targeted at economic and environmental analysis of sectoral policies,
economic and environmental costs and benefits of development projects,
economic incentives for environmental protection and sustainable development,
and the role of environmental issues in economic planning. This activity will
be closely tied to the Natural Resource and Environmental Training component
which is described below. Prior to Negotiations, SENMA will prepare detailed
terms of reference for the consultant. An important result of this activity
will be the design of case studies with specific problem focus.
13.   Natural Resource and Environmental Economics Trainina.  Increasing
awareness of the relationship between natural resource management,
environmental degradation and economic development has created a need for
specialized expertise for the evaluation of costs and benefits of
environmental policies, the impact of sectoral policies on natural resource
management and the appraisal of projects which either directly use natural
resources or generate impacts on the natural environment. Bolivia, like most
developing countries, lacks sufficient human resources to undertake these
analytical tasks.



31
ANNEX a
Page 4 of 4
14.   The proposed operation will support graduate level training for
professionals in natural resource and environmental economics. The content of
these programs will address the specific needs of SENMA and FONAMA, including
the upgrading of economic analysis capability related to natural resources and
environment policy and planning, and the incorporation of environmental
considerations into project appraisal. The duration of these programs will be
2-4 months. The training will be completed prior to the initiation of the
DPA' research program described above. Specialized graduate level programs
on natural resource and environmental economics have been identified in Chile
and other Latin American countries.



32
ANNEX C
Page 1 of 5
ENV!RON34ETAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ENVIRONMENAL EDU      N
1..  An important element of Bolivia's long-torm strategy for environmental
protection and management is the development and implementation of formal and
non-formal environmental education programs. Historically, environmental
education programs in Bolivia have been undertaken by local NGOs with support
from the international donor community. These programs represented a
piecomeal effort and have not generated the type of results which could be
replicated on a countrywide basis. Nevertheless, Bolivian NGO's are the only
organizations which have experience in designing curricula and implementing
grassroots level programs. They have demonstrated the capacity to identify
and analyze problems and implement cost-effective community-based programs.
At the same time, due to a lack of both financial and human resources the
government has played a limited role in the definition of policies and
programs related to environmental education.
2.    With support from the World Bank and the Municipality of La Paz the
Centro interdisciplinario de Estudios Comunitarios (CIEC) undertook in 1986 a
small pilot project on environmental education. CIEC developed training
materials for teachers and booklets for primary school students which focussed
on aspects of the urban environment. The project was implemented in S primary
schools in La Paz. The specific outputs from this project included the
development of training materials for teachers and students and a well
designed teacher training methodology. These outputs form the basis for the
project activities to be undertaken by CIEC with support from the proposed
operation.
3.   The objective of this component is to support a pilot program in the
Municipality of La Paz and three pilot projects in three rural areas.
4.   Pilot Proiect for the Municivalitv of La Paz. The objectives of this
pilot project are to:
(i)   provide teacher training which will facilitate the transfer of
knowledge to primary school students on urban environmental
issues;
(ii) introduce environmental education material into the primary school
system;
(iii) provide in class guidance on the use and implementation of the
environmental curriculum;
(Lv) evaluate teacher and student performance; and
(v)   provide the Ministry of Education with materials and methodologies
for curriculum reform.



33
ANNEX c
Page 2 of 5
5.    School selection and Training Methodolow.  There are approximately s5s
primary schools in the La Paz metropolitan area. CIEC in consultation with
the Municipality of la Paz and the Ministry of Education has selected 250
schools for participation in the project. The criteria for selection includes
schools which have received institutional support from non-governmental
programs such as "Accion un Maestro Mas" and "Fe y Alegria", schools which
have adequate infrastructure to implement the program, and schools which are
located in zones with serious environmental problems.
6.   'bere are approximately 8,000 primary school teachers in La Paz. The
project expects to provide direct training to 1000 teachers and indirect
training to 5000 teachers. Thirty teacher training workshops will be
conducted each academic year. One teacher from each school, 250 in total,
will be selected to train additional teachers and will be paid an honoraria
for his or her services. Only the most qualified teachers will be selected
for both the direct and indirect training.
7.   The teacher training program will lay the groundwork for the
introduction of the environmental curriculum into the participating schools.
CIEC estimates that at least 100,000 primary school students or about 65% of
the total primary school enrolment will eventually receive environmentally
related course material and in-class training.
S.    CIEC will provide in class technical assistance 3 times per year to each
participating school. This activity will assist each school and its teachers
in refining the student training program and improving the overall delivery of
the curriculum.
9.    The project will introduce materials covering the following topics:
Eavironment and the Urban Ecosystem, Urban Environmental  tanagenc    ts
Historical, social and Economic Dimensions, Urban Health and sanitation,
Floods and othet Environmental Emergencies.
10.   Results and Output.  This project will produce the following outputs:
(i) training of 6000 teachers from the La Paz primary school system;
(ii) reproduction of 12,500 teacher training manuals;
(iii) reproduction and distribution of 62,500 copies of environmental
booklets to primary school students; Approximately 1 set for every
2 students;
(iv) modification of training will be undertaken based on periodic
evaluations; and
(v) preparation of final report and dissemination workshop for the
Ministry of Education-and policy makers from other public sector
agencies. This experiment will provide the inputs for future
curriculum reform and will be used as a model of training
methodology which can be duplicated in other cities In Bolivia.



34
ANNEX C.
Page 3 of S
11.   Rural Environmental Education.  The objectives of the three pilot
projects in three agroecological regions are to:
(i)   provide teacher training and curriculum development based on the
specific ecological characteristics of the Altiplano, Valleys and
Orient (tropics);
(ii) introduce environmental course material into rural primary schools
and community organizations;
(iii) provide practical training to "grupoo de base" in each community
with relevance to specific environmental problems in each area;
(iv) implement demonstratiqn plots utilizing environmentally sound
practices on land attached to rural schools; and
(v)   undertake periodic evaluations and provide the Ministry of
Education with materials and methodologies for curriculum reform.
12.   Selection of Reaions and Communities.  The design of this project
reflects the uniqueness of Bolivia's rural ecology and resource base. From an
ecological as well as a socio-economic point of view, substantial differences
exist in the Altiplano, Valleys and Orients. Any attempt to develop a rural
environmental curriculum and training program must take into account
ecological and resource base differences. For these reasons, a pilot project
needs to be designed and implemented in a representative sample of communities
with special characteristics in each of the three ecological zones.
13.   The NGOs which will implement this project have worked in the regions
where this project will be undertaken.  No other environmental education
projects are presently being executed in the selected communities. During the
PPF phase the implementing organizations established contact with possible
participating communities and obtained the required authorizat'ion from
community "sindicatos". This is quite important to the overall success of the
project since the sindicatos will require participation by community members
in project related activities. The selected regions exhibit a high density of
rural schools with 1 "nucleo escolar" and at least 8 "escuelas seccionales".
The selected communities also represent the typical environmental problems of
the particular ecological zone.
14.   Training Nethodoloav.  The teacher training component of this project
will be undertaken in the afternoon after the official close of each school
day. The training material will be directly incorporated into the school
curriculum by the teachers during regular class sessions.
15. Environmental education will be undertaken for "groupos de base" during
the afternoon and on the weekends. It will include classroom sessions and
field study utilizing school demonstration plots.
16. The overriding objective of the training methodology is to integrate
education activities at community schools with the community as a whole. This



35
ANNEX C
Page 4 of 5
approach should help to maximize the practical application of environmentally
sound production practices in participating communities.
17.   The design of the currik4lum for student and community organization
training will reflect the particular ecology and environmental problems of the
area. Topics will includes sail erosion and conservation, deforestation,
water management, small scale irrigation and sanitation, mining contamination,
land recuperation, use of pesticides and fertilizers, and man/woman and
his/her environment.
18.   Thiw project will produce the following outputss
(1)   training of 100 teachers, 6,000 primary school students and S,200
qrupos de base" in Pacajes, Ichilo, and Inquisivi;
(ii)  develop and reproduce teacher training manuals;
(iii) develop, reproduce and distribute environmental booklets to
primary school students;
(iv) provide practical training to complement formal course material on
demonstration plots and provide examples which can be replicated
on farmers plots;
(v)   develop an environmental curriculum based on the ecology and
onvironmental problems of each region;
(vi)  preparation of final report and dissemination workshop for the
Ministry of Education and policy makers from other public sector
agencier-
Uroso2 fianAcement and Implementing OrganizatiOns
19*  The Fondo Nacional para el Medic Ambiente (FONAMA), will be in charge of
the overall project execution. The Interdisciplinary Center for Community
Studies (CIEC) has been one of the lead institutions in developing and
implementing both research and action oriented environmental education
projects. CISC will be in charge of the pilot project in the Municipality of
La Paz. The Liga para la Defensa del Media Ambiente (LIDEMA), a non-profit,
umbrella environmental NCO, will coordinate the implementation of the pilot
projects in the three rural areas, provide technlcal assistance to the
participating organizations, and undertake periodic evaluations. LIDEMA will
also be treponsible for the preparatlon of the final report and the
implementation of the disemination workshop to be held at the completion of
the project. The Servicios Multiples de Teocnologias Apropiadas (SEMTA) and
the Asociacion Scologica del Oriente (ASEO) will execute their respective
subcomponents of the Rural Environmental Education Project.



36
MAX L
Page 5 of S
20.   CIEC management has established contact with two NGO's which are
currently doing work in Inquisivi, Save the Children and Un Maestro Mae, and
has been assured of their support and cooperation in executing the project.
SEMTA has worked exclusively in the Altiplano since its founding in 1980. It
has undertaken action oriented research related to the development of
alternative agricultural technologies and environmental education and health.
A major part of its work program is directed toward the development of
sustainable agroecosystems among small-holders who produce a variety of
agricultural products. They have established 22 training centers throughout
the province of Pacajes. The grassroots approach used by SEMTA in its
previous work should prove valuable in the execution of this project. ASEO
was established as the first environmental NGO in the Oriente of Bolivia in
1986. They have undertaken research and implemented workshops on a variety of
environmental issues related to tropical ecosystem development. They have
made significant contributions in the areas of tropical ecology, soil
conservation, and sustainable tropical agriculture for small farmers. They
have established working relationships with base groups, colonists, and other
NGOOs in the Santa Cruz Region. Sufficient capacity exists (in all three
organizations) to undertake this pilot effort.



37
ANNEX 0
Page 1 of 12
ENVIRONMENTAL TECENIGAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LEGAL AND REGULATORY COMPONENT
GENERAL BACGROUND AND LAWS AND REGULATIONS
2O E  UPP RTED UNDER T9E PROPOSED OPERATION
The new Environmental Law aims to promote sustainable development through a
comprehensive strategy that encompasses economic and social as well as
technical approaches. It defines the term "environmentw to include:
sustainable use of natural resources, biodiversity and ecosystem conservation,
incorporating environmental concerns into national planning, urban and rural
development and quality of life, environmental research and environmental
education.  As the Law was prepared through a consensual, participatory
process and the fact that it places emphasis on an intersectoral,
interdisciplinary approach, it can potentially serve as a good basis for an
evolving national program to promote sustainable development. The Law
ratifies SENMA and FONAMA to carry out its requirements.
Due to the cross-sectoral nature of these basic environmental regulations
SENMA, during the preparatbry work, will consult closely with the Ministry of
Planning, line ministries, the private sector, research institutions and NGOs
to help assess the impact on various entities, provide valuable inputs in
developing the new requirements, and help generate public awareness about the
new regulations. The objective will be to design clear requirements with
feasible goals, since these regulations will provide the detailed framework
for program implementation. The above regulations will be prepared as
Decretos Supremos, which will need the approval of the President and the
entire Cabinet.
While under the Law, SENMA has been given the responsibility to promulgate or
help another agency to promulgate substantive regulations, work regarding the
laws will be initiated in the Congress. The Congress has two environmental
commissions, one that serves the Senate and other the House of
Representatives. As sector laws (Forestry, Protected Areas and Water Laws)
are revised to be harmonized with the new Environmental Law, the two
environmental commissions will work closely with SENMA which will provide
technical assistance as required.
The process of preparing the draft laws is similar to the approach used for
the now broad Environmental Law. The Congressional team prepares an initial
draft based on available information, including specific studies, suggestions
that arose during preparation of the broad Environmental Law, and comments
that the team solicits from each of Bolivia's nine Departments. This draft is
then presented at a national seminar that convenes representatives from a
broad range of public and private sector organizations. The national seminar
is followed by a series of regional seminars. At each stage, the draft is



38
ANNEX D
Page 2 of 12
modified to incorporate additional comments. A second national seminar is
held to invite final comments on the draft law before it is sent to the
Congress for formal approval. the Congress is scheduling each of the legal
drafting activities to run from approximately April through September or
October of the same year. The reason for this schedule is to enable the
responsible Camara's environmental commission to prepare a draft during its
one year term and to forward the new law to the Congress during that same
term.
The followLnq information is included for each actLvity to be supported under
the proposed operations
- background;
- responsible government LnstitutLon;
- tlmLng;
- expertise needed; and
- support from other donors.
The timina on develoument of new laws only extends to the intended time when
they will be ready for submittal to the Congress; there is no way to predict
accurately how long the approval process will take, and this is outslde the
control of the Executlve Branch of Government.
The timinao for reaulations does not include an end date in most cases, because
the schedule is too speculative. Some regulations will probably be finally
adopted within 6-12 months after the Government begins drafting them, such as
the regulation on envLronmental impact assessment. However, the process could
well take longer to finallze other regulations. For example, this could apply
where (i) the Government may need to evaluate how new actLvities are working
in ptactiee, such as GEF activities relating to protected areas; (iL) the
Government is entering a new field of regulation, such as pollution
managementt or (iLi) there may be politLcal and/or instLtutional
complications, such as in land use management or envlronmental aspects of
mining and energy production. Where no other end date is mentloned, it should
be assumed that the regulatory work descrLbod will be completed by 12/96.
Leaal instruments. Each of the laws to be developed will be a Ley Especial,
and will require the approval of both houses of Congress and the President.
The estatutos organicos will have the status of a "Resolucion Suprema," which
requlres approval of the responsible Ministur and the President. All the
other regulations will have the status of a UDecreto Supremo," which requires
the approval of the entire Cabinet and the President.
2XS!!U1TOERL SUPPORT TO SENMA'S DIRECCION DX ASUMS JUmRDXCOS
RSTATV20 OR aGACO D3 SRNMA (y manual de funcLones)
Baakarounds Establish the basic substantive operating procedures and
functions of SENMA.



39
AmNNX
Page 3 of 12
Responsibili&v: SENMA
Timln2s Drafts under preparation and are to be finalized within 6 months
after the Ley General del Medio Ambiente is published.
ConsultanaUs
1 national consultant in public administration
(lawyer) for 2 months - Estatuto Organico
1 national consultant in administrative procedures (lawyer)
for 2 months - Manual de Funciones
BSTATUTO ORGANICO DE FONAMA
B gkgrondI: Establish the basic substantive operating procedures and
functions of FONAMA.
Resoonsibility: FONAMA
imina: Draft under preparation and is to be finalized within 6 months aftor
the Ley General del Medio Ambiente is published.
eonEUIInst
1 national consultant in public administration
(lawyer) for 2 months - ENtatuto Organico
I national consultant in administrative procedures
(lawyer) for 2 months - Manual de Funciones
LET OENERA FORESTAL
Bagkarggnds Improved management of Bolivia's forest resources is critical
both to its economic growth and to protecting other important natural
resources, such as biodiversity. The current law (and practices) has not been
an effective instrument to promote sustainable or efficient forest management
and needs to be amended.
The new law will address issues of sustainability, efficiency and equity by
providing a regulatory/incentive framework that will focus ont (i) providing
added tenure security to promote long-term planning; (Li) introduce and
enforce sustainable management practices; and (iii) provide added access to
forest activities by eliminating existing barriers to entry. Issues of forest
management will be complicated by related land use questions, such as the
rights of local indigenous groups and overlapping jurisdictions with farmland
and protected areas.
Another difficult problem is how to reconcile overlapping issues between the



40
Page 4 of 12
Forestry and Protected Areas laws, as well as other laws governing land use.
The Congressional Commissions working on the Forestry and Protected Areas laws
both noted that they will need to consult together about cross-cutting issues.
The lead government unit responsible for implementing the new Law will be the
Centro do Desarrollo Forestal (CDF) within the Xinisterio de Asuntos
Campesinos y Agropecuarios (MACA) and its decentralized agencies. A
preliminary draft of the new Law (May 1992) estaDlishes a national Forestry
Fund to support CDF's activities. This section should receive careful review
since CDF's performance under the existing Law has been highly unsatisfactory.
Res onsibilitXt Camara de Diputados (Comision del Medio Ambiente y Recursos
Naturales)l Technical assistance from SENMA
ianinat 3-11/92
Consultants
1 national consultant in agroforestry management to coordinate the
Congressional activities for 6 months (3-9/92)
1 national consultant in sylviculture for 6 months (4-9/92)
1 international consultant in forestry policy and planning for 20
days (6/92);
1 national consultant in forestry economics for 3 months (6-8/92)
other d2ono
(FAO) 1 international consultant in forestry policy and planning
for 2 months (7-8/92) and a second international consultant,
specialist in forestry legislation, for about two months.
(FAO) 2 national consultants in institutional management and
national forestry law. They will focus on developing the basis
for the future regulations. They will begin work in 6/92 and
continue as needed for a longer period than the other consultants.
23EY DR ARSAS PROT5eIDAS Y VIDA SILVESRI"
Backgeonds  The Ley del Medio Ambiente calls for revisLon of the existing law
on Protected Areas and Wildlife.
The preceding discussion of the Ley General Forestal noted some areas. of
potential overlap with this law.
i£iia8aLUhiL,tY: Camara de Senadores (Comision de scologia y Medio Ambiente) 
Technical assistance from SENMA



41
Page S of 12
Tlminjt 4-11/92
2 national consultants in protected areas and wildlife, and a social
anthropologist, to coordinate the legislative work for 6 months
2 international consultants in different aspects of planning and policy
for protected areas for a few weeks each (4-7/92)
Other dongors
(SDC) 1 national consultant, a biologist, for six months
(Holland) 2 international consultants, a biologist
(project coordinator) and a lawyer, for 6 months
(UNDP, not yet confirmed) 1 international consultant in protected areas
to evaluate documentation and the draft law for 1-2 months
(USAID) Administrative support
330L1JUC33T DR LA L3Y GENSRAL DEL UEDZO AMBIENTE
gackg M ads This regulation will define key basic functions and activities
under the new Lay General, such as: providing for public participation;
establishing a national environmental information system; and clarifying
coordination among different government agencies. It will also establish a
framework for using economic incentives and possibly also for administrative
sanctions under the Ley General.
ReagansQ itbyls:  8ENMA
Tijinas  6/92-6/93
MARIuta=3s
1 national consultant in environmental economics,
including financial incentives, for 1 month
1 international consultant in environmental
economics for 2 weeks
I international consultant in environmental information systems for 2
wees"
QCflr AQnMxs who may provide assistance: FAO; USAID; possibly others.



42
ANNEX D
Page 6 of 12
RIXUJiNT o DE ISTUDIoS Ds 3VALUACZON DR LOS IMPACTOS AMBIEMTALES
Imoortanc- Assssment of proposed activities with potentially significant
environmental impacts Is key to improved planning for sustainable development.
Timing of environmental assessment (EA) is cruciall the EA should be
incorporated into the earliest stages of project planning, to minimize
disruption. SENMA, the Central Bank and some of the private lending banks
have already formed a committee to examine how requirements for environmental
assessment (EA) can be built into project financing procedures.
During the first year of regulatory implementation, SENMA expects that a $1
million fund will be available to provide grants for conducting EAs. This
money will come from a short-term credit provided to the Central Bank by the
Interamerican Development Bank.
Ies3onsibilitys  SENMA
Timina: 7/92-6/93. Includes about 3 months to prepare a draft and two more
months for consultation and finalLsing the regulation.
sonsultanl&t
I international consultant on environmental assessment for 1 month
2 national consultants on technical aspects of environmental
-assesment for 2-1/2 months.
RIGLAamIO ESPEC2AL DI CALZDAD AJSIUNTAL
EBa"9=nds This regulation will establish environmental quality standards.
Pollution management is a new activity in Bolivia and therefore developing
this regulation will probably be more difficult technically, take longer and
requir more assistance from international consultants than the other JGF
activities.
A decision about how to spend the budgeted funds for this activity will need
to wait until SENM has had a better chance to explore its options for work in
this area and to learn more about relevant upcoming activities, such as the
Bank study on industrial and mining pollution and the JICA project to improve
water quality and sanitation in La Paz.
International consultants will be contracted to help establish onvironmental
quality standards and to set the framework development regulations and
programs for pollution management. The Government can then use this framework
as a basis for planning its work and discussing additional support with other



43
ANX I)
Page 7 of 12
donors.
Establishing basic national air and water quality standards should be
relatively straightforward. There are examples from other countries within
the region, some of which derive from the recommended guidelines of the World
Health Organization. These environmental quality standards are important as a
baseline for monitoring and evaluation. They can also serve as a legal
"safety net*, by setting a broad, general requirement for the pollution
management activities of any regulated activity.
However, environmental quality standards alone are not an adequate means of
regulating pollution management. First, there is probably no country where
all such standards are actually being met. Therefore, it is necessary to
treat these standards as goals to be achieved over decades or even generations
-- especially in developing countries.
Second, environmental quality standards are too general and apply over too
large an area (for example, an entire river or an air basin) to be readily
translated into pollution management requirements for specific activities. It
is not clear from the new Law to what extent responsibility for regulating
specific polluting activities will fall to SENMA or to other government
institutions (at the national and local levels).
In terms of national regulation, SENMA will need to build a careful strategy
that sets realistic targets in light of national priorities and the available
resources. The timing of this regulatory work will depend on the many
variables concerning how and by whom pollution management requirements are to
be established, and the degree to which they will depend on information that
is not yet available.
it will be necessary to survey approaches taken by neighboring countries, to
define more clearly the coverage of this regulation, and to consider questions
such as whether and how to take into account cross-media pollution management.
This is an area where some reliance on pilot activities could be particularly
valuablo. one priority should be to identify existing laws and/or regulations
governing this subject area, whose implementation should be evaluated and
perhaps strengthened as part of the environmental regulatory process.
ResDonsibillty: SENMA
TVnJs  6/92-10/94.
Other donors who may provide assistances To be identified.
LEY DEL ORDEMASENIO TERRITORIAL
Backarognds  Bolivia does not have legislation governing land use planning and
zoning. This law will establish a framework that can be applied at the
national, departmental and local levels to encourage better land use planning
and development. The concept of the Ordenamiento Territorial is evolving and



44
Page 8 of 12
will nend to be refined. Extensive consultation will be necessary because the
scale of this activity is so large, and it has such broad economic, social and
political implications. One important source of information and assistance
will be various mapping and other land use activities that the Bank and other
donors have been supporting in Bollvia.
The new Law calls for SENMA to establish a Comision del Ordenamiento
Territorial, headed by the Secretary of SEWMA, to help devise and promote this
law. Development of the law will serve as a focus to pull together many
different political, technical and legal activities concerning land tenure,
land use planning, zoning, eminent domain issues, land taxation, land use
subsidies, and so on, including agrarian, forestry and protected areas
reforms.
The Direeion de Politica Ambiental of SENMA has already begun to work on the
process with the many other interested sectors and projects in the country.
SENMA is hopeful that by June 1993, this preliminary work will be sufficiently
advanced to enable the Congress to begin drafting the framework law.
Resaoona&iiLitt Camara de Senadores (comision do ecologia y medio ambiente)p
SENMA will provide technical assistance.
Jimingt Beginning in mid-1993 or later.
C,s,nultantss
I international consultant in regional planning
for 2 months
1 national consultant in zoning for 6 months
1 national consultant in social planning for 1 month
oth r donors who may provide assistances ¢TS; Holland; IDB
NEGLAUfNEO DE IA LEY Da AmUAS
Backoround: The new Ley de Aguas is with the Camara de Diputados for
approval. The law addresses both water use and water quality. The Congress
will not take any further action on the draft law until it reconvenes in
August 1992. After the Camara de Diputado. approves the law, it will have to
be approved by the Camara de senadores, and then signed by the President and
published. The Government aims to complete this process before August 1993.
The Reglamento Especial de Calidad Ambiental, whose preparation will begin
under the JGF, will establish environmental quality standards, including water
quality. These water quality standards can then serve as part of the basis
for the Reglamento de la Ley de Aguas, which will address broader questions of
water use. These will include specific pollution management requirements for
regulated facilities to help achieve water quality standards.



45
<                                ~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX D
Page 9 of 12
The discussion above about the Reglamento de Calidad Ambiental contains some
information relevant to tho water regulations to be developed here. The new
Regl_amnto will also need to incorporate the results of an upcoming study of
industrial and mining pollution in Bolivia. The 10 month study will be
conducted under the auspices of 8ENMA, with funding from the World Bank. The
study is expected to begin in October 1992.
IaftnJsillitys To be decided.
TLmini To be finalized not later than twelve months after the date the Water
Law is enacted.
Consultans
I international consultant in water legislation
for 1 months
1 national consultant in management and
administration of water systems for 4 months
1 national consultant in watershed management for
4 months
other don2rs wt, may provide assistance: CODA; JICA; USAID
UDSLMWIN 93 LA La @UNRA  FORBSTA.
Bo_ rondt This regulation will establish requirements under the new Ley
Forestal. There will already have been substantial initial work on the
regulation during the earlier work to prepare the Ley Forestal.
*   .vlL5s4h4iLitys To be decided; probably MACA.
TZjaig: To be finalized not later than twelve months after the enactment of
the respective law.
Cangultant&t
1 international consultant in forestry regulation,
for one month
1 national consultant in forest management, for
four months
1 national consultant in agroforestry, for four
months
ot r donorc who may provide assistance: To be identified.



46
ANNE;X D
Page 10 of 12
UGLANUNTO DE LA LEY DE AREAS PROTEGIDAS Y VIDA SILVESTRE
Backrougds This regulation will establish requirements under the new Ley de
Areas Protegidas.  It wil include the regulations for the SNAP and thb
Diroccion de Areas Protegidas y Vida Silvestre in SENMA.
Resgonibilitv:  SENMA
ZJminss  To be finalized not later than twelve months after the enactment of
the respective law.
Consultant&:
I international consultant in regulation of
protected areas, for one month
1 national consultant in park management, for four months
1 national consultant in wildlife policy and management,
for four months
thbgr donors who may provide assistance: Germany, Holland
RELAMENTO  DE LOS ASPECTOS ANIENTALES D3 LA EXPLOTACION MINERA
pa£karounds This regulation will be promulgated pursuant to the authority of
the existing Ley Codigo de Mineria and the Ley General del Medio Ambiente.
The tey Codigo Mineria does not address environmental aspects of extracting
mineral resources,} such as sound environmental management and prevention and
response to disasters.
This regulation will need to be coordinated very carefully with the public and
private sector entities involved in regulating and carrying out these
activities. Also, SENMA will need to coordinate development of this
regulation with those it is promulgating on environmental assessment,
environmental quality, and water, and the relevant studies in related areas.
The World Bank-supported study on industrial and mining pollution could
provide key information and support.
Responsibilitys Ministerio de Mineria/SENMA
TiminJs 6/94-12/96.
Consultantes
lThe only relevant requirement is that water used in the mining process
and then returned to the original source should not be degraded in quality.
It in unlikely that this requirement is being implemented.



47
ANNEX p
Page 11 of 12
1 international consultant in environmental
management of mining industries for 4-6 weeks
1 national consultant in environmental management of mining
industries for 6 months
Other donore who may provide assistance: USAID; JICA.
REGLAMENTO DE LOS ASPECTOS AMBIENTALES DE LA ESPLOTACION B'DROCARBUROS
Background: This regulation will be promulgated pursuant to the existing Ley
Hidrocarburos and the Ley General del Medio Ambiente. The Ley Hidrocarburos
does not address environmental aspects of extracting energy resources
(primarily petroleum and natural gas), such as sound environmental management
and prevention and response to disasters.
This regulation will need to be coordinated very carefully with the public and
private sector entities involved in regulating and carrying out these
activities. Also, SENMA will need to coordinate development of this
regulation with those it is promulgating on environmental assessment,
environmental quality, and water, and the relevant studies in related areas.
The World Bank-supported study on industrial and mining pollution could
provide key information and support.
Resvonsibility: Ministerio de Energia e Hidrocarburos/SENMA
Timing: 6/94-12/96.
Consultants:
1 international consultant-in environmental
management of energy extraction industries
for 4-6 weeks
1 national consultant in environmental management
of energy extraction industries for 6 months
Other donors who may provide assistance: USAID; JICA.
CAPACITY BUILDING AND TRAINING
packground: This activity will support courses, workshops and production of
materials to provide training and build institutional capacity in the
different levels of government and in a wide variety of organizations outside
of government, whose activities will be affected by the above environmental
legal activities.
SENMA's plan is to use, as a training vehicle, a suitable Bolivian
organization to work with FARN on the development of a training program on



48
ANNEX D
Page 12 of 12
Environmental Law and improve its own training capacity. This work of FARN
would be in addition to existing contractual obligations to provide
institutional support to SENMA.
ResDonsibilitys SENMA
Timina' 3/93-12/94
ConsultanLsi
1. Four seminars from 1993 to 1995 to help familiarize participants
with the new environmental law(s) and related activities:
- 3 day seminar for private sector and NGOs
- 3 day seminar for local government officials
- 6 day seminar for judges and law professors
- 3 day national seminar for government officilas at the federal
level
2. A 20 day seminar for government officials and law professors to
explore in more detail the requirements and ramifications of implementing key
new environmental requirements.
oher donor  who may provide assistance include:  Holland.



49
ANNEX E
Page I of 2
BOLIVIA
ENvRoNVENAL TBCMNIQL ASSX8TANCB MM=EC
Donor Coordination in the Environment
Several bilateral and international agencies are active in environmental
and natural resource management activities in Bolivia. Donor coordination,
however is lacking. Coordination and communication among donors is essential,
particularly as the environmental field is of a multisectoral nature, and
expertise in the area is scarce. FONAMA was established to ensure an
effective coordination. An ongoing dialogue between IDA and the donors has
been established in the process of preparing the proposed operation. This
dialogue must be kept alive during the implementation stage of this
operation, in order to avoid duplication of efforts or conflicting
initiatives. FONAMA, would set up a mechanism to collect information on
.planned and ongoing environmsntal activities. This would enable FONAMA to
influence investment decisions and avoid overlapping and conflicting
initiatives. The donor community believes that the broad policy,
institutional and legal structure, supported under this operation, must be in
place quickly for Bolivia to address specific environmental problems, and
increase environmentally sound and sustainable investments.
The main players in the environmental field includes FAO, IDB, Germany,
the Dutch Cooperation Agency, the Swiss Cooperation Agency (COTESU), USAID,
Japan, Belgium and Canada. FAO has played a key role in the preparation of
the Tropical Forestry Action Plan and is providing assistance for the revision
of the Forestry Law. FAO is also involved, together with the Dutch and the
Swiss, in an environmental education project in the Altiplano. The Dutch are
also supporting reforestation and soil erosion projects in the Altiplano, a
social forestry program in Riberalta, have provided support to the EAP, and
are planning to assist SENMA in putting together a national land use map on
the basis of which a land use plan will be developed. The IDS is involved in
a project on ecological zoning in the Amazon region, and in a watershed
management project in Santa Cruz. Germany is involved in a number of
environmental initiatives including the sponsoring of a series of seminars
under the EAP, and support for the preparation of the Environmental Law and
for an integrated watershed management project implemented by the Municipality
of La Paz. USAID is heavily involved in environmental and natural resource
management support in Bolivia including support to the Environmental Law, the
zAP, two national parks, and a US$22 million commitment under the "Enterprise
for the Americas Initiativew(EAI). This latter support is the result of two
independent transactionss (a) US$1.8 million from the United States Government
(interest on the outstanding PL-480 debt) to be disbursed to FONAMA over the
next 14 years, and (b) US$20 million from the Bolivian Government (a voluntary
contribution from the National Treasury made in response to a reduction of
US$372 million bilateral debt with the United States) to be disbursed to
FONAMA over the next 10 years. Japan has been supporting sanitation and
potable water supply projects in El Alto, and is carrying on mathematical
modeling studies focussing on the protection of rivers, near La Paz, from



50
ANNEX E
Page 2 of 2
mining and industrial pollution, and is also providing support (through the
JG7) for the streamlining of the environmental legal and regulatory system.
SDC is providing support to the GEF supported Biodiversity Conservation
Project and has been involved in reforestation projects in the valleys and the
Altiplano for many years.



51
-dnAA 
List of Documet. AvaLilable in Proieat File
1.   Ley General del Medio Ambiente, H. Congreso Nac$onal
2.   SUNHA - "Plan Trienal 1992-1995"
3. 8ENMA - Draft "Zetatutos Organicos"
4.  World Bank - "Bolivia Unvironmental issues Paper," October 16, 1989
S. Brady C. Ronald, "The Bolivian Environmental Protection Movemmnt; A
Current Assessment," Princeton University, August 1990.
6.  Finot Asociados - "Diagnostico Institutional del Medio Ambiente" (3
vrolumes)
7.   Ministry of Agriculture, "Pausa  cologica Historica" January 11, 1990
8.   81Ns - '9ue Camino Debemos Andar... March 1992
9.  PONMA - "Plan Trienal de Inveruiones 1992-94, April 1992, Istatutos
organicos, and Operations Manual.
10. Detailed Project Cast Ustimates
11. Ivan Finot, "Bolivia 1972-1990 Uvaluacion y Prospectiva" December 1991
12. LIDMA - "Bolivia: Poblacion y Medio Ambiente", September 1991



ORGANIGRAMA
SECRETARPA NACIONAL DEL MEDIO AMOIENTE
.__ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ _ _ w  8ECRErA IUO
NACIONAL
conEO                    OESACUO
L  ASE IOR  |      |    SECIUETAAIO                                             O
PubIom
LECUTVO
-~~r 
I   UICCION     I            D               1Ol!Ctf               '      II                '                    e
.ACH" NAACFAL                                      NACIO                        ONAL
POUICA               ASUtNTOS                  CAUDAD                    AREA8
AM3IWAL                   JURINco                  AMAL                     PROTE1OIDA
PAAM
UNDAD
_  POLMCAS DEL MEDIO AMBIENTE                                             APOYO
00R34MAL
=1TEMA              .NOWAAR  COORDIA   RS8CAUZ^R                                                                     Y
de                                                                                                            PREBUPUESTO
AMSWTAL
. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADLITRAIO                                                         Cotbde_dS
Pbl.Madute                                                                                   OIECTA
DECENPALIIADA
de
AREAS PRaTEGUDAS



53
Chadt 11
FONDO NACIONAL PARA EL MEDIO AMBIENTE
BOLIVIA
Prosidencis de la Republica
.          ***-**-**)'.    Dlrectorlo
You                                           ^      Alldllods 
Direcci6n ejecutiva
Ur0|=no             .             f   Ap~~~~~~~~~~~~onco   IW
.                               .k .             .. ft.      .   .
I ;; remtuwmdsh
{ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~..... . .ow    ............    ..................... imento
COIM
l I.ETA. . ..             . . . . ....... (   . . . . . . .
UNIDAD DE COORDINACION DE CUENTAS            UNIDAD CENTRAL DE GERENCIAS
{ Go#o A~~~~~~-



SINTESIS          PROCESOS CONSULTIVO    SENMA-FONAMA
- IONA       I
I~~~dl I 
DAK. POUTICA     Di.. ASUNTOS      DA. CAIDAD         DA. AREAS
ABMUIETAL        JURMICOS          AU3ANTAL          PROTEG1DAB
I            "O~~~~ladlodoea    CoIfgitoSO       Secto Public.     Cwnvmdads
Paralip live.Cns                   Sector Calvd.        Lao"
SECTOR                               Seco Pubc      |
PUAVADO              E.cc.eod..      secto P&lvdo          n                ow
CRdPe                                                                                                  de E  =
rWNTO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LAEMIO
A'A.WALES                                                                                    FgLV&N . V
EXTWS'doSE
TREE
CO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t - EB  .                                     ACW
ORGANIZACIONES EJECUTOS                                            "Xe
ADMMAO
SECTRPRVADOSECORPUUCOfN-



CHART IV
0            0
0iSiS
Z



D*a:t Effcvts of VaVis Acivtis on Natural Rmsurce
ACI Wt                                                           a    o s
RIBSOURCES    L      e Ram=                     Water Rea e                    A      tosbec  F,orand s                    -
ACIlVMT1S                 &-"W                                                                              WOLt 1    rhz".l  r
Lfl
0%



.
57
TADBL  1
UV RQNIUAL TECUSCAL ASSXS!ANC  PROflC!
Katrix of Activties, Objectives  ad Outputs
t*zvAoalZusAa~iab
ACTIVITY/INPLENTlNG             OBJECTxVE                  OUtPUT                    TXKMW
ORGANX ZATXONS
EIA Short Courses         To prepre staff from       Trin 100 EIA Specilifsts     Year I and 2
SEGNA,Sector Ministries,    from SEMA, Sectoral
VW Regonal Development    Ministries, ed Regfonal
Corporations ln EIA       Oev. Corporations
aqexrtise
On the Job                To provide selected $EKNA   10 EA specalists            Year 1,2 and 3
Trafning (overseas        and corresponding Staff    uth specifit ewironmental
Environment Ministries)    from setoral ministries    problem foaus
and public enterprises
with on the lob training
In ETA in Environment
Ministries fn Europe or
North Aerice
Oiffus!on of EIA          provide informeation       135 participants at 9        Year 2.3 nd 4 to
the Regons nd             on EtA processes and       regional workshps,
unsicipalities            procedures to regional govts f,prove regional ERA
the private suetor and MOO s capability
Trainfng In Environ-      Provide the opportunity to  Improve the desin and       YeaT  I
m-ntet Planntn and        obtain practical experine  implementation of $EDMM
iMament (SEIA)            in their specific area of   activities
respeaiblity in an
*nv1rorntat ministry
in the US, Cwnda, Eurpep
or 8ras11
Nbtul Resource and         mptove the capacty of     train 3 professonals with    yer 1,2 Ord 3
Enviromtal Econmics    Sand roFAMA to provide spealtied skills in
Trainitt                  economics mnput inuto       nvrammntal and natural
envfronntsL ptsing,        resor  economics
policy, end research.
Improve FONAPA's project
eppraisal capability
Reearch Prforit es         Identify rarchd            guidelines for             Year I an 2
in EIwIroraentsl           priorities, nd data        policy oriented
Reource Ecoomics           requfrements for           resarch  d a
incorporating             specific re_ch
econoic analysis           progrm
Into the
environmntal
planning a  palicy
mking proces



58
TABLE 2
BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Matrix of Activities, Objecttves, and Outputs
Environmental Education
Activity/                   Obiective                    Output                      Timing
Iml ementlng
Oraanization.
1.Environmental             provide teacber             Training of 6000             1. PY1-PY3
Education in the            training vhich will          teachers, and 62,500
Hunicilalitv of La Paz      facilitate the               primary school
(CIEC)                      transfer of knowledge       students
on the environment
Introduce                   Reproduce 62,500
environmental               copiea of
education into the          environmental booklets
primary school system       for primary school
students
provide in class            Course implementation
guidance on the use         will be modified and
and implementation of       improved during the
the envirormental           life of the project
curriculum
evaluate teacher and
student performance
provide the MOE vith        Preparation of final
materials and               report and
methodologies for           dissemination workshop
education reform            for policy makers
2.Rural Environmental       To provide teacher           training of 100             2. PYI-PY2
Education                   training and                 teachers and 6,000
(CIEC. SEMT*, ASEO,         curriculum development      primary school
LIDEKA)                     based on the specific        students in Pacajes,
ecological                  Ichilo, and Inquisivi
characteristics in the
Altiplano, Valleys and
Oriente to selected
school districts
introduce                   training of  grupos de
environmental course        base' (5,200 members)
material into rural         in the three
primary schools and         ecological zones
comunity
organizations
implement                   provide practical
demonstration plots         training to complement
utilizing                   formal course material
environmentally sound       and provide examples
practices on land           which can be
attached to rural           replicated on farmers
schools                     plots
undertake periodic          provide input to
evaluations and             course implementation
prepare final report        and recommaendations to
for dissemination to        policy makers
policy makers, and for
reforming the prlmary
school curriculum.



59
1Table 3
BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMETAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ImplelMenation Indicators
ACTIVITY                     PY1             PY2             PY3             PY4
TRAINING
(SENMA. FONAMA end Other          1-6    ?-12   13-18    19-2     2-30   31-36   3?-42   43-4
Agenctesl
1.1 Depatment Dir   Trnig
(SENMA)
-Training Visits                    xx        xx
-Report Preparation                 x         xx
1.2 Envronmental impact
Assrsment Trainig end
DissemnatIon                        X 
DWsn                      ~~~~~~~xx  x   x x
-Short Courses                                xx          x
-On the Job Training Visits                   XX    X                                 K      
-Diffusion of EIA to the Regions
and Municlpalities
1.3 Research PdoMWt In
Envionmental Economic
-Hire Enviromental Economist           x
-overseas TreininoCChile)
Prolect Start-Up                        x
-International Consuttant                           X     
-Date Collection and Analysis                       xxx
-Reports                                                XXX        X
1.4 Ntunal Resources and
Envbromenta Economics Tnrinng
-Selection of Candidates                    xX
-Pre-course Orientation                       .                 x   x
-Course Attendance                        x    x          x
-Post-Course Seminar for SENMA              x                   x   x
end FOMAMA



60
Table 4
BOLIVIA
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
linplemenaion jndikor
ACTIVITY                      PY        |      PY2               PY3               PY4
ENVRONMENTAL EDUCATION              1-6  | 7-12  I3-'8 119-24   25-30   31-36   37-42   43-48
ACTIVITY
1.0 URBAN ENviRONMENTAL
EDUCATION (clEC_
-Editing and Reproduction of
materials for teachers and
students (ogoing)
-Teacher Training Workhops            x xxxxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxx
-Student Training                       XXXXXxx    xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxx
-Environmental Fairs ad                   x               x                  x
Expositions
-Student Evaluations                           xx               xx               xx
-Classroom Technicalt                    xxxxxxxx   xxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx
Assistance
-Data Processing and Report                                                       x    x
Prenaretion
ACTPVITY
2.0 RURAL ENVIRONMENTAL
EDUCATION (Udemw. CIc.
As"., sonipaj                        _________
-Editing and reproduction of
materials for students and
teachers (onooing)
-ProJect Start-up                     xxxxxxxxxx       xxxxxxxxxx
-Teacher Training                     xxxxxxxxxx       xxxxxxxxxx
-Student Training                      xxxxxxxxx       xxxxxxxxxx
-Commnity Org. Training                 xxxxxxxxx   maaxauxaooux
-Demonstration Plots                      x    x        x      x
-Enviromental fairs                        x    x        x    x
-Monitoring                                                    x                  xx
-Evaluations/Reports                            x              x                  x



61
TABLE 5
SOLIVA: ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(In USS million)
Local  Foreign   Total
A. Institutional Strengthening - SENNA    1.25    0.70      1.96
1. Technical Assistance                  0.09    0.22     0.31
2. Incremental Salary Support            0.28   0.00      0.28
3. operating Expenses                    0.08    0.00     0.08
4. Equipment                             0.00    0.08     0.08
S. Training                              0.25    0.40     0.65
6. Counterpart Financing - SENMA/1       0.55    0.00     0.55
B. Institutional Strengthening - FONMM     0.52   0.03      0.55
1. Technical Assistance                  0.21    0.00     0.21
2. Project Coordinating Unit             0.21    0.03     0.24
3. Project Implementation Services       0.10   0.00      0.10
C. Legal and Regulatory Framework          0.29    0.36     0.65
1. Consultants                           0.11    0.34     0.46
2. EquipmentlMaterials                   0.04    0.01     0.04
3. Training Program                      0.13    0.00     0.13
4. Operational Expenses                  0.01    0.01     0.01
0. Environmental Education                 0.94    0.00     0.94
1. Pilot Project'- Urban                 0.41    0.00     0.41
a. Administrative Support             0.23    0.00     0.23
b. Training                           0.16    0.00     0.16
c. Iopact Evaluation                  0.00    0.00     0.00
d. Educational fairs                  0.01    0.00     0.01
e. Dectsioimaking Workshop            0.00    0.00     0.00
f. Counterpart Contribution - RGO/2   0.01    0.00     0.01
2. Pilot Project - Rurat Areas           0.53    0.00     0.53
a. LtDENA Coordination/Supervision    0.05    0.00     0.05
b. Attiplano Pilot Project/3          0.10    0.00     0.10
c. Valley Pilot Project/3             0.11    0.00     0.11
d. Lowlands Pilot ProJectt3           0.10    0.00     0.10
e. Counterpart Countribution -        0.17    0.00     0.17
NOOs and Communities/4
E. Unallocated                             0.13    0.13     0.26
Contingencies    0.09   0.05      0.13
PPF Refinancing    0.81    0.22     1.03
4.04    1.49     5.53
/1 Includes Governrent of Bolivia financing of SENMA personnel and operating costs
related to activities within the scope of the proJect.
/2 Includes NMO support for rolated operating expenses
/3 Includes trafning, operating expenses, demonstration plots and educational fairs
/4 Inctudes NGO support for related operating expenses and in-kind contributions
from community mewbers of tabor and local materials for demonstration plots



IBRD 24021
-e  *           - D                                                  BOUVLI
B R A Z I L                                                   ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNICAL
ThFft                                       ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ROADS,
MCan
Toft                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Seondary
--Tracks
*  National Caplitl
-   Deparftmen SaundaWln      i
-      itenatianal Soondarles
AMplpano
Valleys
Lowlan.ds
t~~~~~~~~~~t
q K IL       BRAZIL
C    H I L E   X               ' O SI
A R            A~~~~~~~~~~M
A  I



