Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2443 BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Environmental Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 21, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2443 BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
Page  2
(a)
"ASEO" means Asociacion Ecologica del Oriente, an NGO (as defined below) 
operating in Bolivia;
(b)
"Central Bank" means the Borrower's Banco Central de Bolivia;
 
(c)
"CIEC" means Centro Interdisciplinario de Estudios Comunitarios, an NGO 
(as defined below) operating in Bolivia;
(d)
"CIEC Cooperation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and CIEC pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) (i) of this Agreement as 
the same may be amended from time to time;
(e)
"Civil Service Reform Program" means the Borrower's program designed to 
improve its public administration as described in the Borrower's document entitled 
Programa de Reforma administrativa en Bolivia dated August 1992;
(f)
"ECC  Cooperation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the ECC (as defined below) pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) (iii) 
of this Agreement as the same may be amended from time to time;
(g)
"Environmental Congressional Commissions" or "ECC" means each of the 
commissions engaged in the review of environmental legislation in the House of 
Representatives and the Senate of the Borrower;
(h)
"Environmental Law" means the environmental law dated April 27, 1992 
published in the Official Gazette on June 15, 1992; 
(i)
"FONAMA" means Fondo Nacional para el Medio Ambiente, an agency of the 
Borrower established pursuant to Article 87 of the Environmental Law;
(j)
"FONAMA's By-Laws" means the by-laws of FONAMA enacted by the Borrower on 
November 16, 1992;
(k)
"FONAMA's Investment Program and Budget" means the annual program of 
investments of FONAMA, identifying the sources of financing of all such investments;
(l)
"FONAMA's Operations Manual" means the manual approved by the Borrower on 
November 16, 1992;
(m)
"Global Environmental Trust Fund Grant Agreement" means the agreement of 
even date herewith entered into between the Borrower and the Bank acting as Trustee of 
the Global Environment Trust Fund for the Biodiversity Conservation Project;
(n)
"LIDEMA" means Liga de Defensa del Medio Ambiente, an NGO (as defined 
below) operating in Bolivia;
(o)
"LIDEMA Cooperation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between on the one hand LIDEMA, CIEC, ASEO and SEMTA and on the other hand, the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time;
(p)
"Management and Coordination Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and FONAMA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(q)
"NGO" means a non-governmental organization established and operating in 
the Borrower's territory;
(r)
"Project Unit" means the unit established in FONAMA for purposes of the 
Project;
(s)
"Project Preparation Advances" means the two project preparation advances 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to respectively: (i) an exchange 
of letters between the Borrower and the Association dated July 31, 1991 and August 7, 
1991; and (ii) a letter from the Association to the Borrower dated June 12, 1992 which 
was countersigned by the Borrower on July 20, 1992;
(t)
"SEMTA" means Servicios Multiples de Tecnologias Apropiadas, an NGO 
operating in Bolivia;
(u)
"SENMA" means Secretaria Nacional del Medio Ambiente, the national 
environmental secretariat established pursuant to Article 6 of the Environmental Law;
Page  3
(v)
"SENMA By-laws" means the by-laws of SENMA enacted by the Borrower on 
November 16, 1992;
(x)
"SENMA's Work Program and Budget" means the annual program of activities 
to be carried out by SENMA including its policy, environmental quality control, 
protected areas and legal departments, identifying the sources of financing for all 
such activities; and
(y)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million three hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon 
be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
Page  4
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing April 15, 2003 and ending October 15, 2032. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on October 15, 2012 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as s set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through SENMA, under the management and coordination of FONAMA, and 
with the assistance of: (i) CIEC in respect of Part C.1 of the Project; (ii) LIDEMA, 
CIEC, ASEO and SEMTA in respect of Part C.2 of the Project; and (iii) the ECC in 
respect of Part B.2 of the Project; all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and economic 
practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available, as a grant, the proceeds of the Credit 
to FONAMA under a management and coordination agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and FONAMA, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association which shall include, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement or make contractual 
arrangements satisfactory to the Association, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Association, with: (i) CIEC for purposes of Part C.1 of the 
Project; (ii) LIDEMA, CIEC, ASEO and SEMTA for purposes of Part C.2 of the Project; 
and (iii) the ECC for purposes of Part B.2 of the Project.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Management and 
Coordination Agreement, the CIEC Cooperation Agreement, the LIDEMA Cooperation 
Agreement and the ECC Cooperation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests 
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Management and Coordination Agreement, the CIEC Cooperation 
Agreement, the LIDEMA Cooperation Agreement or the ECC Cooperation Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
(e)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with: (i) the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) performance targets and implementation 
indicators acceptable to the Association.
Page  5
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,  procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to any of its obligations under this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall:
(a)
allocate in its annual budget for SENMA, for the years 1993 through 1996 
and thereafter, the following minimum amounts, as counterpart funds for the financing 
of the Project;
(i)
$116,000 equivalent for calendar year 1993;
 
(ii)
$123,500 equivalent for calendar year 1994;
 
(iii)
$150,300 equivalent for calendar year 1995; and
 
(iv)
$164,600 equivalent for calendar year 1996, and thereafter;
 
(b)
(i) maintain in respect of SENMA, and cause FONAMA to maintain: (A) an 
organizational structure satisfactory to the Association; and (B) key personnel 
positions detailed in such organizational structures filled with personnel who shall 
have experience and qualifications acceptable to the Association; and (ii) consult 
with the Association with respect to any changes to SENMA's or FONAMA's organizational 
structures and any replacement of key personnel positions prior to any such change or 
replacement;
(c)
(i) employ, and cause FONAMA to employ, any fixed-term staff financed in 
whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit with personnel who shall have 
experience and qualifications acceptable to the Association; and (ii) consult with the 
Association with respect to any replacement of such fixed-term staff.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than October 31 each year, furnish or cause to be furnished to 
the Association, for its approval, the operating plans for each part of the Project 
proposed to be carried out during the following year, including the corresponding 
budgets, and specifying the extent of compliance with the operating plans submitted 
the prior year, and implemented during that year; and
(b)
not later than May 31 and November 30 each year, furnish or cause to be 
furnished to the Association, for its comments, a progress report identifying the main 
Project implementation issues, if any, together with recommendations regarding 
remedial measures, if any, proposed to be taken in relation to the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
not later than December 31 each year, review with the Association its 
progress in the implementation of the Project and the actions set forth in Schedule 4 
to this Agreement and in meeting the targets and indicators referred to in Section 
3.01 (e) (ii) of this Agreement;
(b)
as part of the annual review to be carried out in 1994, review with the 
Association, in addition to the matters referred to in paragraph (a) hereof: the 
extent to which FONAMA's investments and investment proposals are consistent with the 
Borrower's policy priorities, the types of environmental projects undertaken by 
FONAMA, SENMA's effectiveness in building working relationships with the private 
sector and influencing the actions thereof, the extent to which SENMA has been able to 
influence the integration of environmental concerns into policy formulation and 
SENMA's progress in enforcing environmental regulations and reviewing environmental 
impact assessments; and
(c)
if the results of any of the reviews referred to in paragraphs (a) and 
(b) hereof are not satisfactory to the Association, take all such remedial action, 
satisfactory to the Association, as shall be necessary to achieve the objectives of 
the Project and to meet the performance targets and implementation indicators referred 
to in Section 3.01 (e) (ii) of this Agreement.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall employ a procurement agent, acceptable to 
the Association, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, for the 
Page  6
purpose of assisting the Borrower in contracting the consultants and procuring the 
goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the contract or contractual arrangements made with the procurement agent 
referred to in paragraph (a) above in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive said contract or contractual arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, in the event the Civil Service Reform Program 
is implemented, include SENMA's personnel in the initial phase of such program.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than October 31 each year, furnish 
to the Association for its review, SENMA's Work Program and Budget for the following 
year.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause FONAMA to maintain, 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have or cause FONAMA to have, the records and accounts referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish or cause FONAMA to furnish, to the Association, as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end 
of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish or cause FONAMA to furnish, to the Association, such other 
information concerning said records, accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out 
of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Page  7
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
FONAMA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Management and Coordination Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that FONAMA will be able to perform its obligations under the Management and 
Coordination Agreement.
(c)
The Environmental Law or SENMA's By-laws or FONAMA's By-laws or FONAMA's 
Operations Manual shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so 
as to affect, in the opinion of the Association, materially and adversely the ability 
of the Borrower to carry out the Project or FONAMA to perform any of its obligations 
under the Management and Coordination Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FONAMA or for the suspension of 
its operations.
(e)
The Bank acting as Trustee of the Global Environment Trust Fund shall 
have suspended in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals under 
the Global Environment Trust Fund Agreement because of a failure by the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under such agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Association to the Borrower; and 
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Management and Coordination Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower and FONAMA;
(b)
the Borrower has employed, or has caused FONAMA to employ, the 
consultants required to assist the Borrower in the implementation of Part A.4 of the 
Project; and
(c)
FONAMA has employed:  (i) a procurement agent pursuant to Section 3.06 
(a) of this Agreement; and (ii) the consultants required to assist the Borrower in the 
implementation of the training included in Parts A.1 (b) and A.2 of the Project.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Management and 
Coordination Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and 
FONAMA, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and FONAMA in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 6.03. The date March 20, 1993 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.01 (d), 3.03, 
3.07 and 3.08 and the provisions of paragraph (d) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement 
shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall terminate or on 
the date ten years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Page  8
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Coordination of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Coordination
La Paz
Bolivia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPLANEACION 
3280 (MINCORD BV)
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Jorge Crespo Velasco
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edilberto Segura
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Page  9
(1) Goods                        170,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost)
                                                and 85% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(2) Consultants'               1,070,000        100%
    Services
(3) Training                     720,000        100%
(4) Operating                    270,000        100%
    Expenditures
(5) Incremental
    Salaries:
    (a)  for payments            60,000)        100%
         made on or                    )
         before                        )
         December 31,                  )
         1993                          )
                                       )
    (b)  for payments            60,000)        100%
         made after                    )
         December 31,                  )
         1993 and on or                )
         before Decem-                 )
         ber 31, 1994                  )
    (c)  for payments            50,000)        80%
         made after                    )
         December 31,                  )
         1994 and on or                )
         before Decem-                 )
         ber 31, 1995                  )
    (d)  for payments            30,000)        50%
         made after                    )
         December 31,                  )
         1995 and on or                )
         before Decem-                 )
         ber 31, 1996                  )
(6)  Refunding of                710,000        Amounts due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advances                              2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(7)  Unallocated                 180,000
         TOTAL                 3,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "Incremental Salaries" means the salaries of SENMA's Executive 
Coordinator, two of SENMA's directors and the assistant to the director of SENMA's 
finance and management unit or any other high-level position that the Association may 
agree to finance; and
(d)
the term "Operating Expenditures" means the operating expenditures of the 
Project Unit.
Page  10
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) expenditures for Part C.1 of the Project unless the CIEC Cooperation 
Agreement has been entered into; (c) expenditures for Part C.2 of the Project unless 
the LIDEMA Cooperation Agreement has been entered into; and (d) expenditures for Part 
B.2 of the Project unless the ECC Cooperation Agreement has been entered into.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to strengthen the Borrower's institutions 
involved in the promotion of sustainable use of natural resources and the protection 
of the environment; (b) to develop the Borrower's skills to plan, evaluate and 
implement environmental action programs; (c) to rationalize and improve the Borrower's 
environmental legal and regulatory framework; and (d) to raise public awareness of 
environmental issues.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Strengthening of Environmental Agencies
 
1.
Training of SENMA staff in: (a) environmental planning and management, including 
as part of such training short visits to other environmental agencies abroad; (b) the 
evaluation of environmental impact assessments; and (c) natural resource and 
environmental economics.
2.
Training of staff of agencies (other than SENMA) involved in the preparation of 
environmental impact assessments in the preparation of such assessments.
3.
Dissemination of information to the public at large on environmental issues.
 
4.
Development, in FONAMA, of a system or systems for: (a) evaluating and approving 
investment proposals and assessing trade-offs between economic and environmental 
goals; and (b) collecting information on planned and ongoing environmental activities 
which would enable FONAMA to influence investment decisions and avoid overlapping of 
activities financed by different donors.
5.
Support for the Project Unit to manage and coordinate Project implementation.
 
6.
Development of a research program to analyze development policies in the context 
of sustainable development.
7.
Provision of expert advise to the financial management and budget unit of SENMA.
 
Part B:
Environmental Legal and Regulatory Framework
 
1.
(a)
Preparation of regulations for: (i) the Environmental Law; (ii) the 
biodiversity and forestry laws to be submitted to the Borrower's Congress; (iii) 
environmental impact assessments; (iv) environmental quality control; (v) the control 
of environmental aspects of mining exploration and hydrocarbon exploitation; and (vi) 
the water law as submitted to the Borrower's Congress; (b) preparation of the land-use 
planning law; and (c) provision of the consultants services required therefor.
2.
Support for the Environmental Congressional Commissions in the review of 
environmental laws and provision of consultants services required therefor.
3.
Carrying out of workshops to support the participation of private and public 
agencies, NGOs and individuals in the preparation of environmental regulations.
4.
Training to individuals in the public and private sector to promote a better 
understanding of environmental legal issues. 
5.
Establishment of an environmental law library in SENMA.
 
Part C:
Environmental Education
 
1.
Carrying out of a pilot project in the Municipality of La Paz consisting of: (a) 
the training of selected teachers to prepare them to educate primary school students 
Page  11
in environmental issues; (b) the introduction of environmental teaching materials in 
selected primary schools; and (c) the development of methodologies for curriculum 
reform.
2.
Carrying out of three pilot projects in three rural zones in the Borrower's 
territory acceptable to the Association consisting of: (a) the activities included to 
in Part C.1 of the Project; and (b) training to community groups affected by 
environmental problems in such rural zones.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods (including computers and related softwares, and vehicles) shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Training materials, office supplies and other goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$120,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the 
Guidelines), in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part B:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to all contracts procured pursuant to the provisions of Part 
A.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ, or shall cause FONAMA to employ, consultants whose qualifications, experience 
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Page  12
Implementation Program
Actions to be taken by the Borrower              Date (by)
1.    Complete implementation of the
      training included in:
      (a)   Part A.1 (a) of the Project          February 28, 1994
      (b)   Part A.1 (b) and A.2 of
            the Project                          June 30, 1995
      (c)   Part A.1 (c) of the Project          December 31, 1995
2.    Furnish to the Association for
      its comments the research
      program to be developed under
      Part A.6 of the Project, including
      the schedule thereof.                      December 31, 1993
3.    (a)   Complete implementation of       )
            the pilot project included in    )
            Part C.1 of the Project.         )
                                             )
      (b)   Furnish to the Association for   )
            its comments the methodology     )
            and guidelines for incorporating )
            the recommendations arising from )
            the pilot project referred to in )
            3 (a) above in the primary school)
            curricula.                       )   December 31, 1995
4.    (a)   Complete implementation of
            the pilot projects included in
            Part C.2 of the Project.             December 31, 1994
      (b)   Furnish to the Association for
            its comments the methodology
            and guidelines for incorporating
            the recommendations arising from
            the pilot projects referred to in
            4 (a) above in the primary school
            curricula.                           December 31, 1994
5.    (a)   Furnish to the Association
            for its comments the draft
            regulations to be prepared           Three months
            under Part B.1 (a) of the            before their
            Project.                             enactment
      (b)   Enact regulations for:
            (i)    the Environmental  )
                   Law; and           )
                                      )
           (ii)    the evaluation of  )
                   environmental      )
                   impact assessments )          June 30, 1993
          (iii)    environmental
                   quality control               October 31, 1994
           (iv)    the biodiversity              Twelve months
                   law                           after the date
                                                 the biodiversity
                                                 law is enacted
            (v)    the forestry law              Twelve months
                                                 after the date
                                                 the forestry law
                                                 is enacted
Page  13
            (vi)   the water law                 Twelve months
                                                 after the date
                                                 the water law
                                                 in enacted
           (vii)   the control of environ-
                   mental aspects of
                   mining exploration
                   and hydrocarbon ex-
                   ploitation                    December 31, 1996
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $400,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests fora deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
Page  14
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions of the Management
and Coordination Agreement
The Management and Coordination Agreement shall provide, inter alia, the 
following rights and obligations:
(a)
the Borrower's obligation to make available to FONAMA, as a grant, the 
proceeds of the Credit, so as to enable FONAMA to manage and coordinate the Project in 
the name and on behalf of the Borrower;
(b)
FONAMA's obligation:
 
(i)
to manage and coordinate the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with: (A) sound administrative, 
financial, managerial and environmental practices and standards; 
and (B) FONAMA's Operations Manual and FONAMA's By-laws;
(ii)
to maintain records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project;
(iii)
to maintain the Project Unit, in form and with functions 
satisfactory to the Association, to manage and coordinate the 
Project and to staff the said unit with personnel in numbers and 
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association;
(iv)
to furnish to the Association for its review, not later than 
September 30 each year, FONAMA's Investment Program and Budget for 
the following year; and
Page  15
(v)
to assist the Borrower in meeting the requirements set forth in 
Sections 3.01, 3.02, 3.03 (b), 3.04, 3.05 and 3.06, and Article IV 
of this Agreement;
(c)
the requirement that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out 
of the Project; and (iii) FONAMA enter into the CIEC Cooperation Agreement, the LIDEMA 
Cooperation Agreement and the ECC Cooperation Agreement acting in the name and on 
behalf of the Borrower;
(d)
the right of the Borrower:
 
(i)
to inspect, each by itself, or jointly with representatives of the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, FONAMA's 
facilities in respect of the Project and any relevant records and 
documents;
(ii)
to obtain all such information as the Borrower or the Association 
shall reasonably request regarding the foregoing, the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the Project 
and the benefits to be derived from it; and
(iii)
to suspend or terminate the right of FONAMA to use the proceeds of 
the Credit upon failure by FONAMA to perform any of its 
obligations under the Management and Coordination Agreement.
