Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
(Environmental Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
Dated September 20, 1991
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 20, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting 
as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between 
Japan and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and 
the Association, Japan has requested the Bank and the Association, and the 
Bank and the Association have agreed, to administer grant funds to be made 
Page  2
available by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects 
supported by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, in accordance 
with the provisions of such letter agreement; and
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant 
out of said grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the 
technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Technical 
Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions 
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 
1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
 
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), 
(12) 
and (13), 2.02 and 2.03;
    (iii)
Section 3.01;
     (iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
(v)
Article V;
 
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g) and (h), 
6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
          (vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
   (viii)
Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and  9.08;
     (ix)
Article X; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Association," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, 
other than in Section 6.02 (e) thereof, 
means the International 
Development Association acting 
as Administrator of the Grant 
pursuant to the letter 
agreement between Japan and the Bank and 
the Association 
referred to in Recital (A) of this Agreement, 
except that 
in Section 6.02, the term "Association" shall also 
include the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
 
(iii)
the term "Development Credit Agreement," wherever used in 
the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement;
 
(iv)
the term "Credit," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
Page  3
means the 
Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account, an account opened 
by the 
Administrator on its books in the name of the 
Recipient to which 
the amount of the Grant is credited;
     (vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means 
the technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement; 
and
    (vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in yen; 
provided, 
however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Grant have been paid or are payable in another 
currency, the Administrator 
shall, at the request of the Recipient, 
purchase such currency with the 
proceeds of such withdrawal.".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context 
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in 
the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; 
and the terms "yen" and "¥" mean the currency of Japan.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the 
Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement, the Grant in an amount of forty-two million three hundred thousand 
yen (¥42,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement 
between the Recipient and the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the 
Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in yen a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or such later date 
as the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify 
the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and 
legal practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project 
Page  4
and to be financed out of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project 
of the departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out 
the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate 
auditing 
principles 
consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to 
the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in 
any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such 
year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other informa-tion 
concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as the 
Administrator shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such 
expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all 
records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements 
of expendi-ture sub-mitted during 
such fiscal year, 
together with the proce-dures and internal 
controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution 
by the parties hereto.
Page  5
Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant 
has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all 
their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Minister of Planning and Coordination of the Recipient 
is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministerio de Planeamiento y Coordinación
La Paz
Bolivia
Cable address:
Telex:
MINPLANEACION
  3280 (MINCORD BV)
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Administrator:
Director
Country Department III
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA),
   64145 (WUI) or
   82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Samuel Doria Medina
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant
Page  6
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed
 Expenditures
Category
    in Yen)    
to be Financed
Consultants'
          42,300,000
100%
Services
TOTAL
          42,300,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-tures prior to the date 
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not 
exceeding the equivalent of ¥4,200,000 may be made on account of payments made 
for expenditures before that date but after June 1, 1991.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
A technical assistance program to assist in the preparation and analysis 
of one of the various components (being the component for the strengthening of 
the environmental legal and regulatory framework) of the proposed 
Environmental Technical Assistance Project.
National Environmental Law and Regulations
:
(a)
The finalization of the draft environmental legislation of the 
Recipient which is to set the broad environmental framework for sustainable 
resource management.
(b)
The preparation of draft regulations to be passed in accordance 
with such legislation, and sectoral regulations for priority sectors 
(including, inter
alia
,
soil erosion control, land use planning and water 
pollution control).
(c)
The provision of assistance in relation to the implemen-tation of 
such legislation and regulations, after adoption.
SCHEDULE 3
Consultants' Services
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the technical 
assistance, the Recipient shall employ consultants whose qualifica-tions, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the 
Administrator. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
Page  7
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Administrator on the basis of 
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Category" means Category (1) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the amount of the Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
¥8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall 
be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit in the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Administrator 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient 
shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other 
evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, 
the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw 
from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Page  8
Recipient shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the 
eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an 
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to the 
Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
