Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY   FILE  C0PY
Report No. 1940-GR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT ON
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
GREECE
May 5, 1978
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Agriculture IV
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =         drachma (Dr)
US$0.027              =         Dr 1.00
US$1.00               =         Dr 36.70
US$27, 250            =         Dr 1 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 millimeter (mm)                     =         0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                           =         3.28 feet
1 square meter (mi2)                  =         10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m)                     =         1.31 cubic yards
1 million cubic meters (Mm)           =         810.7 acre feet
1 kilocalorie (Kcal)                  =         4 British Thermal Unit (BTU)
1 kilometer (km)                      -         0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2) 3                      0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                        =         10 stremma
1 strema (st7r)                       =         0.247 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                       =         2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)                    -         2,205 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ABG       -           Agricultural Bank of Greece
EEC       -           European Economic Community
OECD      -           Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
GOVERNMENT OF GREECE
FISCAL AND CALENDAR YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT ON
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
GREECE
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  PROJECT BACKGROUND AND THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ....                 ..........   1
A.   Project Background  ......................................                 1
B.  Agriculture in the Economy ..............................                   1
C.  Agrict;ltural Resources  ..................................                 2
D.  Development Problems and Prospects  ......................    3
E.  Agricultural Support Services  ...........................                  5
F.  Marketing of Horticultural Products  .....................                  6
G. Previous Agricultural Projects .10
II. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT .11
A.   The Credit Framework  ......           .........................11
B.  The Agricultural Bank of Greece .........................    11
General .      ...............................................    11
Organization and Staffing .............................    12
Lending Operations  ....................................    12
Resource Mobilization .................................    14
Lending Procedures and Collection Performance .... .....   15
Accounts and Audits  ...................................   17
III.   THE PROJECT  ...........          ......................................    18
A.  Objectives  ..............................................    18
B.  Description .............................................    18
Greenhouses  .......    .       ....................................    18
Research and Extension ................................   19
Marketing Organization ................................   20
Packhouses and Cold Storages  ..........................    20
Refrigerated Tractor-Trailers  .........................   20
C.  Cost Estimates  ..........................................    21
D.  Financing ...............................................    22
E.   Implementation Schedule  .................................    23
The project was identified by Government and was prepared by consultants; the
Bank financed the consultant services (US$0.3 million) from funds which were
originally allocated for Xanthi-Komotini study under the East Vermion Irriga-
tion Project (Loan 1165-GR). The project was appraised in October/November
1977 by a team consisting of Messrs. T. Haile-Mariam, R. Hing, F. Sands and
A. Zulfiqar (Bank), and E. Haker and G. Weinschenck (Consultants), who colla-
borated in preparing this report. Mr. Heidhues (Bank) joined the team during
the second half of appraisal and participated in discussions in Greece.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)                                                       Page No.
F.  Procurement .........................    24
G.  Disbursements .         ................................                26
H.  Environmental Effect .................................    27
IV.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................................    27
A.  Organization and Management  .............................   27
The Borrower ..........................................   27
The Sub-Borrowers .....................................   27
Implementing Agencies .................................   28
B.  Lending Terms and Procedures ............................   29
C.  Research and Extension ..................................   30
D.  Marketing Organization ..................................   32
E.  Study on Agricultural Interest Rates and Subsidies ......   34
F.  Accounts and Audits .....................................   34
G.  Progress Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation ....             .......   34
V.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..................................   35
A.  Production ..............................................   35
B.  Markets .................................................   37
C.  Prices ...............                 ............................    39
D.  Main Benefits and Beneficiaries  .........................   40
E.  Finaneial Rates of Return ...............................   41
F.  Economic Rate of Return .................................   41
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......................   43
ANNEXES
1.  Supporting Tables
T-1.    Rates of Interest Charged by ABG
T-2.    Comparative Income Statements of ABG
T-3.   Financial and Operational Indicators of ABG
T-4.    Comparative Balance Sheets of ABG as of December 31
T-5.   Sources and Uses of Funds by ABG
T-6.    Cost Estimate
T-7.   Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
T-8.    List of Equipment for Research
T-9.    List of Equipment for Extension
T-10.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
T-ll.   Prices Uses for Financial and Economic Analyses
2. Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAP S
IBRD 13315R
IBRD 13316
IBRD 13317



I. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Project Background
1.01      Project Selection.  The project, for which a Bank loan of US$30
million is proposed, would include an integrated development program in the
horticultural subsector with emphasis on production of out-of-season vege-
tables under greenhouses. It was selected due to (a) the importance of
vegetables in the foreign trade sector and the favorable prospect for
increasing foreign exchange earnings through expansion of exports of out-
of-season vegetables, (b) the need to upgrade agricultural support services
and marketing services to the standards of EEC (paras. 1.15-1.29), (c) the
need to attack the key structural problem of small and fragmented landholdings
(para. 1.09) by promoting intensive cultivation, and (d) the need to support
improvements in agricultural credit institutions, including a study of agri-
cultural interest rates and subsidies the results of which would be used to
reform domestic farm policy in line with the Common Agricultural Policy of EEC
(Chapter II). The project is in the Government's priority list of development
programs in the agricultural sector.
1.02      The Project Areas.  The proposed project would be,located in Crete
and Peloponnesus   (Map IBRD 13315R).  These regions account fXor about 15% of
the total and 25% of the rural population in the country. About 70% of the
areas presently occupied by greenhouses are located in Crete and Peloponnesus,
and most of the out-of-season vegetable outputs are also produced here mainly
because the climate is milder and more suitable for such activities compared
to the rest of Greece. This would be the first time the Bank would be par-
ticipating in financing agricultural projects in these regions of the country,
although previous Education projects have supported agricultural schools in
these areas. Problems of agricultural development in the project area are
generally the same as in the rest of the country, but landholdings are smaller
and more fragmented.
B. Agriculture in the Economy
1.03      In line with the relatively advanced stage of economic development
in Greece, agriculture's share of GDP has declined from about 23% in 1965 to
about 18% in 1976, but the sector remains a basic branch of the economy. It
accounts for 32% of total exports and employs about 34% of the active popu-
lation. Fruits and vegetables account for about 60% of agricultural exports,
yielding nearly Dr 18 billion (US$490 million) of foreign exchange in 1976.
More than half of the fruit and nearly all of the vegetable exports are
marketed in the European Economic Community (EEC). Eastern Europe is an
important outlet for citrus.
1.04      Agricultural production increased by about 30% in the last ten
years. Annual gross fixed investment increased from Dr 7.5 billion (US$204



- 2 -
million) in 1970 to about Dr 19.1 billion (US$520 million) in 1976. A large
proportion of the investment was.for development of irrigation and for
promoting land consolidation. The investments in 1976 accounted for about
11% of total gross fixed investments in the economy, which is lower than the
sector's share of GDP for the same year and insufficient compared to the
sector's absorptive capacity and potential for growth and development.
C. Agricultural Resources
1.05      Land. Agricultural lands amount to about 12.2 million ha, about 4
million ha of which are arable and the remaining 8.2 million ha are occupied
by permanent pastures and forests. Greece has substantial untapped forestry
resources and yet is a net importer of forestry products and wood; the wood
manufacturing sub-sector is heavily dependent on imported raw materials. Gov-
ernment plans to exploit fully the forestry resources but needs assistance.
About 3.5 million ha are presently cultivated, of which 43% are occupied by
cereals, 27% by tree crops and vineyards, 4% by vegetables and the balance 26%
by industrial, fodder and miscellaneous crops. About 5% of the area under
vegetables is occupied by greenhouses and plastic tunnels. Cucumbers, peppers,
tomatoes and eggplants account for most of the area under greenhouses, and
most of the vegetable exports are cultivated under greenhouses and plastic
tunnels. During 1970-76, total vegetable area under greenhouses and plastic
tunnels increased by about 40%, and this trend is likely to continue in the
foreseeable future. The project would support this development.
1.06      Climate.  The climate is characterized by dry and hot summers and
cool damp winters. Average monthly temperatures in the winter period amount
to about 10 C and minimum temperatures of below 0 C have been recorded, but
the temperature is milder in the south compared with the rest of the country.
There are several nights in the winter when frost occurs, although this is
more serious in the north than in the south. Hail is common during the
winter months, sometimes causing serious damage to crops. This means that
cultivation of out-of-season vegetables would require protection against
winter rains and cold temperatures. This would be done under the project.
1.07      Farm Inputs.  Consumption of fertilizers and plant protection
materials is increasing at about 7% per year. In 1976, chemical fertilizer
consumed was equivalent to about 140 kg per ha of cultivated land, although
there are variations among regions. Many farmers either grow their own seeds
or purchase directly from importers. Government also has a Seed Propagation
Unit which does not itself own or operate farms for production of seeds but
contracts with private farmers to produce the seeds. The level of mechani-
zation in Greek agriculture is about the same as in Western Europe. Thete
is one tractor per 25 hectares of cultivated land. Most of the tractors
are small, about half having less than 18 hp each, reflecting small and
fragmented holdings (para. 1.09).



- 3-
1.08      Labor.  Of an estimated total population of 9.1 million, nearly 2.8
million live in the rural areas and about 35% of the rural population is in the
relative poverty target group. The agricultural labor force is estimated at
about 1.1 million, but this is declining. The old farmers, who have little
skill or potential for gainful employment outside of agriculture, remain in
the rural areas but the young have a tendency to migrate to urban centers in
search of better opportunities. Migration has been particularly strong from
mountainous and semi-mountainous regions where agricultural incomes are gener-
ally lower compared to incomes in the plains. If emigration continues, the
agricultural labor force would increasingly get older and smaller, and there
is a danger of stagnant or even falling production unless steps are taken to
slow the emigration and to increase labor productivity and rural incomes. The
project would he,lp to raise labor productivity and rural incomes by promoting
intensive cultivation.
D. Development Problems and Prospects
1.09      Main Problems.  The basic structural weakness of Greek agriculture
is its small and fragmented landholdings resulting in a low level of labor
productivity, which is less than half that in the industrial sector. Pre-
sently, there are about one million holdings with an average size of about
3.5 ha held in six parcels. As a result, production is inefficient and aver-
age farm income is low compared to the national average income. Many farmers
supplement their meager incomes with part-time employment as unskilled
laborers. Some of them attempt to increase their earnings by intensive cul-
tivation (such as through investments in greenhouses) of particularly high
value crops (such as out-of-season vegetables), but this is increasingly being
constrained by shortage of investment resources. Government has been attempt-
ing to consolidate holdings through various incentives and legislation and to
increase sizes of holdings through settlements on public lands, although
progress is slow. Since 1950, about 560,000 ha have been consolidated, but
these represent only 16% of the cultivated land. The prospect for increasing
the size of holdings through settlement schemes is being more and more con-
strained by the limited supply of productive public land. With economic
growth and development, small-holdings are likely to become increasingly
uneconomical to operate and farmers who remain in the business would either
have to consolidate their holdings or go for more intensive forms of produc-
tion to remain competitive. More Government effort is needed to accelerate the
rate of consolidation, prevent further fragmentation, and promote intensive
cultivation through increased investments.
1.10      There are also other problems of agricultural growth and development
such as inefficient subsidy policies (paras. 1.11-1.12), inadequate research
and extension services (paras. 1.15-1.18), less than optimum marketing organi-
zation (paras. 1.19-1.29), fluctuating production caused by unstable weather,
and scarcity of exploitable irrigation water. During the last 15 years, the
area under irrigation has doubled to about 855,000 ha, about 30% of which is
grown to fruits and vegetables. The irrigated area represents only a quarter
of the cultivable land and about half of the potential irrigable area. The



- 4 -
Bank is helping to increase area under irrigation by financing three irriga-
tion projects (paras. 1.30-1.31). Expansion of area under irrigation, how-
ever, is being increasingly constrained by the high cost of water exploitation.
1.11      In an effort to narrow the widening gap in income between agricul-
ture and other sectors, Government provides farmers with a wide variety of
input subsidies, direct investment grants, and export support and price inter-
vention payments. Subsidies on chemical fertilizers and plant protection
materials amount to about 30-50%, while those for purchases of tractors and
for construction of greenhouses amount to about 30% and 20% respectively.
Also, farmers borrow funds at subsidized interest rates to purchase the above
and other farm inputs (para. 2.06). In some cases, Government recoups part
of the subsidies through taxes and import duties on agricultural inputs. But
the net subsidy to agriculture is still high and this subsidy is imposing an
increasingly heavier burden on Government budget. In 1976, input subsidies
and direct and indirect income subsidies amounted to about Dr 16.8 billion
(US$458 million), which is equivalent to about 7% of central Government
expenditures for the same year. To date, no systematic studies have been
conducted to evaluate the resource allocative and income distributive effects
of the complex agricultural taxation and subsidy policies, but there are
indications of overuse and misuse of agricultural chemicals and overmechani-
zation in some areas. Government realizes the need for critical evaluation of
its agricultural taxation and subsidy policy and intends to change this policy
as part of the requirements for Greece's expected entry into the EEC (para.
1.13).
1.12      Greece's entry into the EEC would require major changes in its
present subsidy policies for agriculture. EEC regulations allow subsidies
on interest rates, on purchases of investment goods such as farm machinery,
and on investments such as irrigation and land consolidation. Subsidies on
farm inputs such as fertilizers and other agricultural chemicals would not
be allowed. As part of the process of alignment of domestic policy with
EEC farm policy, input and production subsidies would have to be abolished
and some adjustment of the investment grants and subsidy policy will have to
take place. Meanwhile, Government has initiated some studies on its taxation
and subsidy policy. The project would provide support in this effort.
1.13      Future Development.  Greece became an associate member of the EEC in
1962. Because of this association status, the country's agricultural exports
to EEC have been exempted from import duties while exports from third countries
were subjected to duties thus providing competitive advantages to Greece's
exports. However, Greece has not been able to reap the full benefits granted
to full members of the EEC. Its agricultural exports have been subjected to
compensatory fees and quota restrictions when imports into the EEC threatened
to lower farm prices below acceptable levels. Also, Greece has not been able
to receive investment grants which are given to full members of the Community
only. The country has now applied for full membership in the Community and
accession is expected by 1981. The horticultural sub-sector is expected to be
the major beneficiary of Greece's full membership in the Community. Due to
Greece's climatic advantages, production costs of fresh fruits and vegetables
are lower than in other member countries, providing a competitive advantage to



Greece's producers. In addition, the agricultural sector would be eligible
for financial assistance from the Community's Agricultural Fund to accelerate
farm development, promote agricultural reform, and harmonize Greece's farm
policy with the Common Agricultural Policy of EEC.
1.14      The investment program in the agricultural sector, according to the
preliminary 1976-80 Five Year Plan, would continue to emphasize expansion of
area under irrigation and consolidation of fragmented landholdings. Irrigated
area is expected to be increased to one million hectares by the end of the
Plan. Also, Government intends to raise labor productivity and farm incomes
by encouraging private investment particularly in sub-sectors where the
potential is most promising, such as expansion of out-of-season production
of selected horticultural products. The level of agricultural support ser-
vices and the organization of the marketing system would also be improved.
Compared to the previous Five Year Plan, investment in primary production
would be increased by 30% to about Dr 123.5 billion (US$3.4 billion). The
social product in the agricultural sector is projected to grow at an annual
rate of 3% compared to about 2.5% during the last ten years and compared to an
annual average economy-wide growth rate of 6.8% during the plan period. In
addition, the Government intends to spend about Dr 18 billion (US$490 million)
during the next ten years to harmonize Greece's farm policy with the Common
Agricultural Policy of EEC. The Plan is realistic in setting the objectives
and priorities of development in the agricultural sector, but the projected
growth rate is optimistic compared to the actual growth rate in the past and
given the low level of projected investment. The real increase in investment,
after allowances for inflation, is low and total investment would remain
insufficient compared to the sector's absorptive capacity.
E. Agricultural Support Services
1.15      General.  In addition to its Research and Extension Services, the
Ministry of Agriculture operates a national network of over 30 farmer training
centers, and seven secondary agricultural schools, partly supported by the
Bank's Second Education Project (Loan 859-GR); under other education projects,
the Bank is supporting technical education at secondary and post-secondary
levels throughout the country, which includes curricula in agriculture. Also,
there is a privately endowed and operated American Farm School at Thessaloniki
assisted by the Bank, which offers a four-year practical training in agricul-
ture (grades 7-10).  Training of agricultural technicians is provided by a
number of secondary schools which offer vocational agriculture and middle
level technical training. Further training leading to an undergraduate
degree is provided by the University of Thessaloniki and the Athens School
of Agriculture.
1.16      Research.  The Agricultural Research Service is presently being
reorganized geographically into five research centers, to which would be
attached about 40 research institutes. Most of these institutes are old
stations but several new ones would be added. The centers and institutes
would deal with agricultural problems in their respective regions. Presently
research efforts are thinly spread over a large number of topics related to



- 6 -
subtropical and temperate tree crops, field crops, livestock, soil reclamation
and classification, and plant protection. Research on seed varieties, parti-
cularly vegetables, has not been adequate and needs to be improved. Although
some work has been done on breeding of vegetable varieties for processing,
little research has been conducted in out-of-season production of vegetables
under greenhouses. Shortage of personnel, limited training of present staff
in research techniques and procedures associated with greenhouse cultivation,
as well as lack of equipment and supplies are major reasons for the deficien-
cies. The few personnel who are assigned to research on horticultural
products in the project areas have no postgraduate training. The proposed
project would seek to remedy this problem.
1.17      Extension.  The Extension Service has also recently been reorganized
and is one of three separate units in the Ministry of Agriculture dealing with
farmers' education. The other two are the Education and Information Unit,
which concentrates on school and out-of-school programs, and the Home Eco-
nomics Unit. Prior to June 1977 the three units were all in one agency, but
difficulties experienced in managing the programs prompted Government to make
the separation. The work of the three units is coordinated through the
General Director of Program Coordination and Extension who is directly respon-
sible to the Minister of Agriculture. There are 600 extension agents most of
whom are generalists with degrees from local agricultural institutions.
The specialists, of which there are only a few, have up to two years' training
in specific areas above undergraduate level.
1.18      From 1967 up to its recent reorganization, the Extension Service has
been ineffective and had little impact on the farmer and agriculture. Major
causes for this were: transfer of subject matter specialists to other ser-
vices; local agents becoming too heavily involved in paper and regulatory
work; inadequate field experience and in-service training of agents; inability
of agents to effectively communicate with farmers and meet their needs; and
lack of available transportation and associated inducements for agents to
visit farmers in the field. The new Director of the Extension Service is
keenly aware of the agency's poor image and shortcomings and is developing a
program to deal with these issues. The program would include re-structuring
of the service at the district level, development of an improved training
program for agents and specialists as well as an improvement in working con-
ditions at district level. The proposed project will augment Government's
efforts to revitalize this agency which will play an important role in
increasing agricultural productivity in the country and in reaching project
goals.
F. Marketing of Horticultural Products
1.19      Domestic Marketing.  The domestic market, which absorbs about 85%
of total production of fruits and vegetables, is served by many small growers
selling through a large number of small wholesalers and retailers. The two
major wholesale markets are Athens and Thessaloniki, served by about 900 and
200 wholesalers respectively. Athens is the largest market representing about



- 7-
one-third of the population of Greece and a large proportion of national
income. The small growers normally sell on consignment and are paid the net
sale proceeds after deductions for transport costs, agent commissions, and
spoilage. The larger growers send their produce direct but usually sell on
consignment paying 10% commission. Some produce is also marketed by coopera-
tives. There are over 7,000 cooperatives with more than half a million
members. Most of the cooperatives are not active in marketing their members'
outputs as they are concerned mainly with supplying farm inputs and consumer
goods to their members. As a result, there is widespread dissatisfaction
among growers with the capability of the cooperatives in marketing outputs.
Attempts to centrally organize the marketing function of cooperatives through
Nea Agrex, a subsidiary of ABG, have also not been successful. Nea Agrex is
now being reorganized to allow greater share participation to cooperatives.
In recent years, a number of producers have also begun to form "producer
groups", which are private unlimited companies and are a fast growing form
of market organization. Membership is committed to the enterprise with
consequent ability to plan ahead, and assure buyers of definite quantities
of produce. Membership is also less diverse than in the cooperatives and
decisions are made faster.
1.20      There are no severe barriers to market entry and exit, and competi-
tion among the various market intermediaries tends to be intense. All market
participants have equal access to market information broadcast daily over the
radio, and many farmers gather information on prices directly from the major
wholesale markets through their agents. There are no institutional barriers
to flow of produce among regions and the transport network (para. 1.26) is
adequate. Despite the above setting for a competitive marketing system, there
are at times allegations of misuse of market power by merchant middlemen and of
inequitable distribution of sale proceeds between the middlemen and pro-
ducers. To "correct" this situation, Government has tried unsuccessfully to
establish auction markets through which all producers and market intermediar-
ies exchange their produce. However, production is spread over a large area
owned by numerous farmers and it is impractical and inefficient for the small
farmer to market his produce through the auction market place. A more promis-
ing route to strengthen producers' bargaining power would be to establish
producer-controlled marketing companies. This would be supported under the
project.
1.21      Export Marketing.  About 15% of total production of fruits and vege-
tables is exported by about 250 exporters, broadly classified as private
exporters, cooperatives and producer groups. Private exporters generally pay
spot cash to the grower and ship on consignment, thereby absorbing the risk.
Cooperatives, who also ship on consignment, pay the growers as high a percent-
age of the expected proceeds as they think fit, and later make a supplementary
payment if justified by the proceeds of the sale. In all cases, the grower is
free to sell to whomever he pleases, and it is common to see private exporters
and export cooperatives competing for the produce of the same growers. As a
result, the exporters are not usually assured in advance of the quantities of
produce that will be available to them, which makes market planning difficult
and deprives Greece's exporters of the possibility to capture the growing
market potential of the supermarket chains in Europe.



- 8 -
1.22      The large number of exporters compared to the volume of exports is
partly a result of low cost of entry into the trade. Because of this, most
exporters handle small volumes which cannot fully support the cost of desir-
able handling facilities, and they do not have adequate representation in the
export markets. A further organizational weakness is that many exporters are
involved in single product exports such as cucumbers, and often to a single
market such as West Germany. On the other hand, the German food retail
business is very concentrated, with approximately 75% of fresh fruit and
vegetables being sold through multiple-outlet chains and about 25% through
traditional greengrocers. It is in this latter category that Greece's produce
is handled. Greek vegetables arrive at the market in small shipments with no
fixed delivery schedule. Better coordination and planning by Greek exporters
could result in more direct contracts and better prices.  Higher prices could
be obtained through shipments which are in better condition and which are
better graded and shipped in accordance with quantities and times desired by
the retail organizations, and benefiting from well promoted brand names.
1.23      Recently, Greece's exporters have achieved notable advances in
capturing larger shares of the markets in Europe, but this is limited mainly
to fruits particularly from Northern Greece where the exporters are better
organized than in the case of vegetable exporters from Southern Greece. This
indicates that there is a potential for improvement in vegetable marketing,
particularly in coordinating the individual export activities in developing
new markets and in selling under contract to supermarket chains, the most
dynamic growth sector. Government intends to attain this objective by (i)
providing various incentives to small exporters to encourage them to amalga-
mate; and (ii) promoting corporate forms of marketing organizations owned
mainly by farmers. Such organizations have proven to be successful in Spain
which has similarities to Greece, such as contiguous location of major out-
lets, diverse and separate producing areas and similar commodities. Spain has
achieved creditable export performance in fruits and vegetables, and is still
evolving more efficient organizations similar to those proposed by Government.
The project would support the Government's efforts to improve the market
organization.
1.24      While overall planning and coordination in the export trade needs to
be improved, the Ministries of Agriculture and Commerce undertake useful con-
trol functions, especially in preventing oversupply of certain products in
major importing countries. This is achieved through on-the-spot representa-
tion and an effective system of intermittent withholding of quality control
certificates and export licenses so as to divert produce into the domestic
market. Greece also has a network of agricultural and commercial counselors
in major European markets who have some market research capabilities. However,
the major role in market promotion and penetration needs to be undertaken by
exporters. The project would support this approach.
1.25      Handling Facilities.  Much of the horticultural produce consumed
domestically does not move through packhouses. The existing packhouses are
used mainly for export. They are generally small, and most vegetable pack-
houses are without cooling facilities. They are owned mostly by private
exporters and cooperatives and a few are owned by Government. There is a need
for new packhouses and for modernization and expansion of existing packhouses.



- 9 -
This is particularly so for vegetables, except cucumbers, because most of the
existing facilities are used for fruits. There are no packhouses for egg-
plants and peppers and only limited facilities are available for tomatoes.
The project would help in construction of new packhouses and cold storages and
in modernization of existing ones.
1.26      Transport.  The domestic transportation network is extensive and is
adequate for distributing products to different markets. For the export
market, there are several alternative modes of transport such as road, rail,
sea, road-ferry combination and air. During 1975-76, rail and road transport
accounted for about 80% of exports of fruits and vegetables and sea transport
accounted for the remaining 20%; air transport was insignificant. Most of
the produce transported by sea is citrus to the Soviet Union and other East
European countries; only small quantities of fruits and vegetables are
exported directly by ship to Western and Northern European markets. These
markets are reached by three alternative routes: through Yugoslavia by rail
and road transport, via Italy and Austria to West Germany, and by refrigerated
vessels to Northern European ports. There are no serious capacity bottlenecks
on any of the above routes and there would not be serious capacity bottlenecks
in the foreseeable future. In many cases, levels of service are comparable
and tariffs overlap for the various alternatives. For example, the level of
service provided by truck transport is superior to rail transport in terms of
flexibility and speed. However, transport by road is less smooth and products
reach the markets in less satisfactory condition.
1.27      Most of the fruits and vegetables exported overland to Northern and
Western Europe utilize refrigerated trucks. Presently, there are about 1,200
such trucks in Greece. The highway system in the countries through which
Greek produce is exported has adequate infrastructure capacity. There is
some congestion in certain sections of Yugoslav and Italian highways, but the
addition of Greek traffic to these highways is of minor consequence compared
to the overall volume of traffic. However, road transport particularly
through Yugoslavia is being increasingly constrained by limited transit
permits. In 1977, total transit permits through Yugoslavia amounted to
26,000. Government is negotiating for an increase in the permits while
Yugoslavia intends to reduce the permits by up to 40%. Even if the permits
were reduced by this amount, it would not have a serious adverse effect on
exports of fruits and vegetables, which receive top priority in granting
permits. If the permits are lowered by more than 40%, however, a change in
transport mode or rerouting of trucks or both may become necessary. While the
overall fleet is not likely to grow substantially, there is a need to upgrade
and replace existing units with more modern tractor-trailers. Presently,
truck and trailer combinations sail as one unit on ferries but, with improved
superstructure including an on-line refrigeration capability, it is possible
to transport only the trailer and thereby reduce transport costs. Tractor-
trailers can also be used interchangeably for road and sea transport, and to
haul products to the domestic market when they are not needed for export.
1.28      In the future, rail and road transport would continue to account for
the bulk of horticultural exports, but sea and air transport are also likely



- 10 -
to be increasingly important. Air transport could account for about 10% of
shipments by 1990, but this would require improvement of facilities such as
refrigerated storage and mechanical loading equipment at airports (para.
1.29). There are several options for transporting produce from the different
regions which overlap in tariffs and quality of service. The options avail-
able to project areas include integrated ferry and road transport connecting
with Italian routes, and direct ship and air transport. Products from
Northern Greece would continue to be transported mainly by rail and road
through Yugoslavia. Possible alternative routes which are little used at
present include ferry service to Trieste and Marseilles, and an alternate land
route through Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary, Austria and then to West Germany
(Map IBRD 13315R).
1.29      Meanwhile, a study is being conducted by Government to find ways of
improving the domestic transport organization and operation as part of its
long-term development strategy for the transport sector, in order to raise
the quality of service offered to exporters and to improve the efficiency of
the transport system. The areas which will be studied include: improvement
in handling facilities at air cargo terminals and loading facilities at sea
ports, and standardization of pallets to transport commodities with minimum
payload loss by using standard Europallets. The study commenced in January
1978 and is being financed with assistance from OECD. The terms of reference
for this study have been reviewed by the Bank.
G. Previous Agricultural Projects
1.30      There are four other agricultural projects in Greece which are
financed by the Bank, with Government being the Borrower in each case. These
include the Groundwater Development Project (Loan No. 754-GR), the Yannitsa
Irrigation Project (Loan No. 991-GR), the East Vermion Irrigation Project
(Loan No. 1165-GR), and the Evros Regional Development Project (Loan No.
1457-GR). None of the works under these projects have similarities to the
works under the proposed Vegetable Production and Marketing Project.
1.31      The loan for the Evros Regional Development Project, which would
serve a large number of farmers in Northern Greece, is not yet effective, and
it is too early to judge progress of this project. The main problem with
the irrigation projects, which are also located in Northern Greece, has been
changes in design and in one case also faulty construction which has delayed
project implementation and resulted in heavy cost overruns. The proposed
Vegetable Production and Marketing Project would not involve complex designs
similar to those of the above projects. Because of difference in designs,
lessons from implementation problems of the irrigation projects are not
directly transferable to, and would not have direct influence on, the design
of the proposed project.



- 11 -
II. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
A. The Credit Framework
2.01      The national banking system comprises the Bank of Greece (Central
Bank), several well organized commercial banks with branch offices throughout
the country, and specialized financial institutions including the Agricultural
Bank of Greece. Commercial banks have traditionally concentrated on short-term
lending to industry and commerce, and account for nearly half of total out-
standing bank credit and aggregate funds in the banking system. Investment
banks provide log-term capital for industrial investment, but the capital
market for domestic corporate bonds is still relatively undeveloped. The
Agricultural Bank is practically the only institutional source of credit to
the agricultural sector primarily because low agricultural interest rate
ceilings make it unattractive for other banks to enter this field. There are
indications that non-institutional credit in agriculture (from relatives and
merchants) has increased in importance in recent years, especially with
constraints on the Agricultural Bank's funds and rising remittances from Greek
workers abroad, though the exact magnitude of the contribution from such
sources remains unknown. Overall control of monetary policy and the banking
system is exercised by the ministerial level Currency Committee, which imposes
reserve requirements, allocates credit among sectors, approves major invest-
ments such as opening of new branches, and establishes maximum rates payable
for each type of deposit and credit. Interest rates are an element of devel-
opment policy and do not necessarily reflect the price of capital. Lending
rates for commercial loans currently range from 14% per annum for import
and domestic trade to 12% and 10.5% (plus 1% commission) for working capital
and investment loans to industry, respectively. Lending rates in agriculture
are considerably lower (para. 2.06).
B. The Agricultural Bank of Greece
General
2.02      The Agricultural Bank of Greece (ABG) would be the implementing
agency for the major part of the proposed project and the credit channel for
most of the investments to be financed under the project. It was estab-
lished in 1929 as an autonomous institution charged with responsibilities for
provision of credit to assist and improve agricultural production, marketing
and processing, as well as supervision and control of cooperatives. In addi-
tion, it accepts time and savings deposits, underwrites agricultural insurance
policies, provides technical assistance to farmers, and carries out other
activities on behalf of Government, such as procurement and distribution of
agricultural supplies and equipment.



- 12 -
2.03      Over the years, ABG has developed into a well managed, professionally-
oriented organization, responsive to the changing needs of agriculture and
reaching nearly 90% of the farmers. ABG's supervision of borrowers is quite
effective; loans are almost fully recovered within a year of falling due and
arrears are under control (para. 2.17). Lending procedures are also well
established, with a large measure of decentralization in approval authority,
although weaknesses appear in the financial and economic evaluation of proj-
ects (para. 2.14). In its lending operations, heavily subsidized agricultural
interest rates and a small equity base have led to increasing dependence on
low cost borrowings and subsidies from the Bank of Greece (paras. 2.06-2.09).
The proposed project would assist the institution-building of ABG in all these
aspects.
Organization and Staffing
2.04      Supreme administrative authority is vested in the Board of Directors
consisting of 12 members nominated by the Government, including the Governor
of ABG as Chairman.l/ The Board, which meets at least once a month to oversee
ABG's operating policies, authorizes the annual financial reports and credit
program proposals. Decisions are taken by simple majority vote. A Governor
and his deputy direct ABG's nationwide network of 183 branches and the Central
Office in Athens, organized into 13 departments and a supplies service, each
headed by a Director. The total number of employees, about 5,520 in 1977, has
remained fairly stable over the last few years, reflecting the movement of
population out of agriculture and the declining trend in number of ABG bor-
rowers. Almost 60% of professional employees are accountants or credit offi-
cers and another 15% are agronomists or other technical specialists. Staff is
generally well experienced and of high caliber, nearly half the professionals
being university graduates. Recruitment is through competitive examination,
with training provided on the job in branch offices and through seminars held
in Athens and abroad.
Lending Operations
2.05      General.  ABG has been successful in reaching the vast majority
of its potential clients, and accounted for 22% of total outstanding bank
credit in the economy as of June 30, 1977.  Nearly 90% of the farmers have
access to credit from the bank.  Short-term production loans to individual
farmers, two-thirds of which are channelled through cooperatives, absorbed
about 40% of loan disbursements during 1972-76; most of the balance was
accounted for by short-term loans for working capital to cooperatives and
other organizations and medium- and long-term loans. In terms of amounts
outstanding, however, medium- and long-term loans accounted for more than
half the total loan portfolio of Dr 87.1 billion (US$2.4 billion) at the end
1/   Other members represent the Ministries of Agriculture and Coordination,
Bank of Greece, School of Agriculture, cooperatives, and farmers outside
cooperatives.



- 13 -
of 1976. Farm mechanization, agroindustries and housing were the main cate-
gories financed through medium- and long-term loans, and fruits and vegeta-
bles, cereals, cotton and tobacco were the major crops receiving working
capital finance in 1976.
2.06      Lending Rates and Terms.  The general context in which interest
rates, including agriculture, are centrally fixed has been described in para.
2.01 above. As a result, these rates do not necessarily reflect market con-
ditions or availability of capital, especially for medium- and long-term
loans. However, while the rates for other sectors of the economy have hardly
changed since 1974, there has been a small but gradual increase in the rates
for agricultural lending. Prior to the recent increase (see para. 2.07),
medium- and long-term interest rates ranged from 6% (plus 0.5% appraisal fee)
on loans to cooperatives to 9% (plus 1% appraisal fee) on loans to private
agroindustries. Special low-interest rates (2-5%) are charged on loans for
irrigation, farmers' housing, etc., and rates varying between 0.5% and 9% for
various credits under special Government programs. Short-term interest rates
have varied from 7.5% to 8.5% (details are in Annex 1, Table T-1). With the
decline in inflation rate from close to 30% in 1974 to about 10% per annum in
1977, some rates have moved closer to positive rates of interest, although
they are below commercial rates on investment loans in other sectors. Repay-
ment periods for medium- and long-term loans vary by type of investment. They
range up to 20 years for greenhouses and land purchases, 15 years for pack-
houses and cold storages, and 12 years for irrigation.
2.07      During 1970-76, gross income from all activities grew at a compound
annual rate of nearly 30%, compared to about 20% and 45% for operating and
financial costs respectively, thus reducing the spread available to cover
administrative costs and to build up reserves. In 1976, gross income from
all activities averaged about 7.7% of total funds employed, which was barely
sufficient to cover ABG's administrative expenses of about 3.6% (2.6% for
credit activities alone) and borrowing expenses of about 3.9%. This reflects
ABG's dependence on increasing subsidies and low-cost financing by the Bank
of Greece. Annual interest subsidy of 3.5% on new deposits alone (para.
2.11) is expected to rise from Dr 59 million (US$1.6 million) in 1976 to Dr
1.9 billion (US$51.8 million) by 1980 and Dr 5.6 billion (US$153 million) by
1984, thus constituting a growing drain on the Government's resources. To
minimize such an increasingly heavy burden on public funds and to improve the
resource allocative effects of interest rates, the Government has decided to
initially raise agricultural interest rates across the board on all short- and
medium/long-term loans by 0.5 percentage points over the rates prevailing on
December 31, 1977. Interest rates would be further reviewed on the basis of a
study on interest rates and agricultural subsidies (para. 4.21) to be carried
out by ABG with assistance from relevant agencies and Ministries. With the
above increase in interest rates and in ABG's equity base (para. 2.09), gross
income would be maintained at about 7.6% of funds employed in 1980 compared to
total expenses of 6.7%. This would leave a comfortable spread enabling ABG to
gradually add to equity through its own surpluses and maintain a sound debt:
equity ratio. Details are in Annex 1, Tables T-2 and T-3.



- 14 -
Resource Mobilization
2.08       ABG's sources of financing include its own equity, deposits, and
borrowings from the Bank of Greece. Since 1970, its-dependence on borrowed
funds has been increasing steadily as shown below:
Capital Structure as of December 31
1970             1973              1976
Item                          Dr billion   %  Dr billion   %  Dr billion   %
Capital, Reserves, Provisions           2.9    10         3.3      7        3.9     4
Liabilities to BG                      21.8    74        39.0    78        73.2    75
Deposits                                4.7    16         7.7    15        20.8    21
Total                                  29.4   100        50.0   100        97.9   100
2.09       Equity and Reserves.  ABC's equity capital is fully Government-owned
and does not bear dividends. Paid-in capital was last increased to Dr 1.9
billion (US$51.8 million) in 1965, but has remained unchanged since. Although
profits are not taxed and are retained to strengthen the equity base, growth
in capital from operations has failed to keep pace with increases in loan
portfolio or even with inflation. During 1970-76, both the loan portfolio and
total assets grew at a compound annual rate of over 20%, with short-term loans
increasing slightly faster than medium- and long-term loans. Growth in ABG's
involvement in financing agricultural supplies was even more striking, exceed-
ing 40% per annum. ABG had to rely increasingly on borrowings from the Bank
of Greece to finance its growing business, since the increase in its equity
did not keep pace with development in activities. While net worth grew at
less than 5% per year, liabilities to Bank of Greece increased at nearly five
times this rate; about 70% of new funds employed over the period came from
increased liabilities to Bank of Greece, about 20% from internal generation of
new deposits, 8% from increase in other liabilities, and only about 2% from
operations. Consequently, the ratio of long-term debt to equity deteriorated
from about 7:1 to 18:1 (and further to 21:1 in 1977). This undercapitalizat-
ion has adverse implications for ABG's financial autonomy and prospective
ability to borrow from international commercial sources. Government has
now decided upon the following increases in ABG's equity capital: by Dr 6
billion (US$163.5 million) in 1978 and Dr 10 billion (US$272.5 million) in
equal installments over the following five years. Such an increase in equity
capital would reduce the debt-equity ratio to a level which is normally
considered acceptable for institutions like ABG. This increase in equity
capital can be achieved without undue financial burden on Government budget
because it would merely involve conversion into equity of part of a Dr 20
billion (US$545 million) Bank of Greece loan to ABG, which is rolled over
annually at a nominal interest rate of 1% per annum. With the above equity
contributions and increases in interest rates, projections of ABG's future
lending activities indicate that as much as 73% of funds between 1977 and
1984 could come from new deposits and operating surpluses and dependence on
the Bank of Greece could be reduced to 23% of new funds required (compared



- 15 -
to about 35% in the absence of these measures); the remaining 4% would come
from other sources. The long-term debt-to-equity ratio would be correspondingly
reduced to a satisfactory level of about 8:1 in 1978, and would be improved
further to about 4:1 by 1984. This would put ABG in a fairly strong financial
position to continue further operations on the basis of internally generated
resources, and would enable it to tap alternative commercial sources of funds
on its own account and to become progressively independent of official sources
for its future funding needs. Details are in Annex 1, Tables T-4 and T-5.
2.10      Liabilities to Bank of Greece.  The Bank of Greece is the major
source of funds for ABG. In 1976, the average cost of finance from this
source was 3.5% and the marginal cost 5.4%. Under loan agreements signed
with the Bank of Greece, ABG is obliged to directly deposit all its subloan
collections into its account with the Bank of Greece and to give the latter
collateral on every existing and future claim against subborrowers.
2.11      Deposits.  The role of deposits as a means of financing ABG's
activities was limited until 1975, with ABG attracting less than 5% of all
deposits in the banking system. Since January 1976, however, deposits have
increased substantially in response to an intensive campaign (including
heavy media advertising) by ABG, mostly from rural areas where ABG has the
advantage of its branch network and client relationships. ABG now also
plans to tap the urban savings potential, and has recently received approval
to open several new urban offices. Interest rates on deposits in 1977 ranged
from 7.25% on regular savings accounts to 9.5% on time deposits of 12 months
or more. Since lending rates are not high enough to cover interest paid on
deposits as well as administrative costs, ABG receives an interest subsidy
on new deposits of 3.5% from the Bank of Greece.
2.12      Other Sources.  In 1977, ABG made its first successful venture out-
side its traditional funding sources by contracting to borrow DM 40 million
(US$18.8 million) directly (with Government guarantee) from the German
Kreditanstalt Bank at 2% interest rate repayable over 30 years including 10
years' grace. The loan is to be used for financing small- and medium-sized
agroindustry investments through 1979. The bank has also been exploring
other foreign sources of capital (including commercial banking institutions)
and plans to tap the domestic bond market in the near future. The recent
expansion in the bank's capital base is expected to increase the confidence
of external lenders and improve ABG's access to these sources of funds.
Lending Procedures and Collection Performance
2.13      Resources for lending are rationed according to the annual credit
program prepared after integrating ABG branch managers' projections of likely
demand and submitted to the Ministry of Agriculture for consent before final
approval by the Currency Committee. ABG has considerable experience in loan
appraisal and supervision in the field, and lending procedures are fairly
well established among the branches and departments.



- 16 -
2.14      Loan Appraisal.  Appraisal procedures are generally satisfactory,
although weaknesses appear in the financial and economic evaluation. Standard
application forms provide the basic data and information (certified by the
chiefs of village and cooperative) for the loan decision. In addition, a
general card containing background data on the applicant has to be filed prior
to opening any credit relationship with ABG and is updated periodically.
Short-term credit needs of borrowers are appraised by a three-man committee
consisting of the branch manager, the agriculturist and head of the credit
section. Loan amounts are determined by production expenses not covered by
self-financing of the farmer, but are limited by guarantee and collateral
requirements as well as past repayment records of borrowers. Medium- and
long-term loans are made after more detailed technical and economic feasibil-
ity analyses. Each agriculturist in a branch office is assigned 30 to 40
adjoining villages with 3,000-4,000 potential borrowers, and he is expected to
conduct appraisals in the field at least for the larger loan applications, for
example, over Dr 200,000 (US$5,450). The agriculturist's recommendations on
loan amount and repayment schedule are generally accepted by the branch
manager, and the regional techno-economic services are asked to verify, in the
case of loans exceeding Dr 2 million (US$54,000), that the investment being
financed is covered by the overall credit program. However, owing to the lack
of training in finance and economics of most agriculturists, current loan
appraisal techniques reflect a static concept, essentially confirming that
expected cash flow from operations in the first year would adequately cover
debt service charges. Only exceptionally are detailed cash flow projections
prepared, and incremental rate of return calculations, sensitivity analysis or
overall economic evaluation are completely absent from loan appraisals. In
recent months, more sophisticated financial appraisal techniques have been
initiated for agroindustry investments, but this effort would need to be
widened to include other loans as well. The project would promote this
approach through the application of such techniques to all project invest-
ments. About five agricultural economists have already been appointed to
help appraise projects. They will be stationed at ABG's branches in the
project areas.
2.15      Loan Approval.  Loan approval authority varies according to type
of loan and category of the ABG branch, with a considerable degree of overall
decentralization permitting quick and flexible responses to borrowers' needs.
Certain branch managers, for example, are authorized to approve agricultural
credits to individual farmers up to Dr 8 million (US$218,000) and to coopera-
tives up to Dr 20 million (US$545,000). Virtually all loan applications
are for amounts within branch jurisdiction and are approved directly at that
level, with an average processing time of 3-4 weeks. The few (less than one
percent) larger amounts are submitted for approval, depending on size, to the
Director of the concerned department in Athens, or the Governor of ABG, or
the Credit Committee chaired by the Governor which meets weekly. Once the
approval order is issued, the loan amount is transferred to a blocked account
and disbursements are made according to progress in project implementation.
2.16      Loan Security and Supervision.  Loans are secured either with per-
sonal surety or real collateral depending on the category and amount of loan.
Personal guarantee is primarily accepted for short-term loans, and for depo-
sitors the limits range up to Dr 100,000 (US$2,720) to individuals and



- 17 -
Dr 900,000 (US$24,520) for cooperative members. Medium- and long-term loans
generally require collateral security if the borrower exceeds the personal
guarantee limit, the minimum ratio of mortgaged assets to loan amount being
1.5:1. Under Law No. 4332 of 1929, ABG's claims against defaulters must
first be satisfied from sales of crops, livestock, equipment, etc. before any
other claims including those secured by mortgage can be enforced. In case
of failure to repay on time, written notice is sent 3-4 weeks after the due
date and the delinquent is visited to ascertain the reasons for delay. In
exceptional cases, such as widespread crop damage due to bad weather, loans
may be rescheduled; otherwise, legal proceedings are initiated against the
defaulter. In general, ABG's supervision is quite effective and adequate,
given its long-established relationships with most clients, and loan writeoffs
or auction sales of borrowers' assets are rare.
2.17      Loan Collections.  Overall collection rates on loans made by ABG
(including accrued interest) improved slightly between 1972 and 1976 from
about 68% to about 72%. Collection on loans to cooperatives and other organi-
zations improved from about 70% to 75% and on short-term agricultural produc-
tion loans from 67% to 70%, while collection of loans on collateral was con-
siderably above average (between 85% and 96%) during the period under review.
Beyond the first year of falling due, loans are almost fully recovered and
delays as indicated by overdues are under control. Analysis of the repayment
cycle of loans shows that about 92% of principal amounts due in 1974 had been
collected by 1975 and 97% by 1976. Comparable collection performance was
experienced for short-term loans, and for medium- and long-term loans the
respective rates were 89% and 95%. Collection rates for interest overdues
show similar patterns. As a result, principal and interest arrears on loans
disbursed prior to 1976 amounted to only 3.3% of total loan portfolio out-
standing at the end of that year. The overall quality of the loan portfolio
thus appears to be satisfactory. Only a cumulative total of Dr 6.46 million
(US$0.2 million) in loans have had to be written off through December 31,
1976, and bad debt provision of Dr 670.2 million (US$18.3 million) is adequate
to take care of potential losses.
Accounts and Audits
2.18      ABG's accounts have been computerized since 1962.  Daily reports
on all loan and deposit activities are sent by the branch offices to the
Data Processing Department in Athens, which processes the information and
sends back consolidated statements on disbursements, collections, etc. to
the branches and to management at the end of each month. Activities are
currently subjected to audit and control at three levels. Overall legality
of the Board of Directors' decisions is controlled by the Supervisory Board,
which includes one member each from the Council of State, Supreme Court and
State Audit Office. Three senior officials, one each from the State Audit
Office, the National Bank and Bank of Greece, audit ABG's annual financial
statements and submit their report, which is also published in the Government
gazette, to the Supervisory Board. The Bank of Greece conducts annual inspec-
tions as part of its regular banking control functions, and the Currency
Committee controls the volume of ABG's banking transactions through regular
reports required on the sources and uses of funds. Finally, the Inspection



- 18 -
Department in ABG's Central Office is responsible for internal audit and
control of the branches as well as of enterprises in which ABG has an equity
participation. At the regional level, agricultural and technical inspectors
supervise and control the activities of the agrotechnical staff of the
branches. These audit and control procedures are satisfactory.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The objectives of the project are to (a) increase foreign exchange
earnings (and savings) and promote economic growth by expanding production
of out-of-season vegetables in two high potential regions; (b) strengthen
existing research and extension institutions so as to promote production of
high value crops; (c) promote an improvement in organization of the marketing
system; (d) help raise labor productivity on small farms by promoting inten-
sive cultivation; and (e) strengthen the Agricultural Bank of Greece by
enabling it to improve its lending operations and resource mobilization
efforts.
B. Description
3.02      The project would consist of the following complementary components:
construction of greenhouses on about 9,000 stremma (str)l/ to permit the
production of out-of-season vegetables; provision of equipment, training and
consultant services and facilities to improve existing research and extension
institutions; consultant services and facilities to help organize marketing
companies mainly to promote exports; construction and improvement of pack-
houses and cold storages for vegetables; and supply of refrigerated tractor-
trailers for transport of project commodities.
Greenhouses
3.03      The greenhouse component would involve replacement of small, old
and inefficient plastic houses with improved standard greenhouses on about
7,000 str and the erection of new greenhouses on about 2,000 str which are
presently under open cultivation. About 75% of the total area would be
located in Crete and the remaining 25% in Peloponnesus. The 9,000 str of
greenhouses are equivalent to about 40% of lands which are presently under
greenhouse cultivation throughout Greece, and they would account for virtually
all greenhouses which are expected to be constructed in the project areas
during the next five years. The distribution of project land between replace-
ment and additional greenhouses is based on projections of demand for such
greenhouses during the next five years.
1/   One stremma equals 0.1 ha.



- 19 -
3.04      The greenhouses would be designed to withstand high winds, rain,
and heavy crop loads without destruction; and to allow proper ventilation and
minimize the need for heating. A typical greenhouse would have a wooden
framework, but other construction materials would be permissible to allow for
possible improvement in technology. It would be furnished with drip irrigation
equipment. The primary and secondary irrigation infrastructures have already
been completed, but drip irrigation equipment would be provided for each unit.
Drip irrigation is recommended to make efficient use of scarce water resources,
reduce house humidity and minimize incidence of soil-born diseases. Some
of the project lands would be irrigated from groundwater. Others would be
irrigated from rivers whose entire watershed is within Greece and which are
already being used for large scale irrigation schemes. The quality of water
is suitable for irrigation. There would be minor land levelling only on land
to be occupied by the additional greenhouses.
3.05      In Peloponnesus, the winter temperature often gets cold causing
severe frost damage to crops and supplementary heat would be required to
prevent this. In Crete, the climate is milder and seldom reaches the frost
level.  But, since temperatures fall below 12.50C, this inhibits natural
pollination for peppers and tomatoes, and hormones are used to induce polli-
nation resulting in poor quality and misshapen products which are unacceptable
in the export market. Thus, areas to be occupied by peppers and tomatoes in
Crete would require supplementary heat. The total greenhouse area to be
heated in both regions would amount to about 2,800 str. Each eligible green-
house would be provided with an oil-heating unit with a capacity of 110,000
KCal/h to maintain a minimum temperature of 12.5 C.
Research and Extension
3.06      Equipment and Supplies.  Equipment and supplies would be provided
to selected research centers and institutes and to extension services oper-
ating in the project areas. The research equipment will permit in-depth
investigations in identified areas of need such as vegetable varieties, heat,
ventilation, greenhouse structures and coverings. About 14 str of green-
houses, all of which would be provided with heating units, would be con-
structed. Laboratory equipment for leaf and soil analysis and for pesticide
and chemical residue tests would also be supplied. The extension service
would be provided with basic materials and supplies to conduct an effective
program. Most of the research equipment would be for centers and institutes
in Crete and Peloponnesus, but others which are located outside of these
regions but whose research programs benefit project needs would also be
eligible recipients.
3.07      Training.  Approximately 50 man years of training abroad would be
provided for 8 research and 30-40 extension personnel. The research personnel
would each receive training for up to two years to reach the M. Sc. level.
The extension personnel would be given training for up to one year each to
become specialists in horticulture, marketing and cooperatives, except for
three who would be given training in extension organization, program planning
and staff training. In addition, about 10 experienced extension agents would
be sent abroad immediately for 2-3 week familiarization visits specifically



- 20 -
related to vegetable production under modern greenhouses. Following
completion of their training, the research and extension personnel would con-
tinue their work in the project areas for a period of at least three years
each.
3.08      Consultants.  Two research and two extension consultants, one of
each for Crete and Peloponnesus, would be provided. They would be attached
to existing institutions in the regions, and would help to develop improved
research and extension programs and would also train local staff. Each
consultant would have at least one counterpart. In addition, other local
research and extension personnel would be employed to assist in conducting
programs to be developed by the consultants. Each of the research and exten-
sion consultants would serve for about four and about three years respec-
tively, but the durations of their services are subject to review depending
on project needs. Research priorities would be directly related to project
needs and extension personnel would devote their initial efforts to farmers
involved in greenhouse production of out-of-season vegetables.
Marketing Organization
3.09      About four marketing companies would be established in Crete and
Peloponnesus. These companies would be involved in the marketing of primarily
horticultural products to both domestic and export markets. The proposed
companies would seek new markets abroad to expand exports of diversified
products. Initially, they would be owned by producers (cooperatives or other
suitable groups of producers) and by ABG, but membership would be open to
other interested parties including private exporters. They would operate as
commercial entities with a sound financial base, and would have access to
credit from ABG. The project would provide office buildings and equipment
and about four man-years of foreign consultant services to help in establish-
ing and organizing the companies and in operating them initially. It would
also provide funds to cover salaries of local counterpart and support staff,
and recurrent expenditures during the initial three years of operation.
Packhouses and Cold Storages
3.10      Six new packhouses with appropriate cooling facilities would be
constructed, and at least as many existing packhouses would be improved. Of
the new packhouses, two would be used for cucumbers, two for tomatoes and the
remaining two for eggplants and peppers. They would be suitable for multi-
product use. Each packhouse would have a capacity of 40 tons per day, except
one which would have a capacity of only 25 tons. The total capacity of the
facilities is based on the requirements of the project and the size of each
facility is based on projected needs of production centers where the facili-
ties would be located. Typical improvements of existing packhouses would
involve replacement of packing lines and addition of cold stores.
Refrigerated Tractor-Trailers
3.11      The project would provide 50 refrigerated tractor-trailers, each with
a standard capacity of 20 tons. Assuming each truck would make three round-
trips per month to major European markets, the above trucks would haul about



- 21 -
20,000 tons of cargo during the main export season, which is equivalent to the
volume of additional exports which would result from the project. Presently,
there are about 2,200 trucks used in the export trade only about 50% of which
have refrigeration facilities. Many of these trucks are not standardized to
carry palletized cargo. The project would help to improve this situation by
providing trucks which would be adapted to carry standard Europallets.
C. Cost Estimates
3.12      The total cost of the project, including physical contingencies and
expected price increases, is estimated at Dr 3,076.7 million (US$84 million),
with a foreign exchange component (direct and indirect) of US$40 million or
48% of total cost. The cost estimate is based on June 1978 prices and includes
taxes and duties computed at Dr 430 million (US$11.7 million). Physical con-
tingencies have been computed at 10% on all items, except for equipment and
consultant services where no such contingencies were provided. Price contin-
gencies on all civil works have been computed at annual compound rates of 9%
during 1978-79 and 8% thereafter; contingencies on equipment have been esti-
mated at annual compound rates of 7.5% during 1978-79 and 7% thereafter. These
are based on the Bank's "Guidelines on Expected Price Increases--January 31,
1977". Project cost estimates are summarized below and detailed in Annex 1,
Table T-6.



- 22 -
Estimated Cost              Estimated Cost
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   % Foreign
Item       -----(Dr Million)s -----(US$ Million)-----    Exchange
Greenhouses:
Wooden Frame-
work             274.4    569.2    843.6        7.5     15.5      23.0        67
Drip Irriga-
tion Equipment  144.0       36.0    180.0      3.9       1.0       4.9        20
Heating Units    184.5    156.2    340.7         5.0      4.2       9.2        46
Others            462.6      17.9    480.5    12.5        0.5      13.0         4
Research and
Extension          57.8      84.1    141.9       1.6       2.3      3.9        59
Marketing
Organization       63.7      28.7      92.4      1.8      0.7       2.5        31
Packhouses and
Cold Storages      52.0      99.1    151.1       1.5      2.7       4.2        65
Tractor-Trailers   66.8    181.6    248.4         1.8      4.9       6.7        73
Base Cost      1,305.8  1,172.8  2,478.6    35.6        31.8      67.4        47
Physical Contin-
gencies (5.3%)    73.4       58.7    132.1       2.0      1.6       3.6        44
Expected Price
Increases
(18.8%)           228.4    237.6    466.0       6.4       6.6      13.0        51
Sub-total        301.8    296.3    598.3       8.4       8.2      16.6        49
Total Project
Cost          1,607.6  1,469.1  3,076.7    44.0        40.0      84.0 /a    48
/a   Cost estimates include $11.7 million of taxes and duties.
D. Financing
3.13      The proposed Bank loan of US$30 million would finance about 36% of
the total cost of the project (75% of the foreign exchange component), or
about 42% of total cost net of taxes and duties. Of the remaining project
cost of US$54 million, ABG would finance US$33.9 million (40%), beneficiaries
US$18.3 million (22%) and Government US$1.8 million (2%); Government is looking
for co-financiers to help fill the foreign exchange gap. The beneficiaries of
investments in greenhouses and in packhouses and cold storages would contri-
bute at least 20% each towards the costs of these components, except that
owners of greenhouses who constitute part of the poverty target group may
contribute less; and all eligible trucking companies would finance 40% of
the investments in tractor-trailers. Except for foreign expenditures on



- 23 -
consultant services which would be financed by IBRD, costs of establishing
the proposed marketing companies would be financed by equity contributions
of the grower/exporter groups (51%) and of ABG (49%). Because of the large
amount of taxes and duties which would be paid by the project, the net con-
tributions of the Government would be insignificant. Contributions by ABG
would account for less than one percent of its total lending, and contribu-
tions by the beneficiaries are unlikely to cause severe financial burden
on these subborrowers. During negotiations, assurances have been obtained
that the financing plan for the project would be as discussed above.
3.14      Detailed financing plan for the different project components would
be as follows:
Item                                        Financing
IBRD      ABG       Beneficiaries        Government       Total
----------------------(US$ Million)------------------------
Greenhouses       23.4       28.0          12.9                 -            64.3
Research and
Extension        2.5         -             -                 1.8            4.3
Marketing          0.3        1.2           1.4                 -             2.9
Packhouses and
Gold Storages   1.7         2.1            .9                 -             4.7
Tractor-Trailers  2.1         2.6           3.1                 -             7.8
Total        30.0      33.9           18.3               1.8           84.0
%             36 /a      40            22                 2            100
/a   The Bank's share of total cost net of taxes and duties is about 42%.
Presently, ABG loans for construction of greenhouses are repaid within 20
years, and loans for construction of packhouses and cold storages are repaid
within 15 years; ABG does not now normally lend to private trucking companies
but would do so under the project. Based on the life of the project (para.
5.19), the Bank loan would be for 15 years including 3 years of grace. How-
ever, cash flow analyses of different models representing sub-loans for green-
houses, packhouses and cold storages, and tractor-trailers indicate that the
beneficiaries of investments in these project components would be able to
generate adequate income to repay their loans to ABG in shorter periods
(para. 4.08).
E. Implementation Schedule
3.15      Project works would be implemented over five years during 1978-82.
Construction of greenhouses would be completed on about 15% of the total area
in 1978, and works on the remaining area would be implemented in about equal
installments during the remaining four years. Estimated schedule of expendi-
tures is summarized below and detailed in Annex 1, Table T-7.



- 24 -
Calendar Year
Expenditures    1978       1979     1980      1981      1982
------------(US$ Mllion)---------------
Annual           10.6      18.2     18.9      19.7      16.6
Cumulative       10.6      28.8     47.7      67.4      84.0
F. Procurement
3.16      The new packhouses and cold storages and part of the equipment for
research and extension would be procured following international competitive
bidding in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement Under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits - March 1977". Local manufacturers of equipment and
materials would be allowed a 15% preference margin or the applicable customs
duty, whichever is less. The equipment for research and extension would be
bulked to the extent possible. Equipment which cannot be suitably bulked for
ICB procurement would be procured through local procedures upto an aggregate
amount of about US$300,000. Agreed list of equipment is in Annex 1, Tables
T-8 and T-9. The remaining project works and equipment would be procured
following local procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank. The specifi-
cation and bidding documents for all new packhouses and cold storages, and
equipment for research and extension to be procured under ICB, would be
cleared with the Bank before tendering. Amounts of different project com-
ponents to be procured following the above procedures are summarized below,
and the reasons for recommendations of procurement procedures for the dif-
ferent items are discussed in paras. 3.17-3.19:
Item                                Procedures and Amounts /1
ICB     Local    Total
----(us$ Million)-----
Greenhouses
Wooden Framework                    -        29.5      29.5
Drip Irrigation Equipment           -         6.3       6.3
Heating Units                       -        11.8      11.8
Others                              -        16.7      16.7
Research and Extension
Equipment and Materials           1.0        0.3       1.3
Others                             -         3.0       3.0
Marketing                            -         2.9       2.9
Packhouses and Cold Storages        3.2        1.5       4.7
Tractor-Trailers                     -         7.8       7.8
Total                             4.2       79.8     84.0
/1   Including contingencies.



- 25 -
3.17      The greenhouses would be owned by a large number of farmers spread
over numerous localities. As each farmer has his own needs and plans on size
and timing of construction, it has not been possible to organize bulk procure-
ment in the past and it is impractical and inefficient to organize ICB pro-
curement of such works under the project. ABG and the Ministry of Agriculture
would assist farmers in designing the greenhouses and in identifying alterna-
tive sources of supply of materials. Presently, there are three manufacturers
of pre-fabricated greenhouses (two of which are located in Crete and Pelopon-
nesus) and about 40 importers of wood used for general construction including
greenhouses. Most of the imported wood, particularly that which is used for
greenhouse construction, originates in Northern Europe and there are no quota
restrictions on imports. There are also many domestic suppliers of other
materials and equipment (such as plastic covers and heating units) for the
greenhouses. Thus, there are alternative sources of supply of materials that
farmers can approach when procuring the greenhouses. Farmers would procure
the greenhouses through solicitation of bids from at least three suppliers and
ABG would ensure that such procurement procedure is followed. ABG would also
advertise internationally the procurement of greenhouses in order to attract
wide interest and participation by potential international suppliers.
3.18      Expenditures on buildings and equipment for the proposed marketing
companies and on modernization of existing packhouses are individually small,
and works would be scattered over various locations. Therefore, the facili-
ties would be procured following local procedures. Foreign firms are repre-
sented in Greece and they would be allowed to participate in local competitive
bidding.
3.19      The tractor-trailers would be owned by different trucking companies,
each operating various types of vehicles. Each internationally operating
company owns at least six trucks and there are about 180 such companies. The
individual company procures its own equipment through commercial channels,
and there is no organized agency that procures vehicles on behalf of these
companies. Furthermore, the sub-borrowers would be expected to select a wide
variety of trucks with respect to manufacturers based on the present diversi-
fied composition of the various fleets. In addition, it is unlikely that
the sub-borrowers would wish to purchase trucks simultaneously, but rather
according to their individual circumstances. For the above reasons, the
tractor-trailers would be unsuitable for bulk procurement under ICB. However,
to enable broad participation by international suppliers and to ensure com-
pliance of tractor-trailers with EEC requirements, ABG would prepare standard
criteria acceptable to the Bank for procurement of the tractor-trailers, and
to be used as a basis for disbursement from the loan; tractor-trailers which
do not meet the criteria would not be eligible for financing. An adequate
range of tractor-trailers of international makes is readily available in
Greece.
3.20      The new packhouses and cold storages would be procured by ABG on
behalf of the sub-borrowers. ABG has a procurement unit staffed with quali-
fied specialists with adequate experience in preparing and processing tender
documents; this unit would also be responsible for processing tender documents
under the project. Equipment for research and extension would be procured



- 26 -
by the Ministry of Agriculture. Greenhouses, tractor-trailers and facilities
for the proposed marketing companies would be procured by the beneficiaries
under supervision of ABG. Consultants for the research and extension component
and for the marketing organization component of the project would be selected
and retained by the Ministry of Agriculture (paras. 4.11-4.20) and by ABG,
respectively. The Ministry would also be responsible for administering the
training part of the research and extension component.
G. Disbursements
3.21      The Bank loan would be disbursed over five years as follows:
(a) Research and Extension
(i) Consultant services and training - 100% of foreign expenditures
(US$1.6 million)
(ii)  Equipment and Materials            -  71% of total expenditures
(US$0.9 million)
(b)  Marketing (US$0.3 million)               - 100% of foreign expenditures
on consultant services
(c)  Greenhouses                          )
)
(i)  Replacement Greenhouses         )
(US$18.2 million)               )
)
(ii)  Additional Greenhouses          )  -  45% of sub-loan amounts
(US$5.2 million)                )         disbursed by ABG
)
(d)  Packhouses and Cold Storages         )
(US$1.7 million)                     )
)
(e)  Tractor-trailers (US$2.1 million)  )
An estimated schedule of disbursements is summarized below and is detailed in
Annex 1, Table T-10.
Calendar Year
Disbursements           1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
------------(US$ MillionT--------=
Annual                    8.5     6.4      6.6     5.8      2.7
Cumulative               8.5    14.9    21.5    27.3    30.0



- 27 -
Disbursements for greenhouses would be made against certificates of expendi-
tures by ABG, the documentation for which would not be submitted for review,
but would be retained by the implementing agencies and made available for
inspection by the Bank during the course of supervision missions. Dis-
bursements for consultants' services, training, equipment for research and
extension, packhouses and cold storages, and tractor-trailers would be made
after receipt of standard documentation.
H. Environmental Effect
3.22      The project would not have adverse effects on the environment and
on public health. The plastic covers on the greenhouses, which last for
about one year, would be burnt completely at the end of their useful lives
under strict Government guidance. Although plant protection chemicals would
be used, no adverse effects are expected. The extension agents, in cooper-
ation with research centers and institutes, would, however, continue to make
observations for any possible detrimental effects. The project area is free
of malaria and the existing or proposed irrigation works would not promote
mosquito breeding or spread of malaria.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
The Borrower
4.01      As in all previous agricultural projects, the borrower of the pro-
posed Bank loan would be The Hellenic State. US$2.5 million of the loan would
be used by the Ministry of Agriculture for the research and extension compo-
nent, and US$27.2 million would be on-lent to ABG for all other components;
the balance US$0.3 million would be for the marketing consultant services
component which would be provided to ABG by Government as a grant. The
foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government. ABG would on-lend
IBRD funds to beneficiaries of investment in greenhouses (US$23.4 million),
packhouses and cold storages (US$1.7 million), and tractor-trailers (US$2.1
million). This would be the first Bank financed agricultural project in
Greece with a credit component to be implemented by ABG.
The Sub-Borrowers
4.02      Sub-borrowers for the greenhouses would be mainly smallholders, who
would own and operate such facilities. To spread project benefits over as
many farmers as possible, each farm family would be eligible to borrow funds
for no more than three str, which is the maximum area that can be handled by
a family of four without hired labor. However, this limit may be exceeded



- 28 -
for up to 20 percent of the total area under greenhouses to allow more
borrowing by progressive and innovative farmers. Assurances were obtained to
this effect.
4.03      The sub-borrowers for the packhouses and cold storages would include
private exporters, cooperatives, producer groups, and the marketing companies
to be established under the project.
4.04      The tractor-trailers would be owned by private trucking companies
which are experienced in the trucking business and in transport of horticultural
produce.  The trucks can also be utilized for transporting imports on their
return trip from abroad, and for hauling other commodities to various domestic
and export markets when they are not in demand for transporting project com-
modities. Many of the 180 internationally operating trucking companies would
be eligible to apply for loans under the project. Assurances were obtained
that the beneficiaries of investments in tractor-trailers would be companies
whose main activities include exports of fresh horticultural produce from
Crete and Peloponnessus.
Implementing Agencies
4.05      The Ministry of Agriculture, through its Department of Agricultural
Production, would be responsible for implementing the agricultural research
and extension component (paras. 4.11-4.14). Primary responsibility for imple-
menting the credit program under the project would be assigned to ABG, which
is capable of effectively performing this role. A Project Unit, headed by a
manager at the level of Deputy Department Director assisted by 4 to 5 support-
ing staff and a committee of section heads from relevant departments, has been
set up to supervise implementation of the credit and marketing components and
for administering a study on agricultural interest rates and subsidies (para.
4.21). Specifically, the Project Unit would: (a) prepare reports and pro-
posals for a monitoring and evaluation system, (b) maintain project accounts,
(c) prepare procurement documents for the new packhouses and cold storages,
(d) review and approve sub-loan applications, (e) prepare withdrawal applica-
tions from the loan account for the credit component of the project, and (f)
act as liason between Government and ABG's relevant departments and agencies
involved in project implementation. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that the Unit would be kept adequately staffed and expanded as required
over the period of project implementation.
4.06      A Project Steering Committee, which was established to coordinate
preparation of the project, would continue to function under overall respon-
sibility of ABG. The Committee would coordinate activities among different
agencies, review project progress, and provide broad policy directions.
Members would include representatives from ABG, the Ministries of Agriculture
and Coordination, and the Panhellenic Federation of Union of Cooperatives.
The Committee would meet as required but at least once every six months to
review project activities, and a copy of the minutes of each meeting would be
sent to the Bank for review. Assurances were obtained to this effect.



- 29 -
B. Lending Terms and Procedures
4.07      General.  Government would on-lend to ABG the proceeds of the IBRD
loan for the credit component on the same terms and conditions as the Bank
loan at 7.5% interest rate for 15 years including three years of grace. The
blend cost to ABG of IBRD funds on-lent at the above interest rate and local
funds at a cost of about 4% would amount to about 5.6%; administrative costs
on lending operations amount to about 2.6%, resulting in total cost of about
8.2%. With the immediate increase in agricultural interest rates (para. 2.07),
ABG's interest income from subloans under the project would average around
7.1% 1/ which would not give it a sufficient spread to fully cover administra-
tive and financial costs associated with the project. Government has agreed
to pay ABG an annual compensation fee to cover this deficit until such time as
agricultural interest rates are raised to levels that would enable ABG to
cover all its costs from interest income. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at the time of negotiations and would be reflected in the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to IBRD
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
4.08      Lending Rates and Terms.  The minimum interest rates which would
be charged to sub-borrowers and the maximum grace and repayment periods on
subloans would be as follows:
Minimum        Maximum         Maximum
Interest        Grace         Repayment
Investment Type                     Rate         Period           Period
--- %----      ------- years-----------
Greenhouses                               7.0             2               10
Packhouses & Cold Storages
- cooperatives                          6.5             2              12
- private                               9.5             2              12
Tractor Trailers                         10.5             0                5
The repayment periods are based on cash flow analyses of representative bene-
ficiaries of investments in each component; minimum investor participation
has been discussed in para. 3.13 above. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the lending rates and terms for sub-borrowers would be as above.
4.09      Appraisal of Subprojects.  ABG would apply its normal criteria
(para. 2.14) of eligibility and creditworthiness in approving prospective
1/   Assuming that two-thirds of sub-loans for greenhouses are channeled
through cooperatives, which retain 1/2% of the on-lending rate as
commission.



- 30 -
sub-borrowers. Lending decisions under the project would be supported by ade-
quate appraisals to ensure that subprojects are technically, financially and
economically viable; that inputs, markets and processing facilities for their
production are available; and that subprojects would generate sufficient cash
flow to cover debt service and other expenses. In addition, ABG plans to
train its key staff in the project areas in appraisal criteria and techniques
to remedy present weaknesses in appraisal procedures (para. 2.14), and to
subsequently extend their use to loan appraisals in all branches. ABG has
requested Bank assistance in this training effort through participation in
relevant EDI courses of 2-3 of its staff, who could then conduct seminars
on project appraisals for larger groups in Athens, assisted by occasional
participation of Bank staff members in the course of project supervision.
The Project Unit, in consultation with the Bank, would develop and implement
the training program.
4.10      Responsibility for appraisal and approval of subloan applications
would continue to rest with ABG's branch offices in the project areas. How-
ever, in order to ensure that appropriate techniques are being practiced, the
following procedures would be applied:
(a) the Project Unit would review the appraisal of and approve
the first two loan applications presented in each of ABG's
relevant branch offices every month for the first 12 months
and every 6 months thereafter; all sub-projects involving
new packhouses and cold storages; and the first five sub-
loan applications for tractor-trailers; and
(b) IBRD would review the appraisal of and approve the first
loan application for greenhouses within the jurisdiction
of each branch in the project areas; all subprojects
involving new packhouses and cold storages; and the first
five applications for tractor trailers.
This would result in IBRD reviewing about 20 subprojects amounting to about
US$6.2 million or about 20% of the proposed loan. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the above procedures would be followed.
C. Research and Extension
4.11      The Director General of Agricultural Production of the Ministry of
Agriculture would be responsible for coordinating project activities conducted
by the Departments of Research and Extension. The research consultants would
be directly responsible to the Director of Research, and the extension consul-
tants to the Director of Extension. Since there would be two consultants in
research and two in extension, the Ministry of Agriculture would designate one
each in the two fields as the senior person. This senior person would play
the lead role in his respective field in the project program. The selection
would be based on the relative difference in training, experience and level of



- 31 -
responsibility previously held by the consultants. Each of the four consul-
tants would be assigned a qualified counterpart to assist in planning and in
implementing project activities. The consultants would be employed no later
than June 30, 1979 on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
4.12      Within six months of reaching their posts, the research consultants
would develop an adaptive research program with short and long range goals to
resolve problems associated with the production of out-of-season vegetables in
greenhouses. The research program would deal with such presently identified
problems as vegetable varieties, heat, greenhouse structures and coverings,
fertilization and other cultural practices as well as disease and insect con-
trol. The program would be submitted to the Director of Research for his
approval and copied to the Bank for its review and comments before implementa-
tion. Assurances were obtained that the Ministry of Agriculture would provide
adequate facilities for the research institutes and centers which would
receive support under the project and that it would also keep them properly
staffed and operating. Moreover, soil and leaf samples would be analyzed
for all farmers sending in properly prepared samples and results of the
analysis would be made readily available to the farmers and the Extension
Service.
4.13      The extension consultants also would, within six months of reaching
their post, develop an effective extension program with short- and long-term
objectives to increase the productivity of farmers growing vegetables in green-
houses. While the initial efforts of the program would be concentrated on
out-of-season vegetable production, the extension program would be broad
enough to include all fields of agriculture such as pomology, viticulture,
floriculture and livestock. The program would be pragmatic and would be
designed to teach farmers to perform improved practices on their own. The
extension program would be submitted to the Director of Extension for his
approval and copied to the Bank for its review and comments. Assurances were
secured that all information and data on horticultural crops research and
information on the past and present status of the Extension Service and its
program would be made available to the consultants. Furthermore, the con-
sultants would be provided with transportation, suitable office facilities
as well as secretarial help to enable them to carry out their duties expe-
ditiously.
4.14      Four of the research trainees would be for employment in Crete and
the other four for Peloponnesus. Approximately ten of the trainees in exten-
sion would work in Crete and the rest in Peloponnesus after completion of
their studies. The three administrative personnel who would be trained under
the project would be for positions at headquarters, Crete and Peloponnesus.
The Ministry of Agriculture, assisted by consultants, would prepare a compre-
hensive training program, including the names of the first selected trainees,
fields of study and institutions chosen for their training. Assurances were
secured that the comprehensive program for training abroad would be developed
no later than six months after the consultants have been employed, and that
the program and selection of trainees would be forwarded to the Bank for its
comments. Any subsequent changes would be subject to review by the Bank.



- 32 -
D. Marketing Organization
4.15      Greece has acquired substantial experience in exporting horticul-
tural products and has succeeded in enlarging its share of fresh peaches and
grape markets in Western Europe against established competitors from Southern
France and Italy. While export marketing of most fruits from northern Greece
has been quite successful, inefficiencies are particularly apparent in vege-
table marketing from southern Greece where a large number of exporters operate
without the benefits of assured sources of supply, systematic distribution,
flexibility to changing market opportunities, and recognized brands (paras.
1.21-1.24). It is in this area that organizational improvements in the mar-
keting system are most urgently needed. To improve this situation, the proj-
ect would support Government's efforts to evolve large marketing companies
which are able to control the quantity and quality of produce they sell. With-
out this control, there can be no meaningful planning or ability to provide a
high degree of service to customers, because the essence of successful produce
marketing is to provide customers--whether they be supermarkets, primary whole-
salers, or processors--with reliable and timely supply of quality products,
which would help to raise prices received. Attainment of this primary objec-
tive is also linked with a level of operations which permits adequate physical
facilities (such as packhouses) and the ability to support adequate sales
representation instead of relying solely on foreign brokers. Furthermore, a
degree of coordination between exporters is desirable in order to reduce
needless competition, and to achieve economies of scale in transportation.
4.16      Government's original plan was to build the marketing companies
around the cooperatives, but sponsorship has now been extended to include
others as well. A major weakness of the traditional cooperatives is lack of
commitment of members, which is linked to lack of commercial expertise of most
cooperative managers and to shortcomings in the charters of cooperatives which,
inter alia, do not allow pay for managers. Achieving control over quantity
and quality of produce requires grower commitment to the marketing companies.
The four companies expected to be established under the project would be owned
by cooperatives, individual growers, producer groups, private exporters, and
ABG; the latter holding a minority share. They would be run on a commer-
cial basis, buying and selling on their own account, and would have access to
credit from ABG. Each company is expected to have three departments: sales
(with emphasis on export); finance; and production (including all activities
necessary for securing reliable supply, packhouse operations and transport
functions). The key department would be sales, which would plan and exploit
new markets as well as serving existing markets. The board of directors,
elected by the shareholders, would exercise ultimate authority over the chief
executive (president) and formulate the companies' overall policies and proce-
dures. The chief executive would appoint the staff, the principal members of
which would be sales and production managers and financial officer. He is
likely to be a Greek national (preferably from the local area) with wide
management experience and personal qualities necessary for obtaining consensus
from different groups of people involved.



- 33 -
4.17      The proposed companies could eventually form a central service
office for coordinating exports and transportation, conducting market research
and disseminating information, and undertaking other functions of joint
concern such as training of personnel. The office would, apart from its own
staff, also rely on the existing information system based on agricultural and
commercial attaches in main market centers abroad. In line with the principle
of building these companies from the "bottom up", the service office would
have no directive functions, and may be housed with one of the four companies.
It is also possible that Nea Agrex would perform some of these functions.
4.18      In addition to project output, it is anticipated that the companies
would handle an increasing percentage of existing exports of their grower-
members. They would ship their produce by independently owned trucking com-
panies or other alternative transport modes, and would negotiate better rates
than those obtained by small exporters by pooling and coordinating shipments.
The companies would have priority to borrow funds for construction of pack-
houses and cold storages under the project. Though the major impact of the
companies would be in the export trade, they are also expected to market their
members' produce domestically.
4.19      ABG would take the initiative in promoting establishment of the com-
panies, and the project would provide consultants in organization and marketing
for a total of about four man-years to help in establishing and in initially
operating the companies. Within six months of his appointment, the organiza-
tion advisor would prepare detailed organizational and implementation plans
for the companies, taking into account organization structure of the companies
as broadly outlined above. The advisor would, with guidance from ABG, prepare
a list of sponsors who have signed a letter of intent to buy equity in the
proposed companies; draft a company charter; make recommendations on business
plans including targets and timetables for export volume by product, market,
and season; and recommend amount of paid-in capital. He would be assisted by
the marketing advisor, who would have a detailed knowledge of export markets.
The implementation plan would pay particular attention to produce quality
control, grading and standardization, establishment of brand names, reliability
of regular and timely supply of produce, and owners' commitments to the compa-
nies. As in other countries, the formation of such companies would be brought
about by convincing potential members of the increased profit potential of
such an organization. The detailed plans, including the charters and list of
sponsors, would be submitted to ABG for approval and copied to the Bank for
review and agreement before implementation. Assurances were obtained that ABG
would (a) appoint the consultants no later than December 31, 1978, and provide
them with adequate office facilities and support services to enable them to
carry out their duties, (b) submit the detailed implementation plans for the
Bank's review and agreement no later than June 30, 1979, and (c) consult with
the Bank at regular intervals on the progress of establishment and operation
of the companies.
4.20      About four locations in Crete and Peloponnesus, corresponding to
the main areas under greenhouse cultivation of vegetables, have been identi-



- 34 -
fied for establishing the proposed marketing companies. They are Eastern
Crete, Skala, Kalamata and Pirgos (Maps IBRD 13316 and 13317). Because of
the diverse conditions in each of the above locations, with respect to present
marketing organization, implementation plans for the proposed companies would
be tailored to the specific conditions in each of these locations. In the
long run, the companies are expected to merge and thus achieve the coordination
required to become a powerful organization in the EEC market.
E. Study on Agricultural Interest Rates and Subsidies
4.21      As stated above (para. 1.11) Government has initiated studies on
various aspects of its complex agricultural taxation and subsidy policy.
However, many of the studies are limited in scope and are implemented by
different Government agencies with little or no systematic coordination of
efforts. Recently, ABG has commissioned a broad study of agricultural
interest rates and subsidies with the assistance of the Bank, under the
overall responsibility of its research department, working in collaboration
with other concerned Government agencies and research institutes. The terms
of reference for the study have been reviewed by the Bank. The study will be
completed by December 31, 1979, and its results are expected to be used by
Government for its EEC entry negotiations and in the formulation of its
interest rate and subsidy policies. The Bank would be consulted on progress
of the study, and all reports would be made available for the Bank's review
and comments. Assurances were obtained to this effect.
F. Accounts and Audits
4.22      ABG and the Ministry of Agriculture would keep separate accounts for
project expenditures including those related to goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan. ABG's accounts would be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. These audited accounts, after
being properly certified, would be submitted to IBRD in a form satisfactory to
the latter, within six months of the close of each fiscal year. Assurances
were obtained to this effect.
G. Progress Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.23      ABG would ensure that adequate technical and financial supervision
of ongoing subprojects is carried out. Lending results would be monitored by
the Project Unit, which would arrange for collection of financial and statis-
tical information on crop yields, production, farm income, and other para-
meters, in a form comparable with original plans and projections. The
detailed information would be retained by the Project Unit and would be
made available for inspection by Bank missions. Summaries and analysis
of the information, prepared in accordance with mutually agreed guidelines,



- 35 -
would be submitted to the Bank annually. ABG would also prepare and submit
to IBRD quarterly reports summarizing progress in its lending under the
project, construction of physical facilities under various project components
which would be implemented by it, procurement of equipment and materials,
and data on project expenditures. The data would provide an early warning of
project implementation problems and act as a basis for suggesting remedies as
necessary. The Project Unit would also be responsible for evaluating the
impact of the project (including lending program and marketing organizations)
in attaining project objectives, the results of which could then be fed back
into ABG's own lending policies. ABG would present a proposal for such a
monitoring and evaluation system for approval by the Bank within nine months
of effectiveness of the IBRD loan, and thereafter implement it on an agreed
basis. ABG would also prepare a project completion report on the components
to be implemented by it.
4.24      The Ministry of Agriculture would be responsible for monitoring and
evaluating the research and extension component, and for preparing a comple-
tion report on this component. Quarterly reports would include data on pro-
curement and expenditures, and progress report covering activities conducted
during the past three months with plans regarding the program for the next
quarter. Annual reports would summarize events that took place over the past
year and the program for the ensuing year. Details of the format in which the
above information would be furnished to the Bank were discussed during nego-
tiations.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production
5.01      Of the total project area of 9,000 str (2,000 str establishment of
new and 7,000 str replacement of old greenhouses), about 78% is presently
used to grow various types of vegetables under greenhouses, 17% pastures, 4%
cereals, and the remaining 1% cotton; all of the area is irrigated. Without
the project, cropping pattern and yield on the 2,000 str which are now used
for open cultivation would remain essentially unchanged. The farmers who now
own old greenhouses which are in need of replacement on 7,000 str are expected
to resort to growing vegetables in the field within the next five years. This
shift from raising vegetables in greenhouses to open field cultivation would
result in an appreciable reduction in yields. Tomato yields would drop by
over 50%, and peppers and eggplants by about 80% each. Most of the areas
grown to cucumbers would be replaced with sweet melons with yield reductions
of over 50%. Moreover, since the field-grown vegetables would not be pro-
tected from the winter weather, Government would not be able to implement its
out-of-season vegetable production program, and average prices received by
producers would be heavily reduced.
5.02      With the project, there would be a change in cropping pattern on the
2,000 str presently under pasture, wheat, maize and cotton. These crops would



- 36 -
be replaced with a more intensive system of cultivation, using new and improved
greenhouses for production of cucumbers, tomatoes, eggplants and peppers for
the export market. On the 7,000 str occupied by old and dilapidated green-
houses, the cropping pattern would remain about the same as at present. Crop
yields would increase and quality of produce would improve because of intro-
duction of better varieties of seeds. At full development, yields of cucum-
bers are projected to increase by nearly 50% above present levels, tomatoes
by over 50%, eggplant yields are expected to double and peppers yields almost
to treble. The greenhouses would be designed to also allow cultivation of
other exportable out-of-season vegetables and flowers if justified by market
conditions.
5.03      The projected yields, which are lower than yields obtained at
research stations by about 20-40%, are considered conservative as some farmers
raising the same vegetables under standard greenhouses are now reaching these
yield levels. The yields would be achieved due to improved physical structure
of the greenhouses and application of improved technology. The improved
physical structure of the greenhouses would permit the farmers to maintain
higher crop loads, have less problems with diseases, and enhance plant growth
because of the drip irrigation system that would be provided. The better
control that the grower would have over ventilation and temperature require-
ments for ideal plant growth would also help to increase yields. Peak yields
from any given area would be attained rapidly (para. 5.19) because: (i) the
production unit per farm family is small and the turnover period is short
(seed to fruit about three months) so that farmers can readily equate diligent
effort with improved results, which would serve as an incentive for better
performance; and (ii) the crops and the technology of cultivation under green-
houses are not new to most of the farmers so that the learning period is
minimal and the rate of yield development is rapid. Present and future
cropped areas and production are summarized in the table below:
Production
Cropped Area                                 Future
Without    With                 Without    With       Incre-
Crop          Present  Project  Project   Present    Project  Project    mental
-------- Stremma --------   --------------- Tons ----------------
Cucumbers      2,870       --     3,510    48,790 /1       --    84,240 /1  84,240
Tomatoes       2,800    3,300    3,450    20,720         9,900   37,950       28,050
Eggplant         700    1,570    1,130       3,640       1,570   11,300        9,730
Peppers          630       630       910     2,200         440    8,190        7,750
Sweet Melon      --      1,500       --        --        4,500      --        (4,500)
Pasture        1,570    1,570        --      4,710       6,280      --        (6,280)
Wheat            270       270       --         108         108     --          (108)
Maize I           90        90       --          54          54     --           (54)
Cotton            70        70       --          14          21     --           (21)
Total          9,000    9,000    9,000
/1   Figures are based on long season.  Production would be half these amounts
if only the out-of-season (short) harvesting period is considered.



- 37 -
B. Markets
5.04      Part of the project output would be exported and part would be
consumed domestically; the outlook for expansion in both markets is good.
At full development in 1984, the seasonal distribution of output of project
commodities would be as follows:
Output from 2,000 str             Output from 7,000 str of
Commodity          of Additional Greenhouses            Replacement Greenhouses
Out-of    Normal                    Out-of    Normal
Season    Season    Total           Season    Season    Total
000   tons   - - - - - - - - - - - - -
___________----------  '00tn   -----~~~~~~~~
Cucumbers           7.6       7.6       15.2            34.5       34.5      69.0
Tomatoes            7.1         -        7.1            30.0         -       30.8
Eggplant            4.3         -        4.3             7.0         -        7.0
Peppers             2.5         -        2.5             5.7         -        5.7
All of the output from the 2,000 str of additional greenhouses would be
exported (except for cucumbers harvested during the normal season, which would
be consumed domestically). The 7,000 str of replacement greehouses would grow
the same vegetables in the future with the project as they are presently grow-
ing, but the total output in the future with project would be higher. At
present, some of the production from these areas is exported and some is con-
sumed domestically. The allocation of outputs between these two markets in
future with the project is assumed to remain unchanged, except for additional
output, which would be consumed internally.
5.05      Export Market.  During the last five years the value of exports of
fruits and vegetables tripled, increasing to nearly Dr 18 billion (US$490
million) in 1976; vegetables accounted for about 25% of these exports. About
80% of the fresh vegetable exports are marketed in the EEC, nearly 85% of
these during the out-of-season months of November-April. Based on value,
cucumbers are the most important fresh vegetable export, accounting for more
than 50%.
5.06      During 1970-75, Greece accounted for about 15% of annual import of
cucumbers into the EEC, about 5% of peppers, and less than 1% each of tomatoes
and eggplants; its share of total demand in the Community for these vegetables
was insignificant. In 1976, export of cucumbers amounted to about 25,000 tons
compared to only about 1,000 tons five years earlier. In contrast, export of
peppers amounted to about 10,000 tons, while that of fresh tomatoes and egg-
plants was low averaging less than 1,000 tons each. In the same year, total
EEC demand for the commodities was: cucumbers about 740,000 tons; tomatoes
5 million tons; green peppers 110,000 tons; and eggplants 60,000 tons. The
major market for Greece's exports of the above vegetables is West Germany,
which would continue to be the major outlet in the foreseeable future. Other
outlets, although insignificant, include France, U.K., Austria, Switzerland,
and Sweden.



- 38 -
5.07      EEC demand for imports of project commodities, particularly during
the out-of-season periods, is expected to continue rising in the foreseeable
future in response to rising population and income, and because production
in the Community is not expected to keep pace with the growing demand. If
the qualitites of produce are upgraded, and if the marketing organization
is improved to take advantage of demand by growing supermarket chains in
Europe, Greece would be able to increase its exports of project outputs sub-
stantially.
5.08      For cucumbers, annual exports to the EEC are projected to reach
about 36,000 tons by mid-1980, and this would account for no more than 5%
of the Community's demand for the commodity at that time. Greece is expected
to achieve this level of export by expanding its share of a growing demand in
the traditional West German market and by diversifying its market outlets
to include other countries, notably France and U.K. Other major competing
exporters of this commodity to West Germany during the out-of-season period
include Holland, Bulgaria, Canary Islands and Romania, but the share of these
countries has been declining in the past few years, partly as a result of high
costs of production. Due to severe winter temperatures in Northern and Eastern
Europe, out-of-season vegetables are grown under heated greenhouses in these
regions and the cost of production is increasing with the rising cost of fuel.
This would provide a competitive advantage to Greece, where the winter tempera-
tures are milder and the cost of supplementary heating lower, thus enabling
the country to increase its share of the export market.
5.09      As in the case of cucumbers, the prospect for expanding the export
of fresh tomatoes is favorable. Presently, annual production of this commodity
exceeds one million tons but the variety produced (Marmande Type) is unaccept-
able to consumers in the EEC because of its poor appearance and taste. The
Canary Islands and Morocco presently supply a large proportion of the imports
of out-of-season fresh tomatoes to the EEC, currently amounting to about 300,000
tons per year. However, Greece would be able to increase its share of this
market substantially if the variety is changed. Compared to Morocco, Greece
is closer to the market, and entry into the EEC would improve its competitive
advantage over the Canary Islands and other non-members of EEC. Under the
project, the variety and quality of tomatoes would be improved through
intensive research and extension efforts, and these efforts are expected to
help increase annual exports to about 10,000 tons by mid-1980. This would be
equivalent to less than 5% of projected imports into the EEC at that time.
5.10      Greece is a major producer of eggplants in Europe, ranking third
behind Italy and Spain. However, export of this commodity is insignificant
because virtually all of the production is consumed domestically. The poten-
tial for expanding exports to the EEC is favorable because the Community is
likely to continue to be a net importer of eggplants in the foreseeable
future. Current annual import demand amounts to about 40,000 tons (more than
50% of total demand), mostly from East and West Africa, and import is expected
to grow to about 50,000 tons by mid-1980. Because of its proximity to the
market, Greece has a competitive advantage over the traditional African
exporters of eggplants to the EEC, and hence the country could export project
outputs without serious problems.



- 39 -
5.11      The prospects for expanding export of peppers to the EEC is very
good. Production of peppers in the Community is low resulting in rapidly
rising imports. In 1976, imports amounted to about 100,000 tons, representing
over 80% of total demand. The main sources of imports include many African
countries and the USA. However, Greece has a competitive advantage because
of its proximity to the market. In the past, the country was unable to in-
crease its share of imports into the EEC because the peppers produced were of
poor quality. With the project, the quality of peppers would be improved
mainly by permitting natural pollination to take place and by upgrading the
cultural practices. No serious problems are foreseen in marketing project
outputs.
5.12      Domestic Market.  The demand for vegetables has been increasing and
is expected to continue to increase in the foreseeable future, although at a
slower rate than in the past. During 1960-70, per capita consumption increased
at an annual rate of 5%, but the rate of growth has declined to about 3% within
the last five years. Presently, per capita consumption is estimated at about
200 kg, which is among the highest in Europe. Of this amount, tomatoes account
for about 30%, and cucumbers, eggplants and peppers for a total of nearly 10%.
Based on growth of population and income, per capita consumption is projected
to grow at 2-3% per year in the next five years, but the composition of
vegetables is likely to change in favor of project commodities. In the past,
real prices of these commodities have been increasing faster than production,
and this indicates a shortage of supply relative to demand. The prospect for
expanding out-of-season vegetable sales is even better because demand during
this period is stronger than during the normal production season. On the
basis of studies in other parts of Europe, the income elasticity of demand for
vegetables during winter and spring is higher (sometimes exceeding unity) than
in the main summer season. With rising incomes and population, the demand
growth rate for out-of-season vegetables is likely to exceed the projected
annual average growth rate of 2-3%. An expanding tourist industry would also
add to this anticipated growth in demand.
C. Prices
5.13      There is a complex system of price control for vegetables, the
extent and nature of which varies by products and seasons, but its effective-
ness is uncertain. Prices vary depending on quality of product and on season.
Out-of-season prices of the main vegetables are about 50-100% higher than the
annual averages. In general, historical farmgate prices are in line with
prices derived by deducting marketing costs from c.i.f. prices in major export
markets. The prices which are used for financial and economic appraisal of
the project are given in Annex 1, Table T-ll. The project is not expected to
have a significant influence on world prices of the commodities because Greece
is a price-taker in the international market.



- 40 -
D. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.14      Main Benefits.  The major quantifiable benefits from the project
would be a significant increase in the project area's agricultural production
(para. 5.03). The project would raise labor productivity by promoting inten-
sive cultivation of high-value crops under greenhouses, and would help to
reduce rural-urban migration. In the past, the expansion of greenhouses in
certain localities has stimulated economic activities and promoted the growth
of towns. This trend would be supported under the project. Project output
would expand exports and substitute for imports of vegetables resulting in net
foreign exchange earnings and savings of about US$300 million, estimated over
the project life in 1978 dollars.
5.15      The research and extension programs to be developed, and the market-
ing companies to be established under the project would, apart from their
direct impact on the project, also be indirectly beneficial to the entire
agricultural sector because the institutional experiences learned under the
project could be readily applied elsewhere. The project is also expected to
improve resource mobilization and allocation in the agricultural sector by
providing support for a study on agricultural interest rates and subsidies, the
recommendations of which would be used to revise the existing complex taxation
and subsidy policy. Furthermore, the project would improve the lending opera-
tions and resource mobilization efforts of ABG by: (i) helping to increase its
equity base; (ii) raising lending rates to enable it to cover more of its
operating costs from interest income rather than relying on increasingly heavy
Government subsidy; and (iii) improving its project appraisal capability.
Such improvements would enable ABG to serve better the changing needs of the
agricultural sector. Therefore, the benefits of the project in institution-
building, although unquantifiable, would be substantial.
5.16      Beneficiaries.  The main direct project beneficiaries would include
up to 9,000 farm households, and several cooperatives and trucking companies.
About 80% of the beneficiaries have incomes above the relative poverty income
level of US$780, and the remaining 20% are in the poverty target group. The
former group includes owners of trucking companies and farmers who already
own greenhouses which would be replaced under the project. The latter group
includes smallholders who do not now own greenhouses but live in marginally
productive lands deriving their income from growing cereals and raising
livestock and from part-time employment. Presently, average per capita
incomes in the project areas range from about Dr 25,000 (US$680) in the
mountainous and semi-mountainous areas, to about Dr 73,400 (US$2,000) in the
plains, where most of the out-of-season vegetables are grown. The producers
who already own greenhouses have incomes around the higher end of the range
while those who would own greenhouses for the first time have incomes close
to the lower end of the range, many of them below the poverty level. The
project would help the former group of farmers by preventing decline in
their incomes, which would probably fall below the poverty level unless
their old greenhouses are replaced. Farmers in the latter group would be



- 41 -
given the opportunity to convert part of their lands to intensive cultivation
of vegetables under greenhouses and they would achieve substantial gains in
their per capita incomes after the project, which would more than double to
approximately Dr 55,000 (US$1,500).
E. Financial Rates of Return
5.17      The financial rates of return on typical investment models are
summarized below:
Model                                 Financial Rate of Return
Greenhouses
Cucumbers                                               40
Tomatoes (non-heated)                                   22
Tomatoes (heated)                                       32
Eggplants                                               30
Peppers (non-heated)                                    31
Peppers (heated)                                        23
Marketing Facilities
Cucumber Packing/Cold Storage                           23
Tomato Packing                                          26
Eggplant & Pepper Packing/Cold Storage                  28
The computations are based on June 1978 prices of inputs and outputs, and on
the cropping pattern and yields discussed above (para. 5.03). Sensitivity
analysis indicates that rates of return would not vary significantly with
changes in costs, but are more sensitive to changes in revenues. The rates
of return would range between 33% and 16% for greenhouses, if project revenues
are dropped by 10%; and between 18% and 13% for marketing facilities, if
gross margins are also reduced by 10%.
F. Economic Rate of Return
5.18      The economic rate of return on investments in the project is esti-
mated at about 35%. No separate rates of return have been computed for
the individual components because these are not independent of each other
as the projected benefits result from implementation of the integrated
development program as a whole.
5.19      Cost and benefit streams exclude price contingencies because these
streams have been computed in 1978 prices over project life of 15 years, and



- 42 -
relative prices of inputs and outputs are assumed to remain unchanged during
this period. The project life is based on the durability of the greenhouses,
each of which is expected to last ten years. Investments exclude taxes and
duties, and conversion factors of 0.85 for greenhouses, 0.75 for tractor-
trailers and unity for all other components have been used to convert domestic
costs into their border equivalents. Other main assumptions made in computing
the economic rate of return are as follows:
(a)  Sunk Costs.  All primary and secondary irrigation infra-
structure related to the greenhouses have already been
completed and investments in such works have been excluded
from the cost stream.
(b)  Labor Cost.  Labor is valued at the prevailing wage rate
for farm workers, which is determined by free interplay
of demand and supply. In the project areas, labor is in
short supply during the peak harvesting season, and there
is little unemployment at other times of the year.
(c)  Implementation Schedule.  Construction of greenhouses would
commence in 1978 and be completed in 1982; other project
components would also be implemented during this period.
Cumulative cropped area under greenhouses would be as
follows:
Additional         Replacement
Year      Greenhouses        Greenhouses         Total
-------------------Str-----------------
1978           300             1,100             1,400
1979           700             2,600             3,300
1980         1,200             4,100            5,300
1981         1,600             5,700             7,300
1982         2,000             7,000            9,000
(d)  Cropping Pattern and Yields.  In the future without project,
the entire 9,000 str would be used for open-field cultivation
of melons, tomatoes, pepper, cotton, wheat, maize and pasture.
Farmers do not have the financial capability to construct
greenhouses without assistance, and hence are expected to
grow the above crops under open field cultivation without the
project. Yields, particularly of vegetables, would be sub-
stantially lower than those which would be obtained in the
greenhouses. With the project, the above area would be used
to grow cucumbers, tomatoes, eggplants and peppers. Peak
yields from any given area would be obtained three years
following commencement of cultivation under greenhouses in
increments of 80%, 90% and 100%.
(e)  Prices of Outputs.  Output prices which are used for economic
analysis are discussed in para. 5.13 and shown in Annex 1,
Table T-l1.



- 43 -
(f) Annual Production Costs. These are based on actual cost of
production of the different crops in the project areas, and
prices of inputs exclude taxes and subsidies.
5.20      Risk and Sensitivity Analysis.  The risk of investment in the
project is low. Designs of the greenhouses and of other project components
are simple. The technology involved with construction, operation and mainte-
nance of greenhouses is not new in Greece, particularly in the project areas.
The demand for greenhouses is growing and the beneficiaries would have ade-
quate financial incentives to participate in the project. Farmers are used
to growing a wide variety of horticultural products, including those which
would be cultivated under the project, and they are responsive to market
incentives. The farmers would also be provided with improved research and
extension services to help them obtain the projected crop yields, which
are reasonable and attainable. Even if Greece would not join the EEC, proj-
ect commodities could still be exported to this market because production
of out-of-season vegetables in the Community is low and there are few or
no restrictions on imports of winter vegetables, particularly project com-
modities, from non-member countries.
5.21      Although the outlook for expansion of sales of project commodities
to both the export and domestic markets is good, it is possible that demand
for any one commodity could be short of projections. Should this happen,
other crops can be substituted easily. The greenhouses would be designed to
allow cultivation of other exportable out-of-season vegetables and flowers
if the market justifies a shift to other crops. Flower cultivation is a
promising alternative particularly because domestic demand is strong and
the export market, although small, is growing. There could also be a risk
from fluctuating prices for project commodities. However, the out-of-season
prices for these commodities have been increasing steadily in the past three
years, and this trend is likely to continue in the future. Nevertheless,
should prices of all commodities be reduced uniformly by 20%, the economic
rate of return on the project would still be 23%. If the above reduction
in prices is combined with a 20% increase in investment costs, the rate of
return would be reduced to 17%, which is still satisfactory.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
(a) Government would:
(i)  extend to ABG US$0.3 million of the Bank loan earmarked
for marketing consultant services as a grant (para. 4.01);
and
(ii)  pay to ABG an annual compensation fee on the portion of
sub-loans outstanding at any time so that ABG's adminis-
trative and financial costs are equal to or less than the
interest income derived from sub-loans plus the fee
(para. 4.07).



- 44 -
(b) ABG would:
(i) maintain the Project Unit adequately staffed at all times
(para. 4.05);
(ii)  ensure that the Project Steering Committee would meet
at least once every six months to review project activi-
ties (para. 4.06);
(iii) ensure that lending rates and terms for sub-borrowers of
the credit part of the project would be as outlined in
para. 4.08;
(iv)  appraise and approve sub-loan applications according to
the procedures outlined in paras. 4.02, 4.04, 4.09 and
4.10;
(v) appoint organization and marketing consultants no
later than December 31, 1978 on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank, submit detailed implementa-
tion plans for the marketing companies for the Bank's
review and agreement no later than June 30, 1979, and
consult with the Bank regularly on progress of imple-
mentation (para. 4.19);
(vi)  conduct a study on agricultural interest rates and sub-
sidies, keep the Bank informed on progress and complete
the study by December 31, 1979, and make all reports on
the study available to the Bank for review and comments
(para. 4.21);
(vii) submit to the Bank reports on project accounts, audited
and certified by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, annually within six months of the close of each
fiscal year (para. 4.22).
(c) the Ministry of Agriculture would:
(i) employ two research and two extension consultants no later
than June 30, 1979 on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank and appoint qualified and experienced counter-
parts to each (para. 4.11);
(ii)  forward to the Bank no later than December 31, 1979
copies of the research and extension programs prepared
by consultants for its review and comments, and consult
with the Bank prior to making any change thereto (paras.
4.12-4.13);
(iii) provide adequate facilities for research centers and
institutes to be reviewed by the Bank (para. 4.14); and



- 45 -
(iv) develop a training program no later than December 31,
1979, forward the program to the Bank for comments, and
consult with the Bank prior to making any changes thereto
(para. 4.14).
(d) ABG and the Ministry of Agriculture would:
(i)  procure equipment and materials for research and extension,
and new packhouses and cold storages following inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines (para. 3.16); and
(ii)  furnish to the Bank necessary data and information through
periodic reports, to measure project implementation and
performance in attaining objectives against targets
(para. 4.23).
6.02      Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Government and ABG on
the credit portions of the project would be a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed loan (para. 4.07).
6.03      Agreements having been reached on the assurances sought, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$30 million to the Government of Hellenic
State for a term of 15 years including three years of grace at an annual
interest rate of 7.5%.






ANNEX 1
Table T-1
GREECE
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
Rates of Interest Charged by ABG    /1
1.  Short-term Agricultural                                         Percent
Production Loans:
- To Individual Farmers                         7.5         +    0.5% lump sum commission
- To Cooperatives                               6.75 /2    +    0.25% supervision fee
- To Cooperative Unions                         6.5  /2    +    0.25%       "
2. Short-term Loans on
Collateral & to organizations:
- To Individual Farmers                         8.5        +    0.5% lump sum  commission
- To Cooperatives                               7.75 /2    +    0.25% supervision fee
- To Cooperative Unions                         7.5  /2    +    0.25%       "         "
- To Private Agroindustries                     9.0        +    0.5%  lump sum commission
3.  Medium- and LonW-term
Loans:
- To Individual Farmers                         6.5        +    0.5% Commission for loan appraisal
- To Cooperatives                               6.0        +    0.5%        "       "    "     "
- To Cooperative Unions                         6.0        +    0.5%        "
- To Private Agroindustries                     9.0        +    1.0%        "       "
4.  Low-Interest Rate Loans:
- For Irrigation, Productive
animals, etc.                               3.5         +    0.5% lump sum commission
- For Farmers' Housing:
- normal                                     5.0         +    0.5%
- in border areas                            2.0         +    0.5%  "    "
5. Default Interest:
- normal                                        9.5
- for private agroindustries                   12.5
/1  As of December 31, 1977.  Government has recently decided to increase these rates by 0.5%.
/2 Cooperatives charge 0.75% commission if money is on-lent to members, Cooperative Unions
charge an additional 0.5 percent. However, the interest cost to the ultimate subborrower
is the same regardless of whether or not he is a cooperative member.



VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND 8'ARETING PROJECT
Conp-aratve Inco-e Stateats of ABG
1970         1971          1972        1973          1974         1975          1976          1977         1978         1979          1980          1961          1982         1983          1984
Reveue.                         ___________________________________ _________________,______-_________-_________--_-__-_Dr_____ --------~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~
Interest 6 Cootl .eiun OD Loans      1,055         1,265         1,624        2,103         3,192         4,361        5,390         7,160         9,030        10,670       12,610        14,910        17,600       20,810        24,600
Other locone                            309           295          324          497           587           839         1,143        1,060         1,240         1,480         1,750        2,070         2,590        2,870         3,140
Gree.  Incone                       1.364        1.560         1,948        2,600         3,779         5,200        6533          8,220        10, 270       12,150       14,360        16,980        20,190       23,680        27,740
Expenses
Intere-t Paid to Bnk of Creece         181          289           468          736         1,293         1,973        2,344         3,100         3,320         3,610        4,010         4,460         5,030        5,610         6,580
Interest Paid on D.pceitt               186          226           265          350           596           800        1,004         1,550        2,320          3,300        4,560         6,110         7,930        9,920        11,890
Lena 3.5% Interest Sub.idy               -            -             -            -            -              -            (59)        (320)         (750)       (1,250)       (1,900)      (2,700)       (3,550)      (4.550)       (5,550)
Contribution 0.17. under La 128/75       -           _             _              _           _                            74           90           110           130          150           180           210          250           290
Total FL-ncial Expenee.               367          515           733        1,086         1,889         2,773         3,361        4,420         5.000         5,790        6,820         8,050         9_620       11.230       13210
Personnel Expenes.                      847          915         1,013        1,277         1,601         2,148         2,806        3,460        4,020          4,700        5,490         6,420         7,530        8,840        10,320
Other Eapen-e.                          120           99           117           155          181           175           223          230           300           350          410           480           570          660           780
Total Operational Expenses            967        1,014          ,130        1,432         1,782         2,323         3,029        3,690        4,320          5,050        5,900         6,900        8,100         9,500        11,100
Total Expenses                      1,334        1,529         1,863        2,518         3_671         5,096        6,392         8,110         9,320        10.840       12,720        14.950        17,720       20,730        24.310
e 7ooen                                30           51            85           82           100           1,04         141           110         _ 950         1,310        1,640         2,030        2 470         2.950         3,430.
J-nuary 1978



GREECE
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
Financial and Operational Indicators of ABG
Item.                                       1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1980 (projec.) 1984 (projec.)
Interest, etc. % Average Loan Portfolio                         5.31  5.19  5.34  5.54  6.77  7.61  7.62  8.75                 8.80
Gross Income % Average Funds Employed                           4.82  4.89  5.24  5.77  6.80  7.55  7.66  7.57                 7.63
Net Income % Average Funds Employed                             0.10  0.10  0.23  0.18  0.19  0.15  0.17  0.86                 0.94
% Interest Cost on Bank of Greece Borrowings                    0.91  1.23  1.66  2.12  2.94  3.65  3.54  4.38                 5.05
% Interest Cost on Deposits                                     4.11  4.36  4.33  4.96  7.09  6.91  6.37  6.41                 6.49
Financial Expenses % Average Funds Obtained                     1.30  1.61  1.97  2.41  3.40  4.03  3.94  3.60                 3.64
Operational Expenses % Average Funds Obtained                   3.42  3.18  3.04  3.18  3.21  3.37  3.55  3.11                 3.05
Operational Expenses % Average Loan Portfolio                   4.87  4.16  3.71  3.77  3.78  4.06  4.28  4.09                 3.97
Total Liabilities/Net Worth (ratio)                            10.4  11.4  12.9  15.1  17.8  20.2  23.5  10.6                  9.7
Long-term Debt/Net Worth (ratio)                                7.2   8.1   9.1  10.8  12.8  15.0  17.5   5.6                  3.9
Average Loan Portfolio % Average Funds Employed                70.1  76.5  81.8  84.2  84.9  83.1  83.0  76.0                 76.9
Deposits % Average Funds Employed                              16.0  16.3  16.5  15.7  15.1  16.8  18.5  37.5                 50.4
Liabilities to Bank of Greece % Average Funds Employed   70.6  73.7  75.8  77.1  79.1  78.5  77.6  48.3                       35.9
Net Worth % Average Funds Employed                              9.9   9.2   8.4   7.2   6.2   5.2   4.4   8.6                  9.3
o z
l.-



rREECE
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AkD ORKEIT lG PROJECT
CoplratieRalace t Sheets of ABG aR of December 31
__________    ________________                             ____________________                          _________                          ___t I  ___                      Protections__                                      _    _ -
1970         1971          197?          1973          19,,,/4        72           IT76          7977          T771          1979          1n07          1981          1982           1983          L984,
A----------------------------------- -----t--------------------  ______---__-- _Dr    Milli -------------------    ----  -- -- -- -- --   -
Shost-teen Loa.-                       9,554        11,230        13,135        16,645        23,119        28,711        37,662        45.700        51,300        65,100        71,700        88,100       100,300       122,500       139,700
Mlldium and  Iong-term  .ase          15,145        19,276        26,006        31,628        35,165        38,144        45,C01        5(0,680       61,270        69,500        85,870        98,500       117,630       L38,130       161,230
Other 21                               3,391         3,594         2,963         3,060         3,078         2,588         4,446         4,880         4,700         6,500         7,700         9,000        10,600        12,500        14,800
Total Lnnns                         28,090        33,800        42,104        51,333        61,362        69,363        87,109       101,260       117,270       141.100       165,270       195,600       285,530       273,130       315,730
C.ah and Ba.."                            444         1 400        1,180         2,172         2,654         1,939         2,225         3,440         3,/00         4,200         4,600          5,340         5,800         6,400         7,000
Stocks of Ag.i-oit,.el SDppli.s       1,167         1,24L         1,264         1.087         3,444         7,253         8,943        13,460        14,880        19,500        20,560        26,300        30,000        35,730        42,000
Eqaity In-est-eet.                        313           313           333          415           421           491           505           530           ss0           570           600            630          660            690           720
Fixed A..e.te (net)                       363           378          392           403           4t3           497           544           590           650           710            785           865           960         1,020         1,125
Othor A t...t                         3_530          1,784      7      ,         2233          2.980         1,958         4,810        7_420         8  20   0 9810              11,615        14,715        16_,(20        18,920       22_325
Total A tse.o                                     119       47       ,        5764          71,904        81,501       104,136       226,00        145.250       175.890       203. 43       2438050        281,970       335,890       388900
LiahilLtiea
felO-to Capttni                        1,591         1,902         1,901         1,901         8,91l         1,931         1,901        1,905          7,900         9,900        11,900        13,900        15,900        17,900        17,900
Mi.cellono.-- Rl.o.ve.                    249           280          340           376           470           461           521          580          1,400         2,560         4,000          5,830         8,050        10.750        13,880
In--a-n  Activity Riseeves               337           421           465           515           590           654           735          780            910         1,060         1,260         1,460          1,710        1,960         2,260
lad Debt end nthee Peovsloon             372           430         _403            536           609           668            349         831            9150        1              ,100         1,210          1.33          1,460        1_600
Total Net Wqrth                    2_859           3,032         3.179                3,3Z8    52                 3,984   _6806        4,090         11.120   7    4.520         18.260        22 400          2.9      9p 32.070   35_640
Sa-iogs Depoolti                        2,739        3,275         3,829         4,415         6,196         8,470        13,446        17,520        29,150        39,200        56,800         73,700       96,800       117,000        139,000
Sight Deporite                          1,018         1,173        1,334         1,794         2,7)65        2,340         3.523         4,270         5,420         6,000         7,770         8,300         10,500        11,600        13,800
Tine Depoaitt                             642           762           958        1,118          1,337        1,726          3,395        5,580         9,150        12,200        17,700         22,500        29,800        35,200        42,000
Restelcted Depcelta                       327          310           305           353           341            394          487           780         1_1 3p        1,150                         60           1,750 3                     3,350
Total Dep..its                       4,718         5,520         6,426         7,680         9,939        12,930        20,851        28,150        44,850        58,55C        83,650       106,150        138,850       166,350       197,850
Lanr. not yet Diebureed /2              1,112         1,800         3,234        3,223          3,169                                -             -                    -             -                    -             -             -
C-ntr.-ace.n.t foe Gnceante.. /2          741           740           809           888         5,314           -             -             -             -            -              -             -             -             -
Li.bilitle- to Deek of Gee.ce         21,824        Z5,689        31,145        39,013        48,848        59,571        73,158        87,640         81,160        93,130        90,010       102,210       102,210       122,140       138,580
Other Liabilities                       2,653        258            2.383        3,511         4_514         5316          6,221       __8_20          8,120         9,690        11,510         12,690         13AW           _           16,830
Tote1 Liabilitiea                   31,048        35,887        413997        54,315        67,784        77_817       100,230       122_610        134.13       _65.370        185.170       221_050       2549,9        30       3     53,260
Total Li.b8liti.. 6 Net Worth       33907          3            470136        3       7,643  ZIs304 81,501             104,i36       126 300        045,290       175,890       2003,43D      2 433          81.970       335,896       366,900
/1  -nclndee f.-eera' debts settled.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -1>
/2  Offset against the r-npection loan enconts fiee  1975 onvards.
l-s-aey, 1978



*              r,
GREECE
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
StuCes and Uses of Funds by ABO
__________Actual                                                                   _                   ________ --Projentions 
1970        1971          1972          1973          1974         1975          1976         1970-1976        1977       1978          1979          1980          1981          1982          1983     1984         1977-1984
Total  %                                                                                                                Ttal.   7.
Sooroes of Pond_______________________________________________________---___D   Ml_lon--------------------- __--___________________________________~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~
Soure-  of Fund                                                                                                                    - 
Increase in Paid-_n Capital    -             _             _             _             _            _             _        _                              6,000         2,000         2,000         2,000        2,000         2,000      -       . 16,000      5.6
In.resan In  -stsellanesus        29           31            60            36           44            41            60       301      0.4         09        820         1,160         1,440         1,830         2,220         2,700    3,130      13,359      4.7
cenerven
Increae In Ins.rante Attivity  39              84            44            50            75           64            81      437       0.6         45        130           150           200           200           250           250      300       1,525      0.5
learenvs
Depre..itton                      28            17           15            17            20            26           29       152      0.2         30          30           35            40            45            50            35       60         325      0.1
BPd  nibts o  Othe                37            8            43            63            73            59           80       414      0.5         91          00           90           100           100           t2Q           130      140         851      0.3
Total FPei Op-rat-on           133           190          162           166           212           190           251    1,304       1.7       215       7.060        3,435          3,7a0         4,105        4,640         5,115    3,630       32,060    11.2
It ocnae(stor     S nk)oi     3,323         3,845         5,476         7,860        9,835        10,723        13,517   54,657      72.1    14,482      (6.400)       11,970        (3,120)       12,200             0        19,930   16,440       65,422    23.0
LIab~iities ta Dash of
Greens
Increase in Deposits             S66          802           906         1,254         2,259         2,991        7,921   16;699      22.0      7,299     16,700        13,700        25,100        22,500        32,700        27,500   31,500    176,999      62.1
Increa s  (d crease) in other  (380)         (495)          225         1,128         1_003           002          905    3,188       4.2        599      1,300         1_570        1  S20         1.180         1,230         1.410    1,500      10,609      3.7
TotEd  Scarce, of Foods     JA642         9a-~ _42       2_2         10,416        l3a,09        14o706       i^,6    75,8    tg02    220 495        ii54g         ,p5           _j7  ,,S,0    40,065          8570        53.95    3,3070    285.0%0  100.
Uses of Foods
1-0r5...  (detroass) tn         (251)         956          (220)          992           482          (715)          286    1,530       2.0     1,215         340          420            400           740          460            600      600       4,775      1.7
Cash sd Beaks
Intreasse is loaosll          4,000         5,022         6,870         9,240        10,083       11,170        17,746   64,131      84.6    14,151       16,010       23,830        24,170        30,330        32,930        44,600   42,600    228,621      8082
Increase Ideorsase) In          (368)           77           20          (177)        2,357         3,809         1,690    7,408       9.0     4,517       1,420        4,620         1,060         5,740         3,700         5,730    6,270      33,057      11.6
Stiok  of  oppotes
Eqatly Onvesueots                -             -             20            82             6            70            14      192       0.2        25          20           20            30            30            30            30        30         215     0.1
Ievest,seot in Fined Assets      28            32           29            28            60            80            76      333       0.4        77          90           95           115           125           145            95       165        987      0.3
Increase (decrease) In other   233         (1,745)           50           251           321           297         2,852    2,254       3.0     2,610         700        1,690         1,805         3,100         1,305         2,900    3,405      17,515      6.1
Aests/ 2                                    -                                                                                                  __         -                                                                           
Total Uses of FPnda          3,642        4,342         6,769        10,416               1L3,309  14706       22,664   75,849    100.0    22,5         18,580 0                    zt.o0         a0            38 370 53 955            L2iP     2090    1.0 t
/1  Lees loans not yet dEsbure-d
(2  Les tantrs-ettonnte for ..arancees.
Jfamry 1978



ANNEX I
Table T-6
GREECE
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
Cost Estimate
Item                                         Dr. Million                       US$ Million               % Foreign
Local    Foreign    Total         Local    Foreign    Total    Exchange
Greenhouses
Wood Framework                               274.4      569.2       843.6         7.5       15.5       23.0          67
Connectors, Rods and Levers                  115.3        -        115.3          3.1        -          3.1           -
Plastic Cover                                107.4       11.9      119.3          2.9        0.3        3.2          10
Horizontal Wires and Nails                    18.8         -         18.8         0.5        -          0.5           -
Equipment for Drip Irrigation                144.0       36.0      180.0          3.9        1.0        4.9          20
Heating Units                                184.5      156.2       340.7         5.0        4.2        9.2          46
Land Levelling                                20.9         6.0      26.9          0.6        0.2        0.8          22
Labor                                        200.2         -        200.2         5.4        -          5.4           -
Sub-total                                  1,065.5      779.3   1,844.8          28.9       21.2       50.1          42
Research and Extension
Training             .                         -         21.6       21.6          -          0.6        0.6        100
Equipment and Materials                       13.4       32.9       46.3          0.4        0.9        1.3          71
Local Personnel                               37.4        -          37.4         1.0        -          -
Consultant Services                            7.0       29.6        36.6         0.2        0.8        1.0          81
Sub-total                                     57.8       84.1      141.9          1.6        2.3        3.9          59
Marketing Organization
Buildings                                      3.2        0.8         4.0         0.1        -          0.1          20
Equipment                                      2.6       11.0        13.6         0.1        0.3        0.4          80
Recurrent Expenditures                         5.0        5.2       10.2          0.1        0.1        0.2          50
Coordinating Agency                            2.4        0.6         3.0         0.1        -          0.1          20
Consultant Services                            3.7       11.1       14.8          0.1        0.3        0.4          75
Local Staff                                   46.8        -         46.8          1.3        -          1.3           -
Sub-total                                     63.7       28.7       92.4          1.8        0.7        2.5          31
Packhouses and Cold Storage
Land                                           2.4         -          2.4         0.1        -          0.1           -
Site Preparation                               2.4        0.6         3.0         0.1        -          0.1          20
Buildings                                     16.8         4.2       21.0         0.5        0.1        0.6          20
Packing Line                                   1.3       11.2        12.5         -          0.3        0.3          90
Cold Store                                     4.0       36.0        40.0         0.1        1.0        1.1          90
Pickup Truck                                   1.8         3.0        4.8         0.1        0.1        0.2          62
Other Equipment                                4.4         9.0       13.4         0.1        0.2        0.3          67
Modernization of Packhouses                    18.9       35.1       54.0         0.5        1.0         1.5         65
Sub-total                                     52.0       99.1      151.1          1.5        2.7        4.2          65
Tractor Trailers                                 66.8      181.6      248.4         1.8         4.9        6.7         73
Total Base Cost                              1,305.8   1,172.8   2,478.6           35.6       31.8        66.6         47
Contingencies
Physical /1                                   73.4       58.7       132.1         2.0        1.6         3.6         44
Expected Price Increases /2                  228.4      237.6       466.0         6.4        6.6       13.0          51
Sub-total                                    301.8      296.9      598.1          8.4        8.2       16.6          49
GRAND TOTAL                                  1,607.6   1,469.1   3,076.7           44.0       40.0        84.0         48
/1   At 10% for all items except for equipment, research and extension and consultant services, where no physical
contingencies have been provided.
/2   Price contingencies for equipment compounded at 7.5% annually during 1978/79 and 7% thereafter; contingencies
for civil works compounded at 9% per year during 1978/79 and 8% thereafter.
January 1978



ANNEX 1
Table T-7
GREECE
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
Item                          Estimated Cost          1978             1979              1980              1981            1982
Foreign  Total  Foreign  Total  Foreign  Total  Foreign  Total  Foreign  Total  Foreign  Total
---------------------------------------------Dr. Million------------------------------------
Greenhouses
Wood Framework                     569.2    843.6   89.9  133.2    117.0  173.4    127.1  188.4   127.1   188.4   108.1   160.2
Connectors, Rods and Levers          -       115.3    -      18.2       -      23.8       -      25.7      -      25.7      -       21.9
Plastic Cover                       11.9    119.3    1.9   18.8         2.4   24.5        2.6   26.6       2.6    26.6      2.4    22.8
Horizontal Wires and Nails           -        18.8    -        3.0      -       3.9       -       4.2      -        4.2     -         3.5
Equipment for Drip Irrigation    36.0    180.0    5.7   28.4            7.4   37.0        8.0   40.2       8.0    40.2      6.9    34.2
Heating Units                      156.2    340.7   16.3   35.5        24.4   53.2       36.9   80.4    43.7    95.4    34.9    76.2
Land Levelling                       6.0      26.9    1.0    4.5        1.4    6.1        1.2    5.4       1.2      5.4      1.2     5.5
Labor                                -       200.2    -      31.6       -      41.2       -      44.7      -       44.7     -       38.0
Sub-total                          779.3  1,844.8  114.8  273.2    152.6  363.1    175.8  415.6   182.6   430.6   153.5   362.3
Research and Extension
Training                            21.6      21.6    -       -         5.2    5.2        5.4    5.4       5.5      5.5     5.5      5.5
Equipment and Materials             32.9      46.3    1.9    2.7       31.0   43.6        -       -        -        -       -        -
Consultant Services                 29.6      36.6    4.3    5.3        8.2   10.1        8.6   10.7       6.3      7.8      2.2     2.7
Local Personnel                      -        37.4    -        -        -       9.3       -       9.3      -        9.4      -       9.4
Sub-total                           84.1    141.9    6.2    8.0        44.4   68.2       14.0   25.4    11.8    22.7         7.7    17.6
Marketing Organization
Buildings                            0.8       4.0    -       -         0.8    4.0        -       -        -        -        -       -
Equipment                           11.0      13.6    -        -       11.0   13.6        -       -        -        -        -       -
Recurrent Expenditures               5.2      10.2    -       -         1.7    3.4        1.7    3.4       1.8      3.4      -       -
Coordinating Agency                  n.r       A.A    -       -         0.2    1.0        0.2    1.0       0.2      1.0     -        -
Consultant Services                 11.1      14.8    2.8    3.7        5.5    7.4        2.8    3.7       -       -        -        -
Local Staff                          -        46.8    -                 -      15.6       -      15.6      -       15.6
Sub-total                           28.7      92.4    2.8    3.7       19.2   45.0        4.7   23.7       2.0    20.0      -        -
Packhouses and Cold Storages
Land                                 -         2.4    -        0.8      -       0.8       -       0.4      -        0.4      -       -
Site Preparation                     0.6       3.0    0.2    1.0        0.2    1.0        0.1    0.5       0.1     0.5      -        -
Buildings                            4.2      21.0    1.3    6.6        1.5    7.2        0.7    3.6       0.7      3.6      -       -
Packing Line                        11.2      12.5    2.7    3.0        3.1    3.5        2.7    3.0       2.7      3.0     -        -
Cold Store                          36.0      40.0   18.0   20.0       18.0   20.0        -       -        -        -        -       -
Pickup Truck                         3.0       4.8    1.0    1.6        1.0    1.6        0.5    0.8       0.5      0.8      -       -
Other Equipment                      9.0      13.4    2.9    4.4         3.1    4.6       1.5    2.2       1.5      2.2      -       -
Modernization of Packhouses         35.1      54.0    -        -        17.5   27.0      17.6   27.0                -        -        -
Sub-total                           99.1    151.1   26.1   37.4        44.4   65.7       23.1   37.5       5.5    10.5      -        -
Tractor Trailers                     181.6    248.4   26.2   35.9         36.0   49.3      43.6   59.6    43.3    59.2    32.5    44.4
Total Base Cost                    1,172.8  2,478.6  176.1  358.2    296.6  591.3    261.2  561.8   245.2   543.0   193.7   424.3
Contingencies
Physical /1                         58.7    132.1    9.5   21.5         11.6   26.2      14.0   31.5    13.4    29.8    10.2    23.1
Expected Price Increases /2        237.6    466.0    3.8    7.5        26.6   52.2       51.9  101.8    74.9   146.8    80.4   157.7
Sub-total                          296.3    598.1   13.3   29.0        38.2   78.4       65.9  133.3    88.3   176.6    90.6   180.8
GRAND TOTAL                        1,469.1  3,076.7  189.4  387.2    334.8  669.7    327.1  695.1   333.5   719.6   284.3   605.1
/1 At 10% for all items except equipment, research and extension and consultant services, where no physical contingencies
are provided.
/2 Price contingencies for equipment compounded at 7.5%, annually during 1978-79 and 7% thereafter; contingencies for civil
works compounded at 9% per year during 1978-79 and 8% thereafter.



ANNEX 1
Table T-8
GREECE
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
List of Equipment for Research
Item,                                         Quantity          Estimated Total Cost
Dr '000
Equipment for Chemical Residue Test
Gas Chromatographs                                14                  3,200
Programmed over controllers                       14                    900
Dual flame photometric detectors                  14                  2,300
Electrolytic conductivity detectors              14                   1,800
Dynode power supply                               14                    400
Dual Channel electrometer                         14                    900
Dual pen recorders                                14                  1,300
Blenders (lab. grade)                              6                    100
Rotary evaporators                                 6                    100
Balances (top loading)                             4                    100
Consumable supply (reagents, chart paper,etc.)                          600
Miscellaneous equipment (apparatus, glassware,
syringes, desks, etc.)                                              200
Sub-Total (Dr '000)                                                11,900
Sub-Total (US$'000)                                                   324
General Research Program
Four wheel transport vehicles                      2                  1,100
Greenhouses                                        1.4 ha             6,400
Weather instruments                               14                    200
Sprayers and respirators                                                 50
Ventilating units for greenhouses                                        40
Heating units for greenhouses                                           180
Seeds (vegetables)                                                       30
Fertilizers                                                             300
Plastic curtains, heat shields,etc.                                   2,100
Plant protection materials                                              300
Solar energy experimental equipment                                   2,800
Miscellaneous equipment and supplies                                  1,400
Sub-Total (Dr '000)                                                14,900
Sub-Total (US$'000)                                                   406



ANNEX 1
Table T-8(Cont'd.)
GREECE
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
List of Equipment for Research
Item                                            Quantity         Estimated Total Cost
Dr '000
Equipment for Soil and Leaf Analysis
Atomic absorption spectrometers                    6                    2,700
Digital Printers                                   2                      170
Automatic sample changers                          4                      180
Vapor generator kits                               4                      100
Strip chart recorders                              2                      240
Spectrophotometers                                 3                      250
Automatic samplers                                 4                      220
pu meters                                          3                      100
Conductivity meters                                3                      100
Soil moisture extractors (complete with
compressor, manifold and full range of
extractors)                                                             130
Centrifuge                                         4                      520
Soil Pulverizer                                    1                       70
Balances (triple beam, analytical, top
loading precision and top load bulk)             6                      350
still                                              2                      100
Ovens                                              2                      130
Furnace (muffle)                                   2                       40
Compressor (air)                                   2                       40
Extractor (pressure)                               3                      100
Vacuum pump                                        2                      100
Shakers (equipoise types)                          2                       80
Sieves                                             8                       70
Settling volume rack and cones                                             70
Hydraulic conductivity rack and tubes                                      90
Colorimeter - Spectrophotometer                    1                       30
Calculators                                        3                       70
Conductivity cells, electrodes, etc                1                       90
Plastic Ware                                       1                       70
Laboratory furniture                                                      300
Kjeldahl digestion and distillation
apparatus                                        1                      340
Pressure membrane apparatus                        2                      200
Pressure disc apparatus                            2                      200
40 points temperature recording potentiometer  2                        1,020
Thermocouple wire (3,500 m long)                   2                      420
Special photometer                                 2                      500
Miscellaneous equipment (such as glassware,
apparatus, and shelving)needed to replace
old units                                                             3,390
Postage and expendable supplies                                         2,600
Sub-Total (Dr '000)                                                 15,180
Sub-Total (US$ 000)                                                     414



ANNEX 1
Table T-9
GREECE
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
List of Equipment for Extension
Estimated
Item                                       Quantity      Total Cost
Dr. '000
Audio-Visual Equipment
Tape recorders                                         4              50
Portable cassette recorders                            4              30
Flip charts                                            8              30
Overhead projectors                                    4              50
16 mm projectors                                       4             140
35 mm cameras                                          4              70
Sub-total (Dr. '000)                                                 370
Sub-total (US$ '000)                                                  10
Audio-Visual Supplies
Exhibition material, posters, charts,
tapes, film, etc. (for five years)                               2,050
Printing and publication, fact sheets, etc.
(for five years)                                                   780
Sub-total (Dr. '000)                                               2,830
Sub-total (US$ '000)                                                  77
Other Equipment
Four wheel transport vehicles                          2           1,100
Sub-total (Dr. '000)                                               1,100
Sub-total (US$ '000)                                                  30
GRAND TOTAL
Equipment and supplies for research                               41,980
Equipment and supplies for extension                               4,300
Total (Dr. '000)                                                  46,280
Total (US$ '000)                                                   1,260
January 1978



ANNEX 1
Table T-10
GREECE
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                             Cumulative Disbursement
at End of Quarter
-------US$ Million-----
1978/79
March 31, 1979                                                    2.4
June 30, 1979                                                      5.0
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                                 6.7
December 31, 1979                                                  8.5
March 31, 1980                                                    10.0
June 30, 1980                                                     11.5
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                                13.2
December 31, 1980                                                 14.9
March 31, 1981                                                    16.5
June 30, 1981                                                     18.2
1981/82
September 30, 1981                                               19.8
December 31, 1981                                                 21.5
March 31, 1982                                                    23.1
June 30, 1982                                                     24.7
1982/83
September 30, 1982                                               26.
December 31, 1982                                                 27
March 31, 1983                                                    28
June 30, 1983                                                     3C
January 1978



ANNEX 1
Table T-11
GREECE
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
Prices Used for Financial and Economic Analyses
Prices
Out-of-Season 11           Normal Season
Commodity           Export Use      Domestic Use
--------------Dr/ton---------------------
Crops
Cucumbers          11,000          11,000             5,500
Tomatoes           14,680          11,000             5,500
Eggplants          14,680          14,680             6,240
Peppers            16,510          12,840             7,340
Sweet Melon         --              --                6,240
Pasture             --              --                  550
Wheat               --              --                4,770
Maize               --              --                3,670
Cotton (Seed)       --              --               39,270
By-product
Straw (Wheat)       --              --                  370
Corn Cobs           --              --                  370
/1 Differences in export and domestic orices of tomatoes and peppers re-
flect differences in quality. Qualities of products which are exported
are superior than those which are consumed internally because of, inter
alia, differences in variety of seeds.



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
GREECE
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
A-1 IBRD. Current Economic Position and Prospect of Greece with an Annex on
Agriculture (June 15, 1974)
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B-1 Economics and Planning Overseas, Ltd. A Transport Cost Study for the
Fresh Vegetable and Fruit Exports of Greece to Western and
North European Countries: A Proposal (Ramat-Gan, Israel,
December 1977).
B-2 IBRD. GREECE: Agricultural Sector Analysis and Markets for Horticultural
Products. (December 1977).
B-3 IBRD. Transport Aspects of Agricultural Credit Project-Greece.
(December 1977).
B-4 Stevenson & Kellogg, Ltd. GREECE: A Study on the Production and Marketing
of Horticultural Products and the Preparation of an Integrated
Fruit and Vegetable Marketing Project. (Toronto, July 1977).
10 Volumes.
C. Selected Working Tables
C-1 Through C-li: Agricultural Bank of Greece
C-i Organizational Structure
C-2 Total Outstanding Bank Credit (as of December 31, 1976)
C-3 Average Annual Funds Employed (1970-84)
C-5 Loan Disbursements by Year (1972-76)
C-6 Loan Approval Authority
C-7 Loan Guarantees Required by the Agricultural Bank
C-8  Collection of Loans as of December 31, 1976
C-9 Analysis of Loans Outstanding as of December 31, 1976
C-10 Loan Collections by Year, 1972-76
C-il Repayment Cycle of Loans Due for Payment (1972076)



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
C-12 Through C-21: Agro-Technical and Economic Data
C-12  Regional Distribution of Cropped Land to be Occupied by Greenhouses
C-13  Cropped Area and Output on Project Land
C-14  Cumulative Cropped Area Under Greenhouses
C-15  Yield Assumptions
C-16  Quantity and Unit Cost of Constructing One Stremma of Heated Greenhouse
C-17  Quantity and Unit Cost of Constructing One Stremma of Non-heated Greenhouse
C-18 & 19 Heat Requirements in Crete and Pelaponnesus
C-20       Details on Technical Assistance and Training Component of Project
C-21 & 22  Annual Cost of Production of Crops
C-23       Schedule of Production under plastic covers
C-24 Through C-33: Agro-Industries and Financial Data
C-24  Field Notes Based on Interviews about Marketing
C-25  Details on Packhouses and Cold storages, and on Marketing Organization
C-26  Projected Income and Cash Flow Statement for Eggplant and Pepper Packing
and Cold Storage
c-27  Projected Income and Cash Flow Statement for Cucumber Packing and Cold
Storage
C-28  Projected Income and Cash Flow Statement for Tomato Pack Plant
c-29  Projected Income and Cash Flow Statement for Refrigerated Tractor-Trailer
c-30  Projected Income and Cash Flow Statement for Cucumber Greenhouse
C-31  Projected Income and Cash Flow Statement for Non-heated Tomato Greenhouse
c-32  Projected Income and Cash Flow Statement for Heated Tomato Greenhouse
c-33  Projected Income and Cash Flow Statement for Eggplant Greenhouse
c-34  Projected Income and Cash Flow Statement for Non-heated Pepper Greenhouse
C-35  Projected Income and Cash Flow Statement for Heated Pepper Greenhouse.
C-36  Economic Cost and Benefit Streams With and Without the Project.
Chart - World Bank 18644: Maximum and Minimum monthly Temperatures - Crete
and Peloponnesus.



IBRD 13315R
22'                                                          27'                                          tA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AY 1978
30'  21'          32'                                  ~~~~B UL GA R IA
)     YUGOSLAVIA
thi                         ~~T U R K EY
0~~~~~~KY                                       Ca) 
Ed~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lo5C
-401~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1C    001                                                                                     0 
ARISSA ~ ~ ~     ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        --
0 .     00-rloI
T,i k,- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ,CCSOI
AEGiEAN W                                                         .0: ~~
370                                                                                                                                                                                               370~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N      
GREECE
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND
MARKETING PROJECT                                        ___
350 .    PRT
MAIN ROAD$                                                                                                                    ~   5 NI
----  RAILWAYS      -~CO'000
*    MAJOR TOWNS                                                          --IALOC00 
-   NTENNATIONAL SOU~NPAIAIES                                                                                                                                                              VW-000C0000C0






00   00 ;    01   01   0 
a,lovv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JI.oI
L61~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0'                                                     0      0      0 
!sn,o>l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
dew  C07 SONS~~~~~~~~~~bNC $W]C/PNNCN           U0119SO
JO 019    J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N~~~~~~~ VC~~~~~~~~~1
OAq   ~~~~~~~~~dN/Adeq  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6N  zip~~~~uo w,4
501502~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D> 090U0J
~N19JVN1V  peFQJd 6uI4DjaOiWa pt stUodO uq:4flOd o
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~      
9[S~~~~~~~~~L G ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    stlz9sQ"IJ



I



IBRD 13317
Ukris                                                                       \ >                                       JAKJARY 1978
7 -~~~~~~~~~o
WXf --hE -W 'Ut < 2 o   p   o                                  -n  e4  \   n u    . s 
PIRGOS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RO
NOp I 'O.
?   U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L'
Mi#nok*l ireodfi 7F, l ,otroS i i- -sis_ f N : ? D D F h   i                                       k l
K   y *  *        0r  'Ossr*
L-1A;;K   S   ?   r   7'   ;zS   _   '   (;   '   i;   A   ,   ;  s  ;  i  /  \<  r  z  i  S  [  -  -  -
' R
1 sS 
~M t8   rg             r;*  
#r                                                        2 :  1    i_         
8489:> :-;U:.;-8      -.'Su       
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ D .                                                                 masic;i,  
L',i'FJi'g'm'  v/                                                           o_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
^r$S *Ait0       0(AnrViluPe        opo         eS                         K<                 7'OS 
* j:;S  t 
tg                   *''



