Dkocument of
FIIL  0 p y            The World Bank
FOR OFmICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2322-GR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE HELLENIC STATE
FOR A
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
May 15, 1978
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                    -                Drachma
The Greek Drachma is now defined in terms of a basket of
currencies including the US dollar and those of its other major
trading partners, and is floating. For this report, the following
currency equivalents were used:
Dr. 1                                             US$0.03
US$ 1                                             Dr. 36.7
Dr. 1,000                                         US$27.25
Dr. 1,000,000                                     US$27,250
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ABG                              Agricultural Bank of Greece
BG                               Bank of Greece
EEC                              European Economic Community



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GREECE
VEGETABLES PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           The Hellenic State
Beneficiary:        Agricultural Bank of Greece (ABG)
Amount:             US$30 million
Terms:              15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at
7.5 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:    Governmient would on-lend to ABG, $27.2 million of the
proceeds of the Bank loan, for the credit component on
the same terms. Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project
Description:       The project supports production and marketing, primarily
abroad, of about 140,000 tons of off-season vegetables -
mainly cucumbers, tomatoes, eggplant and peppers in Crete
and the Peloponnesus. Components include:
(a) construction and equipping of new greenhouses on
about 200 ha and replacement greenhouses on about
700 ha;
(b) construction of six new packhouses with cooling
iacilities with capacities from 25 to 40 tons/
day and the improvement of at least six existing
packhouse/cold storage facilities;
(c) provision of about 50 refrigerated 20 ton tractor-
trailers;
(d)  provision of equipment, about 50 man-years of train-
ing, about 14 man-years of consultant services and
construction and equipping of research greenhouses
on about 1.4 ha to upgrade existing research centers
and institutes and the extension services;
(e) provision of about 4 man-years of consultant ser-
vices to help promote about four new vegetable
marketing companies.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



The project would substantially increase vegetable pro-
duction and labor productivity in the project area. Esti-
mated net foreign exchange earnings and savings of $300
million would be realized over the project life of 15
years. There are also institution building benefits
resulting from the demonstration effects of this innova-
tive project. About 20 percent of the project benefits
would go to farmers below the relative poverty level, and
would help to double their per capita income. Risks are
low as the designs are simple, crops familiar to farmers,
and financial incentives adequate.
Estimated Cost:                                                         % of
US$ Million         Project
Local Foreign Total Base Cost
Credit Component:
Greenhouses                            28.9    21.2    50.1   74.3
Packhouses/Cold Storages                 1.5     2.7     4.2    6.2
Tractor Trailers                         1.8     4.9     6.7    9.9
Other Components:
Research and Extension                   1.6     2.3     3.9    5.8
Marketing Organization                   1.8     0.7     2.5    3.8
Base Cost                                 35.6    31.8    67.4  100.0
Physical Contingencies                     2.0     1.6      3.6    5.3
Price Contingencies                        6.4     6.6    13.0   19.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST /a                  44.0    40.0    84.0
Financing Plan:/a, /b                              US$ Million            %
IBRD /a                                           30.0             35.7 /a
ABG /b                                            33.9             40.4
Beneficiaries                                     18.3             21.8
Government                                         1.8              2.1
TOTAL                                           84.0            100.0
/a   Cost estimates include $11.7 million of taxes and duties.  The
Bank's share of total cost net of taxes and duties is 41.5 percent.
/b   Government is exploring possible cofinancing of about $10 million
for ABG from commercial banks.



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:                                           US$ Million
FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83
Annual                                  7.4      4.1     6.7      6.5     5.3
Cumulative                              7.4    11.5    18.2    24.7    30.0
Rate of Return:      35 percent
Appraisal Report:   "Vegetable Production and Marketing Project, Greece"
(No. 1940-GR), dated May 5, 1978.






INTERNATIONAL ]3ANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE HELLENIC STATE
FOR A VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to The Hellenic State for the equivalent of $30 million, to finance the
foreign exchange cost of a project for production and marketing of vegetables.
The loan would have a term of 15 years including 3 years of grace, with
interest at 7.5 percent per annum. The equivalent of $27.2 million would be
relent to the Agricultural Bank of Greece for 15 years, including 3 years of
grace, with interest at 7.5 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum - Greece" dated
February 8, 1978 was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 21,
1978 (1755a-GR). It was based on the findings of an economic mission which
visited Greece in mid-1977. Its conclusions are reflected herein. Country
data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Recent Developments
3.        The Government of Premier Karamanlis, brought to power in June 1975
after the approval of a new constitution reestablishing a parliamentary system
with a strong presidency, was re-elected in the November 1977 elections, but
with a reduced majority. The last Government was initially concerned with the
reestablishment of democracy and then with the restoration and broadening of
international economic relations, especially with the European Economic Com-
munity (EEC). It took measures to revive economic activity, reduce inflation,
and correct a growing balance of payments deficit. Informal negotiations with
the EEC for accession to full membership are ongoing.  It is hoped that with
the initiation of formal negotiations in the near future, accession into the
EEC, including ratification of the membership agreement by all parliaments of
EEC member countries, might be achieved by around 1981.
4.        During the late 1960's, the economy enjoyed rapid GDP growth,
averaging 7.5 percent per year in real terms, and relatively stable prices.
However, by 1972, as the economy reached full employment, supply constraints
began to develop and domestic prices came under increasing inflationary
pressure. This trend was reinforced by the termination of price controls in
1973, increases in import prices (particularly petroleum after October 1973),
higher agricultural support prices and increased Government expenditures.
Consequently, consumer prices, which had increased by less than 3 percent per
annum on average during 1968-72, rose 16 percent in 1973 and 27 percent in
1974. The restrictive policies that the Government adopted to combat infla-
tion, together with the impact of the 1974 Cyprus crisis and resulting uncer-
tainties in Greece, severely affected economic growth. In 1974, there was a
decline of 1.8 percent in the GDP accompanied by strong inflationary pressures.



-2-
5.        The Government responded with policies aimed at stabilizing the
economy, by laying the basis for growth while controlling inflation and con-
taining the balance of payments deficit. The traditional policy of a low-key
public sector was modified, and public sector investments were given a key
role in stimulating the economy through expansionary monetary and credit
policies. The economy responded to these changes and recovery began in the
early months of 1975. GDP in constant prices rose by 4.5 percent in 1975 and
5.4 percent in 1976. The 1976 growth was achieved despite weak performance in
agriculture, where output declined by 1.5 percent mainly due to unfavorable
climatic conditions. Industry was the main source of growth, with an increase
in output of 8.8 percent in 1975 and 8.4 percent in 1976. Services were also
important, with growth of 6 percent in 1976.
6.        On the demand side, the main domestic expansionary forces in 1975
and 1976 were the increases in public expenditure, private consumption, and
investment in residential construction. Other private investment was slug-
gish:  manufacturing investment declined and total investment has not yet
regained the 1973 level of Dr. 100 billion. Growth in 1976 was accompanied
by a lower rate of inflation, 11.7 percent as against 15.7 percent in 1975.
Inflationary pressures, however, persisted due to the large inflow of foreign
exchange desposits and the large consolidated public sector deficit, represent-
ing 6.7 percent of GNP in 1976, as against 5.7 percent in 1975. The deficit
was met largely through borrowings from the Central Bank, and was caused by
substantial Central Government investments, relatively heavy defense expendi-
tures (5.3 percent of GNP in 1976), large civil service salary increases and
continuing price subsidies. The Government, in 1977, has attempted to contain
the deficit to ensure price stability and further reduce inflation.
7.        Greece's balance of payments has shown persistent deficits over many
years, as a result of structural weaknesses in the economy and reflecting a
high degree of dependence on imports. The current account deficit in 1976 was
$1.1 billion, about the same as in 1975. The deficit was largely financed by
a considerable inflow of private capital, mainly in the form of (a) foreign
exchange deposits made by Greek seamen and emigrant workers amounting to $545
million; and (b) $360 million in real estate investments. The combined inflow
from these two sources, which resulted from special incentive schemes that the
Government announced in 1976, financed more than 80 percent of the current
account deficit in 1976, against about 47 percent in 1975. As a result, the
need for public external borrowing was substantially lower in 1976, and
amounted to only $183 million in gross terms, as compared to $542 million in
1975. Indeed the 1976 borrowings were undertaken to amortize previous obliga-
tions secured on hard terms and relatively short maturities to which Greece
had to resort to finance its development activities in view of the minimal
long-term assistance it has been receiving in the last 5 years on conces-
sionary terms. Foreign exchange reserves stood at $905 million at end-1976,
and were equal to about two months of imports.
8.        The preliminary results in 1977 indicate that the Government's
triple objectives of maintaining steady growth, limited inflation and no
significant deterioration in the balance of payments, will be achieved.
GDP growth is expected to be somewhat over 4 percent, inflation about 12
percent, and the current account deficit about $1.25 billion.



-3-
Economic Structure and Development Issues
9.        The modest, but sustained growth since 1975, after a drop in GDP in
1974 has brought significant improvements in the economy and helped to raise
per capita income levels. Greece, however, faces several structural problems,
similar in many ways to thosie facing lower-income developing countries. Agri-
culture now accounts for 32 percent of exports, 34 percent of employment and
18 percent of GDP; but growth in the sector continues to be hampered by small
and fragmented farm holdings, insufficient irrigation, and lack of market
facilities. Industry, including construction, has been a dynamic sector, with
an average annual growth of nearly 10 percent in real terms since 1960; its
share in GDP increased from nearly 26 percent in 1965 to 31 percent in 1976.
However, despite rising productivity, industrial growth is still restricted by
a small domestic market, limited export orientation and heavy dependence on
capital goods imports, as well as a structure dominated by small family units
with limited financial, managerial and technical know-how. The Government's
policy for industrial investment has been influenced significantly by these
constraints and by the need for better export performance and the potential
competition from European manufacturers following entry into the EEC. It is
therefore trying to encourage industries which may have a competitive edge and
are preferably based on indigenous resources. The Government is also trying
to develop basic domestic resources such as forestry and mining (especially
energy-related investments) in view of their foreign exchange earning or
saving potential. The most critical problem which continues is that, in con-
trast to the highly affluent Athens and Salonica regions, many Greek regions
have per capita incomes substantially below the national average.  The Govern-
ment is addressing itself to this difficult task of redressing such sharp
disparities in the levels of income and development between regions. However
the Greek administrative and institutional resources are weak. To initiate
and implement the structural changes, such as those needed to prepare the
economy for full membership of the EEC, described below, will be a major
challenge.
10.       A financial protocol was signed last year with the EEC totaling
about $310 million, over the next 4-1/2 years, of which about $250 will be
loans from the European Investment Bank. Over the long term, Greece stands
to gain significantly from full membership in the EEC, mainly by hastening
changes in its economy towards a more developed and efficient production
structure. In addition to the new financial protocol, a net financial inflow
of $340 million a year is expected as direct budgetary support, mostly for
agriculture and regional development. But this substantially will be forth-
coming only after EEC membership is ratified possibly by 1981. In the
interim, however, significant infrastructure investment will have to be under-
taken to conform with European standards, and there will be considerable
problems of adaptation, largely due to the structural differences between the
economy of Greece and those of the EEC. Besides, the administrative require-
ments of implementing European policies and directives, such as the Common
Agricultural Policy, are likely to be considerable. The benefits, however,
may include greater inflow of foreign investment and technology and more effi-
cient management. MembershLip is expected to bring greater rationalization and
hence competitiveness of production and export activities, and may help the



-4-
Government overcome institutional rigidities in enacting and implementing far-
reaching socio-economic reforms which otherwise would be difficult to under-
take.
Medium-Term Prospects
11.       The Government's medium-term development objectives are being cry-
stallized in a new Plan, currently in an advanced stage of preparation. The
preliminary draft of the Plan envisaged an ambitious growth of 6 to 7 percent
in real GDP, 10 percent in real gross fixed investment, and a balance of
payments deficit of $1.1 billion in 1980. However based on past experience,
the likelihood of shortfalls in investment levels from those included in the
draft Plan, could not be altogether overlooked. The preliminary draft Plan
also did not fully reflect investment expenditures necessary to initiate
improvements in Greek infrastructure to bring it to par with EEC countries.
Hence, these policy targets are being reconsidered while finalizing the Plan.
The Government also recognizes that if the planned growth in output and
investment levels is to be achieved, it is likely to lead to rather high
levels of current account deficits and external borrowing requirements over
the medium-term. The Plan is now being revised to correct these deficiencies.
12.       Assuming that EEC related investments will be included in the
revised and more realistic Plan targets now being finalized by the Government
and also every effort is made by Greece to minimize shortfalls between plan-
ned and actual investment expenditures, the Bank's assessment is that during
the next Plan period, Greece should be able to sustain an annual gross fixed
public and private investment of around $5.4 billion 1/. This is somewhat
less than the average annual level of about $6.1 billion which the preliminary
draft envisaged but appears feasible and consistent with the GDP growth of
past years and a current account deficit of about $1.4 billion in 1980.
Assuming a gradual tapering off the current inflows of foreign exchange
deposits, the Government may need to borrow about $800 million annually (in
gross terms) to finance this deficit, as well as to allow for the increased
amortization payments and some improvement in reserves. In view of Greece's
rather limited access to concessionary finance from bilateral and multilateral
sources until its accession to the EEC is ratified, the Government will need
to continue to borrow meanwhile on commercial terms from European capital
markets.
13.       Public external debt outstanding (including undisbursed) at the end
of 1976 remained at the same level as in 1975 ($3.0 billion). Debt service
payments in 1976 reached $487.4 million (of which $14.4 million was for IBRD
loans), and represented 11.2 percent of exports of goods and non-factor ser-
vices. Inclusive of external private debt, it stood at about 15 percent in
1976. Based on reasonable expectations regarding export growth and future
borrowing, the debt service ratio should remain at similar levels in 1980.
About 3.3 percent of total service payments would be due to the Bank. In view
of the good prospects for future economic growth, Greece remains creditworthy
for Bank lending.
1/ In 1976 constant prices and exchange rates.



-5-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GREECE
14.       Bank lending to Greece started in 1968, after disputes in connec-
tion with the country's pre-war external debt had been substantially settled.
Greece has so far received fifteen loans totalling $434.9 million (net of
cancellations), of which $367.7 million was held by the Bank as of March 31,
1978.    These include five loans totalling $96.6 million to the National
Investment Bank for Industrial Development (NIBID), four loans for education
($142.3 million), three loans for irrigation ($95 million), a highway loan
($30 million), a wastewater disposal loan ($36 million) and a loan for
regional development ($35.0 million). The execution of Bank-financed projects
has generally been satisfactory, although the irrigation and education proj-
ects have been slow and subject to significant cost overruns due to both
domestic and international inflationary pressures. In the last several
months, following intensive! discussions between the Government and the Bank,
courses of action have been agreed for both the irrigation and education
projects which should help to improve implementation and disbursements in
future. As of December 31, 1977, disbursements amounted to 36 percent of
initial appraisal estimates, and to 96 percent of revised estimates. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of March 31,
1978.
15.       Bank assistance to Greece has had the following objectives:  support-
ing institutional reform and essential infrastructure in key sectors, including
agriculture, wastewater disposal, and highways; modernizing key sectors such
as agriculture and education; and reducing substantial regional income and
social disparities through support for selected regional development programs
and regional balance in projects. In accordance with Bank policies on lending
to higher income countries, the proposed vegetable production and marketing
project is the last scheduLed loan to Greece.  The Government has, however,
pressed the Bank to continuae its presence in Greece for a short time, partic-
ularly as a catalyst for other financing. In support of this request, the
Government has noted that: (a) Greece needs long term development financing
until at least 1981, when its EEC membership may be ratified, and after which
substantial EEC funds could become available; (b) meanwhile, given the magni-
tude of its external capital requirements, it has had to rely heavily on
shorter term commercial sources (averaging 7 years) and the Bank's presence
has been a catalyst for such funds; and (c) Greece has serious structural and
income imbalances and is poorly equipped institutionally and administratively
to deal with these development problems for which the Bank is a unique source
of assistance.  In the spirit of concluding the lending relationship with
Greece on a mutually satisfactory basis, the possibility of a future catalytic
lending operation in Greece has been kept open. Such an operation, if it
materializes, would of course be subject to the availability of scarce staff
and financial resources.
16.       IFC has made investments totalling $56.2 million in six Greek com-
panies. An equity and loan investment of $0.6 million was made in a fertili-
zer factory in 1962 and sold in 1970. An equity investment of $0.7 million
was made in NIBID in 1965, reduced to $0.1 million in 1974. In 1977, IFC
made a $40 million loan to NIBID, of which $5 million was for IFCs own account.



-6-
Loan and equity investments totalling $8.7 million were made in an aluminium
company in 1970 and 1972. In early 1975, IFC invested $1.1 million in an
agro-industry project in Larisa for processing of tomatoes from the area of
the Groundwater Development Project assisted by the Bank (Loan 754-GR). IFC
recently contributed another $0.1 million to expansion of this project to
include the growing and harvesting of tomatoes as well as the canning of
apricots and peaches. Other industrial investments are under consideration.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR, THE HORTICULTURE SUB-SECTOR
AND THE AGRICULTURAL BANK OF GREECE
General
17.       While agriculture's relative importance in the economy has declined,
it still remains an important sector. Per capita income in the sector is,
however, only about a third of the national average and in certain regions,
significantly lower than this. As a result, there has been a continuing
emigration from the rural areas. Greece is, moreover, a mountainous country
with less than one third of its land, or 3.5 million ha, under cultivation.
The climate and soils are appropriate for a wide variety of crops, provided
water is available; the potential is good for the development of off-season
vegetable production under greenhouses, particularly in irrigated areas in the
south.
18.       A number of problems and constraints hinder agricultural growth and
productivity: (a) water is scarce and irrigation underdeveloped; (b) farm
holdings are small and fragmented, averaging 3.5 ha in 6 parcels; (c) research
and extension services are weak; (d) the marketing arrangements and facili-
ties, particularly for export, are inadequate; and (e) price and subsidy
policies are increasingly inappropriate. Government policies have supported
the expansion of irrigation, the consolidation of holdings, and the provision
of substantial direct and indirect support through input subsidies, investment
grants, export supports, price intervention payments and interest subsidies.
For the future, the Government plans to give increased emphasis, where suit-
able to more intensive forms of cultivation such as greenhouses. This has
the prospect of raising farmer incomes on small holdings, as well as for more
aggressive export marketing, especially in the EEC.
19.       Membership in the EEC poses special challenges and opportunities for
the agriculture sector. Once that membership is ratified, then the sector
would be eligible for financial assistance from the Community's Common Agri-
cultural Fund. The horticultural sub-sector, because of its competitiveness,
can be expected to benefit the most. However, the subsidy policies, which
have heretofore supported Greek farmers, will have to be modified to fit with
EEC policies with as yet unforeseen consequences. EEC regulations allow sub-
sidies on interest rates, on purchases of investment goods such as farm
machinery, and on investments such as irrigation and land consolidation, but
not on farm inputs such as fertilizers and other agricultural chemicals.



-7-
20.       The present subsidy system in Greece has distorted sectoral develop-
ment and it cost about $460 imillion in 1976 or 7 percent of the Government's
total budget. In addition, it is so complex that its full effects are not
fully measured and it is therefore difficult to make rational policy deci-
sions. Thus a study has been organized under the direction of the Agricul-
tural Bank of Greece (ABG) to analyze the present system, especially the
interest rate structure, the impact of aligning the system to the requirements
of the EEC, and other suitable alternatives to the present system. Bank staff
have provided guidance to ABG on the scope and methodology of the study. The
study is expected to yield preliminary results by the end of 1978 and should
provide guidance on evaluating and modifying the government's intervention
policies, assist in negotiations with the EEC and lead to specific proposals
for rationalizing agricultural interest rate policies.
The Horticultural Sub-sector
21.       Tree crops and vegetables account for about 31 percent of Greece's
cultivated land, and are responsible for about 60 percent of agricultural
exports, totalling nearly $500 million in 1976, of which $125 million was
vegetables. About 4 percent of cultivated land is in vegetables; of this
about 5 percent is under greenhouses. Crops include cucumbers, tomatoes,
eggplant, peppers, and melon. Most vegetables for export, however, are grown
in greenhouses or plastic tunnels and this form of cultivation is likely to
continue to increase rapidly. More than half of the fruit and nearly all of
the vegetable exports are marketed in the EEC, 85 percent of the vegetables
during the off-season. In order for Greek farmers to take full advantage of
their competitive position in the EEC markets for fresh produce, a number of
complementary changes are re!quired in supporting services, particularly in
marketing, handling and transport facilities and research and extension.
22.       Marketing and Handling of Vegetables.  The domestic market absorbs
about 85 percent of the country's production of vegetables. It is served by
many small growers selling through a large number of small wholesalers and
retailers. Some produce is also marketed by cooperatives. Only about 15
percent of vegetable production is exported, mostly to Germany, by about 250
private exporters, cooperatives and producer groups. Competition among the
various market intermediaries is intense. Exporters are not usually assured
in advance of quantities of produce, which makes market planning difficult.
This prevents Greece's exporters from capturing a share of the business of the
growing German supermarket chains, which now accounts for 75 percent of the
market in that country, as well as diversifying to other markets. Greece is
presently selling mainly to the 25 percent of the German market served by
traditional greengrocers. Many Greek exporters sell only a single product,
such as cucumbers, to this single market. Moreover, Greek vegetables are
often poorly handled and pac,ked and arrive at the markets in poor condition
and in small shipments. Existing packhouses are small, and used mainly for
export of fruits. A few vegetable packhouses are without cooling facilities
and are mostly for cucumbers. Higher prices could be obtained through better
coordination and planning, by providing products in better condition, properly
graded, packed and shipped in accordance with quantities and times desired by
the retail organizations, as well as through establishing identifiable brand
names associated with reliable quality and quantity.



-8-
23.       To improve this situation, larger marketing companies must be devel-
oped along the lines of the more successful of the peach and grape organiza-
tions in northern Greece, new packhouses built and existing packhouses
modernized and expanded. Larger operations will permit more adequate physical
facilities, better sales representation abroad, and better control of the
product. This is essential for successful export marketing of produce since
customers demand, and will pay for, reliable and timely supply of quality
products. Coordination between exporters also must be encouraged in order to
reduce destructive competition, achieve economies of scale in transportation,
and better identify and develop new markets. The Ministries of Agriculture
and Commerce already undertake useful coordination and control functions.
Their present network of agricultural and commercial counselors in major
European -markets keeps tab on market developments and facilitates exports.
Oversupply of certain products in major importing countries is prevented
through an effective system of on-the-spot representation and withholding of
quality control certificates and export licenses to divert produce into the
domestic market. However, the major role in market promotion and development
for vegetables will continue to be undertaken by exporters, and their capab-
ility in these areas needs to be strengthened.
24.       Transport facilities for vegetables.  The domestic transportation
network is extensive and adequate for distributing products to both internal
and external markets. For exports, there are several viable alternatives,
including road, rail, sea, road-ferry combination and air, which compete
in cost and quality of service. During 1975-76, rail and road transport
accounted for about 80 percent of fruits and vegetables exports and sea trans-
port accounted for the remaining 20 percent; air transport was insignificant.
In the future, rail and road transport would continue to account for the bulk
of horticultural exports, but road-ferry and air transport are likely to be
increasingly important. Presently, refrigerated trucks and tractor-trailer
combinations sail as one unit on ferries but, with improved superstructure
including an on-line refrigeration capability and wider use of separable
tractor-trailers, it will be possible to transport only the trailers and
thereby reduce transport costs. The options available to the project areas
include integrated ferry and road transport connecting with Italian and
Yugoslav routes, and direct ship and air transport. Possible alternative
routes which are little used at present include ferry service to Trieste and
Marseilles, and an alternative land route through Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary,
Austria and then to West Germany.
25.       Due to a lack of standard pallets, handling equipment, and detach-
able standard size truck trailers, produce is presently handled far too many
times enroute to market with a resulting deterioration in quality and price.
To find ways of improving the domestic transport organization and operation,
to raise the quality of service offered to exporters and to improve the effi-
ciency of the transport system, the Government, with assistance from OECD,
commenced a study of these problems in January 1978. The terms of reference
for this study were reviewed by the Bank and its preliminary findings confirm
the need for improvements in handling and loading facilities. Thus, in order
to facilitate the transport of fresh produce from Crete and the Peloponnesus,
the Government has agreed to take the necessary steps to improve the handling



-9-
and loading facilities at ports and airports in these areas (Loan Agreement
Section 4.04).
26.       Research and Extension.  Research efforts are presently thinly dis-
persed over a wide range of topics, with very little attention to vegetables,
particularly the breeding of- varieties suitable for out-of-season production
under greenhouses. Shortage of personnel, limited training of present staff
in research techniques and procedures associated with greenhouses cultivation,
as well as lack of equipment: and supplies are major reasons for these defi-
ciencies. The few personneL presently assigned to research on horticultural
products in the areas servedl by the proposed project have no post-graduate
training. The Extension Service has similarly had comparatively little impact
as a result of inadequate field experience and in-service training for staff;
lack of facilities and time for agents to visit farmers; and the loss of
specialists to other servic,es. The Government is developing a program to
improve research activities, restructure the extension service and introduce
improved training programs and working conditions for extension agents and
specialists.
Agricultural Credit and The Agricultural Bank of Greece (ABG)
27.       A Government-owned institution established in 1929, ABG is the only
source of agricultural credit in Greece. ABG would be the lending channel for
a major portion of the project funds. Over the years, it has developed into a
well-managed, professional organization, that reaches nearly 90 percent of the
farmers in Greece and is responsive to the changing needs of agriculture.
Lending procedures are well established, with a large measure of decentraliza-
tion in approval authority, although some weaknesses appear in the financial
and economic evaluation of projects. ABG's supervision of borrowers is quite
effective; arrears are under control and loans are almost fully recovered
within a year of falling due.
28.       ABG's total loan portfolio amounted to $2.4 billion equivalent at
the end of 1976. Gross income in 1976 averaged 7.7 percent of total funds
employed, barely sufficient: to cover overall administrative expenses of 3.6
percent and borrowing expenses of about 3.9 percent. ABG is thus heavily
dependent on low-cost resources from the central bank, the Bank of Greece
(BG). Of assets totalling $2.6 billion in 1976, 75 percent were in the form
of low-interest loans from BG, and equity/reserves provided only 4 percent.
In recent years, the Government has been encouraging ABG to broaden its
sources of finance, and deposits have tripled since 1973. The debt/equity
ratio is, however, currently about 20:1 and it is imperative that this be
improved, if ABG is to tap commercial sources in future. Encouraged by the
Bank, the Government has therefore recently decided to convert to equity, by
assuming the repayment obligation to BG, about Dr 16 billion of a Dr 20 bil-
lion ($545 million) short term 1 percent interest BG loan to ABG, which has
been rolled over annually in the past. The Government has decided on an ini-
tial capital conversion of Dr 6 billion ($163 million) in 1978 followed by
subsequent annual increases of Dr 2 billion a year over the next five years;
in total a fivefold increase in equity. As a result of this major infusion
of capital, the debt/equity ratio is projected to drop to 7.5:1 by the end



- 10 -
of 1978 and decline further to a healthy 4:1 by 1984. ABG has agreed to main-
tain the debt/equity ratio at an adequate level (Project Agreement, Section
4.05) in the future.
29.       The interest rate mechanism in Greece has traditionally played a
relatively minor role as an instrument of maintaining either monetary stab-
ility or influencing resource mobilization. Rather, its role has been geared
towards medium- and long-term development management as a tool for stimulating
and directing investments into those sectors, for example, agriculture, which
the Government has determined needed development. As a result, interest rates
do not necessarily reflect either market conditions or the availability of
capital in Greece. With the decline of the inflation rate from close to 30
percent in 1974 to about 10 percent in 1977, some rates have moved much closer
to positive rates of interest. The interest rate structure in Greece has been
centrally controlled since the spring of 1973 by a ministerial level Currency
Committee, which establishes rates for each type of deposit and credit. In
administering the interest rate policy, BG uses a combination of different
reserve requirements, adjustments in its rediscount rates and concommitment
adjustments upwards or downward in deposit rates. Since January 1977, the
rediscount rate has been 11 percent, rates on saving deposits have ranged up
to 8.5 percent, the highest lending rate has been 14 percent for imports and
domestic trade, and the lowest lending rate 3.5 percent for long-term loans
for on-farm irrigation works and livestock development. The maximum interest
rate for long-term loans to industries has been 10.5 percent, while the
interest rate for medium- and long-term lending for general agricultural has
ranged from 6.0 percent to cooperatives (plus a 0.5 percent appraisal fee)
to 9.0 percent to private agroindustries (plus a 1.0 percent appraisal fee).
Short-term interest rates for the agriculture have varied from 7.5 percent
to 8.5 percent, plus various charges and fees. While the rates for other
sectors of the economy have hardly changed since 1974, there has been a
gradual increase in the rates for the agricultural sector.
30.       Although it is possible under the Government's current economic
policy that the rate of inflation may drop further in the next three to four
years, the Government has nevertheless recognized that a further gradual
adjustment in the interest rate structure should be made. As an interim
measure, the Currency Committee has decided that all interest rates for
agricultural lending should be increased across the board by 0.5 percent per
annum over and above the rates and fees mentioned above. As a result, effec-
tive short-term interest rates to farmers and private borrowers will now range
from 8.25 to 10 percent and medium-term rates from 7.0 to 9.5 percent (plus a
0.5 to 1.0 percent one-time commission). Rates for cooperatives and coopera-
tive unions will range from an effective 8.5 percent for certain short-term
loans to 6.5 percent for medium-term loans (plus a 0.5 percent one-time
appraisal fee). ABG has agreed to complete its study of agricultural interest
rates (cf. paragraph 20) and subsidies by no later than December 31, 1979
and the Government has agreed to take into account the results of this study
in formulating its future agricultural lending policies (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.02 and Project Agreement, Section 4.06).



P'ART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History and Objective
31.        The proposed project was identified by Government, with Bank assis-
tance in 1976. It was selected because of the prospects for substantially
increasing the exports of of-f-season vegetables and helping improve incomes
on small and fragmented landlholdings through intensifying cultivation. The
project helps to address po]Licy and institutional weaknesses in extension,
credit and marketing and other support services to enable Greece to take
fuller advantage of its agr:icultural potential and prospects for exports to
the EEC.  The project was prepared by the Agricultural Bank of Greece (ABG),
assisted by consultants financed under the East Vermion Irrigation Project
(Loan No. 1165-GR). The project was appraised in October/November 1977.
Negotiations were held in April 1978 with a Greek delegation headed by Mr.
Costas Doussis, Deputy Governor of ABG and including Mr. Petros Papadakis,
Director General of the Ministry of Coordination.
Project Description
32.        The project providies facilities for the production and marketing
mainly to Europe of about 140,000 tons of off-season high value vegetables,
mainly cucumbers, tomatoes, eggplant and peppers. It includes an integrated
investment program in Crete and the Peloponnesus supported by improvements to
the existing research and extension services, the export marketing system, and
the lending operations of ABG. Crete and the Peloponnesus are the regions
with the greatest potential for out-of-season vegetables because of their
milder climate (Map IBRD 13315R). These regions account for about 25 percent
of the rural population of the country and about 70 percent of the areas pre-
sently occupied by greenhouses. Specifically the project would include the
following complementary components:
(a) Credit. A program of sub-loans by ABC to: (i) small farmers
for construction and equipping of new greenhouses on about
200 ha and replacement greenhouses on about 700 ha for pro-
duction of higher quality off-season vegetables suitable for
export; (ii) private individuals and marketing organizations
for construction of six new packhouses with cooling facili-
ties and improvement of at least six existing packhouses for
proper handling aLnd packaging of off-season vegetables; (iii)
transport companies for about 50 refrigerated tractor-trailers
of about 20-ton capacity each in support of improved transport
of project commodities to the major European markets;
(b)  Research and Extension.  Provision of equipment, 50 man-years
of overseas training and 14 man-years of consultantst' services
to upgrade the research centers and institutes and extension
services operating mainly in the project areas and construction
and equipping of research greenhouses on about 1.4 ha, all in
support of improved production; and



- 12 -
(c) Marketing. Provision of 4 man-years of consultant services to
help promote and improve about 4 export marketing companies for
horticultural products.
The details of the project are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary. A
report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report on Vegetable Production and Marketing
Project," No. 1940-GR, dated May 5, 1978, is also being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as
Annex III hereto.
Project Cost and Financing
33.       Total project cost (including an average 19 percent price contin-
gency and 5 percent physical contingency) is estimated at about $84 million,
including about $12 million of taxes and duties. The foreign exchange com-
ponent is estimated at about $40 million, or 48 percent of total cost. The
proposed loan of $30 million will finance 42 percent of the total cost net
of taxes and duties, or 75 percent of the foreign exchange component. The
remaining cost would be financed as follows: about $34 million by ABG from
its own resources, about $18 million by beneficiaries, and about $2 million
by Government. The Government will be the Borrower of the Bank loan and will
bear the foreign exchange risk; it will onlend $27.2 million equivalent to
ABG on terms similar to that in the Bank loan; in turn, ABG will relend to
project beneficiaries on the terms and conditions indicated in paragraph 36.
The Government will retain $2.5 million for the research and extension com-
ponent. $300,000 of the Bank loan will be provided to ABG by the Government
for financing the marketing consultants. The estimated cost of consultant
services average $6,500 per man-month.
Project Implementation and Sublending Arrangements
34.       The Ministry of Agriculture, through its Department of Agricultural
Production, will be responsible for implementing the agricultural research and
extension component. ABG will be responsible for the credit and marketing
components, onlending funds for project investments through its existing
branches in the project areas under the supervision of a Project Unit recently
formed within ABG for this purpose. An additional ten technical staff are
being recruited by ABG to assist project farmers with greenhouse investments.
Overall coordination will be provided by a Project Steering Committee assisted
by a permanent secretariat in ABG. The Committee will meet at least every six
months and will include representatives of the Ministries of Coordination and
Agriculture and the Union of Cooperatives.
35.       Sub-borrowers will be screened by ABG in accordance with its normal
criteria for eligibility and creditworthiness. Investment proposals will be
appraised by ABG staff for their technical, financial and commercial sound-
ness, their economic justification and the availability of markets. Sub-
borrowers for the greenhouses will be small farmers, and, for 80 percent of
the 900 ha covered by the project no single farmer will borrow project funds
for greenhouses whose total area exceeds 0.3 ha. The subborrowers for the
packhouses and cold storage facilities will include the marketing companies to



- 13 -
be established with project assistance, cooperatives, producer groups and
private exporters. The latter will be given priority for project funds. Not
more than 5 tractor-trailers each will be purchased by experienced trucking
companies whose main activities consist of export of fresh horticultural
produce. The Project Unit will review and approve a sample of the appraisals
for greenhouses in each ABG branch; all applications for new packhouses/cold
storages; and the first five applications for tractor-trailers. About 20
sub-project investments amounting to about 25 percent of the proposed loan
will also be submitted to the Bank for review and approval.
36.       In keeping with the general increase in interest rates recently
decided (cf. paragraph 30), sub-loans would be made on the following terms and
conditions: for greenhouses, sub-loans will be at 7.0 percent for 10 years;
for packhouses/cold storages, at 6.5 percent (if cooperative) or 9.5 percent
(if private) for 12 years; and for tractor-trailers, 10.5 percent for 5 years.
In addition, beneficiaries will pay one time commission of 0.5 to 1.0 percent.
The beneficiaries of investments in greenhouses, unless they can demonstrate
they are in the poverty group, and those for packhouses/cold storages, will
contribute at least 20 percent towards the cost of the investment. The truck-
ing companies will contribute at least 40 percent. ABG's interest income
from sub-loans under the project, will average about 7.1 percent as against
the present Bank lending rate and an average financial cost of about 5.6
percent. The spread of 1.5 percent will not be sufficient to fully cover its
administrative costs associated with the project, expected to be about 2.6
percent of sub-loans. The Government will therefore pay ABG an annual compen-
sation fee on all outstanding sub-loan amounts so that ABG's financial and
administrative costs are covered by interest income plus the fee (Loan Agree-
ment, Schedule 6).
Marketing Organization
37.       A key element in successfully exploiting the export market is better
organization of marketing. While the increased vegetable production envisaged
under the project, about 65,000 tons, can be marketed through existing chan-
nels, it is only by providing a reliable and timely supply of quality products
that Greece can hope to attain the full financial and economic potential from
their exports. To improve the organization of the marketing system the proj-
ect will provide four man-years of foreign consultant services to help ABG
promote the establishment of four pilot marketing companies located in the
project areas. Owners would include cooperatives, individual growers, pro-
ducer groups, and private exporters. ABG may also take a minority shareholder
position, either itself or through its subsidiary Nea-Agrex. Unlike present
cooperative marketing efforts, these companies are expected to be organized
along commercial lines and operate under the direction of a president and a
board of directors electedl by the shareholders. To obtain the information
needed to fully exploit marketing possibilities, the companies are expected
to have a central service office, possibly Nea-Agrex, with representatives
abroad. ABG will appoint the consultants on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank no later than December 31, 1978, and will obtain the Bank's agree-
ment on the detailed implementation plans, including the list of sponsors for
the companies, no later than June 30, 1979 (Project Agreement, Sections 2.02
and 2.03).



- 14 -
Research and Extension
38.       The project provides about 14 man-years of consultant services
to assist in improving the present research and extension services in the
project areas. Assisted by project consultants, an adaptive research program
would be developed to identify appropriate varieties of high quality vege-
tables suitable for export, levels of seed, fertilization and other cultural
practices. The extension consultants would assist the extension services in
the project areas to develop a more effective, farmer oriented extension
program. Each of the consultants would be provided a qualified and expe-
rienced counterpart. About 50 man-years of training abroad are provided for
research and extension personnel to carry out the program. To ensure imme-
diate support for farmers, an initial group of about ten experienced extension
workers would be sent abroad in the next few months for familiarization with
the latest techniques. The consultants will be employed on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank no later than June 30, 1979, and the programs
will be submitted to the Bank for its comments no later than December 31, 1979
(Loan Agreement, Sections 3.02).
Procurement and Disbursement
39.       Contracts for construction and equipping the six new packhouses/cold
storages and about $1 million of equipment for research and extension would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB). Local manu-
facturers would be allowed a 15 percent preference margin or the applicable
customs duty, whichever is less. Greenhouses which would be purchased by a
large number of beneficiaries over several years, tractor trailers which must
be compatible with sub-borrowers' existing equipment and up to $300,000 of
research and extension equipment, are not suitable for ICB and would be pro-
cured through local commercial channels. ABG would assist beneficiaries with
the technical specifications for procurement of tractor-trailers and green-
houses, and quotations would be sought from at least three suppliers. Tractor-
trailers would meet criteria acceptable to the Bank, including compliance with
EEC trucking standards and compatability for standard European pallets. There
is an adequate choice among locally and foreign made greenhouses in Greece at
reasonable prices. A wide variety of foreign firms supplying tractor-trailers
are represented in Greece. ABG would advertise for expressions of interest
from greenhouse manufacturers and make this information available to benefici-
aries. Equipment for rehabilitation of existing packhouses/cold storages
would be procured through normal commercial channels.
40.       The loan will be disbursed against:  45 percent of the amount of
sub-loans disbursed by ABG for greenhouses, packhouses/cold storages and
tractor-trailers; 71 percent of total expenditures for equipment and materials
for research and extension; and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for con-
sultant services and training.
Markets for Project Produce.
41.       The EEC's demand for imports of off-season fresh vegetables is
expected to continue to rise in the foreseeable future in response to rising



- 15 -
income and because production in the EEC is not expected to keep pace with
demand. At full development in^1984, production from the 900 ha of project
greenhouses is expected to be about 140,000 tons of cucumbers, tomatoes,
eggplant and peppers, of which 70 percent would be off-season. Part of this
output would be exported and part would be consumed internally; the outlook
for expansion in both markets is good. If the qualities of produce are
upgraded as anticipated and if the marketing organization is improved as
planned, Greece should be able to increase its exports of these products
substantially. Greece has significant cost advantages over its major competi-
tors in European markets in these crops and is expected to expand its share
of the growing West German market and diversify to other markets.
42.       Exports of cucumbers to the EEC are projected to increase from
25,000 tons today to 36,000 tons by the mid 1980s which would represent an
increase from 3 percent to 5 percent of EEC demand. The prospects for
expanding the export of tomatoes is also favorable but depends upon farmers
changing to a more acceptable variety. With this change, which the project
would encourage, annual exports are projected to increase from 1,000 tons to
around 10,000 tons by the miid 1980s, an increase from less than 1 to about 5
percent of the projected imports into the EEC at that time. The projected
additional exports of cucumLbers and tomatoes are greater than the projected
increase in production under the project. While Greece is a major producer
of eggplant in Europe, its present exports of this commodity are insignificant
and there is substantial potential for expansion. There is also good poten-
tial for the export of peppers but the quality will have to be improved,
mainly by upgrading of cultural practices. There would also be a ready
market for all project produce within Greece since the domestic demand for
fresh vegetables is also expected to grow at about 2 to 3 percent per year.
Benefits and Risks
43.       The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 35 per-
cent. The major quantifiable benefits expected are a significant increase in
the project areas' production of high-value crops. No separate returns have
been computed for the individual components because benefits result from the
implementation of the integrated project as a whole. Investments in green-
houses and marketing facilities are expected to be profitable with financial
rates of return ranging from 22 percent to 40 percent depending upon the
product and the type of facility. Project output would expand exports and
substitute for imports of vegetables resulting in projected net foreign
exchange earnings and savings of about $300 million in 1978 prices over the
project life. The project would raise labor productivity and farm incomes,
thus helping to reduce rural-urban migration. Unquantifiable, institutional
benefits are also expected from the demonstration effect of the research and
extension programs, the marketing companies, and improved investment appraisal
techniques used by ABG. The integrated approach to the development of this
sub-sector and region should help guide future development in the agricultural
sector and in other regions.



- 16 -
44.       The main direct project beneficiaries would include up to 9,000 farm
households, and several cooperatives and trucking companies. About 20 percent
of the beneficiaries have incomes below the relative poverty income level of
$780 and about 20 percent of the project's benefits would go to this group.
Presently, the average per capita income in the project areas range from about
Dr 25,000 ($680) in the mountainous and semi-mountainous areas, to about Dr
73,400 ($2,000) in the plains, where most of the off-season vegetables are
presently grown. The producers who already own greenhouses have incomes at
the upper end of the range while those who would own greenhouses for the first
time have incomes close to the lower end of the range. The project would help
the former group by preventing decline in their incomes. Farmers in the
latter group would be given the opportunity to convert part of their lands to
intensive cultivation of vegetables under greenhouses, and their average per
capita incomes as a result of the project are expected to more than double to
approximately Dr 55,000 ($1,500).
45.       Due to the simple nature of the facilities to be constructed, the
experience of project farmers, the existence of a reasonably established
marketing system, the favorable prospects for sales and ease of substituting
alternative crops, the risks of investment in the proposed project are low.
Even if Greece were not to join the EEC, the project commodities could still
be exported to that market because production of off-season vegetables in the
EEC is low and there are few restrictions on imports of winter vegetables from
non-member countries. If demand for any commodity falls short of projections,
other exportable off-season vegetables or flowers can easily be grown in the
greenhouses. Although the prices of project commodities have been rising
steadily in the past three years, it is possible that prices could decline in
future due to new sources of supply or that the marketing efforts would not be
fully successful in obtaining these prices. If prices of all commodities were
reduced uniformly by 20 percent, the economic rate of return on the project
would be 23 percent. If this price reduction were combined with a 20 percent
increase in investment costs, the rate of return would be reduced to 17
percent, which is still satisfactory.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
46.       The draft Loan Agreement between The Hellenic State and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Agricultural Bank of
Greece and the Report of the Committee provided for an Article 3 Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The draft agreements conform generally to the normal
pattern for loans for agricultural projects. Features of the Loan and Project
Agreements of special interest are referred to in the appropriate paragraphs
of this Report and in Annex III. Since the Agreements must be ratified by
Parliament, the Loan Agreement provides for a date of effectiveness 180 days
after signing.



- 17 -
47.       Special conditions; of loan effectiveness are:  (a) the Project
Agreement is in effect; and (b) a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Borrower and ABG is in effect (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
48.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan will comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
49.       I recommend the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
May 15, 1978
Washington, D.C.






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                             Page I of 6
GREECE              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 -------
---------------                                 GREECE                               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      131.9                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      91.6                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE          SPAIN          ARGENTINA      FRANCE
_______________             -  -          ____ _ --- -- - _---    -  --   _________
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   510.,0*   1360.0*   2590.0*             15s0.0*      990.0*    3670.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________  ______________ 
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            8.3        9.8       9.1 /a            33.6        23.7        50.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       63.0      67.0       69.0 /a            67.0         8.0       93.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        93.0      96.0       99.0 7a           105.0        13.0       156.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)        1S.4       18.1      15.4               21.0        22.5        17.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           7.3       8.0        9.4                8.8         8.6        11.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        40.1      29.6       24.0               27.9        59.0       18.2
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       68.0      70.9       71.8               70.5        67.4       71.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.1        1.0       1.0                1.4         1.5         1.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 1.0       0          0.7                1.1         1.4         1.1
URBAN                                 2.1        1.5        *-                2.0         2.4         2.5
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          57.0       62.6      64.8 /b            59.1        77.4        70.2
AGE STRUCIURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       26.7      24.9.      24.2               27.8        29.3       24.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                       65.1      64.0       63.8               62.5        63.7       62.6
65 YEARS AND OVER                     8.2      11.1       12.0                9.7         7.0        13.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.5       0.6        0.6                0.6         0.6         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9         ..       1.1 /b             1.1         1.0         0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..         ..        ..
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..        ..                 ..
LMPLOYMENI
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         360D.0 Ia      .-    3300.0            11900.0      9000.0    20600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)         54.0         ..      34.0               25.0        15.0        15.1 Ia
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)           6.0 /b      ..       3.0 /C             1.1 I       5.0         2.1 -
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            18.7  c      ..        ..                 ..        21.4 /a
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            44.7/        .         ..                 ..        47.0 7
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             6.37       .          ..                 ..         5.6 X
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            17.4 7       ..        ..                 ..        16.27w
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..         ..      27.5 /d              ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..       2.6  f               ...
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              790.0/d   620.0      500.0              740.0/b    500.0        750.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        1260 07, e 1140.0    1280.0 /e               ..      980.0/b    370.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           170.0 v   160.0      160.0              220.0       170.0       140.0/b
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)        120.0     116.0      128.0 /f           107.0       129.0       127.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              99.0      99.0      113.0 7f            81.0        99.0       104.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         319.0     52.0Lb       ..               40.0        64.0       66.0
DEATH RATE U/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..         ..       0.9 /              0.9         3.2         0.2
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      1(9.0     110.0      108.0 /a           123.0       106.0      117.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       ..      70.0       80.071a            57.0        37.0        74.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0      12.0       12.0               11.0        12.0        14.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     'I7.0/h    20.0      22.0 /b            20.0        59.0        19.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                80.0       82.0        ..               94.0        93.0        99.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                1.4         ..       0.9 /b               ..        1.4 /C      0.9
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER CX)                      71.0/i       ..      35.0                  ..         ..         9.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 53.0         ..      88.0 /b               ..       76.0 /d    99.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                   14.0         ..      77.0 /b               ..         ..        96.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         85.0      111.0     112.0              214.0       370.0       314.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           5.0       26.0      42.0                71.0       61.0       254.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          274.0    1072.0    1589.0              1634.0       936.0      2759.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               2.6        1.6       5.4                 5.8       11.4        11.9
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Eatimate between
1973 and 1975.
*   GNP per capita data are based on the World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
00  Considering Greece's imminent entry into the European Community, comparison with the French economy is appropriate.
GREECE        1960    /a  Excluding persona in conpaleory military servicee;   /b  Excluding unemployed aeamen;    /c  1957-58, urban;    /d  1962;
/e  Including midwives and nurses with midwifery qsalificatina;    Qf  Including maternity hoepitalo;    /R  1960-62;
7i; Teacher training not included in secondary school enrollment;    7i  Inaide only.
1970   /a  Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than the rate of natural increaae;   /b  1967.
140ST RECENT ESTI7ATE:   /I  1976;    /b  1971;    /c  Excluding unemployed seemen;    /d  1972;    /e  Including assistant nurses and
midwives;    /f  1969-71;   L/  Inside only.
SPAIN         1970   /a  Enploynmet office estimate;    /b  Registered, not a11 practicing in the country.
ARGENTINA    1970   la  Income recipients, Buenos Aires - urban;    /b  Hospital personnel only;    /c  Households, total, urban and rural;
77  Pero.ntasa of population
FRANCE        1970   /a  Excluding unemployed;    /b  Government hospital establishments.
R16, May 12, 1978
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thou he2)                                                                           Population per nursing Person - Population divided by member of pracricErg
Total - Total ourface area comprising land area ad inland waters                                 male and female graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" nur-se, snd
ic.  - Mot recent eatimate of agricultural area used temporarily or pema-                        auniliary personnel with training or experience.
nently for crops, pastures, market b kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                       Poplation per hospital bed - Population divided by  mber of hoopitol beds
available in public and private gen-rsl and opeciali.ed hospital and
GNP per  aoPia. (us$) - GNP per capita estimates at currant market prices,                       rehabilitation centers; excludes nursing homes and eotablishneots for
calculated by .seie conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1974-76 basis);                     cutodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 cnd 1976 data,                                                                    Per capita supply of calories (% of requirements) - Computed from  -nargy
equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita per day;
Populstion cnd vital statistics                                                                  available supplies comprise domestic production, ipo-tt less expurts, and
Population (mid-year millios) - Au of July first:  if not avsilable, average                     changeg in stock; nt supplies exclude animal feod, seeds, qua-titieo coed
of two end-year  Cinatee; 1960, 1970 and 1976 data.                                            in food processing and issees in distribution; requirements were eotia-red
by PAO based on physiological needs for normal activity sod he-lth c-cid-
polatio  deouit, (-  e       uare Im - Hid-year populatio  per square kilometer aring eovlrpueaettl temperature, body weights, age and se  distrihotfuno of
(lii hectar-o) of total area,                                                                  population, and allowing 101 for waste at household level.
population doeaity - pOc squatr km of agric. land - Computed as above for                      Per capita supply of protein (srama per day) - Protein content cf per c.pitc
cgriccltorul land only                                                                         net supply of fond per day; net supply of food is defined as above; requitre-
-nts for *11 countries established by USDA Eonosie  Research Sefrices
Vital statistics                                                                                 provide for a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day, and
CrCde birth rate o2r thousand  everage - Annul live births per thousad of                        20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams ohould be animal
oid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                     protein; these standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein
and five-year average ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate.                                 and 23 gras of animal protein as an average for the world, pr-po-ed by PAO
crdc death rate cot theusasd  overac - Annual deatha per thouand of mid-year                     in the Third World Food Survey.
popultio; tin-year arithm;tic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                     Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate                                           derived fro  animale and pulsea in grams per day.
Infant mortality rate (ithou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year of age                 Death rate (/thou) sass 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
por thos.and live births.                                                                      years, to children in this age group; suggesCed as an indicator of
Life emPectancY at birth (yrs) - Average number of years of life remaining at                    malsutrition.
birth; cucally five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries.                                                                               Education
Grooc cerod-ction rate - Average number of live daughterss w oman oill bear                    Adjusted enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrollment of a11 ugos as per-
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences preesent age-specific                     ceotage of primary school-age population; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; usally five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                       but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for co-ntrics cith
for decelapiag countries                                                                       universal education, enrollment may exceed 1007. since some pupils ore below
PopIlatiu  groth rate 1%) - tote1 - Compoumd snonal growth rates of aid-year                     or above the official school age.
opuat ion for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-15.                                                  Adjusted enrlllant ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; secndary
Ppoulotion growth rate (%) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                          education requires at least four year- of approved primary imotructio
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of                   provides general, vocational or teacher training instructions for pUpilS
data amung countries.                                                                          of 12 ta 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally eocludod.
Urban uopulation (M  of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                 years of schoolinx provided (first and second levels) - Total years of
defisitfooc of urban areas may affect comparability of data among countries,                   schooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction may be portially or
cn plertly excluded.
*As  tructure (percet) - Children (0-14 years), vorking-age (15-64 years),                     Vocational serolent (>. of aecndar) - Vocational institutions include
and retired  (65 yeors and over) as percentages of mid-year population.                        technical, industrial or other progrna-  which operate indepeodestly or as
aX. dependency ratio - Ratio of poplation under 15 and 65 amd over to those                      departmento  of secondary institutioms.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                       Adult literacy rate (1) - Literate adolts (able to read and write) as per-
Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of populatiom  ader 15 and 65 and over to                      teniage of total adult popalation aged 15 yara sod over.
the lebor force is age group of 15-64 years.
Iaily planning - arreptors (cpsulative. thou) - Cumulative oumber of acceptors                 Housing
of birth-control devices under auspices of sational faily planning program                   persoas per room (urban) - Average member of person  per room in o.ccpied
since inception,                                                                               conventional dwelling  in  rbn are s; dwellings  xcnlude oonpema
Pesily planning - users (% of married  sasen) - Percentages of married w-nem of                   structures and surnoocupid parts u.e  
child-bearing age (15-44 years) who ua. birth-control devices ts a11 married                 occupigd dwellings without piped water (%) - Occupied conmentional dwelliogs
women in same age group.                                                                       In urban and rural areas without inside or outside piped water facilities
as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
e,vloyvet                                                                                      Access to eectricity (. of a1  dwellings) - Conventional dwelliegs with
Total labor force (thousand) - Economically active persons, including armed                      electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in urban and
forces and unemployed bat excluding houewives, students, etc.; definitions                     rurl areas.
in various countries are not comparable.                                                     Rural dwellings connected to elsotricity (i) - Computed as above for rura1
Labor forcu  in agriculture (%1 - Agricultural lebor force (in farming, forestry,                 dwellings only.
hunting and fishing) as percetage af total labor force.
Uneaplayed (M  of labor force) - Unemployed are usually defined as persons who                 Consnmption
are able cod williog to take a Job, out of a job on a given day, remsined out                Radio receivers (par thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio broadcauts
of a job, and seeking work for a specified minimum period not exceeding one                     to general public per thousand of population; exccides unlicensed receivers
week; may not be compar ble beween countries due to different definitions                       in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in effect;
of unemployed end source of data, e.g., employmeat office statietici, ample                    data for recent years may not be comparable since mstr .coutries abolihed
.ur"yaY, compulsory unemploymnt inaur as.                                                       licnsing.
Pas-ene  crs_ (arthu  oo  - Passenger cars comprise motor cars saetiog                 -
Iscome distribstion - Percetage of private income (both in cash and kind)                        less than eight persons; eciude n a         cbulances, hearses sod military
received by richest 5%, richest 207., poorest 20%, and pooreat 402 of house-                   vehicles.
holds.                                                                                       Electricity (kwh/yr per cap) - Annual conaumption of industrial, corsercial,
public and private electricity in kilowtt hours per capita, gocorai1y
Distribution of land ownership - Percentages of land owned by wealthiest 10%                      based on production data, without                for I .o cas in grids hut allo-
and poorest 102 of land owners.                                                                 log for imports and exports of electricity.
Newsprint (kg/vr per cap) - Per capita annual consomption in kilograma
lleltib nd Nutritimd                                                                              estimated from domestic production plus net imports of newsprint.
Popalation per physicisn - Population divided by mtumer of practicing
phyuici... qualifird fro  a medica1 school at  niversity level.



r oC    C *  p                                                                                                                          0410  ecN_Bg     ""Z*l
"0    41'                 414 a4.40=     U              3 6,         41                                       041            ,,4141z ~                 __ Xa  
e .    - 4          0 63. .        4.        416414141"        z    114 r4134  w                 N      1                33 g    '4w   1
R~~        ~~~ C2 ^                                                                                Wj  2'   r    -  -  1'c>cc *r&&g                 
0.   0 rg41                             41         00                0        0. '          '                                         0   4141
W'                                       &a >S                     o                  .
418                          414   0               41W_ 410> 0                        ~ 41o X go                                           o 
'441416  4141~~~~~~~~~~~~1~6                                                               L      Z
412
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- pt- F?p F     
W o       ;                                         ------      8<o-                                      w    w~'~   
I I1
I W
0 n                                                                                                                        IIn  o 
0041                                     ' >       2       D o   u.4  o 4o14141 8 8 8 8 o  Z -          r - - -
I..                                       2         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~-
-      *                                                                                                                                 Z
o       0                  6                             ~                                       ''0      w 1111444                    0..4                41rww  
* c41                       414414-1w41ob                                                                                              _    o 
.1      8        4111         .40       2'                                  4144              4114            414    414    4141414 .4
4110 841'c aI   wF,                                                                                                                                                         i    r.,o w~        
F1.4 w'~                                                           . . r  '          . g  .                                                                                41wH Vu                  i   
n o D ~ ~ W_0 W  W ~  b0 \ >'41



ANNEX 1
P'age 4 of 6
IMPORT DETAIL
1974      1975    1976       1977      1978      1980      1982
A. CONSTANT 1976 PRICES (Million $)
Food                                      594.4    683.6   619.0    653.5    691.2    776.0    869.9
Intermediate goods  -                    1141.3   1008.4  1011.2   1067.6   1129.2   1267.7   1421.1
Petroleum products                       1009.5    918.9   987.7   1042.8   1102.9   1238.3   1388.1
Capital goods                            1451.4   1538.3  1523.6   1608.6   1701.3   1910.1   2141.2
Manufactured consumer goods              1097.4   1153.0  1410.7   1489.4   1575.3   1768.6   1982.5
Total goods (c.i.f.)                     5294.0   5302.2  5552.2   5861.9   6199.9   6960.7   7802.8
Non-factor services  1!                   617.7    578.2   567.2    598.8    633.4    711.1    797.1
Total goods and NFS                      5911.7   5880.4  6119.4   6460.4   6833.3   7671.8   8599.9
B. PRICE INDICES (1976-100)
Food                                      101.8      84.7   100        149.6    127.7      126.6    138.3
Intermediate goods 2/                      87.5      98.5   100        107.5    116.1      135.5    152.9
Petroleum products                         84.9      93.2   100        108.7     118.3    135.7    155.4
Capital goods        2/                    87.5      98.5   100        107.5    116.1      133.5    152.9
Manufactured consumer goods                87.5      98.5   100        107.5    116.1       133.5    152.9
Total goods (c.i.f.)                       88.6      95.8   100        112.4     117.8    133.2    151.7
Non-factor services 2/                     87.5      98.5   100        107.5    116.1       133.5    152.9
Total goods and NFS                        88.5      96.1   100        111.9    117.6    133.2    151.8
C. CURRENT VALUES (Million $)
Food                                      605.1    579.0   619.0    977.7    882.7    982.5   1202.7
Intermediate goods  1.                    998.6    993.3  1011.2   1147.7   1310.9   1693.0   2172.8
Petroleum                                 857.1    856.4   987.7   1133.5   1304.7   1680.4   2156.5
Capital goods                            1270.0   1515.2  1523.6   1729.2   1975.2   2550.8   3273.8
Manufactured consumer goods               960.2   1135.7  1410.7   1601.1   1828.9   2361.8   3031.2
Total goods (c.i.f.)                     4691.0   5079.6  5552.2   6589.1   7302.4   9268.4  11837.0
Non-factor services 1!                    540.5    569.5   567.2    643.7    735.3    949.6   1218.8
Total goods and NFS                      5231.5   5649.1  6119.4   7232.8   8037.7  10218.0  13055.8
1/    Obtained as a residual
2/    Index of international inflation
EMENA Region
CPD II-A
February 24, 1978



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
EXPORT DETAIL
1974     1975    1976    1977        1978       1980      1982
A.  CONSTANT 1976. PRICES (Million  )
Food and Beverage                        374.1    607.4   542.2   563.9    586.4          634.3    686.1
Tobacco                                  164.2    143.5   161.7   171.4    181.7          204.1    229.4
Petroleum products                       145.3      93.3    73.6    80.9        89.1      107.8    130.4
Textiles and yarns                       245.9    341.4   369.5   413.8    463.5          581.4    729.3
Metals                                   261.5    280.3   271.5   282.4    293.7          317.6    343.5
Cement                                    91.6    133.7   131.1   136.3    141.8          153.4    165.9
Raw materials                            260.7    254.2   260.4   281.2    303.7          354.3    413.2
Manufactured goods                       294.2    327.2   387.9   407.3    427.7          471.5    519.8
Other products  1/                        49.3      29.8    29.6    30.8        32.0       34.6      37.5
Total goods                             1886.8   2210.8  2227.5  2368.0   2519.6    2859.0   3255.1
Non-factor services  1]                 1880.4   1876.4  2112.1  2344.4   2602.3    3206.3   3950.5
Total goods and NFS                     3767.2   4087.2  4339.6  4712.4   5121.9    6065.3   7205.6
B.  PRICE INDICES (1976-100)
Food and Beverage                        101.8      84.7   100       149.6    127.7       126.6    138.3
Tobacco                                   98.2    116.3   100        115.0    126.9       151.8    180.7
Petroleum products                        84.9      93.2   100       108.7    118.3       135.7    155.4
Textiles and yarns                        83.5      70.6   100       101.0      95.1     -104.3    119.4
Metals                                   123.8    102.1   100        110.6    119.9       157.1    183.9
Cement                                    87.2      98.5   100       107.5    116.1       133.5    152.9
Raw materials                             87.2      98.5   100       107.5    116.1       133.5    152.9
Manufactured goods                        87.2      98.5   100       107.5    116.1       133.5    152.9
Other products                            87.2      98.5   100       107.5    116.1       133.5    152.9
Total goods                               95.6      91.8   100       117.3    116.2       130.1    147.6
Non-factor services                       87.2      98.5   100       107.5    116.1       133.5    152.9
Total goods and NFS                       91.4      94.9   100       112.5    116.2       131.9    150.5
C.  CURRENT VALUES (Million$)
Food and Beverage                        380.8    514.5   542.2   843.6    748.9          803.0    948.5
Tobacco                                  161.2    166.9   161.7   197.1    230.6          309.9    414.4
Petroleum products                       123.4      87.0    73.6    88.0    105.4         146.2    202.6
Textiles and yarns                       205.3    241.0   369.5   418.0    440.9          606.3    870.8
Metals                                   323.7    286.2   271.5   312.3    352.1          499.0    631.8
Cement                                    79.9    131.7   131.1   146.6    164.6          204.8    253.6
Raw materials                            228.1    250.4   260.4   302.3    352.6          473.1    631.8
Manufactured goods                       257.4    322.3   387.9   437.8    496.5          629.7    794.8
Other products                            43.1      29.4    29.6    33.1        37.2       46.2      57.3
Total goods                             1802.9   2029.4  2227.5  2778.8   2928.8    3718.2   4805.6
Non-factor services                     1639.7   1848.3  2112.1  2520.3   3021.3    4281.8   6040,1
Total goods and NFS                     3442.6   3877.7  4339.6  5299.1   5950.1    8000.0  10845.7
1/    Obtained as a residual.
2/    Index of international inflation.
EMENA Region
CPD II-A
February 24. 1978



ANNEX r
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OP PAYHENTS AND EXTIRNAL ASSISTANCE
(in currant US S millions
Actual                                            'Projiected
1974      1975       1976            1977      1978       1979       1980      1981      1982
A.   SIOEY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS V
1.  Exports (Goods and NFS)                       3442.6    3877.7    4339.6           5295.1    5950.1    6884.1    8000.0    9310.4  10845.7
2.  Imports (Goods and NFS)                       5231.5    5649.1    6123.2            7232.8    8037.8    9055.6   10218.0   11548.5  13055.7
3.  Resource Balance                             -1788.9  -1771.4   -1783.6           -1933.7   -2087.7   -2171.5   -2218.0  -2238.1  -2210.0
4.  Total net factor income                         576.3     683.0      692.1           673.5     716.5      752.2      779.1     816.7    865.6
a.  Interest and profits (net) 2/              -97.2    -100.0    -111.1           -194.0    -220.3    -259.6    -313.6    -363.5   -409.0
b.  Workere' remittances                       673.5      783.0     803.2           867.5      936.8    1011.8    1092.7    1180.2   1274. 6
5.  Net transfer.                                     -         -          -              -          -          -          -         -
6.  Balance on current account                   -1212.6   -1088.4  -1091.5           -1260.2   -1371.2   -1419.3   -1438.9   -1421.4  -1344.4
7.  Direct Foreign Investme i 3/                   292.7      357.9     367.2           400.3      436.3      475.5     518.3      564.9    615.8
8.  Net Private Borrowing  -                        200.3     325.4      281.6           250.0     264.3      321.4     264.3      207.1    150.0
Disbursements                             (282.5)   (423.3)   (346.0)          (250.0)   (300.0)   (400.0)   (400.0)   (400.0)  (400.0)
Amortization                              (-82.2)   (-97.9)   (-64.4)            (-)      (-35.7)   (-78.6)  (-135.7)  (-192.9) (-250.0)
9.  Net Public Borrowing                            333.4     295.9    -100.7           232.3      347.0      257.7     283.9      235.1    220.4
Disbursementa                             (431.8)   (542.4)   (182.9)          (620.8)   (728.6)   (865.5)   (946.2)   (931.3) (1037.6)
Amortization                              (-98.4)  (-246.5)  (-283.6)         (-388.5)  (-381.7)  (-607.8)  (-662.2)  (-696.2) (-817.2)
10.  Foreign Exchange Dersite 61                     195.5     185.0     545.2           500.0      450.0      425.0     400.0      400.0    400.0
11.  Other Items n.e.i .                              16.1    -48.9        -1.5                       8.0      109.6     166.4      236.4    210.0
12.  Increase in Reserves (-a increase)              112.6      -6.9        5.7         -122.3    -134.4    -170.0    -194.1    -222.2   -251.7
13.  Official Reserves (end year)                    903.7     910.6      905.0
B.   LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Actual
0D   LOAN COMMITM4ENTS                                                                  PUBLIC EXTERNAL DEBT                1974       1975      1976
1.  Total public M 6 LT loans                       166.7     221.0      207.1     Public 0W&D                       2037.3    2551.7    237t.1
a.  IBRD                                        30.0      110.0      30.0      Interest                           143.4      172.4     176.9
b.   IB                                          -         56.7       9.0      Amortizations                      187.0     272.0      310.4
c.  Others                                      36.7       54.3     168.1      Total Debt Service                 330.4     444.4      487.3
2.  Total public commercial loans                  487.4      378.3      243.8     Debt Service Ratio
Debt Service/Exports NFS           9.6      11.5       11.2
PUBLIC EXTERNAL DEBT                             Outstanding Dec.31.1976              Debt Service/Exports NFS &
(Disbursed Only)                              Amount           Percept              Immigrant's Remittances            8.0       9.5        9.5
1.  IBRD                                         81.8               3.5             Terms
2.  Other Multilateral                          123.8              5.2                Interest on Total DOAD/
3.  Governments                                 371.1             15.6                   Total DO6D                      7.0        6.8        7.4
4.  Financial Institutions                     1547.6             65.1                Total Debt Service/Total DOD   16.2         17.4      20.5
5.  Suppliers Credit                            129.0              5.4
6.  Others                                      123.9              5.2             IBRD DOD                            60.5       70.7      81.8
TOTAL                                      2377.2            100.0 IBRD DO6D as 2 of total DO5D                     3.0       2.8        3.4
IBRD Debt Service as 2 of
Total Debt Service                 2.4        2.5       3.0
I/   Data for 1974-1976 are estimated in dollars on the basis of current exchange rate..
2/   Includes net direct investment income and net dividends.
3/   Includes direct investment under Liv 2687/53, real estate investment and other net private investment.
4/   Includes loans to private corporations, net suppliers credits and loans to priv-te banks.
5/   Borrowing by the Bank of Greece and other public agencies.                                                                       EMENA Region
6/   Foreign currency deposits of Greek nationals abroad with local commercial banks.                                                 CPD II-A
7/   Residual balancing items including errors and omissions.
Fobruarv 24, 197A



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GREECE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (As of March 31, 1978)
US$ Million
Amount
Loan                                                               (Less
Number     Year         Borrower         Purpose                 Cancellation)  Undisbursed
Four loans fully disbursed                                           71.6             -
711        1970      Hellenic State    Education                     13.8            2.1
754        1971      Hellenic State    Irrigation                    25.0        t  7.6
859        1972      Hellenic State    Education                     23.5           21.6
991        1974      Hellenic State    Irrigation                    30.0           30.0
1134       1975     Hellenic State    Education                      45.0           45.0
1135       1975     NIBID                                            25.0            2.0
1165       1975      Hellenic State    Irrigation                    40.0           39.3
1240       1976      Hellenic State    Highway                       30.0           26,7
1345/2     1977      Hellenic State    Sewerage                      36.0           36.0
145711     1977      Hellenic State    Evros                         35.0           35.0
TOTAL                                               374.9Y         245.3
of which has; been repaid                          37.3
Total now outstanding                               337.6
Amount sold                             34. 0
of which has been repaid               4.1         29.9
Total now held by Bank/2                            307.72-/
Total undisbursed                                                  245.3
/1 Not yet effective
/2 A loan of $60 million for education was approved on March 28, 1978 And
was signed on April 14, 19.78.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of March 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                                                   Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor                                Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1962      Aevol Industrial Company
Organic Fertilizers, S. A.            Fertilizers            0.60    -        0.60
1965      "Titan" Cement Company, S. A. I        Cement                  1.00   0.50      1.50
Industrial
1966      NIBID                                   Finance                 -     0.72      0.72
1966      General Cement Company, S. A.          Cement                  3.50    -        3.50
1966      "Titan" Cement Company, S. A. II       Cement                   -     0.03      0.03
1970      Aluminium de Grece, S. A.
Industielle et Commerciale I          Aluminium              3.50   5.10      8.60
1972      Aluminium de Grece, S. A.
Industielle et Commerciale II        Aluminium                -     0.05      0.05
1975      Hellenic Food Industries, S. A.        Food Processing         1.00   0.13      1.13
1977      Hellenic Food Industries, S. A.        Food Processing          -     0.11      0.11
Industrial
1977      NIBID                                   Finance               40.00    -       40.00
Total Gross Commitments                                    49.60   6.64    56.24
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                     43.41   5.72    49.13
Total Commitments now held by IFC                            6.19   0.92      7.11
Total undisbursed                                           25.00    -       25.00



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan No. 711 - First Education Project; $13.8 million Loan of November 5, 1970;
Effectiveness Date: March 31, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The five project post secondary technical schools (KATEs) are nearly
completed. Procurement of the remaining furniture and equipment is expected
to be completed during 1978. Most of the funds have been disbursed and the
balance will be fully absorbed as this remaining procurement is completed.
Despite delays in construction and procurement, the higher technical educa-
tion program has been in operation since 1974, both in temporary facilities
and in the partially-finished project schools. At present, about 9,000
students are enrolled in the program, or more than 45 percent above original
design capacity.
Loan No. 754 - Groundwater Development Project (Irrigation); US$25 million
Loan of June 21, 1971;  Effectiveness Date:  November 15, 1971; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
implementation of this project began slowly due to delays in con-
tract awards, changes in design of the distribution network following consul-
tants' recommendations, and a protracted search for a satisfactory solution,
found in December 1973, to the question of farmers' contributions to the
capital cost of the project. Meanwhile, project costs increased substan-
tially. The Government proposals to phase the construction of the permanent
irrigation network through 1985 were approved by the Executive Directors on
November 10, 1977 ((R77-275). Drilling of the wells is 85 percent completed
and irrigation has started on about 18,500 ha of the 40,000 ha using temporary
facilities and good yields have been obtained in these areas. The substantial
cost overruns are being borne by the Government. Sand has infiltrated into
about 25 percent of the wells and a program of testing and rehabilitation is
underway.
Loan No. 859 - Second Education Project; $23.5 million Loan of October 2, 1972;
Effectiveness Date: March 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Architectural designs for all but 3 of the 31 project institutions
are completed. Eight construction contracts have been awarded and another 17
are expected to be awarded by June 30, 1978. Procurement of equipment for
existing schools has started and some 19 contracts have been awarded.  However,
due to initial delays in preparing designs and bidding documents, project com-
pletion is now expected only in 1981. These delays, together with changes in
educational and technical designs, have led to cost increases about 70 percent
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
above the appraisal estimates, for which the Government is providing funds.
Meanwhile, $8.0 miLlion of the loan has been committed. Agreements have been
reached to revise the administrative and related arrangements, which should
ensure improved implementation of this, as well as the Third Education Project.
Loan No. 991 - Yannitsa Irrigation Project: $30.0 Million Loan of June 3,
1974; Effectiveness Date: July 29, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Because of political changes in 1974/75, delays were experienced
in completing the conditions of effectiveness and project costs increased
significantly. Project implementation has however begun; the first (of three)
contracts was awarded in September 1976 and the second in December 1977. Con-
struction began in June 1977 and completion is expected by December 1979, or
about six months later than appraisal estimates. The Government proposal to
delete the Nestos subproject and to use the funds to cover the increased cost
of the Yannitsa project was approved by the Executive Directors on November
10, 1977 (R77-276).
Loan No. 1134 - Third Education Project; $45 million Loan of June 27, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: April 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Start up has been quite slow; architects were selected only in
October 1977 to design the project schools but preliminary designs for 14 of
the 17 institutions are now completed. Agreements have been reached on revi-
sions to the administrative and related arrangements, which should ensure
improved implementation of this, as well as the Second Education Project. The
Government has passed the legislative framework for reforms in technical edu-
cation. Some delay resulted from having to reflect these developments, which
do not affect enrollments or costs, in the project school designs.
Loan No. 1135 - Fifth NIBID Project: $25 million Loan of June 27, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
This loan has been fully committed.
Loan No. 1165 - East Vermion Irrigation Project: $40.0 Million Loan
of October 3, 1975; Effectiveness Date: August 12, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Progress is satisfactory. The first contract was awarded in January
1978 and tender documents have been prepared for the second (of three). A
Project Manager and a steering committee have been appointed and are function-
ing. The Government has postponed the feasibility studies for a future project
in the Xanthi Komotini area.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan No. 1240 - Highway Project:  $30.0 Million Loan of May 24, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: January 5, 1977; Closing Date: December 30, 1980.
Progress is satisfactory; awards for most of the road maintenance
equipment have been approved; the road maintenance directorate is now operat-
ing but is short of staff; and the bidding for the project road is nearly
completed. Consultants for transport planning are being selected.
Loan No. 1345 - Salonica and Volos Sewerage Project:  $36 Million Loan of
February 3, 1977; Effectiveness Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
The draft law for the Volos Authority, is still pending, since the
Parliament was unable to consider it before it was dissolved for the November
1977 elections. Parliament, however, ratified the Loan Agreement on April
24, 1978 and the other steps needed for effectiveness are being completed.
Meanwhile, engineering consultants have been hired for Volos and selected for
Salonica.
Loan No. 1457 - Evros Development Project: $35 Million Loan of June 27, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project office has been established and staffed and has prepared
the first years investment budget for Evros. The law ratifying the loan was
approved March 29, 1978 and the other steps needed for effectiveness are being
completed.
Loan No. 1539 - Fourth Education Project: $60 Million Loan of April 14, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Design development is underway.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:    20 months (January 1976 to
September 1977)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:           Agricultural Bank of Greece (ABG)
assisted by consultants
(c)  Date of first presentation to Bank:   Draft preparation report submitted
on June 15, 1977
(d) Bank missions:
(i)  Preparation                        March 1976, August 1976 and
March 1977
(ii)  Pre-appraisal                      June 1977 and September 1977
(iii)  Appraisal                          October/November 1977
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:   April 28, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:           December, 1978
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) ABG to complete its study on agricultural interest rates and subsidies
before December 31, 1979 (para. 30, Project Agreement Section 4.06);
(b) ABG to maintain an adequate long-term debt:equity ratio (para. 28,
Project Agreement Section 4.05);
(c) ABG to maintain a Project Unit and to keep it adequately staffed at
all times (para. 34, Project Agreement Schedule);
(d) ABG to appraise and approve sub-loan applications as outlined in para.
34 and to ensure, with Government, that lending rates and terms to
sub-borrowers would be as outlined in para. 36 (Loan Agreement Schedule
6, Project Agreement Schedule);
(e) Government to pay to ABG an annual compensation fee on sub-loans so that
its administrative and financial costs can be covered by income and the
fee (para. 36, Loan Agreement Schedule 6);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(g)  The Ministry of Agriculture and ABG to appoint consultants in research,
extension and marketing and their counterparts respectively by June 30,
1979 and December 31, 1978 (paras. 37 and 38, Loan Agreement Section
3.02, Project Agreement Section 2.02);
(h)  ABG to submit proposed implementation plans for the new marketing com-
panies no later than June 30, 1979 and, after finalizing these in agree-
ment with the Bank, to promote the establishment of these companies
(para. 37, Project Agreement Section 2.03); and
(k)  The Ministry of Agriculture, to prepare detailed research, extension and
training programs and submit these to the Bank no later than December 31,
1979 (para. 38, Loan Agreement, Section 3.03).






IBRD 13315R
20         ~~~2'1             2'2                                                                                     2 26              218                      MAY 978
k                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B UL G A RA                        K-stane
YUGOSLAVIA
N  ~~r2rna  X7nthKI  '~lT U  R K E Y
'7~~~~~~~~
V.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
r3r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SEAN                1
J                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-L
Pi u          S ir A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S7
E L 0 P 0 N N E 5 U 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 25                                                   5                 0
y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
GREKECEV5-.
VEGQETAlE  _RQDCT1OrN AN
MARKETING PROJECT                            ________
U    MAJOfl TOWN                                                                    lon
INTEINNATIONAL $OUNDSARIFEi                                                                        RT 
-  25.           _____________25                                   27~                5.                25
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6                                                          2 8 






-9461 AAVflNVr
4, _IW  - .7   .P                 -;                                             4    O_
p mt$eS..3,eow..C                           :              0 .X,                                            >           0                       j. ;. .                              t-4" 
#0                                            <' #0#0:ST'     ,
9 #Egl   0.,oC B9 #00                                                                                                                                                                              so1#os~
p    1f#     #0MW .a
i#0~~ ##0*k#0#0           ~~~~DiuO~~403
.~~~~~~pAqp.M0#,S#q ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -~~~~o~0'
-                                           d~~poyidBuA   -4
91   L2 "I






I BRD 13317
ANUARY 1978
A      id.ov,d,a                                                                                               KORINTHOS
17:    V    0 ll  J    +                fD   e   /   o)  po    n   n   e    s   U   s
5C  A-I,as 
4133                                                                                        A; : V ) sRGOS
;I;:    GR1:ECER    : - :00AOSochoro                                  $                 TRIPD$XR
Vegetable,od1on Pro u\-,n
Marketing Project
PELOPONNESUS
t    t0  '*r  'U  _z                                                         A |,/mAAATA\ 
0  V:   O   r                           ::: .  *   o  .  y                                                        \L g
toQ           14 5                                          a i  M ;0.th -ng;U0 ;00 E 
0  oLPAf   T15 IA   2sC           \    J      ;;      9                r    g  E    i  1 z  1>kS                t           Skg u   ~      +               X
R     E \ A e ..R oA            '^'                                                                  "
*X Mo 



