CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1588 GR
Loan Agreement
(Vegetable Production and Marketing Project)
between
THE HELLENIC STATE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 10, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1588 GR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 10, 1978, between THE HELLENIC STATE
(hereinafter called the Borr(er) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Borrower has represented to the Bank that it will
endeavor to obtain additional loans from other lenders outside
The Hellenic State in such aggregate amount as it shall require
for the execution of the Project on terms and conditions that will
enable the Borrower and ABG (as this term is hereinafter defined)
to carry out part of the Project in accordance with appropriate
financial practices;
(C) Agricultural Bank of Greece (hereinafter called ABG), a
public financial institution established and operating under the
laws of the Borrower, will carry out Parts A and B of the Project
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to ABG part of the proceeds of
the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and ABG;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and ABG of even date herewith, as the same m-iy be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"     means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and ABG pursuant to Section
3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "ABG Statutes" means the statutes of ABG under the
Borrower's Law No. 4332 dated August, 1929, as amended from time
to time;
(d) "Project Unit" means ABG's unit referred to in the
Schedule to the Project Agreement;
(e) "Steering Committee" means the committee described in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(f) "Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project"
means the statement of lending and investment operations for Part
A of the Project set forth in the Schedule to the Project Agree-
ment, as such statement may be amended from time to time with
the agreement of the Borrower, the Bank and ABG;
(g) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
ABG to a Beneficiary for an Investment Project;
(h) "Investment Project" means a specific project for any of
the investments included in Part A of the Project, to be carried
out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(i) "Beneficiary" means the recipient of a Sub-loan;
(j) "stremma" means an area measure equivalent to one-tenth
of one hectare; and


﻿- 3 -
(k) "Dr." or "drachma" means the national currency of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million
dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
provided, however, that withdrawals in respect of a Sub-loan shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.


﻿-4
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. ABG is designated as representative of the
Borrower for Parts A and B of the Project for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the
Project through its Ministry of Agriculture, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and :ball
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause ABG to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall
take or cause to be taken all action including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable ABG to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(c) Without any limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower
shall cause the execution of the Project to be coordinated and
supervised by the Steering Committee in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Bank.
(d)   Out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Borrower shall:
(i) relend to ABG an amount of $27,200,000 equivalent for the
financing in part of the Sub-loans under Part A of the Project,
and (ii) make available to ABG an amount of $300,000 equivalent
for consultants' services under Part B of the Project, all under a


﻿- 5 -
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and ABG, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, includ-
ing, inter alia, those specified in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist its Ministry of Agricul-
ture in carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall,
not later than June 30, 1979, or such later date as the Bank may
agree, employ two research consultants and two extension consul-
tants directly responsible, respectively, to the Director of
Research and the Director of Extension of the Ministry of Agri-
culture and appoint a qualified and experienced counterpart to
each of these consultants. The qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment of these consultants shall be
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1979, or such later date as the Bank may agree, arrange to forward
to the Bank for its review and comments, the research program, the
extension program and the training program under Part C of the
Project. The Borrower shall thereafter implement said programs
with due diligence and efficiency and consult with the Bank prior
to making any changes thereto.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause adequate provision
to be made for the insurance of the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part C of the Project
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity to be payable in a currency freely usable
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to
Part C of the Project shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,


﻿- 6 -
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for Part C of the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of Part C of the Project (including its cost and
the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to dis-
close their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in Part C of the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank at regular intervals all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part C of the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower,
the Bank and ABG, the Borrower in cooperation with ABG shall
prepare or cause to be prepared and furnish or cause to be fur-
nished to the Ban1 , report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank,
and by the Bank and ABG, of their respective obligations under the
Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed


﻿- 7 -
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes
that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such
lien shall be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably,
and at no cost to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of the
creation of any such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall
not apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date; or (iii) any lien on commercial
goods to secure a debt maturing not more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred and to be paid out of the
proceeds of sale of such commercial goods; or (iv) any lien upon
real estate or other property in Greece or revenues or receipts in
the currency of the Borrower, if such lien is given by a political
subdivision or by an agency of a political subdivision of the
Borrower under arrangements or circumstances which would not
result in priority in the allocation or realization of foreign
exchange.
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
includes assets of the Borrower or of any of its political
subdivisions or of any agency of the Borrower or of any agency
of any such political subdivision or of the Bank of Greece or
of any other institution performing the functions of a central
bank.
(e) If the Borrower, because of constitutional or other
legal provisions, shall be unable to make the foregoing effective
with respect to any lien on any assets of a political subdivision
or agency of a political subdivision, the Borrower, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall give to the Bank an equiva-
lent lien or equivalent priority in the allocation or realization
of foreign exchange, as the case may be, satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take into account the
results of the study referred to in Section 4.06 of the Project
Agreement in formulating its agricultural lending policies.


﻿-8-
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Part C of the Project,
of the Ministry of Agriculture and other departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out Part C of the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) Without any limitation on the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall cause its Ministry of
Agriculture to maintain a separate account or accounts with
respect to the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan for Part C of the Project.
Section 4.04. In order to facilitate the transport of fresh
produce from Crete and Peloponnesus, the Borrower shall take all
necessary steps to improve handling and loading facilities at
seaports and air cargo terminals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) ABG shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that ABG will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(c) a material change shall have been made in ABG's Stat-
utes, or in any legislation or regulation governing the organiza-
tion, powers and operations of ABG so as to affect adversely ABG's
ability to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement or
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d) any debt of ABG shall have become due and payable prior
to its agreed maturity pursuant to the terms thereof; and


﻿- 9 -
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ABG or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
(b) any events specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and
(e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execu. .n of the Project Agreement on behalf of ABG
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action; and
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and ABG, respectively, has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action,
and is legally binding upon ABG in accordance with its terms; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and ABG, respectively,
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ABG in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date January 8, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower;
Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Ministry of Finance
Athens, Greece
with a copy to:
The Ministry of Coordination
Athens, Greece
Telex:
216326 YSINGR
Athens, Greece
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE HELLENIC STATE
By /s/ Menelaos Alexandrakis
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Loan
1.    The table Lalow sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Part A of the
Project
(a) Part A (1) (a)         18,200,000           )
of the Project                              )
) 45%
(b)  Part A (1) (b)         5,200,000            ) of amounts
of the Project                              ) disbursed
) for Sub-
(c) Part A (2) of           1,700,000           ) loans
the Project                                 )
(d)  Part A (3) of          2,100,000           )
the Project
(2) Consultants'                   300,000        100% of foreign
services for Part B                          expenditures
of the Project
(3) Equipment and                  900,000        71%
materials for Part C
of the Project
(4) Consultants' ser-              900,000        100% of foreign
vices for Part C                             expenditures
of the Project


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Training for Part C            700,000        100% of foreign
of the Project                               expenditures
TOTAL       30,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category or Sub-category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category or Sub-category, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category or Sub-category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Loan which are then allocated to another Category or Sub-category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the


﻿- 14 -
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further with-
drawals under such Category or Sub-category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category or Sub-category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to promote the
development of the horticultural sector through the expansion of
production of out-of-season vegetables in Crete and Peloponnesus,
the strengthening of research and extension institutions for the
adaptation and production of high value crops, the establishment
of an improved organization of the marketing system and the
strengthening of ABG's lending operations.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
A program of Sub-loans to be made by ABG to Benefi-
ciaries to finance the following investments in Crete and
Peloponnesus:
(1) Greenhouses
Construction and equipping of greenhouses, primarily
for vegetable production, including: (a) the replacement
of existing greenhouses on about 7,000 stremma of land; and
(b) additional greenhouses on about 2,000 stremma of open
cultivated land.
(2) Packhouses and Cold Storages
(a) Construction and equipping of six packhouses with
appropriate cooling facilities, with a capacity varying
from 25 to 40 tons per day and suitable for multiproduct
use.
(b) Improvement and rehabilitation of about six exist-
ing packhouses.
(3) Tractor-trailers
Provision of about fifty refrigerated tractor-trailers,
each with a standard capacity of about 20 tons.


﻿- 16 -
Part B:   Marketing Organization
Promotion and assistance in the establishment and
initial operation of about four companies in Crete and
Peloponnesus for the marketing, primarily, of horticultural
products to domestic and export markets, including, inter
alia, about four man-years of foreign consultants' services
for the purpose.
Part C:   Research and Extension Programs
(1) Research and extension for Crete and Peloponnesus
(a) Development of improved research and extension
programs and training of local staff for the execution
thereof, with the assistance of about eight man-years of
foreign consultants' services in research and about six
man-years of foreign consultants' services in extension.
(b) Training abroad in horticultural production and
marketing: about two years each for about eight research
personnel and about thirty-three man-years for extension
personnel.
(c) Construction and equipping of greenhouses on
about 14 stremma of land for research in greenhouse
cultivation of vegetables.
(2) Equipment and Supplies
Provision of equipment and supplies to selected research
centers and institutes and extension services, including: (a)
equipment for in-depth investigations in identified areas of
research such as vegetable varieties, heat, ventilation,
greenhouse structures and coverings; laboratory equipment
for leaf and soil analysis, pesticide and chemical residue
tests; and (b) basic materials and supplies for extension
services.
T  P                               *               *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1982
through   August 15, 1993                     1,250,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.50%
More than three years but
not mc-Le than six years
before maturity                              3.00%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen
years before maturity                        6.50%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                              7.50%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works for Part A (2) (a) and Part
C of the Project shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding under the Project and in addition
to the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, ABG (for
Part A (2) (a) of the Project) and the Borrower's Ministry of
Agriculture (for Part C of the Project) shall prepare and forward
to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later thav
60 days prior to. the date of availability to the public of the
first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as
the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. ABG or the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, as
appropriate, shall provide the necessary information to update
such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Civil works and electro-mechanical equipment for packhouses
and cold storages under Part A (2) (a) of the Project shall be
procured by ABG through turnkey contracts to the extent feasible
and in any case the engineering design and procurement thereof
shall be closely coordinated.
4.   Items of equipment and supplies for research and extension
under Part C of the Project shall be grouped so as to permit
bulk procurement as shall be consistent with appropriate technical
and procurement practices.


﻿- 20 -
5.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods,
shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower or ABG and
the Beneficiaries, as appropriate, of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods for Part A (2) (a) (other than
those procured through turnkey contracts) and for Part C of the
Project in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of
this Schedule, goods manufactured in Greece may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evalua,ion, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Greece if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Greece equal to at least 20Z of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Greece.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes


﻿- 21 -
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered in
each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only,
an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   For Part A (1) of the Project, ABG shall ensure that the
Beneficiaries shall to the extent feasible obtain price quota-
tions from not less than three responsible manufacturers or
suppliers. Promptly after the date of the Loan Agreement, ABG
shall prepare and forward to the Bank a general notice in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request, and thereafter ABG shall arrange for
such notice to be advertised in trade publications of wide inter-
national circulation, in order to attract the interest of pro-
spective responsible manufacturers or suppliers to offer equipment
and materials for greenhouses.
2.   For Part A (2) (b) of the Project, materials and equipment
may be procured by the Beneficiaries through local commercial
channels.
3.   Prior to the approval of the first Sub-loan under Part A
(3) of the Project, ABG shall prepare and forward to the Bank, for
its concurrence, a list of technical criteria to be met by all
tractor-trailers which may be procured by the Beneficiaries
through local commercial channels.


﻿- 22 -
4.   With respect to Part C of the Project, contracts for items
of equipment and supplies for research and extension which cannot
be grouped in accordance with Part A.4 above and which are each
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less, and con-
tracts for greenhouses may be procured in accordance with the
Borrower's procurement procedures provided that, prior to award-
ing such contracts, the Borrower shall to the extent feasible
obtain price quotations from not less than three manufacturers or
suppliers. The aggregate amount of contracts awarded pursuant
to the provisions of this paragraph shall not exceed $300,000
equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for new packhouses and cold
storages for Part A (2) (a) of the Project and to all contracts
for Part C of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, ABG or the Borrower's Ministry
of Agriculture, as appropriate, shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the speci-
fications and other bidding documents, together with a description
of the advertising prc--.edures to be followed for the bidding, and
shall make such modifications in the said documents or procedures
as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to
the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, ABG or
the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, as appropriate, shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
ABG or the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, as appropriate,
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 23 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract for Part A (2) (b), Part A (3)
and Part C of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, ABG or the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, as appropriate, shall respec-
tively furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Bank of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, and such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guide-
lines or this Schedule, promptly inform ABG or the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture, respectively, and state *  -reasons for
such determination.
3.   ABG shall retain copies of the documentary evidence relating
to Sub-loans under Part A (1) of the Project to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan until one year after the Closing Date for
their review by accredited representatives of the Bank.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Steering Committee
A Steering Committee in Athens shall supervise, coordinate
and review the implementation of the Project and provide broad
policy directions to the Borrower's and ABG's departments and
agencies involved in the carrying out of the Project or any
part thereof. The Steering Committee shall be assisted by a
permanent secretariat in ABG; its membership shall include, inter
alia, representatives of the Borrower's Ministries of Coordination
and of Agriculture, of ABG and of the Panhellenic Federation of
Union of Cooperatives. The Steering Committee shall meet as
required, but at least once every six months, to review the
progress of the Project.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 6
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
Unless the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall provide, inter alia, that:
1.   The proceeds of the Loan on-lent to ABG for Part A of the
Project shall carry interest on the principal amount outstand-
ing from time to time, at an annual interest rate equal to the
interest rate set forth in Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement. The
repayment terms of the principal amount shall be substantially in
conformity with Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement; ABG shall repay
the equivalent in terms of drachmas of the proceeds of the Loan so
on-lent (such equivalent to be determined as of the respective
dates of withdrawals of the proceeds from the Loan Account).
2.   Sub-loans made by ABG under Part A of the Project shall
carry interest on the principal amount outstanding from time to
time at an annual rate of not less than: (a) for Sub-loans for
greenhouses: 7%; (b) for Sub-loans for packhouses and cold stor-
ages: 6.5% in the case of cooperatives and producer groups and
9.5% in the case of private exporters; and (c) for Sub-loans for
tractor-trailers: 10.5%.
3.   The Borrower shall pay ABG an annual compensation fee on
the principal amount of the Sub-loans outstanding from time to
time, so that, at all times, ABG's administrative and financial
costs on such outstanding principal amount are equal or less
than the interest income derived by ABG from Sub-loans plus the
compensation fee.


