Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
I  A1J  3/3  f-73
Report No. 8051-TH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
SECOND POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 7, 1989
Industry and Energy Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
T'his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officfid duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World flank authorizaSion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of August 1989)
Currency Unit = Thai Baht (B)
US$1 = B 25.6
B 1 = US$0.039
GOVERNMENT AND EGAT FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
bpd         -          barrels per day
kV           -         kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA          -         kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MVA          -         megavolt-ampere (1,000 kiluvolt-amperes)
kW           -         kilowatt (l,0OO watts)
MW           -         megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kWh          -         kilowatt-hour (1,000 watt-hours)
GWh          -         gigawatt-hour (1 million kilowatt-hours)
kcal         -         kilocalorie (3.97 British thermal units)
tcf         -          trillion cubic feet
MMcfd        -         million standard cubic feet per day
MMBtu        -         million British thermal tnits
MMt          -         million metric tonnes
tpa         -          tonne per annum
toe         -          tonne of oil equivalent
MMtoe        -         million tonnes of oil equivalent
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          -         Asian Development Bank
BOOT        -          Build-Own-Operate-Transfer
DMR          -         Department of Mineral Resources
EGAT         -         Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
ERR         -          Economic Rate of Return
ESMAP        -         Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
IFR         -          Internal Financial Rate of Return
I1P         -          Independent Power Producer
LRMC         -         Long Run Marginal Cost
MEA          -         Metropolitan Electricity Authority
MIS          -         Management Information System
MOF          -         Ministry of Finance
NEA          -         National Energy Administiation
NEPO         -         National Energy Policy Office
NESDB        -         National Economic and So(ial Development
Board
PEA          -         Provincial Electricity Arthority
PDP         -          Power Development Plan
PTT         -          Petroleum Authority of T1,ailand
ROR          -         Rate of Return on Fixed Assets
RTG          -         Royal Thai Government



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
SECOND POWER SYSTEH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Proiect SumnarX
Borrower:                 Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
(EGAT)
Guarantor:                Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:                   US$94 million equivalent
Lending Terms:            Repayable over 20 years, including five years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:      The proposed loan would finance a two-year (FY90-
91) time slice of EGAT's FY87-91 investment
program. It would help meet the growth in power
demand expected over the medium-term; and
strengthen the capabilities of EGAT in environ-
mental monitoring and evaluation through technical
assistance and acquisition of environmental
monitoring equipment. The investment program of
EGAT involves the expansion of generation
facilities, the reinforcement and extension of
transmission systems, the expansion of lignite
mining capacity and other miscellaneous works.
The program supports the development and economic
use of domestic lignite and natural gas.
Benefits and Risks:       In supporting the timely development of the power
sector, the loan would help sustain Thailand's
economic growth. Further, as the bulk of EGAT's
proposed investments in power generation is
predicated on the use of domestic lignite and
natural gas, the proposed development plan would
lead to substantial savings in the import of fuel.
There are no major risks associated with the
program. Although EGAT's Power Development
Program is ambitious, the utility's demonstrated
experience with system expansion and its state of
preparedness assure a successful implementation of
the program.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local      Foreign         Total
EGAT's Investment Program (FY90-91)        ------- (USS million) -
Thermal Plants                         436         1,025         1,461
Hydro Plants                            48            57           105
Power Transmission                     103           203           306
Lignite Mining                         103            57           16C
Miscellaneous                           39             3            42
Taxes and Duties                       296             0           296
Total Base Cost                   1,02'         1,345        2,370
Contingencies
Physical                          45            58          103
Price                             41            53           94
Total Cost                        1,111         1,456        2,567
Interest during construction        185            28          213
Total Financing Required          1,296         1,484        2,780
financing Plan:
Local      Foreign         Total
Sources                                   -------- (US$ million) -------
World Bank
Ongoing Power Transmission Project  -              70            70
Ongoing Power System Dev. Project   -              70            70
Proposed Loan                         -            94           94
Other borrowings (from official        541         1,250         1,791
lenders, commercial banks, and
export credits)
Internal cash generation               755             -           755
Total                             1,296         1,484        2,780
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                          FY90        FY91         FY92          FY93
------------- (US$ million) -------------
Annual                           10           40          40             4
Cumulative                       10           50          90            94
Rate of Return: 15X



- iii -
THAILAND
SECOND POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Loan and Project Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I.  THE ENERGY SECTOR   .1...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
A.  Overview  .1...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
B.  Resource Endowment  .1..  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
C.  Energy Consumption  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
D. Organization and Planning.                                            4
E.  Energy Sector Is3ues and Strategy   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
F.  Private Sector Participation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
II. THE POWER SUBSECTOR   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
A.  The Power Market  ................... .   8
B.  Generation and Transmission Facilities  . . . . . . . . . . .   9
C.  Fuel Options for Power Generation   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
D.  EGAT's Power Development Plan   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
E.  Past Bank Experience and Sector Strategy  . . . . . . . . . .  13
III. THE BORROWER.. ..................  15
A.  Organization and Management   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
B.  Staffing and Training   ... .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  16
C.  Operational Performance   ... .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  17
D.  Financial Management  ... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  18
IV. THE BANK LOAN   ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  19
A. Objectives of the Bank Loan .19
B.  Utilization of Proceeds of the Bank Loan  . . . . . . . . . .  20
C. Implementation .21
D. Environment .21
E. Cost Estimates .23
F.  Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
G. Procurement .25
H.  Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
V.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
A.  Past Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
B.  Present Financ'al Position    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
C.  Financial Outlook .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
D.  Lignite Mine Operations .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
E.  Subsector Finances .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
F. Tariff Levels and Structure . . . .                                  33
G.  Financing Plan  .......................  34



- iv 
VI. PRfjJECT JUSTIFICATION   ....  .         .  .  .    ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  35
A.  Economic Analysis    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
B.  Risks   .....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  36
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
A.  Agreements  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  36
B. Recommendation.                                                         38
ANNEXES
1.     Highlights of EGAT, MEA and PEA Operations ......................  39
2.     EGAT's Existing Generating Capacity .............................  40
3.     EGAT's Existing Transmission and Substation Facilities ..........  41
4.     EGAT's Power Development Plan ...................................  42
5.     Balance of System Load Requirements and Capabilities ............  44
6.     Projected Energy Balance ........................................  45
7.     EGAT's Demand Forecast ..........................................  46
8.     Evaluation of EGAT's Operational Efficiency:
Consultancy Study Terms of Reference .....          ...............  47
9.     Supervision Plan ................................................  51
10.    EGAT's Investment Program FY90-91 ...............................  52
11.    Disbursement Schedule .....................                                53
12.    EGAT's Past Financial Performance ............................... 54
13.    EGAT's Financial Projections ....................................  57
14.    Power Subsector Financial Projections ...........................  63
15.    EGAT's Tariff Structure ......................................... 66
16.    Rate of keturn on EGAT's Power Development Plan .................  67
17.    Environmental Review - Summary ..................................  68
18.    List of Documents in Project File ...............................  76
CHART
EGAT's Organization Chart
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Thailand in
July/August 1989, comprising Darayes Mehta (Senior Power Engineer),
Margaret Hanson (Financial Analyst), Peter Kotschwar (Principal Mining
Engineer), Dennis Bateman (Mining Engineer), Peng Hing Tio (Consultant,
Environment), Harvey Salgo (Consultant, Privatization) and Graham Shore
(Consultant, Privatization).



THAILAND
SECOND POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Overview
1.1       The social and economic transformation of the Thai economy over
the past 25 years has resulted in rapid growth in energy consumption. Most
of this growth was initially met by energy imports: at the time of the
second oil crisis in 1979/80, Thailand's dependence on imported oil was in
excess of 902 of total primary commercial energy. In the ensuing years,
however, efforts made by the Royal Thai Government (RTG) to promote the
development of indigenous energy resources bave had a visible impact on the
pattern of commercial energy consumption: the share of oil has fallen
markedly, being reduced from 91% in 1977 to 62X in 1988, with that of
imported oil down to 52Z. Converrely, the shares of indigenous lignite and
natural gas have grown steadily, reaching 10X and 24Z, respectively. This
notwithstanding, the energy situation in Thailand remains characterized by
relatively modest commercial energy consumption in relation to the
country's development (284 tonnes of oil equivalent [toe] per US$ million
of GDP), with traditional energy, particularly fuelwood, remaining the
predominant fuel in rural households. The outlook is therefore for rapid
growth in commercial energy consumption as the economy continues expanding.
1.2       Within this general context, the power system in Thailand has
grown at a rapid pace over the past two decades. Considerable progress has
been made in making electricity widely available, especially in provincial
urban areas. Industrial consumption has also been growing rapidly.
Overall, growth in power demand has consistently exceeded that of
commercial energy consumption. This has resulted in a per capita
electricity consumption in Thailand (about 556 kWh in 1988) higher than the
average for countries at the same income level. SimiLar trends are
expected to prevail in the future as the country's industrial and socio-
economic development accelerates.
B. Resource Endowment
1.3       Thailand has a diversified energy resource base, consisting of
bio-mass, petroleum (oil and natural gas), lignite, hydropower, and
geothermal energy which is still at an exploratory stage in the Northern
Region. Both natural gas and lignite are expected to gain greater
prominence in the country's energy balance as key fuels for electricity
generation over the next decade.
Oil and Gas
1.4       Thailand has a substantial potential for oil and gas:  some 519
million barrels of liquid (crude oil and condensate) and 13 trillion cubic
feet (tcf) of gas (2.3 billion barrels of oil equivalent) already have been



identified out of ultimate recoverable reserves estimated at 4-5 billion
barrels of oil equivalent.
1.5       Petroleum exploration has led to substantial gas discoveries:  in
the Gulf of Thailand, by Unocal (previously, Union Oil) and Seagram
(previously, the Texas-Pacific Co.); and onshore at Nam Phong in the Khorat
basin by Esso. Proven and probable economically recoverable gas reserves
are currently indicated at about 5.5 tcf. While, so far, only part of the
Unocal reserves have been brought into production, output of natural gas is
expected to increase sharply in future years as additional reserves are
brought under development. The Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT),
which owns and operates the pipeline linking the Unocal fields to Bangkok,
is currently negotiating with Unocal and Esso for the purchase of
additional quantities of gas. PTT has also taken over the Seagram offshore
concession area, which it expects to bring into production by the early-to-
mid 1990s. Overall, gas production, which averages about 500 million cubic
feet per day (MMcfd) at present, is expected to double over the next ten
years. The development of the gas sector, however, has been made difficult
by the complex geology of reservoirs which is responsible for a higher than
usual degree of uncertainty in production levels and costs.  The main
problem facing policy makers is therefore to optimize the timing of the
development of each area, taking into account uncertainties in the
magnituue of economically recoverable reserves and the lead-time required
to develop a market for the gas, particularly in the power sector which
offers some of its most economically attractive uses.
Lignite
1.6       Thailand's coal resources are all relatively low grade, of the
variety generally categorized as lignite. Geological lignite reserves
amount to a total of 2.1 billion tonnes, i.e., 450 million tonnes of oil
equivalent (MMtoe), 702 of which is in the Mae Moh basin in Northern
Thailand which has been developed by the Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand (EGAT). Economically minable reserves are estimated at 1,152
million to-mes (MMt), of which 812 MMt are located in Mae Moh. Potential
for additional discoveries is good; recent nation-wide exploration by EGAT
has resulted in a number of discoveries, including that in 1987 of a major
deposit at Saba Yoi in Southern Thailand with potential reserves in excess
of 200 MMt. Lignite production increased over the last ten years from 0.6
MMt to about 7 MMt in 1988, of which 782 was at the Mae Moh mine, owned and
operated by EGAT. Annual output is scheduled to expand further to 11 MMt
by 1991, mainly to fuel additional power generation capacity. It is
expected that lignite will continue over the long-term to be an important
fuel for power generation. A recent study of the lignite sector conducted
jointly by the Bank and NESDB (Report No. 7815-TH) inter alia identified
areas in which the private sector could participate in lignite development
(para. 1.20).
Hydropower
1.7       Thailand's hydropower potential, excluding that of its two main
international rivers--the Mekong and the Salween, is estimated at
10,626 MW. Of this, about 2,250 KW, with an annual generation capability



- 3 -
of 5,400 GWh, have already been harnessed by EGAT. However, higher
investment costs and environmental concerns are seen as major constraints
to the further development of hydro sites as evidenced by the recent
shelving of a major hydro project (Nam Chon) for environmental reasons.
The hydro potential of rivers within Thailand is dwarfed by that of rivers
forming the Thai frontier with Laos and Burma. The development of possible
sites would require agreement between the riparian powers, including in
particular acceptable terms for Thailand to use a major part of the energy
generated since the other countries are unlikely to be in a position to
absorb the energy provided by such projects. Preliminary discussions have
beer. initiated for a possible joint project with Burma, while feasibility
studies are under way for a hydro project in Laos.
Bio-mass
1.8       The process of modernization occurring in rural Thailand
notwithstanding, use of traditional fuels has remained predominant in rural
avAar. About two-thirds of the reliance on bio-mass consists of charcoal
and firewood use by rural households (at the rate of 10 MMtoe/year), and
consequently forests near inhabited areas have been heavily over-cut. The
remaining third of bio-mass supply consists of bagasse and paddy husks used
as fuel in the sugar and rice industries. Thailand suffers from an
increasing scarcity of woodfuels and other wood products, particularly in
the Northeast. A Woodfuel Preinvestment Study was completed by the Energy
Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) in February 1988; the study
recommends that the Governiment aim at curbing further deterioration of the
country's bio-mass endowment by promoting the participation of the rural
population in reforestation efforts. A follow-up project, to be financed
with bilateral assistance, has been designed to support such a strategy.
Concerns about the preservation of already dwindling forests make it
necessary in the long-term to switch to other forms of generating energy in
rural areas.
C. Energy Consumption
Consumption Trends
1.9       Rapid economic growth in Thailand over the last two decades has
been accompanied by growing energy consumiption. Final commercial energy
consumption grew at an average rate of 5.52 between 1978 and 1988. The
sectoral composition of energy demand has been marked by a progressive
increase in the share of the transport sector, which reached 562 in 1987,
accounting for 63? of petroleum products consumption. Electricity
consumption has increased faster than energy consumption as a whole,
averaging 142 per annum in the last three years. As a result, the share of
electricity in final commercial energy consumption has grown from 112 to
152 between 1978 and 1988, with a similar increase in the share of
electricity in primary energy use (from 252 to 332).
Energy Pricing
1.10      The Government has been attentive to the need to set energy
prices at levels above international prices for traded commodities and



-4-
economic costs for non-tradables. Thus, retail prices of the principal
petroleum products are, on average, higher than international prices. The
Oil Stabilization Fund, which was established by the Government in 1974 as
a mechanism to dampen the effect of large short-run movements in
international oil prices on retail product prices, is being progressively
phased out with the stable trend now envisaged for oil prices. In December
1987 the Government took a major step towards floating retail oil prices by
tying local ex-refinery prices to the world market through weekly price
adjustments based on Singapore posted prices.  However, significant
distortions still exist in the relative price structure, particularly
between diesel and gasoline. The Government is aware that such distortions
may, over time, encourage uneconomic decisions for refinery investments and
interfuel substitution, and it has taken steps to narrow down the remaining
differences to reflect more closely the structure of international prices
and domestic refining costs.   Greater flexibility in price setting will
also facilitate maintenance of price parity between heavy fuel oil and
natural gas, the price of which is linked, inter alia, to a basket of crude
prices.  Electricity tariffs have been ra.sed regularly and broadly reflect
the marginal cost of power generation (paras. 5.20-5.23).
D. Organization and Planning
1.11      A number of well managed public institutions operate in the
energy sector. The Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT)-- the dominant
entity in the petroleum sector--is responsible, inter alia, for the
purchase, transport, processing and saie of natural gas. The power sector
is organized around three state enterprises: EGAT is responsible for power
generation and transmission, while the Metropolitan Electricity Authority
(MEA) and the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) are responsible for
power distribution in the Bangkok metropolitan area and the rest of the
country, respectively.  Highlights of the operations of EGAT, MEA and PEA
are included in Annex 1.
1.12      Energy sector policy and planning involve the National Economic
and Social Development Board (NESDB), which is under the Office of the
Prime Minister and oversees public investment planning; the National Energy
Administration (NEA), under the Ministry of Science and Technology, which
is primarily engaged in the promotion of energy conservation and the
development of renewable resources; and the Department of Mineral Resources
(DMR) of the Ministry of Industry, which is responsible for regulating
petroleum and lignite exploration and production on behalr of the
Government. The National Energy Policy Committee (NEPC), which acts on
behalf of the Cabinet on all matters related to energy policy and planning,
with the National Energy Policy Office (NEPO) under the Prime Minister's
Office serving as its secretariat, facilitates the interface between the
petroleum, power and refining subsectors.
1.13      While public enterprises engaged in the energy sector enjoy a
large degree of autonomy in the conduct of day-to-day operations, they are
subject to strict government control in all matters related to investment
planning and financing. In particular, reflecting growing concern over
public sector indebtedness, recent government reforms have introduced



U                                    -~~~~~~~~~~~~5 -
;            stringent procedures for the control of public debt.  All loans made by
public (nterprises requiring government guarantee must now be approved by
the National Debt Policy Committee and by the Cabinet, and subsequently
endorsed by the Fiscal Policy Office of the Ministry of Finance.  Moreover,
in 1985 a National State Enterprise Committee was appointed under the Prime
Minister to monitor compliance by public enterprises with government
guidelines in the area of pricing. These procedures have not affected the
efficient operation of power utilities.
E. Energy Sector Issues and Strategy
1.14      To meet the rapidly increasing demand for energy, the
Government's energy strategy calls for: (a) continued emphasis on energy
conservation begun with the oil shocks of 1970s; (b) rational development
of domestic sources of energy to substitute for imported fuel; and (c) a
substantially increased program of investments in the power subsector.
Conservation is being accomplished in part through economically efficient
pricing of resources, with energy prices being set at levels above
international prices for traded commodities and economic costs for non-
tradables.  Electricity tariffs have been raised regularly and broadly
reflect the marginal cost of power generation. In support of its objective
of increased reliance on domestic fuels, the country is developing its
large lignite resources and has proposed the addition of 4,460 MW of
lignite-fired power plants over the FY89 to FY01 period. In addition,
production ot natural gas is being given priority so that its use can be
increased in the power sector (para. 1.5). Regarding investments in the
power subsector, the Government envisages investments of about $15 billion
in EGAT alone over the next ten years. Concerned about the magnitude of
these investmesits and the implications for public sector debt. Government
is emphasizing the importance of a greatly enhanced role of the private
sector in funding power projects. A considerable amount of work is
required to deveiop the regulatory framework for private participation in
the power sector, either through build-own-operate-transfer (BOOT) type
operations or through a sale of EGAT equity on the securities markets. The
Bank is working with the Government and EGAT in this regard and would
expect to continue this relationship over the implementation period of the
proposed loan (paras 1.15 - 1.21). The Government is also committed to the
development of the sector in an environmentally sound manner. Measures to
strengthen EGAT's capabilities in this area are discussed in paras. 4.10 -
4.12 below.
F. Private Sector Participation
1.15      The Government has made increased participation of private
investors in the energy sector one of the main planks of its energy
program. Participation of the private sector is already prominent in the
petroleum industry, particularly in tihe exploration and production of oil
and gas, refining of petroleum, and import and distribution of petroleum
products. The Government is conscious of the need to maintain Thailand's
competitiveness vis-a-vis other countries in attracting foreign investment,
and petroleum legislation was updated accordingly in 1987 to provide



- 6 -
additional incentives for the international oil industry to undertake
petroleum exploration in Thailand.
1.16      Out of serious concern over the magnitude of the public debt, the
Government currently is further investigating ways of encouraging private
Initiatives in segments of the economy dominated by the public sector. In
this regard, in April 1988 the National Economic and Social Development
Board (NESBD) published a white paper which considered privatization of
various state enterprises, either through a full or partial sale of equity,
a contr'cting out of specific activities (such as through BOOT schemes), or
through joint venture arrangements. It was expected that privat,zation
could: (a) reduce the ex.ernal borrowing of state enterprises and thereby
help maintain the Government's foreign debt ceiling; (b) increase the
efficiency of the state enterprises and reduce Government subsid4es
thereto; and (c) strengthen the country's capital markets and thereby
assist in mobilizing private savings.
1.17      The development of Thailand's power system is particularly
capital intensive and has been a major burden on the financial resources
available to the country. Accordingly, in the white paper, EGAT was
targeted as a priority candidate for private sector participation.
Recently, the Energy Policy Committee (chairc by the Prime Minister)
decided that EGAT should aim to secure privat 7unding for about 30? of its
future power development program. A Committe' for Private Sector
Participation in Power Generation was appointed, and members included the
Minister of Finance, the Permanent Secretary of MOF, the Secretary of
NESDB, the Director General of the Comptroller-General Department, the
Director General and Deputy Director General of the Fiscal Policy Office, a
NEPO representative, the EGAT General Manager, and the Director of Loan
Policy and Management Division of MOF. The committee was charged with
formulating proposals for power sector p;ivatization and pursuing
appropriate activities towards implementation of the. e proposals.
1.18      The Government outlined four approaches to attracting private
sector capital into the electric utility industry and has sought Bank
advice with regard to implementation. The four approaches are:
(a)   commercialization of EGAT and sale of cGAT equity on the
securities markets;
(b)   sale of electricity to EGAT from utility-scale privately
owned power plants (i.e. establishment of BOOT or related
schemes);
(c)   increased private participation in the mining sector; and
(d)   cogeneration (including generation fromi residual fuels and
renewable energy sources) with purchase of surplu.
electricity by EGAT.
1.19      Private sector participation in the power sector  auld be
achieved through any of these options, or through pursuing several or
all of the options simultaneously. With regard to a potential



7 -
commercialization of EGAT, the Government could take steps towards
regulation of the utility under an independent legal aud regulatory
framework regardless of its eventual decision about a sale of EGAT equity
on the Thailand and/or international securities markets. Though in many
respects EGAT is currently run on commercial lines (for example it achieves
an acceptable rate of return, has an acceptable capital structure, and
works to defined financial covenants), in other important respects EGAT
differs from a normal commercial company (for example it has no formal fuel
supply arrangements, operates without explicit tariff setting formulas, is
exempt from corporate income tax, and needs Government approval of its
development plans and capital expenditures). Full commercialization of
EGAT would involve formalizing the regulatory framework; establishing arms-
length fuel supply contracts; giving EGAT greater freedom to determine its
investment program; ceasing to provide Government guarantee for EGAT debt;
and applying subsidies for electricity consumption in a more transparent
manner. Considering the legal and regulatory actions necessary prior to a
sale of EGAT equity, such privatization could only be accomplished over the
longer-term (2-3 years). Purchases of power from private producers under
long-term contract could be implemented more quickly and ten plants
included in the EGAT investment program have been selected as candidates
for full or partial private ownership. For at least some of these plants,
a BOOT approach could be utilized and the private sector could construct,
own and operate the plants, with private financing secured by contractually
agreed capacity and energy payments from EGAT to the Independent Power
Producer (IPP). However, the BOOT approach has raised concerns regarding
its effect on reliability and integrity of the system, flexibility and
dispatchability, and cost of electricity to the consumers.
1.20      Following discussions with the Bank, the Government intends to
commissis'n studies to address these issues. As a part of the preparation
of the proposed loan, the Bank assisted the Fiscal Policy Office of the
Ministry of Finance (which is charged with the responsibility of developing
and implementing the Government's decisions on privatization) in preparing
terms of reference for the studies.
1.21      In the coal sector, a joint review by NESDB and the Bank
idertified several possible areas for private participation (para 1.6).
The study reviewed possibilities for private participation in the mining
sector and analyzed the prospects for contracting out the overburden
removal at various EGAT mines, and including private equity in a possible
association between EGAT and the private sector at other mines. The study
recommended changes in the institutional and policy framework to attract
private sector investment in the exploration and development of lignite
resources. The implementation of the recommendations of the study is being
developed by NESDB.
1.22      Initial steps towards privatization in the power sector through
purchase of electricity from industrial cogenerators and from small-scale
systems based on agricultural wastes (such as bagasse, rice husks and sugar
cane wastes) are already in progress. As of July 1989, EGAT had drafted a
solicitation document to invite proposals for purchases of electricity of
up to 50 MW per plant, with total purchases for the system not to exceed
300 MW. A relatively low ceiling of 52 of EGAT's system capacity was set



- 8 -
for cogeneration purchases since the puichase contracts would not include
dispatchability, but rather EGAT would take any electricity delivered from
the plants and accordingly would lose flexibility.
II. THE POWER SUBSECTOR
A. The Power Market
2.1       The electricity market has grown at a very rapid pace over the
past two decades. Total sales of electricity at.r per capita consumption
increased from 467 GWh and 19 kWh, respectively, in 1961 to about
29,493 GWh and 556 kWh in 1988. Growth since 1980 has averaged 9.5Z p.a.
(compared to an average GDP growth rate of 5.0Z). Over the years, the
industrial sector has become the major electricity consumer, accounting for
422 of electricity sales in FY88. Recent growth, however, has been fueled
largely by a substantial expansion in residential consumption both in urban
and rural areas. As a result, EGAT's daily load curves have shown an
increasingly pronounced evening peak. There is limited scope in the
foreseeable future for suppressing the contribution made to the system peak
by small consumers through conventional load management techniques.
Significant opportunities exist, however, for reducing the demand of large
industrial consumers at system peak time, partly through the introduction
of time-of-day tariffs (as agreed with the Bank under Loan 2915-TH) which
EGAT recently initiated (para. 5.23).
2.2       A sharp upsurge in economic activity in the late 1980s (GDP
growth was 7.42 in FY87 and 10.42 in FY88) has translated into much higher
than expected growth in electricity demand (142 in FY87 and FY88) and the
outlook is for continued rapid growth over the medium term. Taking these
developments into account, in February 1988 EGAT revised its load forecast
and reformulated its 5-year Power Development Program (PDP), with emphasis
on acceleration of generation capacity additions to keep system reliability
at acceptable levels during the early 1990s.
2.3       EGAT's latest load forecast (Table 2.1) envisages a 121 growth
rate in electricity generation over the next three years. This is
reasonable in view of the high GDP growth rate anticipated for the same
period (6.3Z) and the high historical elasticity of demand for electricity
in periods of rapid economic growth. These projections have been endorsed
by the Government as providing a suitable basis for planning purposes.



Table 2.1: EGAT'S LOAD FORECAST, 1988-2001
FY88     FY91      FY96     FY01
Peak Generation (MW)    5,444    7,440   11,066   15,112
Net Energy Generation
(GWh)                 31,997   45,062   69,065   96,373
Annual Load Factor (Z)   67.1       69.1     71.3      72.8
Growth Rates
(average Z p.a.)
Peak Generation            11.0       8.3      6.4
Net Energy Generation      12.1       8.9      6.9
B. Generation and Transmission Facilities
2.4       As of February 1989, EGAT's installed capacity was approximately
6,900 MW with another 2,369 MW under construction. Generating facilities
(Annex 2) consist of conventional thermal plants (52Z), hydropower (33Z),
combined cycle plants (11Z) and combustion turbines (4Z). Over the years,
EGAT has converted most of its oil-based thermal capacity (2,400 MW) to
dual oil/gas firing to take advantage of the increasing availability of
natural gas. Other thermal plants include lignite-fired units (865 MW) and
the remaining oil-fired units (340 MW). The share of gas-dedicated
capacity (i.e., essentially the combined cycle units) has remained low and
the system has an inbuilt flexibility to adjust easily to changes in the
fuel supply situation. Overall, there has been a substantial substitution
away from fuel oil, with EGAT's oil consumption declining from 2.5 MMt in
FY80 to 0.7 MMt in FY88 when natural gas consumption for power generation
reached 463 MMcfd and lignite consumption, 5.9 MMt. By FY88, the share of
oil-based generation had been reduced to 9%, down from a peak of 81% in
FY80. Electricity purchases from Laos accounted for another 2% of total
generation.
2.5       Plans for additional generation capacity were deferred for some
time partly because of the slowdown in economic activity during the mid-80s
and Government's decision to deter noncritical public investment so as to
minimize public sector indebtedness. As a result, the hitherto comfortable
plant reserve margin is expected to deteriorate substantially in the short
term due to the recent resurgence in the demand for electricity.
2.6       EGAT's transmission facilities are tabulated in Annex 3.  In
addition to the construction of transmission lines and substations required
to evacuate the output of new generation plants, EGAT is progressively
developing a transmission system to serve various areas of the country. At
present, EGAT operates 16,563 circuit-kilometers (ckm) of transmission
lines, including 326 ckm constructed for 500 kV.



- 10 -
C. Fuel Options for Power Generation
2.7       EGAT has several fuel options on which to base its long-term
generation expansion strategy. For base-load generation these options
include domestic natural gas and lignite, and imported fuel oil and coal.
Thailand has no major hydro schemes suitable for base load generation--
apart from those that could develop following international agreements.
Many issues are involved in making the appropriate fuel choices. With
respect to indigenous energy resources (natural gas and lignite), the
principal factors include the magnitude of economically exploitable
reserves, their respective timing, and economic costs in relation to the
price of alternative fuels. A constant re-examination of the program is
thus inevitable in view of the uncertainties involved.
2.8       Within the range of foreseeable prices and costs, both natural
gas and lignite score over 4mported coal and fuel oil although imported
coal is seen to play a major role in EGAT's plans for years after 1996 when
presently identified reserves of gas and lignite could be fully committed.
In a comparison of generating costs based on current and anticipated fuel
price relationships, combined cycle plants are the most attractive option
because of their lower capital and running costs, shorter construction
period and higher efficiency compared to conventional steam units.
However, because combined cycle plants can only operate using natural gas
or middle distillates (the latter are more expensive than fuel oil by about
30-40Z), the attractiveness of the combined cycle option hinges on the
long-term supply availability of natural gas.  Any long-term supply
constraint, however, can be skirted by r-lying on dual-fired (gas/fuel oil)
conventional steam plants. Generating costs in lignite-fired and gas-fired
steam plants are comparable when differentials in transmission requirements
are factored in, and both are lower than imported coal-based generation
costs. Although both natural gas and lignite are available in substantial
quantities, both need to be developed further to meet the growing
requirements of the power sector. Moreover, the timing of development of
gas fields which depends on agreements to be reached with oil companies has
proved difficult to predict accurately, while there are technical and
institutional constraints on the pace at which the Mae Moh lignite mine can
be developed. To minimize the risk of fuel disruptions, EGAT's PDP is
based on balanced reliance on the two fuels, which are being developed in
parallel with the common ,bjective of deferring the development of imported
coal-fired capacity as much as possible.
The Natural Gas Option
2.9       The future of gas-based generation relates closely to both the
supply and cost of natural gas. As indicated in para. 1.5, gas production
is projected to double over the next ten years, with the power sector
expected to remain the main gas consumer. The viability of possible gas
development schemes is being worked out by PTT so as to guarantee
competitiveness with fuel oil (cif in Bangkok); royalty payments by the
producer (12.5Z both on gas and recovered condensate) further improve the
economic attractiveness of natural gas vis-a-vis imported fuel oil and
coal, in the case of coal largely because of the high capital costs of
coal-fired plants. A delicate planning issue will be to optimize the



- 11 -
balance between the use of gas in dual-fired (oil/gas) thermal plants and
in more efficient combined cycle plants which, as indicated earlier,
require an assured long-term supply if natural gas. Complexities involved
in the negotiating process with oil companies have hindered attempts at
optimizing the development of the gas sector, let alone the necessary
integration of gas and power development plans. For these reasons, as well
as its limited operational experience with combined cycle plants, EGAT has
chosen to follow a cautious approach to combined cycle expansion (Table
2.2); this approach is appropriate under the cizcumstances. As its
experience with combined cycle plants grows, and the gas market in Thailand
reaches greater maturity, EGAT would be treading on firmer ground in
maximizing its reliance on combined cycle installations.
The Lignite Option
2.10      Lignite production for power generation is concentrated at the
Mae Moh open pit mine in Northern Thailand. Delineation of the deposit has
essentially been completed. As indicated in para. 1.6, economically
minable reserves are estimated at 1,152 MMt of which 628 MMt has already
been scheduled for power stations of 4,425 MW total. The other 524 MMt
need further geotechnical evaluation for confirmation. The volume of
economically minable reserves was determined on the basis of, inter alia, a
cutoff cost of US$l0/Gcal or US$25/tonne (based on an average estimated
heating value of 2,500 Kcal/kg).  This is in line with the expected long-
term import price of coal and provides a suitable basis for sector
planning.  Based on current economic costs of production (about US$13/tonne
or US$5.1/Gcal), domestic lignite is competitive with imported coal; the
separate accounts set up for EGAT's lignite mining operations under
previous Bank-financed projects will provide a convenient instrument to
monitor the competitiveness of lignite as both lignite production costs and
international coal prices evolve in the future.
D. EGAT's Power Development Plan
2.11      EGAT's latest power development plan (PDP) reflects the load
forecast presented in Table 2.1. The Bank has had a significant input in
its formulation, first through the 1985 Energy Assessment Report (Report
No. 5793-TH), which advocated increased reliance on domestic lignite and
natural gas for thermal generation and, more recently, through a study
carried out by ESMAP jointly with the Government on appropriate investment
strategies in the light of uncertain oil prices. EGAT's investment program
is in line with the recommendations made in these two studies, and involves
an immediate acceleration of generation capacity additions to keep system
reliability at acceptable levels during the early 1990s. EGAT's PDP also
takes account of the expectation of a more abundant supply of natural gas
over the next 10-20 years, and includes a "gas/lignite" phase in the medium
term followed by a "coal" phase starting around 1997 when presently known
reserves of lignite and natural gas could be fully committed.  EGAT's long-
term generation expansion program was reviewed during project appraisal and
found reasonable (Annexes 4, 5 and 6).  It is summarized in Table 2.2.



- 12 -
Table 2.2: EGAT's POWER GENERATION DEVELOPMENT PLAN (FY89-2001)
(CAPACITY ADDITIONS IN MW)
Type of Facility            FY89-91       FY92-96        FY97-01        Total
Steam Plants
Natural Gas/Oil                -           1,200              -      1,200
Lignite                        600         3,000            900      4,500
Coal                              -            -          3,000      3,000
Fuel Oil                        75             -              -          75
Combined Cycle                 1,230           663              -       1,893
Hydro                             180          560            560       1,300
Total                        2,085         5,423          4,460     11,968
2.12      EGAT's projections assume an average energy growth of 12Z p.a.
during FY89-91 (Anriex 7). They indicate that the system's firm generating
capacity (defined as total dependable capacity (hydro and thermal] less
dependable capacity of the first and second largest units in the system)
would go below system peak demand in 1989-90 and would be barely above peak
demand in mid-199j1.  This underscores the need for EGAT to expedite the
installation of additional capacity, and further justifies the priority
given to facilities with short construction periods such as combined cycle
plants, part of whose power output becomes available as soon as the gas
turbine portion of the plant has been completed (roughly 12-15 months after
construction start-up).
2.13      EGAT's transmission program is aimed at extending high voltage
230 kV and J15 kV transmission facilities to all provinces of Thailand by
the mid-199Js. The extra high voltage 500 kV transmission system, which is
super-imposed on the 230 kV system, is required for bulk power transmission
to accommodate the large-scale development of lignite-fired power plants at
Mae Moh. EGAT's transmission development plan, shown in Table 2.3, is
considered to be reasonable.
2.14      Overall, EGAT's PDP is appropriate to the present circumstances.
Project supervision would provide the Bank with an opportunity to review
regular updates of EGAT's PDP to monitor the impact of changes in power
demand and fuel supply scenarios on the composition and magnitude of power
investments. During the tenure of the proposed loan. EGAT will carry out
an annual review and update of its 5-year investment program and keep the
Bank informed.



- 13 -
Table 2.3: EGAT's TRANSMISSION DEVELOPMENT PLAN (FY88-2001)
FY88-91      FY92-96       FY97-..l      Total
Transmission Lines
(in ckm)
500 kV /a                    208        1,950            310      2,468
230 kV                     1,346        1,166          2,291      4,803
115 kV                     1,326        1,575            894      3,795
Total                   2,880         4,691         3,495    11,066
/a Excluding conversion of 326 km of 230 kV lines to 500 kV.
E. Past Bank Experience and Sector Strategy
Experience with Past Loans
2.15      The Bank has made 16 loans to Thailand for power, of which
thirteen have been made to EGAT and its predecessor for financing the
expansion of electricity generation and transmission facilities, and three
to PEA for rural electrification. Of the thirteen loans to EGAT, ten have
been fully disbursed and one is almost so; the other two are progressing on
schedule. All loans to PEA have been fully disbursed.
2.16      In the last several years, EGAT completed four Bank-financed
projects for power generation: Bang Pakong Thermal (Loan 1690-TH) and Khao
Laem Hydro (Loan 1770-TH) in 1985, Pattani Hydro (Loan 1485-TH) in 1983 and
Power Subsector (Loan 2000-TH) in 1987. The corresponding project
completion reports and project performance audit reports highlight EGAT's
financial recovery following the oil price increases of the 19709 from a
-2Z rate of return on revalued assets in FY79 to 10.82 in FY88. These
projects were completed on schedule and within the appraisal cost estimates
with the exception of the Khao Laem Hydro project which was 12 months
behind schedule and had a 42 cost overrun because of unexpected
complications in civil vorks, and the Power Subsector project, which was 15
months late and 512 under the appraisal project cost estimate because
inflation assumptions used to project contingencies were higher than actual
increases, and because one component of the project was cancelled. One
lesson learned from previous experience is that careful consideration needs
to be given to subsurface investigations before embarking on large power
projects so as to minimize the risk of cost overruns on civil works. This
aspect is being taken care of in future projects.
2.17      Bank participation in the power subsector has helped EGAT to
develop into a technically competent and efficient power utility. The
Bank's association with PEA is also oriented towards achieving major
institutional improvements. Through its continuing dialogue with the
subsector institutions, the Bank has been instrumental in the



- 14 -
implementation of adequate overall electricity tariff levels, ensuring the
sector's financial soundness and the cost effectiveness of power generation
investments. Bank-sponsored sector work in investment planning and energy
pricing also represented significant contributions towards improving sector
coordination. Overall, the Bank's presence in the power subsector has
helped ensure that utilities were soundly managed and has encouraged other
lenders to provide investment financing for the subsector on favorable
terms.
2.18      In the lignite mining subsector, the Bank has made two loans to
EGAT to finance the development of the Mae Moh mine. The first loan (Loan
1852-TH), which financed expansion of production capacity from 1 million
tpa to 2.8 million tpa, was closed in April 1988; a PCR is under
preparation. The second loan (Loan 2407-TH), supporting further expansion
of production capacity to 5 million tpa, is scheduled to close April 30,
1990. Through these two projects EGAT received substantial technical
assistance that has led to improved capabilities in all aspects of mining
operations, including the exploration for and evaluation of lignite
reserves in other parts of the country. Establishment of a mine accounting
system separate from accounts for power operations and the carrying out of
a lignite pricing study have enabled the monitoring of costs and
establishment of an internal lignite pricing formula based on appropriate
economic and financial criteria.
Bank Strategy in the Sector
2.19      The Bank has been closely involved in the financing of EGAT's
power generation, transmission and lignite mining investments in the past.
Its ongoing participation assisting in the formulation of sound investment
decisions in a rapidly changing economic environment is a logical
continuation of this involvement. The proposed loan would continue the
time-slice financing approach initiated under the first Power System
Development Project (Loan 3027-TH), approved in March 1989. Through the
proposed loan, the Bank would continue its ongoing work with the power
subsector: (a) in providing a continuous review of EGAT's PDP to ensure
that optimum decisions are made in regard both to its composition and
overall magnitude, and in assisting with efforts to pursue the path of
privatization; (b) in improving the future performance of EGAT through a
study to measure its operational efficiency; (c) in strengthening EGAT's
capabilities in the field of environment through technical assistance and
procurement of environmental monitoring equipment; (d) in reducing the
country's dependence on imported fuels by supporting the concomitant
development and economic use of domestic lignite and natural gas; and (e)
in monitoring power tariffs through financial covenants to ensure that EGAT
and the power subsector are financially able to undertake and operate
future system expansions effectively.



- 15 -
III. THE BORROWER
3.1       The Borrower of the proposed loan would be the Electricity
Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT), which was established in 1968 by a
merger of three generation and transmission authorities. EGAT operates as
a bulk supplier of electricity, relying on MEA and PEA for retail
distribution except for a few large industrial consumers. EGAT is owned
wholly by the Government of Thailand and comes under the direct
jurisdiction of the Prime Minister. It is a well-run organization, capable
of managing the substantial growth in investment and electricity sales
expected over the project period.
A. Organization and Management
3.2       EGAT functions as a modern public utility and enjoys a
considerable degree of autonomy in its day-to-day operations. Although
decisions concerning planning, contracting, pricing, and financing of
investment are subject to Government's approval, EGAT management provides
the predominant inputs. EGAT's operational and policy decisions are made by
a Board of Directors, which consists of a Chairman and not more than ten
other members, including the General Manager. With the exception of the
General Manager, the Board members, who are appointed by the Council of
Ministers, act in a part-time capacity. Implementation of the Board's
decisions is the responsibility of EGAT's management.
3.3       EGAT's operations are divided into six divisions, each headed by
a Deputy General Manager: Administration, Accounting and Finance,
Hydropower and Transmission System Development, Thermal Power and Mine
Development, Transmission System Operation, and Power Plant Operation.
Separate departments for Legal, Internal Audit, Economic Policy, Power
System Planning, Corporate Planning, Public Relations, and Research and
Development report directly to the General Manager (see Chart 1). EGAT's
organizational structure appears to be sound and appropriate to its
operational needs. However, a review of the cost effectiveness of EGAT's
organization and its operations at this stage would be useful and this will
be undertaken during the tenure of the proposed loan (para. 4.6).
Thermal Power Development Directorate
3.4       The Thermal Power Development Directorate is responsible for
engineering and construction of new thermal power plants and for general
construction work. The Thermal Engineering Department has a staff strength
of about 330; it employs consultants to the extent necessary to meet its
workload and to avail itself of expertise in specialized areas. The
Thermal Construction Department has a staff strength of about 1,500; it
lets out work on contract as required depending on the number of projects
simultaneously under construction. The Directorate's -workload is expected
to be very high over the next 5-10 years and it will therefore need to draw
substantially upon external assistance for both design and construction.



- 16 -
Lignite Mine Directorate
3.5       The Lignite Mine Directorate consists of a central office in
Bangkok and field offices in Mae Moh and Krabi. Two departments under the
Lignite Mining Directorate are the Mine Engineering Department (MED) and
the Mine Operation Department (MOD). MED consists of seven divisions and
is responsible for geology, mine planning, technical design and Krabi field
operations. MOD consists of twelve divisions and is responsible for field
operations and mine related activities on site. EGAT operates its mining
activities as separate profit centers with their own accounts dnd financial
statements. There is a separate Mine Accounting Section within EGAT's
Controller's Department. During negotiations, agreement was reached that
EGAT would continue to operate its mining activities as separate profit
centers, and to maintain separate accounts and financial statements for
each center.
Power System Planning Department
3.6       EGAT's Power System Planning Department is responsible for
survey, site investigation, planning of generation and transmission
projects, economic studies, power development programming and system
planning, financial forecasting and review of tariffs. The Department is
well staffed and makes an extensive use of computer models, whose scope and
quality are among the best in East Asia. It also oversees EGAT's
electronic data processing activities; as such, it plans and installs
equipment, and develops and maintains all user software in relation to
teleprocessing within the corporation.
B. Staffing and Training
3.7       EGAT's management and staff are competent and well qualified.  As
of 1988 over half of the staff had received some form of higher education,
and the number of university graduates as a percentage of total staff
increased substantially during the 1982 to 1988 period, rising from 12Z to
17Z. EGAT staffing ratio is five employees per MW installed. The main
reason for this somewhat high ratio is that EGAT carries out most of its
field investigations, survey and geological explorations using its own
staff and maintains a large construction force for the construction of
access roads, site preparation works and installation of equipment. Since
construction workers are not given permanent employment status, EGAT has
been able to reduce its manpower over the last four years after completion
of two generation projects in the early 1980s. EGAT's staff amounted to
31,355 as of September 30, 1988 (Table 3.1), of which about 6,000 are on
temporary status. With the proposed substantial increase in EGAT's
generating capacity between 1989 and 1991, the ratio of staff to installed
capacity is projected to decrease over the next five years.



- 17 -
Table 3.1: EGAT STAFFING EVOLUTION
Increase
1912-61
FY82   FY68   FY64   FY6s   FY86   FY67   FY6s  X p.a.
University graduates          8,232   8,600   4,866   4,682   4,610  6,210   5,479    9.2
Diploma and higher
professional education      3,869   4,011   4,529  4,662   4,79"   4,479  4,666     5.6
Higher vocational education   5,168  6,026  6,680   6,758   6,611  6,469  6,456       8.6
Others                       15,016  16,240  16,6a2  15,764  16,136  14,982  14,756    (0.3)
Total                    26,769  gn.377  82,157  81,601  81,157  81,110  31,865    2.7
Source: EGAT.
3.8       Training falls under the overall responsibility of EGAT's
Administration Department. EGAT has three training centers for technical
and managerial training, with the largest center at the Bang Pakong Thermal
Power Complex. This center provides training in the operation and
maintenance of power plants and transmission systems, and is equipped with
a replica simulator of the Bang Pakong steam power plant. FGAT's training
program is comprised of three courses: (a) basic--for apprentices;
(b) upgrading--for promotion to higher positions; and (c) management--for
senior officers. Training is imparted both by in-house and external staff
through regular courses and special seminars, and is adequate to EGAT's
needs.
3.9       EGAT's Lignite Mining Department also has a training center at
Mae Moh. In-house training is supplemented with training abread financed
under bilateral grants. The most fruitful and continuing technical
assistance has been provided by the Australian Development Assistance
Bureau, which has assisted in previous lignite expansion projects and
imparted specialized training to EGAT's mining staff.
C. Operational Performance
3.10      EGAT operates its plants and equipment satisfactorily.  EGAT
conducts regular maintenance within stipulated intervals, but while the
standards observed for major maintenance work are satisfactory, further
improvement would be achieved through the introduction of a computerized
maintenance management system (Loan 3027-TH). Likewise, a critical review
of all facets of its operations would be useful in further improving EGAT's
operational efficiency (para. 4.6).  Power losses, including both
transmission and generation losses, amount to slightly less than 9% of
electricity produced, with estimated transmission losses being about 5Z and
auxiliary consumption being nearly 4Z of generation.  Network losses are
relatively high when compared to those recorded for the more developed
power grids of countries such as South Korea and Japan, but are reasonable
in view of EGAT's large transmission system which is still under evolution.
Network losses are projected to decline in the 1990s, with the
implementation of EGAT's high voltage and extra high voltage transmission
expansion programs (para. 2.13).



- 18 -
3.11      EGAT has a good record in project cost control, implementation
and management. It has been borrowing from the Bank since 1957 and is very
familiar with the Bank's procurement guidelines. Processing of tenders and
award of contracts are undertaken equitably and expeditiously.
D. Financial Management
Accounting
3.12      EGAT's accounting system conforms to modern power utility
practices. The staff is well qualified and competent. Accounting
applications such as general ledgers, payroll, inventory transactions,
accounts payable, and accounts receivable have been fully computerized.
EGAT prepares annual budgets for its capital and operating expenditures.
Periodically, reports are prepared enabling management to compare actual
results against budgeted amounts. The awdget process has been operating
satisfactorily.
3.13      EGAT's billing and collection system is adequate.  Accounts
receivable decreased from an average of 76 days of sales at the end of FY87
to 71 days at the end of FY88. In accordance with a government regulation
requiring all state enterprises to collect receivables within 60 days,
EGAT's accounts receivable are projected to be 60 days by the end of FY89.
EGAT's efforts to reduce its receivables, however, are hindered by PEA's
inability to collect its own bills promptly. At the time of appraisal,
EGAT's receivables from PEA averaged 68 days, those from MEA, 61 days and
from EGAT's direct customers, 63 days. Given PEA's difficulty in reducing
its own receivables, the target set for EGAT of 60 days of receivables is
appropriate.
3.14      EGAT has been developing an online MIS since 1984.  Currently,
over 200 reports dealing with operational and financial matters,
construction, procurement and personnel can be retrieved. Although the
system is not fully i:tegrated--a step which depends on software
implementation on a recently acquired mainframe computer-- it is already
used by EGAT's top management on a regular basis.
Audit
3.15      EGAT has an Internal Audit Department with a staff of 68
auditors, which reports directly to the General Manager. The Internal
Audit Department reviews the accounts of each operating unit throughout the
year as they are compiled by the Controller's Department. EGAT's year-end
financial statements are also reviewed, primarily to check for accuracy and
compliance with regulations of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). There would
now be scope for EGAT to broaden its internal audit function to deal not
only with purely financial issues but also with operational aspects
including internal procedures and efficiency improvement measures.



- 19 -
3.16      EGAT's external audit is performed by the Office of the Auditor
General, the government organizatica responsible for auditing all state
enterprises. The international accounting firm Coopers and Lybrand has
been retained as financial consultant to cooperate with the Auditor General
and issue a separate report on EGAT's annual accounts. To date, reportr
have been submitted on time and the performance of the consultant has been
satisfactory. As provided under previous Bank loans, agreement was reached
during negotiations that EGAT would submit to the Bank audited annual
financial statements for its mining operations and EGAT as a whole, on both
an unconsolidated and consolidated basis, within six months of the close of
each fiscal year. EGAT also agreed during negotiations to continue
employment of independent auditors.
Insurance
3.17      In FY79, EGAT shifted to a self-insurance program and established
a sinking fund to which it contributes annutally an amount equal to what it
would have paid otherwise as insurance premiums. Under Loan 2407-TH,
EGAT's self-insurance policy and procedures were evaluated by an indepen-
dent expert and deemed satisfactory by tne Bank. The status of the sinking
fund was reviewed during FY89, when EGAT hired the Royal Insurance to
assess its risk and determine that the sinking fund was adequate. During
negotiations, agreement was resched that EGAT would continue to make
provisions satisfactory to the Bank to provide insurance against such risks
and in amounts consistent with appropriate practice.
Taxes
3.18      Prior to September 30, 1982, EGAT was exempted by a Cabinet
Resolution from the requirement to remit any of its net income to the MOF
because power tariff increases had lagged behind the rise in oil prices.
Under a January 1983 Resolution, however, and following successive tariff
adjustments, it was determined that EGAT would remit a portion of its net
income to the MOF as determined by the Ministry on a periodic basis. EGAT
has been remitting taxes each year at a level which has risen from 52 of
net income in FY82, to an agreed 152 in FY88-90 subject to EGAT's attaining
a self-financing ratio of at least 25Z (para. 5.5).
3.19      Customs duties and business taxes on imported equipment and
materials for EGAT's projects included in the Fourth and Fifth Five-Year
Development Plans (1977-1986) were cove,.ed by the Government in the form of
equity contributions.  However, the -overnment did not agree to EGAT's
request for a similar concession for projects in the Sixth Five-Year
Development Plan. Duties and taxes are therefore now met from EGAT's own
resources.



- 20 -
IV. THE BANK LOAN
A. Obiectives of the Bank Loan
4.1       The proposed loan will finance a two-year (FY90-91) time slice of
*           EGAT's investment program during the Sixth Five-Year Plan period (FY87-91).
Its main objectives are to:
(a)   meet the growth in power demand expected over the medium
II                           term at least cost; and
(b)   strengthen EGAT's capabilities in environmental monitoring
and evaluation through technical assistance and acquisition
of environmental monitoring equipment (para. 4.12).
B.   Utilization of Proceeds of the Bank Loan
4.2       Major components of EGAT's FY90-91 investment program which will
be financed by the proposed loan include the installation of additional
generation capacity, the reinforcement and expansion of its transmission
system as required to transmit the additional production of electricity,
the expansion of its lignite mining capacity to fuel additional lignite-
fired thermal units, and miscellaneous works and equipment acquisition.
4.3       Use of the loan proceeds to cover part or all of the cost of any
subproject of EGAT's investment program during the FY90-91 period would be
permissible, provided that the subproject meets the following criteria:
(a)   is technically sound and economically justified;
(b)   has been approved by the Government;
(c)   has its environmental and resettlement aspects covered in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(d)   has procurement arrangements consistent with the Loan
Agreement.
4.4       EGAT would provide the Bank with the necessary subproject
justification and background information sufficiently in advance of
implementation to allow expeditious processing.
4.5       At negotiations, EGAT agreed with the above eligibility criteria
for financing subprojects under the proposed loan.
Institutional Development
4.6       During the tenure of the proposed loan, EGAT has agreed to imple-
ment measures to strengthen its capabilities in environmental monitoring
and evaluation (para. 4.12). Additionally, EGAT will also undertake a



- 21 -
study for evaluation of EGAT's operational efficiency and definition of
related performance norms. The basic objectives of that study would be:
(i) to review the operational efficiency of EGAT; (ii) to assess the
productivity of its departments and determine whether they are operating
in the most cost-effective manner; (iii) to identify general areas for
improvement; and (iv) to recommend specific measures for improvement
including development of norms for monitoring of performance. The Bank
will be fully involved in this study and has already provided EGAT draft
terms of reference for consultancy assistance (Annex 8).
C.   Implementation
4.7       EGAT will be fully responsible for the implementation of its
investment program. The directorates for Thermal Power Plant, Mines, Hydro
Power Plant and Transmission Development will be responsible for executing
the respective program components. In view of EGAT's long experience in
the execution of large thermal, hydro and transmission projects, no major
problems are foreseen in successful and timely implementation. In view of
its heavy work load in the near to medium term, EGAT will be making greater
than normal use of consultancy services for design, engineering and
construction supervision. To relieve pressure on its permanent
construction forces, EGAT will be letting out works on centract to the
extent necessary. For some of the large thermal and transmission line
projects which need to be completed on an urgent basis to meet the heavy
load growth over the next five years, a turnkey type approach would be
adopted for contracting. In the lignite mining sector, EGAT will continue
to let out overburden removal to private contractors while retaining
control on all other mining operations. EGAT's project preparation work,
execution plans and implementing schedules are generally satisfactory to
the Bank; specific cases for which Bank funding is sought will be reviewed
in greater detail at the appropriate time.
Monitorina and Reporting
4.8       Satisfactory procedures for monitoring the progress of the loan
in terms of physical execution and financial reports have been agreed with
EGAT which will furnish quarterly progress reports. Relevant portions of
the Project Completion Report will be drafted by the Bank not later than
six months after completion of the loan and will be reviewed with EGAT
within three months thereafter.
Supervision Plan
4.9       The supervision plan of the proposed loan is shown in Annex 9.
D.   Environment
4.10      The Government and EGAT are committed to sound environmental
policies and practices. There is a regulatory framework in place which
ensures environmental screening of projects prior to Government sanction.



- 22 -
EGAT has a full-fledged Environmental Division that is well-staffed and
well-equipped. Environmental impact assessments of projects are evaluated
in a professional manner with consultancy assistance whenever called for;
in addition, EGAT conducts a regular environmental monitoring program
especially at the environmentally sensitive Mae Moh mining site. EGAT's
resettlement policies and plans and their implementF-ion have in the past
been generally satisfactory to the Bank. At appraisal, a review was
undertaken of several environment related aspects which have a bearing on
the future performance of EGAT in the field of environment. The findings
and recommendations of this review are contained in the report
"Environmental Review", a summary of which is presented in Annex 17.
4.11      In brief, the report concludes that while EGAT handles its
environmental functions well, there are a number of areas in which further
strengthening is required: (a) some restructuring of the Environmental
Division accompanied with a clearer definition of policy and substantial
training of staff in interpretive evaluation and quantitative prediction;
(b) a review of monitoring practices, although EGAT is fairly well equipped
with environmental monitoring instruments; (c) expert assistance in the
analysis and interpretation of the large quantity of environmental data
that EGAT collects at Mae Moh, before a meaningful control strategy could
be evolved; also, expert assistance in formulating acid rain measurement
and monitoring strategies; and (d) greater ecological assessment and
monitoring in future environmental impact assessments. On a national
scale, while there are several agencies concerned with environmental
regulatory and policy aspects and projects do pass through the process of
getting environmentally approved, there is a need to strengthen the
coordinating, authorizing and enforcement role of the central agency, the
National Environmental Board (NEB); likewise there is a need to centralize
setting environmental standards and augmenting existing standards relevant
to the power sector.
4.12      At negotiations, EGAT agreed to implement, in consultation with
the Bank, appropriate measures for the purpose of strengthening its
capabilities in environmental monitoring and evaluation, including the
following:
(a)   EGAT will prepare a formal document stating its
environmental policy, and associated objectives and
procedures (currently this does not exist). This will
delineate authority, allocate responsibilities and
formalize procedures leading to a more efficient
functioning of the Environmental Division, both within the
overall organizational framework and within the division
itself;
(b)   To meet the needs of a rapidly developing power program,
EGAT will restructure its Environmental Division taking
into consideration recommendations made in the report
(Annex 17). To the extent feasible, the division's
functions will be organized around the following five areas
of expertise: (i) general environmental management; (ii)



- 23 -
atmospheric environmental issues; (iii) aquatic
environmental issues; (iv) acoustic environmental issues;
and (v) social and resettlement issues;
(c)   EGAT will strengthen the practical capabilities of its
Environmental Division staff in the interpretive evaluation
and assessment of environmental impact monitoring data and
the quantitative prediction of impacts. This will be
accomplished by engaging an expert who will: (i) conduct
with EGAT personnel a detailed review of typical EIA
reports; and (ii) assist in the analysis, evaluation and
interpretation of envirotnmental impact monitoring data;
(d)   Foilowing recommendations outlined in the report (Annex
17), EGAT will undertake, with the assistance of an expert,
a study of its environmental monitoring equipment and
environmental monitoring practices, and implement the
recommendations of this study in a manner mutually
satisfactory to EGAT and the Bank;
(e)   With regard to the Mae Moh miav and power station
expansions, EGAT will, with expert assistance: (i) analyze,
evaluiate and interpret environmental impact monitoring data
on water and air quality, with specific emphasis on dust
concentrations and sulfur dioxide levels; and (ii) expand
the area for monitoring rain acidity, adopt a methodology
for rain acidity study suitable in tropical areas, and
carry out plume chemistry study; and
(f)   In future environmental impact assessments and monitoring,
EGAT will take into account various ecological aspects as
recommended in the report (Annex 17), including measurement
of electric field intensities near high voltage
transmission lines.
E. Cost Estimates
4.13      Total financing required by EGAT for its investment program in
FY90-91 (including capitalized interest during construction) is estimated
at about US$2,780 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$1,484
million. Costs are based on July 1989 price levels. Physical
contingencies are only about 4.5Z of base cost, as prices for a substantial
portion of the program have been definitely established. Price
contingencies for local cost components are estimated on the basis of
escalation factors of 4.0Z for 1990 and 1991, while foreign costs are
escalated at 7.2? in 1990 and 4.4? in 1991, following Bank guidelines.
Price contingencies are applied to those components of the program for
which definitive prices have not been established. Table 4.1 summarizes the
cost estimates of EGAT's FY90-91 program; details are in Annex 10.
l



- 24 -
Table 4.1t SUMMARY OF COSTS /a
FX as 2
FY9O-91 Program         Baht million /b             US$ million        total
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   cost
Thermal Plants    11,174  26,248  37,422         436  1,025    1,461    70
Hydro Plants        1,224   1,447   2,671         48     57       105    54
Transmission        2,624   5,199   7,823        103    203       306    66
Lignite Mining      2,635   1,451   4,086        103      57      160    36
Miscellaneous         986       81   1,067        39       3       42      1
Taxes and Duties   7,577         0   7,577       296      0       296     0
Total Base Cost   26,220  34,426  60,646    1,025  1,345    2,370    57
Contingencies
Physical            1,147   1,477   2,624         45     58       103    56
Price               1,040   1,360   2,400         41     53        94    56
Total Cost         28,407  37,263  65,670    1,111  1,456    2,567    57
Interest during    4,763       717   5,480       185     28       213    13
construction
Total Financing   33,170  37,980  71,150    2,296  1,484    2,780    53
Required
/a July 1989 price levels.
/b Exchange rate US$1 = B 25.6.
F.   Financing Plan
4.14      Table 4.2 below summarizes the expected financing sources for
EGAT's PDP during FY90-91.



- 25 -
Table 4.2: FINANCING PLAN
Foreign     Local      Total       (2)
------- US$ million ------
World Bank
Loans Outstanding a/   140           -       140         5
Proposed Loan            94          -        94         3
Other borrowings         1,250        541      1791        65
Internal cash generation    -         755       755        27
Total                    1,484      1,296     2,780       100
a/  Power Transmission Project (Loan 2915-TH) and Power System Development
Project (Loan 3027-TH)
4.15      Bank financing, including expected disbursements under the
ongoing loans, would account for about 82 of EGAT's overall investment
program during the FY90-91 period. The proposed loan would meet about 32
of the program cost and about 62 of its foreign component (including
interest during construction). The loan would be made to EGAT at the
standard variable interest rate for a 20-year term including a 5-year grace
period. EGAT would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks. The
Kingdom of Thailand would guarantee the loan.
G.   Procurement
4.16      Contracts for the supply and erection of equipment to be financed
by the Bank would be awarded on the basis of International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. In the
evaluation of bids, domestic price preference would be applicable for
specific components as approved by the Bank. Civil works and local
equipment would be awarded through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Prior Bank review of bid
documents would be mandatory for contracts expected to cost the equivalent
of US$2.0 million or more. This would cover over 902 of total contract
value. Contracts expected to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent each and
not exceeding, in the aggregate, US$5.0 million, may be awarded through
local shopping, or following LCB procedures open to foreign suppliers.
Civil works up to an aggregate of US$2.0 million may be procured under
contracts awarded following LCB procedures. Specialized mining instruments
and control equipments, not exceeding US$0.7 million in the aggregate,
would be procured from proprietary sources to achieve uniformity in
operation and maintenance. Consultant services would be awarded in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants.



- 26 -
4.17      Procurement following ICB procedures is expected to aggregate to
about US$ 86 million or about 912 of the loan amount.
H. Disbursements
4.18      The Bank loan would be disbursed against (a) 100Z of foreign
expenditures of directly imported equipment and materials; (b) 1002 of
local expenditures (ex-factory) of locally manufactured items procured
through ICB; (c) 502 of local expenditure for materials and works procured
locally; and (d) 1002 of total expenditures for consulting services.
4.19      For equipment and material contracts above US$2.0 million
equivalent, disbursements would be made against full documentation.
Reimbursements for expenditures relating to contracts valued at less than
US$2 million equivalent would be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation supporting the SOEs need not be
submitted to the Bank but would be retained by EGAT and be made available
for review by the Bank supervision missions. There will be no Special
Account opened for this loan. However, EGAT will ensure that each
withdrawal application would not be less than US$50,000 equivalent,
irrespective of the currencies involved or the disbursement procedures
used.
4.20      Annex 11 gives the disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank
loan as well as the standard profile of disbursements for power projects in
Asia. The loan is expected to be disbursed faster than indicated by the
standard profile because of the time-slice funding approach and advanced
stage of preparation by EGAT for its investments in FY90 and 91. The
project would provide for substantial flexibility in the use of the loan
proceeds and facilitate disbursements. The loan closing date would be
March 31, 1994.
V. FINANCIAL : KLYSIS
A. Past Performance
5.1       EGAT's performance for the period FY82-88 is summarized in
Table 5.1. Detailed statements are given in Annex 12. Data cover both
EGAT's lignite mining, and power generation and transmission activities.



- 27 -
Table 6.1: SUMMARY OF E0ATVS FINANCIAL OPERATING STATISTICS, FYs 82-0S
(shet million)
Fiscal year ending September 80  1932    1998   1984   1986   196e   1997   19m
Energy soles (CWh)             15,408  17,68a 19,886 21,196 22,558 26,778 29,494
Average revenue (B/kWh)          1.48    1.89   1.37   1.86   1.aa   1.80   1.26
Operating revenues             22,084  24,878 26,483 28,902 80,120 88,716 87,474
Operating expenses /a          17,808  19,726 21,691 28,316 22,941 24,082 27,770
Operating income                4,226   4,647  4,542  5,586  7,179  9,634  9,704
Net Income                      2,845   8,096  8,878  1,702  1,078  4,196  8,892
Rate base                      42,260  47,692 66,788 70,178 79,960 86,544 90,082
Long Term Debt                 81,499  89,129 89,841 61,062 68,882 68,120 61,908
Primary Ratio,:
Rate of X turn (X) /b          10.0     9.7    8.0    8.0    9.0   11.1   10.8
Debt service coverage (times)   2.8    1.8    2.4    1.8    1.4    1.4    1.6
Operating ratio (X) f            81      81    88    81    76    71    74
Current ratio (ti mesa          0.9    1.0    0.9    0.8    0.9    1.0    1.0
Debt as X of total capitalization    47  48    46    50    65    61    s0
Self-financing ratio (U)
(3-year average)               81      16    47    41    388       3       44
la  Including taxes, but excluding interest charged to operations and
foreign exchange losses.
lb  On average net revalued fixed assets in operation for power.
5.2       During the period FY82-88, EGAT's energy sales increased from
15,403 GWh to 29,494 GWh--at an average annual growth rate of over 112.
Higher economic growth and stable electricity prices caused energy sales to
increase an average of 10 per year in the FY82 to FY86 period. Buoyed by
the country's overall economic expansion in FY87 and FY88, EGAT sales
increased over 14? in each of those years.
5.3       During the past seven years, EGAT has been a strong financial
performer, largely because of a three-step tariff Increase in FY81. EGAT's
self-financing ratio, which averaged 36Z during the FY82 to FY88 period,
increased from 18Z in 1983, to 47Z in 1984, and was 44? in FY88. Its rate
of return (ROR) on net revalued assets in operation has remained at or
above 82 between 1982 and 1988, and was 10.8? in FY88.
5.4       Tariff reductions of 4X in April 1983 and 5? in June 1987 were
implemented to correspond with declines in EGAT's operating costs resulting
from oil price decreases. Because of the rate decreases and substantial
increase in EGAT's rate base, EGAT's self-financing ratio fell from 31? in
1982 to 18? in 1983, and its rate of return dropped from 10% in FY82 to
9.7? in FY83 and 8? in FY84 and FY85. However, with strong sales
performance in FY87 both the self-financing ratio and the rate of return
rose in FY87 in spite of the 1987 tariff decrease, and they remained at
robust levels in FY88. Although substantial foreign exchange losses
(B 1:289 million in FY85 and B 2,821 million in FY86) reduced net income in



- 28 -
both FY85 and FY86 to below 1983 levels, the sizeable sales volume increase
of FY87 enabled net income to surpass its earlier levels, though foreign
exchange losses remained high (B 1,786 million in 1987). Continued high
foreign exchange losses in FY88 (B 1,942 miillion) caused a slight
deterioration in net income in that year.
5.5       EGAT, which was not obligated to pay income tax before FY82, has
been required since then to remit to the Ministry of Finance a portion of
its net income, at a level determined at year's end by the Ministry
according to the needs of the National Treasury. For FY82 and FY83, EGAT
paid remittances of about 52 of its net income. The remittance level was
increased to 102 for FY84, 132 for FY85, 142 for FY86, and 152 for FY87
through FY90. For any year in which EGAT's self-financing ratio (SFR)
falls below 252, the Government will, among other measures, reassess EC-AT's
financial obligations to the State (para. 3.18).
5.6       EGAT's borrowings have been heavy, and the amount of its debt has
been expanded substantially by the appreciation of the Japanese yen, German
mark and Swiss franc, the currencies in which most of EGAT's debt is
denominated (para. 5.8). Long-term debt in foreign currencies is exchanged
into baht at the exchange rate effective on September 30 of the year for
which the financial statements are prepared. At year end FY88, the total
unrealized exchange loss on the revaluation of loans for completed projects
was B 14.1 billion. Debt service coverage fell from 2.4 times in FY84 to
1.5 times in FY88. Nevertheless, EGAT's capital structure has remained
satisfactory. Debt as a percentage of total capitalization increased from
45Z in FY84 to 532 in FY86 but fell to 502 in FY88.
B. Present Financial Position
5.7       EGAT's financial position as of FY89 is healthy, with a self-
financing ratio of 412, an ROR of 132, and a debt service coverage of 1.7
times. Substantial sales increases in FY87, FY88 and FY89 (142 p.a.) and
relatively low capital expenditures both contributed to these robust
financial ratios. While operating income decreased by 72 between FY87 and
FY88 because of a mid-1987 tariff decrease which was effective for all of
FY88, it increased by 222 in FY89. In turn, net income is expected to
increase in FY89 by 402 over FY88's level.
Foreign Exchange Exposure
5.8       As of September 30, 1988, EGAT had long-term debt (net of current
maturities) of B 61,903 million, of which over half was denominated in
Japanese yen, German mark, or Swiss franc. Since the Baht has weakened
substantially against these currencies, EGAT has incurred considerable
foreign exchange losses, which it plans to write off over the respective
terms of the loans. This policy reflects a 1986 Ministry of Finance
directive that all state enterprises revalue foreign currency loans as of
September 30 of each year starting in 1986, and either take the entire
exchange loss in FY86 or spread the loss over the remaining terms of the
loans. Before 1986, EGAT had deferred such losses and charged them against
revenue only when the loans were repaid. Since FY86, EGAT has adopted the



- 29 -
policy of revaluing the loans each year and writing the exchange losses off
over the remaining terms of such loans. The Government policy and the
alternative adopted by EGAT are appropriate since spreading the foreign
exchange losses is a far better alternative than affecting the net profit
of one single year by the entire amount of the loss. The deferred exchange
adjustment account enables EGAT to reflect the loss in a timely manner and
at the same time smooth out the effect of the exchange rates swings on the
net income of any given year. Even with the sudstantial increase in EGAT's
debt caused by the inclusion of the foreign exchange adjustment component,
the debt to equity ratio remains well within the 60/40 ratio previously
agreed with the Bank (para. 5.12).
C. Financial Outlook
5.9       EGAT's healthy financial performance is projected to continue
through 1997. The challenge for EGAT, particularly over the next five
years, will be to assimilate and finance the expected sizeable expansions
in its electricity sales and capital investment. Its current financial
strength should allow it to do this without excessive difficulty. Key
indicators of EGAT's financial performance for the period FY89-97 are
presented in Table 5.2, and detailed projections are shown in Annex 13.



Table S.2:  Summary of EMAT' Financial Opcrmting Statistecs, FY 89-97
(Baht Million)
Fiscal Yoar Ending Septembr 30                            1989        1990        1991        1992        1993        1994        1995        1996       1997
6Eergy sales (aWh)                                       33749       3772?       41724       46104       50223       54896       59189       63949      68533
Average revenue (8/kWh)                                   1.26        1.26        1.41        1.41        1.41        1.55        1.64        1.70        1.77
Operating revenues                                       42S89       47671       59176       61i37       71205       84874       97034      106664     121241
Operating aepenees                                       30703       36276       41979       46965       S3215       63080     7?;040        82221      92737
Operating incose                                         11885       11396       17197       18410       17990       21794       24994      26443       28503
Net incose                                                6475        5633       10947       10291        8449       11302       13944       14941       15847
Rat.e asee                                               94921      104961      121856      149066      183167      215826      247039      282773     326809
Long-teor debt                                           66063       81389      100598      118573      131744      143594      163999      181714     193941
Primery ratios:
Rate of return  N) /b                                   12.6        10.9        14.1        12.3         9.8        10.1        10.1         9.4        8.7
Debt service coverage (time)                             1.7         1.7         1.7         1.6         1.4         1.4         1.4         1.4         1.3
Operating ratio(l1) /a                                    72          76          71          72          75          74          74         76          76
Current ratio (times)                                    1.3         0.9         0.9         1.0         0.9         0.8         0.7         0.7         0.7
Lcng-term debt. as N of total capitalizatiorn             45          46          47          48          47          46          45         44          42
SoIf-financing ratio (S) (3-year *verag.)                 41          25          25          29          26          25          26         25          25
/t Including taxes, but excluding intarest charged to operatione and foreign exchange losses.
On average net revalued fixed asete in operation for poser.



- 31 -
5.10      Agreement was reached at negotiations that EGAT would set its
tariffs so as to generate funds from internal sources (as defined in Annex
14) equivalent to not less than 252 of the annual average of its capital
expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that fiscal year,
the previous fiscal year, and the next following fiscal year. A similar
self-financing covenant would apply to the power subsector as a whole
(para. 5.19). According to current projections, EGAT's prices for
electricity sales to MEA and PEA would need to be increased in FY91 in
order to stay above the covenanted 252 self-financing ratio level; total
increases averaging 5.02 per annum over the 1991-97 period would be
required. If the volume of EGAT's investment increases over the projected
amounts and/or if the remittance to the Government is higher than the 152
assumed here, additional rate increases would be required. Government and
EGAT currently are exploring a variety of approaches to keep near-term rate
increases to a minimum: these include negotiated oil and gas price
reductions, equity participation by the private sector in EGAT or specific
EGAT capital projects, and lower remittances to the Government.
5.11      Because of continuing strength in the Thai economy, EGAT's energy
sales growth is currently nrojected to increase an average of 1'. per year
through FY92, and then by about 82 p.a. between FY93 and FY97. EGAT's net
income is projected to increase with sales growth throughout the period
except that increased depreciation resulting from EGAT's substantial
investment program will cause some net income deterioration in 1992 and
1993. The operating ratio for power sales will range between 712 and 762
during the projected period, increasing in later years as the rate of
return declines. The ROR is projected to remain above 82 throughout the
1989 to 1997 period. EGAT's power assets, which are revalued each year
according to an index published by the Ministry of Finance, will increase
at about 172 p.a. from B 116,985 million in FY89 to B 421,930 million in
FY97.
5.12      EGAT's debt service coverage ratio will range between 1.3 and 1.7
times throughout the projected period. The capital structure will remain
satisfactory: the debt/total capital ratio is expected to average 46? and
remain below 49%. EGAT's current debt control test provides for Bank
review of borrowings when the debt-equity ratio exceeds 60/40; agreement
was reached at negotiations to continue this test for the proposed loan.
In addition, EGAT has been required under previous Bank loans not to
contract short- and medium-term debt (debt which matures within five years)
in excess of 152 of its total debt outstanding. EGAT has always complied
with this covenant, and agreement was reached at negotiations to continue
it under the proposed loan.
5.13      EGAT has maintained a current ratio averaging 0.9 over the past
seven years, with the ratio never falling below 0.S. Projections show that
the current ratio will not fall below 0.7 during the project period. Since
EGAT has easy access to short-term borrowing in the case of cash
constraint, its liquidity position is satisfactory.



- 32 -
D. Lignite Mine Operationa
5.14      The operations of EGAT's Lignite Mine Directorate comprise the
Mae Moh and Krabi mines. Each mining operation is treated as a separate
accounting center and overhead costs are allocated proportionately. The
transfer price is based on a methodology agreed with the Bank under
previous loans. The transfer price reflects the long run marginal cost of
lignite; it is equal to the sum of EGAT mining costs and a depletion
premium that accounts for the increasing economic scarcity value of lignite
and the associated cost to the economy of the early use of an exhaustible
resource. The depletion premium is derived from the opportunity cost of
lignite (based on imported coal as a substitute), future mining costs and
the magnitude of reserves. Agreement was reached during negotiations that
EGAT would continue to set the transfer price for the lignite produced and
used in its power plants on the basis of economic principles and so as to
ensure the financial viability of its lignite mine operations, in
accordance with the methodology previously agreed with the Bank.
5.15      To ensure that adequate financial discipline continues to govern
mining operations, agreement was reached during negotiations that the
Lignite Mine Department would meet standard debt covenants as agreed under
previous lignite mining operations. The covenants are (a) a debt:equity
ratio not exceeding 60:40; and (b) a debt service coverage of at least 1.3.
E. Subsector Finances
5.16      Consolidated financial projections of the power subsector (EGAT,
PEA and MEA) are presented in Annex 14.
5.17      Tariff increases in the early 19809 brought the average retail
electricity price in Thailand to a level which was at or above the long-run
marginal cost (LRMC) of supply, and created the base for the financial
viability of the power subsector during the FY82-88 periGd. Although
extensive capital expenditures in FY84 and FY85 (which increased the rate
base in those years by 19Z and 24?, respectively) reduced the rate of
return of the power utilities between FY83 and FY85, reductions in fuel
prices in 1986 and 1987, as well as substantially increased electricity
sales in 1987, helped to keep the self-financing ratio above 25? for both
EGAT and the power subsector as a whole.
5.18      With rate increases beginning in FY91 and averaging 4.0Z per year
through FY97, the subsector would produce the covenanted 252 self-financing
ratio level throughout the projected period, and earn an average rate of
return on revalued net fixed assets of 10.3?. With the estimated tariff
increases, the subsector will remain financiallv strong through 1997.
Energy sales will increase at an average annual rate of 11 between 1990
and 1992 and at 82 per year thereafter. Revalued net fixed power assets
will grow at about 15? per year throughout the FY89 to FY97 period. The
debt service coverage is projected to be at least 1.3 times. Debt as a
percent of total capital will average 442 during the FY89 to FY97 period
and will not rise above 462.



- 33 -
5.19      Agreement was reached at negotiations that tariffs for the power
subsector would be set so that the sector would generate funds from
internal sources equivalent to not less than 252 of the annual average of
its capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that
fiscal year, the previous fiscal year, and the next following fiscal year.
For this purpose the Government will provide to the Bank consolidated
financial statements for the power subsector within six months after the
end of each fiscal year. This covenant will ensure that the subsector
remnins financially sound. The co-enant is used to determine the
appropriate tariffs with all retail customers--whether of EGAT, MEA or
PEA--paying according to the same schedule. Once the sector self-financing
ratio has been ensured, self-financing ratios are set for the individual
utilities. Because PEA, with its extensive rural distribution system and
low density coverage, has costs which exceed those of EGAT and MEA on a per
kWh basis, subsidies from EGAT and MEA to PEA are bui.; into the rates
charged by EGAT to each utility (EGAT's tariff to MEA n 1989 is B 3 48 and
to PEA B 1.04, compared to its average tariff of
B 1.26).
F. Tariff Levels and Structure
5.20      Successive power rate increases in FY80 and FYR1 resulted in an
average increase of 158? in the tariffs charged by EGAT to PEA, MEA and its
large direct consumers. Retail tariffs charged by PEA and MEA were
correspondingly increased by 111? and 1312 respectivey. These tariff
adjustments have been sufficient to keep EGAT revenues at healthy levels to
the present time and even to allow occasional small rate reductions--the
lact time in June 1987--as EGAT's operating costs were reduced due to the
oil price decline. FEGAT's tariff structure is given in Annex 15.
5.21      As agreed under Loan 3027-TH, agreement was reached during
negotiations that EGAT would review quarterly the adequacy of its rates and
maintain a fuel cost variation charge clause in its tariff structure.
Although EGAT and the sector have complied substantially with these
covenants, rate adjustments to reflect fuel cost variations have not been
automatic, but subject to Government review. Accordingly, in the past,
tariff adjustments have at times been delayed. The Government undertakes
periodic reviews of EGAT's bulk supply tariffs to PEA and MEA and the
retail tariffs to the consumers to ensure that: (a) they are adequate to
meet the financial covenants for EGAT and for the power subsector; and (b)
they accomplish the required cross-funding between MEA and PEA. Government
is now considering shifting in the future toward a tariff policy based on
automatic fuel cost adjustment.
5.22      Annex 14 shows the calculation of the average rate levels for the
power subsector that would be necessary to keep a minimium self-financing
ratio of 25X. The rate levels projected at current prices (in baht per
kWh) are presented in Table 5.3 below. They are within 15% of the average
revenue that would result from strict LRMC pricing.



- 34 -
Table 6.3: POWER SUSSECTOR--PROJECTED AVERAGE RETAIL TARIFF
Current
level
FY69 FY90 FY91 FY92 l:Y98 FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97
Avereg. tariff (B/kWh)    1.69 1.06 1.64 1.64 1.'d 2.10 2.16 2.20 2.20
Projected tariff Increase (%)   -    -   9.4   -   2.1 11.6  2.9  2.2   -
5.23      Under Loan 2915-TH, EGAT agreed to undertake a program of
adjustments in the existing tariff structure so that tariffs would (a)
reflect cost differences between the inain voltage levels of delivery; (b)
reflect cost differences arising frs:n marked variations in consumers' usage
patterns, viz. load factor, power .actcr and intensity of peak-time demand;
and (c) reduce subsidies for consumers falling outside low-income groups.
In the pursuit of these objectives, in June 1987, the Government eliminated
tariff surcharges and simplified the tariff structure. For industrial and
business customers for whom a two-part tariff is applicable, kW demand
charges were increased and kWh charges were reduced to reflect the relative
marginal capacity costs and energy costs. Tariff differences between high,
medium and low voltage users were introduced to reflect network costs and
energy losses. Time-of-day rates for large industrial consumers, with
rates differing for each of three daily periods, will be effective from
January 1, 1990.
G. Financing Plan
5.24      A financing plan for EGAT and the subsector over the project
period (FY90-91) is presented in Table 5.4.



- 35 -
Tuble S4: BAU AN SECTOR FMANCINO PLAN PY9O-91
EQAT                       Power Sector
eht    us u-- Z                     USS      s
(Mi11llons)                 (11illi;ons)
Financial Requirements
EGAT Investments  (Includin  IDC)   71148  2780    104S          71148  2780     90S
MEA/PEA In.estents  (Including IOC)   0      0       0_         11476    448     15_
Total Investwent                   71148  270     t04S         82624   3228d   10SS
Decrease in Deferred Llibillties     157     6       O          157      6      ox
Working Capital IRequirements       -3203   -12f    -s%         -3917    -153    -SS
Total Requiresnts                  6101   2661    1001         78864   3082   0OO0
Sources
Internal Cash Generation            41664   1628    61s          63368  2085    e68
Less: Debt Service                  23687   926     36#          29580  11SS     381
Net Internal Cash Omneration        17977   -- 02--  26S         23788   929     30%
Borrowings                          51834   2026    761          S2955  2069     67S
Equity                                0      0       O0          1697     66     2S
Assts Disposal *nd Other Iteme (Not)  -1710  -a6   -38           424      1S    1i
Total Sources of Fund             6WI;01  2661   -tOS          78864   3082   1O00
5.25      The proposed project, including interest during construction,
represents 901 of the overall power sector investment program during the
FY90-91 period. The proposed Bank loan of US$94 million is expected to
meet 4Z of EGAT's total financing requirements for the period. During the
FY90-91 period, EGAT and the power sector expect to meet 26Z and 30Z,
respectively, of their total capital requirements from internally generated
funds.
5.26      Borrowings from external sources amount to 76Z of EGAT's
financing requirements for FY90 and FY91. EGAT has a longstanding
association with the Asian Development Bank (ADB), and the Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan and more recently with the Kuwait Fund
and the OPEC Fund. A list of EGAT's loans and their terms is included in
the project file. No difficulties have arisen in the past in obtaining
bilateral financing and suppliers credits. For the past ten years, EGAT
has made increasing use of Euro-dollar and other foreign financing sources,
local bond markets, and commercial bank loans; it will continue to use
these sources to cover any financing gap.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Analysis
6.1      The time-slice forms a part of EGAT's least-cost expansion plan.
To confirm the economic viability of EGAT's PDP, an adjusted Internal
Financial Rate of Return (IFR) is calculated, as an approximation of the



- 36 -
Economic Rate of Return (ERR), on the basis of the incremental cost and
benefit streams associated with the 1989-98 time-slice of EGAT's overall
investment program. This period covers all the proposed gas- and lignite-
fired generating units predicated on present reserve estimates of each of
the two domestic fuels; subsequent units which are presently assumed to be
based on imported coal are not included in the analysis. The (adjusted)
IFR on this expansion program is 14.b. Incremental fuel costs are based
on the Bank-defined scenarios of international fuel prices. Estimates of
the economic cost of natural gas are derived from the contract terms for
the purchase of gas from Unocal by PTT, net of royalty payments both on the
gas itself and on recovered condensate. Additional benefits accruing from
the recovery of LPG are ignored. Estimates of the economic price of
lignite are based on the methodology agreed between EGAT and the Bank for
the establishment of the transfer price of lignite within EGAT, net of
taxes, duties and royalty payments. The projected levels of EGAT tariffs
producing the minimum covenanted 252 self-financing ratio are used as a
proxy for benefits, ignoring possible consumer surplus. The ERR on EGAT's
expansion program would, therefore, be greater than the IFR. Because
financial covenants are agreed to ensure tariff adjustments in response to
changes in EGAT's cost structure, the (adjusted) IFR is relatively
insensitive to changes in EGAT's fuel costs. Even though EGAT's PDP can be
adapted relatively easily to changes in load forecast by modifying the
timing of future units, the IFR was tested with a decline in projected
demand. A reduction of 5Z in the sales of electricity brings the IFR down
to 132. The IFR is less sensitive to program costs, dropping to 132 for an
increase of 102 in capital and operation and maintenance costs. Details of
calculations are in Annex 16.
B. Risks
6.2       Although the PDP is ambitious, no major risks are foreseen in its
successful and timely implementation, in view of EGAT's demonstrated
experience in the execution of large thermal, hydro and transmission
projects, and its advanced state of preparedness on procurement and
implementation. To reduce the implementation period for some of the
urgently needed generation projects, EGAT will be letting out single-
responsibility contracts. Major transmission line projects will be
implemented on turnkey basis. In view of the anticipated heavy work load
on its engineering and design staff, EGAT will be making much greater than
normal use of consultancy assistance for project design and construction
supervision.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACFED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements
7.1       During negotiations, agreement was reached with EGAT that it
would:



- 37 -
(a)   continue to operate its lignite mining activities as
separate profit centers and to maintain separate accounts
and financial statements for such centers (para. 3.5);
(b)   submit to the Bank audited annual financial statements for
the mining operations and EGAT as a whole, on both an
unconsolidated and a consolidated basis, within six months
of the close of each fiscal year and continue to have the
accounts audited by independent auditors (para. 3.16);
(c)   continue to make provisions for insurance consistent with
appropriate practice (para. 3.17);
(d)   submit to the Bank for its review and approval an
evaluation of any sub-project to be financed under the
loan, establishing that the sub-project is technically
sound and economically justified, has been approved by
the Government, and meets environmental standards and
provides for resettlement plans satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.5);
(e)   to implement, in consultation with the Bank, appropriate
measures for purposes of strengthening its capabilities in
environmental monitoring and evaluation (para. 4.12);
(f)   maintain a debt/equity ratio not exceeding 60:40 and short-
and medium-term debt at no more than 15Z of all debt (para.
5.12);
(g)   continue to set the transfer price for the lignite producea
and used in its power plants on the basis of economic
principles and so as to ensure the financial viability of
its lignite mine operations, in accordance with the
methodology previously agreed with the Bank (para. 5.14);
(h)   limit borrowing related to lignite mining activities such
that the Lignite Mine Department's debt/equity ratio is no
greater than 60:40 and its debt service coverage ratio is
at least 1.3 (para. 5.15); and
(i)   provide a quarterly review of the adequacy of its rates and
maintain a fuel cost adjustment clause in its tariff
schedule (para. 5.21).
7.2       During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
that it would:
(a)   undertake a periodic review of power rates to ensure that
tariffs are adequate for both EGAT and the power subsector
to produce fund- from internal sources equivalent to not
less than 25Z of the annual average capital expenditures



- 38 -
incurred,, or expected to be incurred, by them for that
fiscal year, the previous fiscal year, and the next
following fiscal year (paras. 5.5, 5.10 and 5.19); and
(b)   provide the the Bank consolidated financial statements for
the power subsector within six months after the end of each
fiscal year (para. 5.19).
B. Recommendation
7.3      The proposed program is suitable for a Bank loan of US$94 million
equivalent to EGAT with the Guarantee of the Kingdom of Thailand at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate for a 20-year term including a
5-year grace period.



39 -                                               ANNEX 1
THAILAND
SECOND POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
Highigahts of ECAT. MEA and PEA Operations
FY81     FY82     FY83     FY84      FY86     FY86     FY87      FY8S
ECAT
Peak generation (MW)                    2,589    2,888    8,204    8,647    8,878    4,181    4,784    6,444
Annual load factor (X)                   70.9     67.9      67.9     67.6     68.7      67.7     68.0     67.1
Not energy genoration (GWh)            15,960   16,882   19,066   21,066   23,857   24,780   28,193   31,997
Energy sold (GWh)                      14,652   16,388   17,544   19,838   21,208   22,629   25,75   29,494
Network losses (GWh)                    1,408    1,496    1,622    1,728    2,149    2,251    2,487    2,503
Network losses (as X of generation)      8.82     8.86      7.98     8.20     9.20      9.08     8.64     7.82
Number of employes                     22,28)   26,769   80,077   82,157   81,801   81,157   81,110   81,356
Employee per MW installed                   6        7         6        6        6         6        S        S
MEA
Peak demand (MW)                        1,B88    1,499    1,631    1,776    1,828    1,988    2,178    2,432
Energy purchased (GWh)                  8,492    8,719    9,666   10,498   10,910   11,891   12,930   14,564
Energy sold (GWh)                       8,182    8,488    9,166    9,917   10,830   10,672   12,104   13,679
Losses (GWh)                              81O      281       5OO      581      580       719      826      886
Losses (as X of purchases)                8.7      3.2       5.2      5.6      5.8       6.3      6.4      6.1
Number of consumers ('000)                794       888      876      914       962    1,001    1,052    1,118
Sales/consumer (kWh)                   10,305   10,069   10,468   10,850   10,788  10,661   11,506   12,267
Annual load factor (X)                   69.8      66.4     67.7     67.8     68.8      65.6     67.8     68.4
Number of employes                     10,045    10,11   10,264   10,801   10,422   10,640   10,866   11,014
Number of consumers/employee               79        82       8S       89        92       94       97       101
PEA
Peak demand (MW)                        1,181    1,836    1,86S   1,722    1,955    2,082    2,876    2,745
Energy purchases (GWh)                  5,261    6,428    7,385    8,222    9,424   10,213   11,808   13,760
Energy generatd (OWh)                      45        35       27       21       19        26       25       21
Energy available (GWh)                  5,806    6,465    7,412    8,248    9,443   10,238   11,888   18,781
Energy sold (GWh)                       5,210    5,840    6,680    7,488    8,667    9,305   10,944   12,694
Losses (GWh)                              696      618       732      810      886       93a      889    1,087
Losses (as X of available)               10.3      9.5       9.9      9.8      9.4       9.1      7.5      7.9
Consumers ('000)                        2,270    2,723    3,186    3,620    4,054    4,542    6,069    6,561
Average energy sales/consumer (kWh)    2,295    2,145    2,097    2,063    2,110    2,049    2,159    2,287
Annual load factor (X)                   56.1     55.2      64.1     54.6     56.1      56.1     66.9     56.8
Number of employees                    16,262   18,188   19,605   21,382   22,584   23,602   24,897   25,017
Number of consumers/employee              189       150      162      169      179       193      208      222



- 40 -                                     ANNEX 2
THAILAND
SECOND POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EGAT's Euisting Generating Capacity
(As of February 1989)
Average energy
omissonng Not. ofapacityS eMW)     cp ability
Plant type                  do te(s)        units    inotg N. oC  at Mt               yr)
Hydroelectric Plant
linumlDoI                   1964-82          7        535.0        710.0        1,200.0
Sirikit                        1974         3         375.0        500.0        1,000.0
Ubolratana                  1966-68          3         25.0         25.0           56.0
Sirindhorn                  1971-84         3          36.0         36.0           86.0
Chulabhorn                     1972          2         40.0         40.0           95.0
Kang Rrachan                   1974          1         19.0         19.0           78.0
Nam Pung                       1965          2          6.0          6.0           15.0
Srinagarind                 1980-85         4         540.0        720.0        1,140.0
Bang Lang                      1981          3         72.0         72.0          200.0
Yha Thung Na                1981-82         2          38.0        38.)           165.0
Khao Lsem                   1984-85          3        300.0        300.0          760.0
Huai Kum                       1982          1          1.3          1.3            2.0
Ban Yang                       1974          3          0.12         0.12           0.3
Ban Santi                      1982          1          1.3          1.3            6.0
Ban Chong Rlum                 1984          1          0.02         0.02           0.2
Bank Rhun Klang                1983         2           0.18         0.18           0.7
Mae Ngat                       1985          2          9.0          9.0           29.0
Huai Saphan Hin                1986          2         12.2         12.2           27.0
Rajjaprabha                 1986-87          3        240.0        240.0          550.0
Total                                   48       2,250.12    2.730.12        5,410.2
Thermal Power Plant
.lae nOn (iignite)-         1987-85          7        825.0                     5,420.0
Krabi (lignite)             1964-68          2         40.0                       200.0
North Bangkok (oil)         1961-68          3        237.5                     1,250.0
Surat Thani (oil)              1973         1          30.0                       210.0
Khanom PPB (oil)               1981          1         75.0                       525.0
South Bangkok joil/gas)    1970-77           5      1,300.0                     9,110.0
Bang Pakong (oil/gas)       1983-84          2      1,100.0                     7,710.0
Total                                   21       3.607.5                    24.425.0
Combined Cvcle Power Plant
sang Pakong (gas)           1980-83          2        771.6                     4,055.0
Total                                     2         771.6                     4.055.0
Gas Turbine
Naknon Katchasima              1968          1         15.0                        33.0
Udon Thani                     1969          1         15.0                        33.0
Hat Yai                     1969-71          3         45.0                        99.0
Surat Thani                 1969-70         3          45.0                        99.0
Lan Krabu                   1969-81          7        145.0                       735.0
Total                                   15         265.0                    1054.0
GRAND TOTAL                             86       6,894.22                   35.042.2



- 41 -                                ANNEX 3
THAILAND
SECOND POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMN  PROJECT
EGAT's Existing Transmission and Substation Facilities
(As of February 1989)
Transmission lines
Substations                (circuit-kilometers)
Region and                    Transformer La      Double-    Single-
system voltage        Number    capacity (MVA)       circuit    circuit      Total
Region 1
230 kV                19            5,060            2,750       18        2,768
115 kV                41            2,281              641    1,437        2,078
69 kV                 1               31                -      128          128
Subtotal           61           8.372            3,391    1.583         4.974
Region 2
230 kV                 1              400              290        -          290
115 kV                28            1,057            1,711    1,686        3,397
69 kV                 4               47                -      327          327
Subtotal           33           1.504            2,001    2.013         4,014
Region 3
230 kV                 3              400              806        -          806
115 kV                21              976            1,149    1,137/b      2,286
Subtotal           24           1,376            1.955    1,137         3,092
Region 4
500 kV                 -                -                -      326          326
230 kV                 8              750            2,040      218        2,258
115 kV                20              924              640    1,072        1,712
69 kV                 5              125                -      187          187
Subtotal           33           1.799            2,680    1,803         4,483
All Region
500 kV                 -                -                -      326          326
230 kV                31            7,610            5,886      236        6,122
115 kV               110            5,244            4,141    5,332        9,473
69 kV                10              203                -      642          642
Total EGAT        151          13.057           10,027    6,536        16,563
/a  Station service and generator unit transformers are excluded.
b Nine circuit-km of 132 kV transmission line are included.



-42 -                                            ANI   4
Page=1of 2
TH4AILAND
SECOHM FO0E1 SYSTEM DEvELOPMENT PRFOjCT
EAT's Power Development Plan
Caps-   Schedul ed       capital investment
Unit                      city    coplIetion  Ferelign   Local    Tot I
no.        Typo          (MW)       date     ---- (US *iPlion) ------
Under Construction
i.e Nab                                  8        Ther_al          S00   Jul 1909       171.8     99.7    271.5
Mae mob                                  9        Thermal          t00   Dec lo0        166.8     61.4    249.7
Khano  second power plant barge          2        Thermal           7S    Jul 1909       64.9     23.4     n2.8
SiV tronmiasion systm stage 2
(for MVa mob unit 6)                   -           -               -    Apr 1969       17.7     11.4    29.1
EHV tranmisgion system stage 8
(for Mae Moh unit 9)                   -           -               -    Apr 1900      48.8      81.6     74.9
Second centrol-southern ti  lIlne        -           -               -    Feb 100        18.9     18.2     82.1
Transmission systm expansion no. 7
part A                                 -           -               -        1000       51.5     45.6    97.8
part S                                 -           -               -        1990        7.8      6.9     14.2
Mae Moh mine expansion for Mae Moh
units 5 6,7                            -           -               -        1909       26.3     46.6     77.4
Mao MoN mine expansion (stage 1)
for Mae Moh units 8,9                  -           -               -        1991       81.7    184.9    166.2
Srinogorind                              5         Hydro           160    Apr 1091       26.4     11.6 8    8.2
Sang Pakong combined cycle               8     Gas turbine A       807    Jun 1091      118.2      83.5    179.7
combined cycle
Song Pakong combined cycle               4     Gas turbine &       807    Aug 1091      108.6     46.1    149.7
combined cycle
MVe Mob                                 10        Thbrmal          800    Feb 1992      186.4    122.4    288.8
Bang Pokong therml                       8        Thermal          600    May 1992      198.9    215.4   414.8
Bong Pakong thermal                      4        Thermal          6oo    May 1998      167.2    204.8   891.6
280 kV Khon Ka-n 3 - Roi Et trana-       -           -               -    Jan 1991       10.9     11.5    22.4
mission project
280 kV Tha Tako-Khon Keen 8              -           -               -    Jan 1992       16.5     17.7    84.2
ENV transmission systm for Mae Mob       -           -               -    Feb 1992      106.7     96.1    200.8
unit 10
ENV transmission system for Mae Moh      -           -               -    Feb 1993        2.2      1.6      3.6
unit 1-
Misc, transmiosion system expanslen      -           -               -     1997-91       10.6    161.4    172.0
and construction work
Total                                 -           -           2.99
New Pr?J*cts
Bhuoibol hydro plant renovation         1-2        Hydro          (140)   Mar 1002       18.6      4.6     28.4
Pak Mun                                 1-4        Hydro           18S    Nov 1998       74.6     74.6    149.2
Keeng Krung                             1-2        Hydro            *0    Dec 1994       62.4     67.2    119.6
Mae -tsng                               1-2        Hydro            26    Jun 1995       22.8     19.2     41.6
Shumibol                                 6         Hydro           176    Jan 1996       64.9     42.8    107.7
Sirikit & Lower Sirikit                  4         Hydro           140    Feb 1996       70.6     82.1    102.7
Rsyong combinod cycle                    1     Gas turbine         S o80    Sep 1991    184.6     77.8    212.6
combined cycle
Rayong combined cycle                    2      oa* turbine A      S80    Oct 1991      102.8     68.1    160.9
combined cycle
Rsyong combined cycle                    8     Goa  turbine &      808    Jon 1992      106.7     66.3    162.0
combined cycle
Nam Phong combined cycle                1-2    Gas turbine A       855    Dec 1991      126.1     76.2    201.3
combined cycle
Mae Moh                                 11        Thermal          800    Feb 1993      136.4     98.9    280.3
Mao Moh                                 12        Thermal          8o0   Oct 1993       178.6    180.6   309.4
Mae Moh                                 18        Therml           380    Apr 1994      186.6    120.2    814.7
Me Moh                                  14        Thermal          0oo    Oct 1994      186.6    136.0    322.6
Mae Moh                                 15        Therema          800    Apr 1996      194.7    183.6   328.3
Mae Moh                                 16        Thermal          800    Nov 1996      194.7    141.8   838.6
North Bangkok plant renovation          1-8       Thermol       (287.6)   Aug 1998       84.6     16.8     61.3
South Bangkok plant renovation          1-6       Thermal            -    Dec 1995       48.4     16.4     63.8
Snba Yol                                 1        Thermal          150    Oct 1095      126.7     97.1    225.8
Saba Yol                                 2        Thermal          150    Apr 1996      116.7     77.8    194.6
Accelerated transmission project         -           -               -    Apr 1992       47.8     37.7     86.0
EHV transomosion system for Mao Mob      -                           -    Oct 1098       66.8     62.0    116.8
unit 12
ENV transmloion system for Mae Moh      -            -              -    Apr 1994       48.0     85.8     78.8
unit 18



ANNEX 4
*  etrf 2
Cope-   Scheduled       Capitol invatasnt
Unit                     city    completion  oreigsn.  Local   Total
no.        Type         (MW)       dat       ---- (USS eIllion) ------
Mm Mroc.ts (contttd)
HV tronum1ssion system for Ma. Mob       -           -              -    Oct 19n4        2.2      1.6      8.7
unit 14
EH  transmisslon *systm for Use Mob      -           -              -    Apr 1SM        1S.6     11.8     27.1
unit 15
EH  tronsmisslon systo for Mee Moh       -           -              -    Nov 1996        2.8      1.6      8.9
unit 16
Transmioslon system expansion No. I      -           -              -    Apr 1998       07.8    *7.1   164.4
Tran_oission system expansion No. 9      -           -              -    Apr 1995      56.6    56.8    114.9
ime  Moh mine expansion (stago  2)       -           -              -        1096       29.6    14.1    48.9
for Mae Mob units 8,9
Mee Moh mine *xpanelon for Me Mobh       -           -              -    Feb 1992        7.6     65.9    68.4
unit 10,11
Moo Moh mIni expansion for Mae Mob       -           -              -    Oct 1998       62.6     49.0   181.6
unit 12
Mee Moh mine expanslon for Moo Mob       -           -              -    Apr 1994       74.1    84.7   109.6
unIt 18
Mae Moh min- expanslon for Mae Moh       -           -              -    Oct 19n4       25.1     18.6    J86.
unit 14
Mae Mob mine expansion for Mae Mob       -           -              -    Apr 1095       26.2    18.4      89.6
unit 15
Me Mob mine expansion for Ma  Mob        -           -              -    Nov 1996      102.5     49.8   162.8
unit 16
Saba Yoi mine development for Saba       -           -              -        1016       61.9   179.4   261.8
Yol units 1,2
Total                                _            _
Proieto be Initiated  (but to be completed after September 1996)
8        Thermal         800    Oct 1996      208.6   147.9   851.7
Mae Mob                                 17        Thermal         800    Nov 1996      208.8    147.6   860.8
Moo Mob                                 16        Themal           W0    Apr 1"7       212.2   145.2   857.4
NeW therml                               1        Thermal         600    Oct 1997      487.4   474.8   911.7
Moo Mob                                 19        Thermal         800    Nov l1m       221.6   160.8  381.9
Lower Mae Ping                         1-2         Hydro           40    Jul 19         49.9    62.8   102.7
New thermal                              2        Theerml         6e0    Oct 1996      425.8   468.9   669.2
Sibs Yol                                 4        Thermal        W8O    Nov 1997       247.1   181.4   426.6
N&e Kh.k                                1-4        Hydro          120    Feb 1999       90.7     96.6   167.3
New therml                               8        Therml          600    Oct 1999      444.1   483.6   927.7
Ns- Chern                               1-4        Hydro          400    Nov 1999      118.9    90.7   204.6
New thormal                              4        Thermal         600    Oct 2000      468.6   502.9   966.5
Now thermal                              6        Therml          600    Jon 2001      434.0   496.9    962.9
EHV transmission system for Mee Mob      -           -              -    Nov 1906       28.0    28.4    51.4
unit 17
EHV transmission system for Mae Mob      -           -              -    Apr 1097      104.8    107.1    211.4
unit 16
EHW tronmission system for Moe Mob       -           -              -    Nov 1997        2.6      1.6      4.4
unit 19
Tranomission system expansion No. 10    -            -              -    Apr 1997       68.9     61.0    124.9
Transmisslon system expansion No. 11    -            -              -        1999      69.6      66.8    186.9
Tronsmlisson system expansion No. 12    -            -              -        2001       75.9     71.6   147.7
Transmlsolon system expansion No. 1J    -            -              -        2008       62.7     77.9   160.6
Moa Job mine expansion for Mee Mob       -           -              -    Nov 1996       27.4     14.7    42.1
unit 1I
Mae Mob min- expansion for Mae Moh      -            -              -    Apr 1997      96.1      46.4    148.5
unit 16
Mee Moh mine expansion for Mae Moh       -           -              -    Nov 1997       15.4      6.9    24.3
unit 19
Saba Yol mine dovelopment for Soba       -           -              -        190        98.5     08.9    162.4
Yoi units 8,4
Total                                                        5,060
Notes:  (1)  Data as of PDP88-02 (July 1999).
(2) Including Interest during construction.
8)  Exchonge rate: US01.00 a B 26.0.
4)  Under-construction projects are the projects that hove alroedy been approved by the NESOB and hod
budget In FY1969.



- 44 -                                        ANNEX 5
THAILAND
SECOND POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Electricity GeneratinR Authority of Thailand
Balance of System Load Requirements and Capabilities
!
Requirement                      Capability and reserve margin
Peak      Energy                       Capacity                        Energy
genera-    genera-                            Reserve capacity                Reserve
Fiscal      tion       tion    Installed  Dependable  Gross/a    Net/b    Firm    from firm
year       (HW)        (GWh)   -------- (MW) ------  ----- (2) ------   (GWh)              (Z)
1980      2,417.4  14,753.7   3,239.4        3,084.2    27.58       12.36  16,673.1    13.01
1981      2,588.7  15,960.0   3,739.4        3,555.0    37.33       23.11  18,576.5    16.39
1982      2,838.0  16,882.0   4,097.7        3,910.2    37.78       24.81  21,195.8    25.55
1983      3,204.3  19,066.3   4,992.0        4,801.9    49.86       24.64  22,813.7    19.65
1984      3,547.3  21,166.4   5,859.2        5,668.3    59.79       37.01  28,622.0    35.87
1985      3,878.4  23,356.7   6,457.7        6,163.7    58.92       38.09  33,155.9    41.95
1986      4,180.9  24,779.5   6,622.2        6,328.9    51.38       32.05  34,397.7    38.82
1987      4,733.9  28,194.3   6,928.4        6,483.3    36.95       19.88  32,765.9    16.21
1988      5,444.0  31,997.0   6,894.2        6,392.5    17.42        2.59  33,065.4      3.34
1989      6,098.(  36,584.0   7,269.2        6,748.8    10.67       -2.57  33,411.1    -8.67
1990      6,759.0  40,746.0   7,891.2        7,339.7      8.59      -3.36  36,250.3   -11.03
1991      7,440.0  45,062.0   9,325.2        8,711.1    17.08        6.23  43,857.3    -2.67
1992      8,173.0  49,793.0  10,542.2        9,867.3    20.73       10.27  50,204.8      0.83
1993      8,867.0  54,240.0  11,442.2    10,722.3    20.92          11.28  56,352.1      3.89
1994      9,578.0  58,964.0  12,148.2    11,334.8    18.34           9.42  62,445.4      5.90
1995     10,304.0  63,924.0  12,854.2    12,008.0    16.54           8.24  66,605.4      4.19
1996     11,066.0  69,065.0  13,642.2    12,781.9    15.51           7.78  70,770.9      2.47
1997     11,816.0  74,016.0  14,542.2    13,636.9    15.41           8.17  76,129.4      2.86
1998     12,596.0  79,170.0  15,452.2    14,503.4    15.14           8.36  82,894.8      4.70
1999     13,414.0  84,660.0  16,472.2    15,468.0    15.31           8.94  89,052.6      5.18
2000     14,271.0  90,568.0  17,427.2    16,402.1    14.93           8.94  93,192.2      2.90
2001     15,112.0  96,373.0  18,427.2    17,352.1    14.82           9.17  98,978.2      2.70
la  Dependable capacity minus peak demand.
/b Gross reserve minus dependable capacity of first and second largest units in the
system.



-45 -                                                                     mAN
SECOG  POW  SYST4 OpeYLOE  PFROJECT
Prolected Enuerpy Suince
Types of
pomer plant          FY69      FY90      FY91      FY92      FY93      FY94      FY93      FY98      FY97      FY96      FY99    FY200   FY2001
Hydro
awh                4,531     4,567     4,502     5.410     5,410     5.727     5,942     6,060     6.0e2     61,62     6,506     6.so5     6,599
t                   12.4      11.2      10.0      10.9      10.0       9.7       9.3       6.6       0.2       7.7       7.7       7.3       6.6
Natur3l &jl
C#h               18,491    15,708    19,120    21,011    26,240    29,862    31,241    32.611    32.610    82,o53    32.431    31.923   31.867
S                   50.5      30.6      42.4      42.2      48.4      50.B      48.9      47.2      44.1      41.1      8s.3      35.2      33.1
9SaCFD               466       420       524       527       657       ueo       648       86e       66   888            as8       870       870
H..vy O;Il
owh                5,741    11,319    10,082    11,796     8,745     5,935     5.361     4,9S9     4,54     2.840     2.164    4,531      3.460
S                   15.1      27.7      22.4      23.7      16.1      10.1       8.4       7.2       6.2       3.6       2.6       5.0       3.6
Million liters     1,474     2,926     2,014     2,926     2,199     1.S06     1,865     1,273     1,172       731      58      1,147       851
DiWnl Oil
owh                  119       166        46         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
U                    0.8       0.4       0.1         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Million liters        67        9b        28         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Lia;it.
OtVh               7,118     8.296    10,622    10,866    13.110    16,735    20,675    24,700    30.0S5   82,990    34,960    34.960    34,960
F r                 19.5      20.4      23.6      21.8      24.2      28.4      82.3      35.8      40.6      41.7      41.3      38.6      36.3
Million tons       6.10      7.366     9.014    10.806    12.870    1S.&58    20.144    24.022    29.163    82.005    33.899    83.899    33.s99
I rted Coal
aWh                    -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -    3,950      7,900    11.e50    18,762
s                      -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -       5.0       9.3      13.1      19.5
Million ton            -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -     1.517     3.035     4.652     7.204
Purchase
Gwh                 564        690       690       710       705       705       705       705       705       705       705       705       705
U                    1.6       1.7       1.5       1.4       1.3       1.2       1.1       1.0       1.0       0.9       0.8       0.8       0.7
Other.
OWh                              -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
I                      -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Total fG*)      S8 S84   40.74O   4A82    49.793         4Za40    58.084    ss 924    69.0e6    74Z0      79 170    I4.I66   900568   9s.s73



- 46 -                                        ANNZX 7
THA[LAND
SECOND POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EGAT's Demand Forecast
FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96
Energy Sales (GWh)
MEA
Residential                3,306   3,347   3,701   4,125   4,552   5,019   5,521   6,056
Business                   4,646   5,090   5,585   6,178   6,774   7,430   8,121   8,848
Industrial                 6,054   6,836   7,456   8,153   8,824   9,549  10,314  11,098
Special rates                642     642      642      642      642     642      642     642
Government, hospitals
and education            1,050   1,147   1,241   1,351   1,460   1,579   1,701   1,827
Street lighting               72       76      80       83       86      89       92      96
Network losses             1,061   1,171   1,278   1,403   1,528   1,661   1,804   1,953
Received from EGAT       16,561  18,309  19,983  12,935  23,866  25,969  28,195  30,520
PEA
Residential                4,025   4,456   4,939   5,500   6,053   6,630   7,238   7,899
Business                   2,479   2,858   3,266   3,700   4,112   4,516   4,958   5,435
Industrial                 6,613   7,685   8,774   9,821  10,677  11,594  12,545  13,464
Special rates                246     260      276      294     312      332      353     375
Government, hospitals
and education            1,186   1,315   1,455   1,630   1,806   1,982   2,145   2,316
Street lighting                -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -
Losses - generation,
free of charge          1,336   1,496   1,677   1,864   2,031   2,201   2,377   2,556
Received from EGAT       15,885  18,070  20,387  22,809  24,991  27,255  29,616  32,045
EGAT's direct customers    1,303   1,348   1,354   1,360   1,366   1,372   1,378   1,384
Grand Total              33,749  37,727  41,724  46,104  50,223  54,596  59,189  63,949
EGAT newtork losses (GWh)    2,835   3,019   3,338   3,689   4,017   4,368   4,735   5,116
As 2 of net generation        7.75    7.41    7.41    7.41    7.41    7.41    7.41    7.41
EGAT net generation (GWh)   36,584  40,746  45,052  49.793  54,240  58,964  63,924  69,065
EGAT load factor (Z)           63.49   68.82   69.14   69.55   69.83   70.28   70.82   71.25
EGAT peak demand (MW)          6,098   6,759   7,440   8,173   8,867   9,578  10,304  11,066
HEA peak demand (MW)           2,751   3,016   3,291   3,5d3   3,890   4,206   4,526   4,875
MEA load factor (2)            68.71   69.29   69.32   69.89   70.03   70.48   71.12   71.46
PEA peak demand (MW)           3,178   3,589   4,023   4,469   4,862   5,263   5,676   6,095
PEA load factor (2)            57.07   57.47   57.86   58.26   58.63   59.11   59.56   60.02



47 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
THAILAND
SECOND POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consultancy Study
Evaluation of EGAT's Operational Efficiency and Defining
Norms for Performance
Draft Terms of Reference
Background
1.    The Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT), wholly owned
by the Government, is charged with the responsibility of generating and
transmitting electricity throughout the Kingdom of Thailand. Distribution
of electricity is undertaken by two separate entities, the Metropolitan
Electricity Authority (MEA) and the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA).
EGAT's current installed generating capacity is about 7,000 MW (comprising
about 2,500 MW hydro, 1,000 MW coal-fired thermal and 3,500 MW gas/oil-
fired thermal), while its transmission network comprises about 17,000 km of
lines at voltages of 69, 115, 230 and 500 kV. The staff of EGAT numbers
about 32,000 persons. EGAT's operations are divided into six divisions
each headed by a Deputy General Manger: (a) Administration; (b) Accounting
and Finance; (c) Hydropower and Transmission System Development; (d)
Thermal Power and Mine Development; (e) Transmission System Operation; and
(f) Power Plant Operation. Separate departments for Legal, Internal Audit,
Economic Policy, Power System Planning, Corporate Planning, Public
Relations, and Research and Development report directly to the General
Manager. Faced with a rapid increase in demand (12-142 per annum), EGAT
has a large power development program, which over the next 10 years
envisages addition of about 11,000 MW of generating capacity, 10,000 km of
transmission lines and involving an investment outlay of about US$ 10
billion.
Objective of the Study and Expected Output
2.    The basic objectives of this study are:  (a) to review the
operational efficiency of EGAT; (b) to assess the productivity of its
departments and determine whether they are operating in the most cost-
effective manner; (c) to identify areas for improvement; and (d) to
recommend specific measures for improvement including development of norms
for monitoring of performance. This exercise needs to be done considering
both the current size of EGAT's system and the rapid system growth over the
next ten -ears In recommending norms for performance (i.e. performance
indicators) the consultant shall be expected to provide comparisons with
similar utilities in the region, making due allowance for the conditions
prevailing in Thailand. The consultant would also be expected to provide
order of magnitude figures for the costs and benefits of introducing a



-48 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
Performance Honitoring System, including its data base and reporting
requirements. The recommended system should consider systems already in
place and focus on incremental issues. A review of historical performance
trends would be useful if it could be achieved without spending excessive
effort. The recommendations should comprise a plan of action for
implementation.
Scope of the Study
3.    It is not intended to specify the detailed scope of the consultant's
work, which to a great extent should be specified by the consultant in its
work plan.  The consultant will be expected to focus on the following
areas:
(a)   Regulatory Framework
Current regulations and need for change;
(b)   Organization
Structural adequacy, operational efficiency, reporting systems
(MIS), monitoring systems, performance norms, incentives,
automation, staffing levels and composition;
(c)   Corporate Planning
Clarity of objectives, coordination of planning activities,
planning efficiency;
(d)   Financial Systems
Clarity of objectives, efficiency of the systems;
(e)   Power System Planning
Efficiency of techniques and norms, cost effectiveness of the
development plan for generation and transmission, system
reserves;
(f)   Generating Plants Operation
Cost-effectiveness of operation and maintenance practices,
availability and outage rates of units, monitoring of
efficiency;
(g)   Fuel Purchase Policy
Effectiveness of policy, optimization of fuel cost;
(h)   Transmission System Operation
Effectiveness of regionalization, cost effectiveness of
operation and maintenance practices; outage rates;



- 49 ^
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
(i)   System Dispatch
Effectiveness of dispatch techniques, operational reliability,
overall system cost optimization;
(j)   Stores and Inventory
Effectiveness of control and minimization of costs;
(k)   Mining Operations
Effectiveness of operations, possibilities of cost reduction;
(1)   Design
Under/over adequacy of designs and standards for typical
systems (thermal plants, transmission lines, hydro plants),
areas for cost reduction;
(m)   Construction
Effectiveness of procurement practices, use of consultants, in-
house expertise, implementation costs and schedules;
(n)   Analysis of Operating Costs
Reasonableness of costs, scope for improvement, targets of cost
per KWH.
Conduct of the Study
4.    The study will be conducted in the following two phases:
Phase 1 To be completed within 6 months. This phase will comprise
intensive discussions by consultant's experts with EGAT's management
and staff, review and compilation of data, which would be followed by
analysis. This phase of study should identify areas for improvement.
The Phase 1 report should be discussed with EGAT and the Bank prior
to embarking on Phase 2.
Phase 2 To be completed within 12 months. This phase will comprise
recommendations for improvement, a performance monitoring system and
a plan of action for implementation. The draft final report should
be discussed with EGAT and the Bank prior to finalization.
Consultant' s Inputs
5.    It is expected that the consultant will be a combination of a
management consulting firm and a utility.  A total of about 50 manmonths of
inputs is envisaged for the study. However, the consultant shall be free
to recommend its own manmonth efforts considering the scope of work.



- 50 -
ANNEX 9
THAILAND
SECOND POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Approximate                                              Expected          Staff
Dates                                                  Skill            Input
Month/year        Activity                             Requirement      Staff-weeks
4-5/90 Supervision Mission
(a)  Initiation of Efficiency Study   - Power Engineering        3
(b)  Initiation of Environmental       - Financial Analysis
Assistance                        - Environment
(c) Review of EGAT finances
(d) Delineation of loan components
7-9/90 Review of procurement documents         - Procurement             1
10/90-12/91 Supervision Mission                     - Power Engineering       2
(a) Review of Efficiency Study.
(b)  Review of progress on             - Financial Analysis
Environmental Assistance        - Power System Planning
(c)  Review of EGAT PDP and finances  - Environment
1-3/91 Review of procurement documents         - Procurement             1
Review of financial statements         - Financial Analysis
4-6/91 Supervision Mission
(a)  Implementation of Efficiency
Study                             - Power Engineering       2
(b)  Review of Environmental           - Financial Analysis
Assistance
(c)  Review of loan progress           - Environment
10-12/91 Supervision Mission                     - Power Engineering       3
(a)  Overall review of loan            - Financial Analysis
(b)  Preparatory work for PCR          - Environment
(c) Review of EGAT PDP



51 -
ANNEX 10
THAILAND                         Page 1 of 2
SECOND POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EGAT's Investment Program FY90-91
(in million Baht)
FY90                            FY91
Local    Foreign   Total       Local    Foreign   Total
A. Thermal Plants
Mae Moh t 9              156        476       632         20        398      418
B.Pakong CC t 3          575      2,075    2,650          91       253       344
B.Pakong CC t 4          339      1,644    1,983          45       445       490
Rayong CC I 1            308      1,903    2,211         606        999    1,605
Rayong CC 1 2            262      1,464    1,726         497        719    1,216
NamPhong CC # 1          475      1,056    1,531        475      1,056    1,531
Rayeng CC t 3            146      1,094    1,240         345       582       927
Mae Moh I 10             384      2,079    2,463         552        718    1,270
B.Pakong Th.# 3          450      1,672    2,122      2,096      1,076    3,172
Mae Moh I 11             252        756    1,008         568       861    1,429
B.Pakong Th.1 4          249        180       429     1,211      1,126    2,337
Mae Moh 1 12-14          281      1,221    1,502         791     2,395    3,186
Subtotal           3,877    15,620   19,497        7,297    10,628   17,925
B. Hydro Plants
Srinagarind t 5          118        557       675          0        82        82
Bhumibol Renov.            5          3         8         11       386       397
Pak Moon 1 1-4           132         29       161        466       267       733
KaenKrung t 1-2          162         20       182       277          91      368
Bhumibol t 8               0          0         0         53         12       65
Subtotal             417        609    1,026         807        838    1,645
C. Transmission
Central-South Tie 2       37         31        68          0          0        0
EHV Stage 3               96         59       155          0          0        0
Trans.Expn. 7            301        527       828          0          0        0
ThaTako.-KonKaen 3        31        305       336       149          64      213
KonKaen-Roi Et            73        137       210         48          7       55
EHV Stage 4              136        683       819        793     1,467    2,260
Accel.Transm.Proj.       142        306       448        352        752    1,104
EHV Stage 5                0          0         0          2         10       12
Trans.Expn. 8              3          0         3       332        666       998
EHV Stage 6                1          0         1        128       185       313
Subtotal             820      2,048    2,868       1,804      3,151    4,955



- 52 -
ANNIEX 10
Page 2 of 2
FY90                           FY91
Local    Foreign   Total      Local    Foreign   Total
D. Lignite Mining
Mae Moh Expn.t 8-9      823      428      1,251    1,339         289    1,628
Mae Moh Expn.t 10-11      0        0          0      333           0      333
Mae Moh Expn.# 12         0        0          0      140         159      299
Saba Yoi Development      0        0          0        0         575      575
Subtotal            823       428     1,251    1,812       1,023    2,835
E. Miscellaneous
Transmission            526        0        526       84          81      165
Power Plant             124        0        124      252           0      252
Subtotal             650        0       650       336         81       417
Duties and Taxes  3,685         0     3,685    3,892            0    3,892
Total Base Cost   10,272   18,705    28,977   15,948       15,721   31,669
Contingencies
Physical              449      802     1,251       698        675    1,373
Price                 306      561       867       734         799    1,533
Total Prolect
Cost               11,027   20,068    31,095   17,380      17,195   34,575



53 -
ANNEX 11
THAILAND
SECOND POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD               Estimated disbursement                Disbursement Profile
Country
fiscal year        Annual       Cumulative               Project      Standard
(US$million)                             (X)
1990             10.0           10.0                     11            1
1991             40.0           50.0                     53            6
1992             40.0           90.0                     96           22
1993              4.0           94.0                    100           52
1994                                                                  74
1995                                                                  90
1996                                                                 100



-54-                               ANNEX 12
PFTg e- f 8
THAILAND
SECOND POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECAT's Post Financial Performance
Financial Statements 1982-88, Income Statement
(Baht million)
1912   198a    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Energy sales (OWh)                       16,403  17,568  19,885  21,196  22,568  25,778  29,494
Increase (X)                                5.8    14.0    10.1      9.6     6.4    14.3    14.4
Average price (B/kWh)                      1.48    1.89    1.37    1.86    1.88    1.80    1.26
Orating Revenue
bSale  o9f T lctricity                 21,996  24,862  26,879  28,800  80,064  88,646  37,124
Other rovenue                              a8      21       64      99      56      170     850
Total                               22,084  24,873  26,48a  28,902  30,120  83,716  87,474
Ope!rating Exp!nses
FI-l/bulk  pow1r 12,77   18,835  16,266  16,087  14,468  14,802  17,610
Operations                              2,722   8,269   8,411   8,697   4,004   4,724   4,788
Deprecltlon La                         2,120   2,872   2,688   8,262   3,874   4,096   4,461
Remittance to govern mnt                  190     250    652       470     6oo      960   1,061
Total Operating Expenses            17,808  19,728  21,89   23,31j   22,941  24,082  27,770
Operating Income                     4,226   4,647   4,542   5,686   7,179   9,834   9,704
Nonop rating Exm s s
Inteirst chargo  to operations          1,937   1,686   2,017   8,203   8,828   4,206   4,621
Foreign exchnsne loss                       -       -      102   1,289   2,821   1,786   1,942
Previous years' adjustments                 -        -    -774       -       -        -       -
Mining Income (-)                         -56    -115    -176    -608    -548    -658    -761
Total Nonoperating Expenses (Net)   1,881   1,551   1,169   8,884   6.101   6,488   6,812
Net Income                           2,846   8,096   8,878   1,702   1,078   4,196   8,892
Rate base                                42,250  47,692  6e,788  70,178  79,950  86,644  90,082
Rate of return (X)                         10.0      9.7     8.0     8.0     9.0    11.1    10.8
Operating ratio (X)                          81      81       88      81      76       71      74
/a On revalued assets.



ANNEX 12
- 55                              re9 e- 2 iof a
THAILAND
SECOND POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EOAT*s Post Financial Performance
Financial Statemnts 1982-8U  Sources and Application of Funds
(Bsh million)
1982    1983    1984    1986    1986    1987    1988
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash  eneration
Operating income                     4,226   4,847   4,542   5,566   7,179   9,634   9,704
Other income                            58     116     848   -481  -2,273  -1,235      761
Depreciation                         2,120   2,372   2,068   8,262   8,874   4,096   4,461
Other items not involving cash         774     241     657     787   8,428   1,807    -481
Total                              7,176  7,876   8.780   8,906  12,208  13,804  14,485
Less increase/add decrease in
working capital                        -47  -1,897     422     G0a  -1,951  -1,716     676
Net Internal Cash Generation       7,129   5,478   9,162   9.408  10,257  12,088  16,010
Borrowing                              9,819   9,084   8,002  10,084   6,292   2,822   6,821
Lose: Refinancing                        -       -  -B8,22  -5,712    -869       - -1,564
Net Borrowing                       9,819   9,084   4,180   4,322   5,488   2,822   8,767
Government equity                      1,046   2,442     992     8       440     161      114
Proceeds of disposal of assets            26     18s      62     226     804     947      224
Unpaid bonuses and government
remittances                            291     146     840    -191     287     448       85
Repayment of bank overdraft           -1,267       -       -       -       -       -        -
Increase (-)/decrease In deferred
interest                              -124       8      19     267      96      92      89
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS            16,929  17,298  14,786  14,357  16,816  16,058  19,289
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital *xpenditure-power             12,228  12,485   8,828   6,881   7,222   5,261   7,201
Interest during construction           1,092   1,876   1,472    86      676     702    487
Total Capital Expenditure-Power  13,820  1S 810  10 296   7,898  7!.!    6.988   7,A^88
Irrigation, mine and development
capital expenditure                    508    8s6      689   1,285   1,526   1,446   1,286
Debt Service
Principal                            1,169   1,484   5,666   7,885   4,424   4,489   7,248
Less:  Refinancing                       -       -  -8,822  -6,712    -659       -  -1,564
Interest charged to operations       1,937   1,666   2,017   8,203   8,828   4,206   4,621
Total Debt Service                 8,106   8,lOf   8,761   6,376   7,893   8,644  10,316
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS        16,929  17,298  14,785  14,867  16,816  16,053  19,239
Debt service coverage - times              2.8     1.8     2.4     1.8     1.4     1.4      1.6
Self-financing ratio /  (X)                 31      18      47      41      33      38      44
/a  Interaal cash generation less debt service expressed as a percentage of three yeors'
average cnpital expenditure on power, irrigation, mine and development.



-56 -                                ANNEX 12
THAILAND
SECOND POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EQAT's Past Financial Performanco
Flnanciol Stateb  nts 1982-86, Balance Sheet
(Baht million)
1962    1968    1964      1965    1906       1 07     1986
ASSETS
FT7--d Assts - Power
Plant in sorvic- (r-valued)       64,622  72,866  89,121  107,878  116,248  181,268  186,670
Less:  Depreciation               19,440  22,683  26,846   80,295   85,481   40,996   46,679
Net                               45,082  50,808  68,278   77,088   82,817   90,272   69,891
Work In progress                  19,80D  26,619  17,181   11,269   12,088    6,779   11,862
Total Fixed Asosts - Power      64,462  76,922  8464   86,862   94,650   97,051  101,77B
Irrigation, mine a development
assets                             4,862   5,241   9,824   10,862   11,106   11,464   11,872
Total Fixed Asseto              69,844  82,168  89,776   98,704  105,958  106,515  11,8645
Insuranco fund A mine reclamation      428      971   1,989    1,887    2,057    8,688    6,402
Current Assets
Ca-s                                 999      944     609       974      486    2,020    2,889
Inventories                        1,626   1,768   2,044    1,784    2,051    2,808    2,860
Receivables                        8,859   4,674   4,999    6,875    6,297    6,968    7,846
Total                            6,484  7,891  7,862    8,o06        8,888   11,816   12,091
Deferred foreign exchange
adJustment                          -484      158  -1,864    6,524   14,657    14,964   14,077
TOTAL ASSETS                    76,822  90,008  97,eo4  115,148  181,421  18s, 78  145,215
E%WITY AND LIABILITIES
EquitY
VPiT--ln capital                    6,842   8,783   7,420    7,501    7,848    7,980    8,061
Government contribution for
dams                             2,4865  2,450   4,774    4,986    4,986    4,945    4,905
Retained earnings                  6,880   8,887  12,514   18,880   15,167   19,298   28,165
Revaluation reserve               20,986  28,207  22,878   25,158   27,684   20,801   81,678
Total Equity                    85,6.3  42,277  47,581   61,454   65,654   61,619   67,729
Insurance reserve A mine recla-
motion                               428      971   1,989    1,687    2,067    2,868    2,666
Long-term debt-net                  81,499  89,129  89,841   51,052   68,892   68,120   61,908
Bank overdraft                            -       -       -         -        -         -        -
Current Liabilities
FPyatles                           5,281   8,988   4,717    5,814    4,326    5,028    6,874
Current maturities                 1,989   2,448   2,622    3,606    4,495    6,078    5,531
Accrued Interest                     785      988   1,142    1,279    1,067    1,188    1,182
Total                            7,362   7,409   8,481   10,199    9,887   11,237   12,687
Deferred intorest a other liabil-
Ite*                                 890      882    s8a       6oo       G11      419       380
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES    75,822  90,668  97,64  115,148  131,421  188,678  146,216
Debt as X of debt and equity               47      48      45        50       58        51       50
Current ratio                            0.9      1.0     0.9       0.8      0.9       1.0      1.0



-57                           ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 6
THAILAND
SECOND POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EGAT's Financial ProJections
Revenues
1.       The average price of electricity is about B 1.26 per kWh sold in
1989. No price increase will be necessary in 1990 to maintain EGAT's 25Z
self-financing ratio in that year. Price increases averaging about 5.0? per
year between FY91 and FY97 will be required in order to keep the self-finan-
cing ratio at 25Z. EGAT's average electricity price annual increases, and
self-financing ratios for FY89 through FY97 are shown below:
FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97
Average energy
price (B/kWh)   1.26   1.26   1.41   1.41   1.41   1.55   1.64   1.70   1.77
Price increase        -      -  12.32       -       -   9.72   5.5?   3.72   4.12
Self-financing
ratio             41?    25?    25?    29?    262    25?    25?    25?    25?
2.       Energy sales will grow at 11X per year through 1992, and then by
about 8? p.a. on average based on projections made by the Load For-:asting
Working Group. These projections are basically extrapolations of recent
trends checked against econometric models involving assumptions on the growth
of the gross domestic product.
Fuel Costs
3.       The fuel mix is based on EGAT's least cost generation plan.  Finan-
cial prices for these fuels are inclusive of taxes and royalties which amount
to 25? for fuel oil, B 15/ton for lignite, and 10.3? for natural gas.  The
resulting price profiles are as follows:
(a)  Fuel oil and diesel prices escalate from 1989 prices of B 2.89 and
B 5.97 per liter, respectively, to B 4.32 per liter and B 8.92 per
liter in 1997, increasing at approximately 5.4? per year.
(b)  Lignite prices are based on the current EGAT transfer price of
B 465/ton and are assumed to escalate at approximately 5.5? per year
over the study period.



-58 -                       ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 6
(c)  Natural gas prices escalate from the current B 70/MMBtu average price
at approximately 3.72 per year.
Operating Costs
4.       Generation expenses are based on current EGAT experience, with pro-
jections for future plants based on historical costs for similar plants and
escalated with inflation rates of 42 per annum.
5.       Power purchased from Laos is prices at B 0.7930/kWh and from Malaysia
at B 1.0473/kWh throughout the projection period.
6.       Transmission expenses are projected on the basis of unit costs and
additions in line length and transformer capacity in EGAT's expansion program.
Other operation and maintenance expenses, including General and Administrative
expenses, are based on current levels, inflated at 42 per annum.
7.       Depreciation is based on the straight-line method on revalued fixed
assets. The average rate of depreciation is 1.33Z for hydropower plants, 42
for other generating facilities, 2.5? for transmission lines and 42 for sub-
stations.
8.       The rate of remittance to the Government of Thailand is assumed to be
152, which has been agreed between EGAT and the Government for the Sixth Five-
Year Development Plan period, through 1990. This is to date the highest tax
rate levied by the Ministry of Finance on EGAT's net income (based on unre-
valued depreciation).
Capital Investment
9.       Construction costs are those estimated to provide the additional
plant and equipment required to meet the demand forecast, escalated in accord-
ance with thi latest projection of inflation rates. The expenditure schedule
is included in the project file.
Equity
10.      Equity contributions represent the Government of Thailand's reim-
bursement for import duties on construction equipment and partial payment with
respect to the irrigation portion of multipurpose dams.
Foreign Exchange Losses
11.      Deferred foreign exchange losses represent the profits and losses
from exchange rate variations on long-term debt. The projected figures are
the amount on EGAT's accounts at the end of FY88 less the incremental amounts
which are scheduled to be written off over the remaining periods of EGAT's
existing loans. The amounts shown in the income statement and balance sheet
reflect currency movements against the Baht through December 31, 1988.



--'  -                       ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 6
Borrowings
12.      Future foreign loans have been assumed at annual interest rates vary-
ing from 3 to 9Z and for terms of up to 20 years including from 3 to 5 years
of grace. Local borrowings have been assumed at the annual interest rate of
102, and for terms of up to 13 years, including 3 years of grace. Actual
loans outstanding and their terms are listed in the Project File.
13.      Accounts receivable are projected to be approximately 2 months of
revenues in accordance with a government regulation affecting State Enter-
prises.



THALAND
SECOND POIER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECAT's Financial Projection.
Income Statement
(8tht mlli  on)
Foremet
Yearr Ending Sw.tem*r 30                             14           19W0        1991         19"2        1V          199          19          1           17
Enert.y S... (                                      38749        37727       41724       46104                    559   C      59189       68949       41818
5.1.. Incrase =                                     14.43        11.83       10.41        10. a        8.93        0.7n         8.4#        0.00         7.25
Averag  iErw   r       /e 1 ( 111h)                  1.26         1.26        1.41         1.41        1.41        1.51         1."         1.70         1.77
Prie Increr g  CIS)                                  -0.21         0.26       12.3         0.06         0.0(         9.73        5.6 S.73                 4.1U
Operating Revenue
E I     b Revenue                              42269       47461        S69         65145        706          4424       9774        1064        12091
Other Operating Revenue                             200          210         220         220          240         250          250         270         280
Tot   Operating Revenue                                    47S71        59176       6u7          71205         674        l71                    121241
Uperating Expen e
Fuel and Purchaeed Poeer                          196         23445        25627       2629         22518       2861         44065       50S27        6154
operation A Neintenance                            5599         6066        7612        8E7          9250       10770        1290        14019        1620
Ompr ciation                                       4746          437       696         7806         9306       177          127         14167        169
Reittance to Oovern_nt                                 IJ06                 2341        235l         21S4        2727         38          26          879
Total Operating Ep e                           30706        26          41979       46965        52215       630*0        72040       am          927
Operatin  Income                               11139                    17197         410        190         21794        24994       26448       20 
Nen-Operat.ng Euppense
Interest Chaired fo Operationa (Net)               5S          4417         gm62        7060          g4 96                  11170       12101       14060
t.ea on Eachang                                    1922         1997        1772         66          11          15           1269        1106 oS2
Rining Incom_                                             ___ -5               _         -_     __ -716          -719        -19         -2181_1      -2___
Total Non-Operating Eapene                           6410         5783        6261        6119         95d41      10492        1160        11*02        12686
Nnt Income                                      E475         SW         10947        10291        6449       102          13944       14941        16647
Average Rato  8ma  - Poser                          94221       104961      121656      149066       180187      213*         247009      2277        328809
Rate ot Return t )                                   12.63        10.93       14.j1       12.321        9.         10.213       10.13        O.4 7.7#i
Operating Rat'io CS)                                   725          763         71S         726          75K         743          743         76          786
so 
Sr
99



THAIUN
SECOND POWER SYSTEMi DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECOT's Financial Projections
Funds Flow Sttement
(Bal t million)
Forecat
Years er4ing September 30                             1969        1990         191         102         190O         1904        106          1906        197
Sources of Fund.
Intermal Soarce.
Operating Income                                1m          11396        17197       18410        17990       21794        24904       2644         2U03
AAdd
Dpreciation                                    474n        64           665         7T6          930        10767        12           141         19
Mining Income                                   637         661          564         869          716         719         116         218          2264
Total Internal Source                         17269       17484        24180       2602         2014        33260        36710       4613         471"
Noncasl Itu-N;ining                                -66        -549        -1161       -2459        -2J66        -2459       -212        2 -27f6      -1I64
Aeeeta Diapooel
CoD't. Contribution - Poer                           62
Govt. Contribution - Irrigation
Increas  in Long-Tere Debt                      1056        233S7       26497        2676         263         27617        36734       396          36573
Further Borroeing                                   0           0            0           0            0            0           0            0           0
Total Borermins                                   10316       233S7        26497       2            26          2761         36734        896         J3S73
Othbe  tame(Nt)                                       0     0                  0           0            0            0           0            0           0
Total Source  of Funds                       27071        40272         1816       6SI21        52031       561          742         79106        60900
Application of Fund.
Capital Ineestseeit
Cap;itl  apenditure.-Poer                       1806        2839         32618       26556        260         3002         43832        42          3U14Z
Interest During Constructio                      an          1        _9  36        _ 32_3  3453               3034          97       4_14           460
Total Capitel Investment-Poer                 14164       303          36500       29793        2             0          47615       4            42734                                0
Capital Expenditures-Iining                      1307        290          1920        271070         7          276         260S        1106         11Sf
Total Capital Investmnt                       13471       32726       36420        32503          96        3133         601         41204        4293
Debt Servica
Interest                                        S125         4417         SO0S        7060        66t4          669        11170       12602        14060
Principal                                        5531        6176         6031        9266        10903       13212        15767       ism          21370
Total Debt Service                            10636       19           1309l 4     16323        19349       2271         27          6061         6410
Decr.as  in DWferred Liabiitis                         92          67           70           44          19           1s           0            0           0
Increase in Mon-cash Working Capital            -1063        -336        2532          4S2         -172         40S          SD           41           m
Incrooe  in Cash                                1935        -2600       -26O,         2SW          -289          #3        -2990          a6         10
Incrase in Total WorIing Capital                   6S2        -3135          -U         4367         -41          417        -2470           d         1527
Total Application df Funds                   27071        40272 SS16               531          520                      7462          10         60900
- - - -- -- - -
Debt Service Coverage                                  1.7         1.7          1.7          1.6         1.4          1.4         1.4          1.4         1.3
3 Years Averago Investent                            16629       26873        34550      3S461iS       3520        3'4          44497       47434        4S8
Self-Financing Ratio (3 Yre. Ave.) (5)                  41S         25           255         291          26112 261ill                                      26
DO
60



THAILAND
:Ol* POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
EOAT's Financial Projections
Balance She"
(Usht lMi II ion)
Forecast
Years  ndin September 30                            lU9           90         1991        1992        1993        1994         t           19             7
Fl pd Aase.t.--Pocser
Plant in Seric as                             1318        178197      2061427     249101      296561      841620       190048      446708      119174
Lee: Accu.ee_d Deprc ;ation                  56           61M         72767        3469       963        11051        1270U7      14U140      l1in
ot Operating Plant                           ge50       1137          54        165332      200642      281109       26266        0ll          1
work in Pr"rm                                    16435       166         S4768       si6         4729        Sl027         7446       741         702
Total Fmixd me  Pser             I         1165         l3          187103      2170        24671       22186        041         3704        4219D
Finad Asata-Irr.gsticn                           4148         476         4714        46          45U         4476         43I         4           402
Cro_ Mi as Me"at                               5026         60          6150       16lt0       10171       17266        266         24192       2744
Lee: Accubm.ltd Depreciation                   2m7          319         1W          4033        421         Sao          64          70          63m
Not mine Ae*se                               22S9         201         4597        677S        9060        11942       146         10          19120
W1k in progrees                                   16          3074        3294  Jf6l              45          20           376         131         1974
Total Fined Ass*ta-wMning                     65          5955        7691       101         184s           .0        146           621       21094
Dsvelopast Ependi tars                           8265                     6995         44        1U120        142         17101       Is9         2172
Total Fised A.et. - Irr;at.on/"sningjDev         1768        152         19600       24 726M                  A8                      4406J       47069
Sinking Find                                     2969         300         3696        4116        465         828          3           66          7309
Current Aoete
Ceab                                           6844         5544        2944        662         654         655         1664         8691        4096
Receivables                                    7001         73M         9726       10747       11706        1192        1096        171163     1l9w
Inventories                                    2770        290          2907        8167        844         amt 4IJf                 497         mm39 l
Total Current A tI88                                     10          1579        207 3       21691       281         27               1 
Deerred Lee- en Ecehange                         1215        1011S        63s         67gm        5117         668         229         1113         21i
Total   eet.                               -60           I09      S193619  2 6  273640      3C0966      349J2       40214  148607           6S0943
----                                               ------------
Equety and Libi l ities
ESq i ty
Poid-in Capitel                                8143         8143        6143        6143        8148        0143         6143        6143         143
lrrigation Contribution                        4345        4715         4714        463         4518        4471        43           4318         23
Retatned Earnins                              2e6          34294       45240       5851        6 0         7            904167                 1i2014
Revslustion Surplu-                           3S66         47019       53726       6216        72486       63991       97060       11074       1260
Tote I Equi ty                               315       94239       11_         110         149117      171694       1947        202         26206_
Long-Ters Debt
Long-Ter. Debt                                72259       59420       10          129476      144956      19S          185         2004        217267
Le": Current Oaturities                        6176        805          9266       10903       13212       117677       I9          21317       234
Long-Ters Debt (Not)                       6606        61StS9      100696      1873        131744      149         1699         U171        1
Further Borrosings                                  0           0            0           0           0           0           0            0           0
Sinking Fund                                     296         3300         3M69        4116        465         5234        59           6I          709
Deferred Liabilit.wx                              238         11           el          37          1s           0            0           0           0
Current L;abi l iti "
Account. Paiahla                               6838       7T2          6964         78          62          9U61       11217        12611       14416
Current Vaturities                             6176        6Wl          92         1090        13212       18767       1ism        21370        284
Accrued Interest on Long Term Debt              1370        law         1891        2396        2614        3474        44           Gm          se6
Totel Current L,Cbilities                  14364       175          13163       2060        24324       291W        33670       39206        436o 
Totsl Elulty and L b I it, 1s I4009                    196619     234365       273840       6O3        349628      402414      456207       506945
Debt a a 7 of Totel Cap. tal                          479         49           WSO         W0          49n         481          449         471         451 
Long-Tera Debt as a   of Total Cap tel                4W1         465          473         481         479         46%          459         449         436                              Irh
Curr-nt Ratio                                         29          93      I      U        101n   7                 641         71            79         70 6I



THILAND
SECOND POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Power Subsector Financial Projections
Incme Statmnt
(8aht Million)
Forecast
Years Ending Septeler 30                           1989        1990        1991        1992        199S        1994        1995        1996        1997
VErgy Sals, (GWh)                                312         34909       a8s88       42          46417       80447       54680       59065       63294
Sales Incrs    )                                   14.21       11.71       10.81       10.SS        8.9S        8.7S        8.4S        8.01        7.2S
Averaog Tarff 8/h)                                 1.69        1.68        1.84        1.84        2.88        2.10        2.16        2.20        2.20
Propoed Tariff Increse CS)                          0.0O        0.01        9.41       -0.1S        2.1i       11.S1        2.91        2.2        -0. 1S
Operating Revenue
raeR  Revenue                                   826r7       8s86        711Z3       78451       87210      105617      117861      130092      139198
Other Operating Revenue                           826         818          ass        8as          s7         870         88s         895         907
Total Operating Revenue                      8499         9624       71956       79304       88067      106887      118746      130987      140105
Operating Efpense.
Fuel and Purchased Power                       1406        23519       25706       28318       32589       88898       44161       50405       56282
Operation A Maintenance                          9898       11010       18009       14881       1S586       17923       20025       22406      25268
Depreciation                                     7300        8090        9703       11479       28888      1l175        17120       19596       22055
Remittance to Oovarnmnt                          1894        1762        288         3317        4431        7504        9210       10462       10163
Total Operating Expense                      68198       44681      5130        8769s       66229       79495       90517      102668      118739
Operating Income                             18802       14948       20682       21609       21889       27092       28.29       28319      26367
Non-Operating Expen_s
Interet Charged to Operations                   6705        E805        6320        8687       10175       11091       11719       12844      14466                       w
Other Non-Operating Expense  CNet)               176   __1426            1298        1s8         1 040        M8s          26        -873       -1279
Totel Mn-Operating Expenes                    801         6981        7618        985         1215       1074        11745       11971       18187
Not Income                                    721         sol        1           11774       10624       18018       16484       16848       13180
Average Rate Base                                1258        189683      159742      189l26      224229      257218      288598      324874     368410
Rate of Return (1)                                 12.2S       10.7S       12.91       11.41        9.71       10.8S        9.85        8.71        7.21
Rate of Return Before Remittance (I)               18.41       12.05       14.71       18.21       11.71       18.451      13.0        12.01        9.91
Operating Rat'io                                      1x         781         711         731         781         781         763        ?81         811l
OQ  -
0 o
6h



THAILAND
SECOND POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Power Subsector Financial Projections
Funds Flow Statement
(Baht Mill ion)
Forecast
Feruc~~~~ --t                                  -------
Years Ending Septeeber 30                          1989        190O        1991        1992        199S        1994        199        1i996        1997
Sources of Funds
Internal Sources
Operating Income                             1S02        14948       20682       21609       218S9       27092      28229       28819       26867
Add:
Depreciation                                7300        8m90        970S       11479       133         18173       1712D       19396      22055
Mining Income  and Non-op. Reveues           742         741         649         629         736         719        189         2183       2266
Noncash Item-Mining                         -686        -649       -1161       -24S9       -2868       -249        -222        -2796      -1841
Total Internal Sources                     22707       28525       29843       81258       38661       40527       43917       47108      48847
Equity.Contributions                             110          29          SO           0           0           0           0           0          0
Borrowings                                     12l26       1988        33067       36899       2B7S0       29929       30660      89831       3bi41
Crants and Customer Contributioe                1044         8s8         78S         71B         650         610         690 S70                550
Assets Dispoal/Unpaid Bonuss,R1mittances         211         215         209         157         208         208         203        203         208
Othr Iteme (Not)                                   0           0           0           0           0           0          0           0           0
Total Sources of Funds                     36898       44512       63981       68062       63164       71268       78360       S7707      88141
Application of Fund-
Cap itoal Investment
Capital Expenditures                         20299       36886       40257       34081       84278       872D3       S1614       49697      48526
Interest Dur ng Coatruction                    556        1599        38852 828               3458       8034        S977        4314        4609
Total Capital Investment                   20655       38485       44189       87266       87731       40287       5!i91       54011      50185
Debt Service
Interest                                      6705        SSOS        6820        86S7       10173       11091       11719      12844       14466
Princi pal                                    7054        7891        9864       12415       18527       l1574       16821       19830      22795
Total Debt Service                         13759       1396        161t84      21062       23702       26464      2990        82674       37261
Decrease in Deferred Liabilities                  92          87          70          44          19          18          0           0           0
Incr_ase in Non-cash Working Capital          -791        -224        S589         154         251       2770         1576       1021         746
Increse in Cash                               2984       -7232           0        9817        1462        1779     -11757           0           0
Incrse(Decrswaa) in Workino Capital             2192       -7486        8589        9671        1712       4848      -10181        1021         746
Total Application of Funds                 36398       44512       68981       68082       68164       71268      75860       87707       38141
Debt Service Coverage                               1.7         1.8         1.8         1.5         1.4         1.5         1.S         1.4         1.3
8 Years Average Investmnt                         24058       34498       39968       39712      8411        44820       49947      54538       51427
Self-Financing Rntio (3 Yro. Ave.) (5)               40S         SOS         255         255         255         25S         255        255         815
IOCt 
0D 
00
O 



-- .. - . .. .l S  .
TH"WAO
SECON POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Poe. Subnector Financi;l Proxictione
blIanc. Sh t
(bht Mi ll ion)
Forecnt
Year, Ending Spteab.r 30                              1969         1990        1991         1992        199J         1994        1995         1996        1997
Fix d Aaeet
Plant in Sarice                               221S79       2546         294141      344684      406788       460720       S19t89      866m         67220
Le": Accumolated Deprcition                    aw          97020       110674      126402       14466       16U491       10o21       215740       24t175
#t  Operating Plant                          16          1778         1837        221902      251067       29"iM        M6          873693       426106
Work in Progem                                    26906       47924       6a93         6967         88494       59016        78948       845          80868
Total Fixed A_ets Power                      166795      208897       2478S0      2816i9      31681        84244        406U6       486428       866t78
Fined Amato - Irrisationjlning/Develop.           15765       16572        19600       24728        30024       34559        8997        440J8        47069
Sinking Fund                                       2969        300           69         4116         4655        5H4            9         65a          7309
Other A                                            26          2451         2244        200          1890        1690         1490        1290         lo9
Current Aeget.
Co"k                                            Is           900          900        18517        19979       21757        10000       10000        10000
Rceivabler                                       9069       1018         12299       13564        1809        18S          201         22674        24199
Inventories                                     7443         78167        7302        7851        7697         659          9457       10482        11416
Tot.l Cutrrnt Asaets                          327         299         200          89482        42970       46a         896r         48027        45614
Deferred Loea  o  Exchafng                       1U3988       11791         9044        8017         6241        4589         3124        1814           27
Totel Aset.                                 231905       264068       311689      wo          4023         44894       496922      s68179        fo6
Equity and Liabilities 
Paid-in Capi tl                                 10168       10197        10227       10227        O127       10227        10227       10227        10227
Irriation Contribution                          484          4788        4714         4836        4886         4478        49           4818         4268
Ret ined Earn;ing                               367         4676         89          715495      e29          97287       111         1009         148249
Revaluation Surp i-a                            466         60614        70C         6184         9447S      10944        12951       144561       1660 
Grant. and Customar Contriboutions              10727       1188         12368       1306         1373        148148       14938       130            01603
Total Eruity                                118101      13s82        157147          M       20M94        2 2         26920        3073        39767
Leng-Tfr- Debt
Long-Term Debt                                  97778      116219       137869      156462      171688       1623        206996       23477        245409
Losse  Current Mturities                        71           9s64        12415       127o        14996        17617       20020        2290        24892
Long-Term Debt (Not)                        89667       13O5        1 4          143672      186          166722      16697        207369        0617
Further Sorrowing,                                    0       -6444        -4591           0            0           0       -10340      -11618       -11004
Sinking Fund                                       2969       3S00          3696        4116         465         S51%4        8896        685m         7309
Defrred Liabi I ities                               2S8         151           61          87           is           0            0           0            0
Other Li bilities                                    74          77           79          62           a5          a            91          94           97
Current LiabIlitlee
Accunt. Peyab Ia                                664          9810        712          7104        79S4         8062        0297         9004         9479
Current laturitie                               7891         9664       12415        U790        14996        17517       20020        22006       24892
Accrued Interest an Lang Term Debt               1870        l150         m19         2896        2814         3474         4124        502S         W46
Ot. r Current Liabilities                       7789         682         6694         91U6         9696       10117        1062S       1i113        11677
Total Current Liabiliti,.                   25614        29006       8012         81458       85490        S9160       4S064        48070       81696
Total Equity and Liobilities               23190S       266408      811689       860282      40281        448984      496922       885179      60658
Debt as a I of Total Capital                            461         456          461         461          461         44S          425         425          411                              00
Long-Tore Debt as a I orf Total Capital                 441S 31                  431         44           481         425          401         391          361                              f
Current Ratio                                          U81          921          961        125b         1211        1241          931         901          661
0 .4.



-66-
ANNEX 15
THAILAND
SECOND POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EGAT's Tariff Structure
(as of June 1987)
Type                           Demand Charge                     Energy Charge
(B/kW/month)                        (B/kWh)
Industrial
Large                            170                                     1.22
Medium                            174                                    1.23
Small                            177                                     1.23
Time of Day Rates for Large Industries (Effective Jan.1 1990)
Peak           180                                     1.22
Partial Peak    90                                     1.22
Off-Peak          0                                    1.22
Business
Large             Below 11 kV    239                                     1.28
11 kV or over  229                                     1.23
Small                               0    First   40 kWh (Minimum B 88.12)
Next   260 kWh                 1.77
Next   200 kWh                 1.88
Next   500 kWh                 2.21
Next 2,000 kWh                 2.43
Over 3,000 kWh                 2.50
Government Institutions               0    First   10 kWh (Minimum B 18.2)
(including water works below 30 kW)        Over    10 kWh                 1.82
Agricultural Pumping                  0    First  100 kWh (Minimum B 117)
Over   100 kWh                 1.17
Residential                           0    First    5 kWh (Minimum B 5)
Next    10 kWh                 0.70
Next    10 kWh                 0.90
Next    10 kWh                 1.17
Next    65 kWh                 1.58
Next    50 kWh                 1.68
Next   150 kWh                 1.76
Next   100 kWh                 2.02
Next   400 kWh                 2.11
Over   800 kWh                 2.43
Notes: 1.  Minimum demand charge for Industrial and Large Business
consumers - 302 of the previous 12 months demand charge
2. 47 billing discount applicable to Industrial consumers
3. Special rates apply for specific industries like electrolysis



THAILAND
SECOND POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rate of Return on EGAT's PDP (1989-1998)
(Baht million)
Energy    Incremental        Tariff      Blkwh
Fiscal    Capital       O&M      Fuel    Total    Sales    Energy Sales    Current   Constant    Sales           Net
Year      Costs    Costs    Costs    Costs        GWh               GWh       Price       Price  Revenue  Benefit
1985        660         -         -      660                                                            -    (660)
1986      1,115         -         -    1,115                                                  -        -  (1.115)
1987      3,701         -         -    3,701         -                -                       -         -  (3,701)
1988      6,720         -         -    6,720   29,488                 -        1.27        1.27        -  (6,720)
1989     20,942       238    1,322   22,502   33,749              4.261        1.26        1.22    5,198 (17,304)
1990     25,735       650    3,950   30,335   37,727              8,239        1.26        1.17    9,640 (20,695)
1991     16,564    1,136    6,415   24,115   41,724              12,236        1.41        1.26   15,417  (8,697)
1992     14,969    1,632    8,151   24,752   46,104              16,616        1.41        1.21   20,105  (4,646)
1993     17,585    1,983   10,623   30,191   50,223              20,735        1.41        1.16   24,052  (6,138)
1994     20,106    2,425   14,127   36,658   54,596              25,108        1.55        1.23   30,883  (5,775)
1995     20,611    2,826   16,559   39,996   59,189              29,701        1.64        1.25   37,126  (2,870)
1996     14,961    3,301   19,144   37,406   63,949              34,461        1.70        1.25   43,076   5,670
1997      6,727    3,817   21,396   31,940   68,533              39,045        1.77        1.26   49,197  17,256
1998      2,309    4,364   21,894   28,567   73,480              43,992           -        1.26   55,430  26,863
1999          0    4,364   22,413   26,717   73,480              43,992           -        1.26   55,430  28,653
2000-2014          0    4,364   22,941   27,305   73,480             43,992           -        1.26   55,430  28,125
2015    (30,325)   4,364   22,941   (3,020) 734,890              43,992           -        1.26   55,430  58,450
ERR - 14.5Z
EM - 13Z with capital and OM costs increased by 1OZ
ERR = 13Z with energy sales reduced by 5Z



-68-                         MNNEX 17
Page 1 of 8
THAILAND
SECOND POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Environmental Review - Summary
1.      An environmental study was carried out on behalf of the World Bank
by Elcom Services Pty. Ltd. in accordance with the terms of reference (TOR)
detailed in the World Bank's letter dated June 29, 1989. The following is
a summary of findings and recommendations.
Environmental Policy, Objectives and Procedures
2.      The Study found that currently there is no formal environmental policy
and specified environmental objectives within EGAT.
3.      It is considered that a formal statement of policy and objectives
ara necessary to ensure that all EGAT's staff fully appreciate the commitment
of their organization to the protection of the environment and to allow the
Group within EGAT responsible for the various environmental matters to
discharge their responsibilities effectively.
4.      It is recommended that EGAT executives instruct its Ecology and
Environment Division (EED) to prepe:^e, for their approval, an environmental
policy, objectives and environmentaL procedures.
5.      It is also recommended that on approval, the policy and objectives
be includ.d in EGAT's corporate plan and objectives and more importantly
disseminated to all levels within EGAT.
6.      It is strongly recommended that the Group and/or Division with the
overall responsibility to ensure that all EGAT's activities are carried out
in accordance with EGAT's environmental Policy, objectives and procedures be
clearly identified.
EED Organizational Consideration
7.      Some aspects of the current structure of EED warrant review.  One of
these is the maintenance of functional skills now residing in project teams
which are to be dissolved on completion of projects. Another is the division
of functional responsibility and functions having logical linkages in two or
more sections/groups.
8.      It is recommended that EED reviews its current structure taking into
account the above comments as well as likely future needs resulting from
changes which will see EGAT increasingly involved in thermal power stations
and mining activities.
EED Environmental Capability
9.      Academically speakl.ag, EED's staff are very well qualified.  However,
a brief appraisal of the results of their efforts (such as environmental
monitoring reports and EIA's) showed some limitations in the analysis



- 69                            ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 8
of data and the assessment of the environmental impacts of power development
projects. The limitations are considered to be associated with the lack of
experience in practically orientated environmental data analysis and impact
assessment.
10.     Consequently,  it is recommended that training abe given to the
relevant staff of EED in the interpretative evaluation and assessment of
environmental impact monitoring data and the "quantitative" prediction of
impacts.
11.     Training of the staff can be achieved by engaging an expert consultant
with practical experience in the prediction and subsequent monitoring and
interpretative assessment of the environmental impacts of power development
projects:
a. to review some of the latest EIA reports, and
b. to assist and guide in the analysis, evaluation and interpreta-
tion of the environmental monitoring data collected to date.
Methodologies and Procedures
12.     It is considered that ECAT has very progressive planning procedures
which take into consideration environmental issues in the very early stage
of project planning.
13.     The effectiveness of this approach will be enhanced with formal
adoption of an environmental policy and objectives into EGAT's corporate plan
and documentation of the procedures.
Access to Technologies
14.     It is considered that EGAT has adequate access to new technologies.
15.     The issue is not one of access, but one of capability to identify
the technologies appropriate for the situations prevalent in Thailand and to
adopt the selected technologies wisely to suit EGAT's requirements. Training
of personnel involved in the implementation of the adopted technologies is
very important as it will decide the success or otherwise of the technologies
adopted.
Environmental Monitoring
16.     EGAT is adequately equipped for the range of monitoring being carried
out at present.
17.     The  question here  is not  one  of having  sufficient monitoring
equipment. It is one of adequacy of the monitoring being carried out. It
is a question of the adequacy of the data collected being able to provide
enough information to allow an assessment of the actual levels of the
environmental  impacts  of activities  being monitored.    Availability  of
expertise to analyze and understand the data is also important.
18.     An assessment was made regarding the adequacy of individual monitoring
equipment, the levels of data analysis carried out and the implications of
data collected.   The most critical finding was that no interpretative
analysis of collected data has been made.



- 70 -
ANNEX 17
Page 3 of 8
19.     Therefore,  apart  from  some  specific  recommendations,  of lesser
significance, regarding individual equipment and environmiental parameters,
it is recommended that an interpretative analysis of environmental data
collected be carried urgently.
20.     Following the analysis,  it is recommended that a review of the
monitoring of ecological parameters should be included in the review.
Mae Moh Valley Air Quality
21.     According to the 1988 Mae Moh Air Quality Report there were a total
of 19 monitoring stations in the Mae Moh Valley.
22.     From the Summary of the Air Quality Report made available, it was
concluded that all parameters monitored (dust deposition rates, total
suspended particulates, sulfur dioxide and oxides of nitrogen) show an
increasing trend. Most of the maxima either exceeded or were very close to
levels considered to be acceptable.
23.     Apart from the basic statistical analysis of determining maxima and
annual averages, not other analyses have been carried out to understand the
circumstances under which high maxima occurred.
24.     In addition to the various air quality parameters mentioned above,
rain acidity has been monitored since June, 1988. Again no data analysis
has been carried out. A brief appraisal of the raw data showed that the rain
acidity could be as low as 3.5 pH units and ranged between 3.7 to 6.7 pH
units. According to EED, the ionic concentrations of the rain water were low
and so were the conductivity measurements.
25.     The planned and proposed increases  in lignite-based  generating
capacity and aesociated mining activities in the Mae Moh Valley are yet to
be fully implemented. The high values of the various air quality parameters
and the low rain acidity are cause of concern.
26.     It is important that a study be carried out to identify the reasons
behind the high maxima of the various air quality parameters, the increasing
trends of these parameters and the low rain water acidity be ascertained
urgently. Results of the study will allow more accurate assessment of the
impacts of the planned and proposed capacity and the formulation of a control
strategy based on proper understanding of the critical issues involved.
27.     Several recommendations are made regarding the monitoring of air
quality in the Mae Moh Valley. Those of major significance and urgency are
repeated below:
a. An interpretative analysis of the air quality data be carried out
urgently.
b. Rain acidity monitoring be expanded to include urban centers and
areas remote from industrial emissions and other human activities
which may modify the natural rain water acidity, so that the
measurements from Mae Moh Valley can be put into proper context.



- 71 -
ANNEX 17
Page 4 of 8
c. An expert experienced in the monitoring and assessment of rain
acidity with practical knowledge of tropical rain water
characteristics be engaged to review, advise and assist in the
development of a rain acidity study.
d. An expert research organization be employed to carry out plume
chemistry study to allow better understanding and hence more
accurate prediction of the potential of acid rain problem from
the lignite power station emissions.
This Report supports the location of the proposed Units 12-19 of the Mae Moh
lignite power station to the valley next to Mae Moh as a correct step.
Future Hydro Power Development Projects
28.     No  new  environmental  issues  are  anticipated  for  hydro  power
development projects.  EIA reports on these projects show that all issues
were identified and addressed.
29.     It is considered that there is a need to strengthen the assessment
of ecological impacts of such development projects.   This is especially
relevant with the expected future increase in the level of debate on
environmental issues. The increase is predicted based on the assessment of
the increasing public awareness on environmental issues as well as increasing
public realization of the availability of the political process for achieving
their objectives which may or may not be based on genuine concern for the
environment.
Future Thermal Power Development Projects
30.     Three major environmental issues are identified with respect to the
thermal power development projects. These are:
a. ecological impacts of thermal discharges from power stations
(mainly combined cycle power stations at this stage) using once
through cooling water system;
b. sulfur dioxide emissions from lignite fired power stations;
c. dust emissions from open it mining.
All these need to be addressed fully in all future projects.   Control
measures available to mitigate against any adverse impacts with respect to
sulfur dioxide and dust emissions are discussed in this Report.
31.    However, intentionally no recommendations have been made regarding
the preferred control strategy for the Mae Moh Valley developments. Such
decisions should only be made based on proper understanding of the critical
issues involved which may lead to adverse impacts.   The urgency for the
various studies in relation to the Mae Moh Valley air quality cannot be over-
emphasized.



- I - 
ANNEX 17
Page 5 of 8
32.     Another environmental issue which is likely to gain importance in
the future,  though may not be critical to thermal power   development
projects, is noise impacts assessments.
33.     It is recommended that EED commence a program to measure the strength
of the various existing noise sources, such as boiler-turbine complex, fans,
mills, steam vent, safety valves, transformers, circuit breakers and mobile
plants and ambient noise monitoring at settlement areas around EGAT power
station and mine.
34.     With the location of the proposed Units 12-19 to a valley next to
the Mae Moh Valley, it is understood that a conveyor may be used to transport
lignite for up to twenty-five (25) kilometers to these units. EGAT has yet
to experience conveyor noise related impacts. Experience of EGAT's sister
organizations may be useful to EGAT.
Future Transmission Line Projects
35.     For EGAT's projects all environmental issues related to transmission
line projects have been covered adequately, except for health related effects
of electromagnetic radiation (EMR).
36.     It is recommended that EED carry out a literature review of the
environmental  impacts of EMR with emphasis on the health effects.   In
addition, measurements should be made for the EMR strength of EGAT's
transmission liens within areas where public access is available, for
example, land along and within transmission line right of way being used for
farming purposes.
37.     An aspect of transmission line related environmental issues is urban
transmission line congestion.   EGAT's transmission lines, which generally
terminate at substations around the perimeter of urban centers, are not and
are unlikely to be involved.
38.     Current urban transmission line congestion is consequence of rapid
population growth and industrial developments in urban areas. Increase in
population density and concentration of industry are beyond the control of
electricity distribution authorities charged with the statutory responsi-
bility to provide adequate electricity to satisfy the increase in energy need
and  demand  per  unit  area.    Proliferation  of  transmission  lines  is
unavoidable.
39.     There is no reason to believe that at present these lines are posing
any hazards with respect to mechanical failure or electrical effects, as
transmission lines are designed and constructed according to various design
standards to ensure integrity of the lines with respect to safety and supply
reliability.
40.     It is considered that the only significant impact of transmission
line congestion would be in terms of aesthetics.
41.     To mitigate against aesthetic  impact,  a solution is to replace
existing lines with underground cables and to require all future lines to be
underground.



- 73 -
MiU L17
Page 6 of 8
42.     It is understood that a 10 km of 230 kV underground line has been
constructed and there are plans for more underground lines.   Economic
considerations will determine when the planned underground lines will be
constructed.
Resettlement and Compensation
43.     The most consistent issues in all EGAT's projects are the resettlement
of persons/families displaced by EGAT's projects and the associated
compensation.
44.     It is understood that EGAT has a very progressive policy with respect
to resettlement which requires that the quality of life of persons/families
should be improved as a result of the resettlement.
45.     For each EGAT's project the resettlement and compensation matters
are overseen by two special committees set up by the Government through the
Office of the Prime Minister.
46.     It is considered that with EGAT's positive policy and the tight
Government supervision, resettlement and compensatioui of persons/families
will not become issues in their own right. However, with the increase in
living standards with increasing industrialization, such matters could become
critical in the decision making process with respect to EGAT projects.
Statutory Environmental Planning Reguirements
47.     The basis of the environmental legislation in Thailand is the
Improvement and Conservation of National Environmental Quality (ICNEQ) Act.
The Act established the National Environmental Board (NEB) and the Office of
National Environmental Board (ONEB), the executive arm of NEB.
48.     According to the current legislations, all projects and activities
which are prescribed by Government Notification under the ICNEQ Act are
required to submit an EIA report, environmental mitigation plan and
implementation schedule to NEB for approval before they are allowed to
proceed. In practice the administration of this requirement is invested in
Government agencies which have the permitting responsibility with respect to
the prescribed projects and activities.
49.     All EGAT's hydro and thermal power developments and mining projects
are subject to the EIA process.  For transmission lines which go through
areas defined by legislations as environmentally sensitive but not protected
the EIA process is also applicable.
50.    However. it is understood that EIA reports prepared by EGAT for its
projects have noL been submitted to NEB for approval either directly or
through the "permicting" government agsncies.
51.     In this Report shortcomings of the current environmental planning
regulatory framework are discussed.   It was concluded that the environ-
mental planning approval responsibility for prescribed projects and
activities should be invested in a single government agency.  NEB is the
logical choice of such a role. Fur. hermore, it is considered that enabling



/4 -
ANNEX 17
Page 7 of 8
amendments to the ICNEQ Act be made to require proponent of prescribed
projects and activities to submit application through ONEB to the NEB for
approval.   The amendments should also require permitting agencies not to
process an application for permit to carry out a project or activity unless
NEB approval has been obtained.
52.     This approach should endorse NEB and ONEB with the appropriate level
of authority to perform their duties effectively.
Environmental Control
53.    At present, there is no formal legislation with respect to enforcement
of environmental control. The ICNEQ Act does not give the NEB or the ONEB
this role. The enforcement functions are performed by the various government
agencies with responsibilities to issue permit for the various developments.
These permitting agencies are empowered to attach environmental conditions
to permit issued under their respective Acts. It is understood that they are
also empowered to set environmental standards. However, it is not clear if
the power is explicitly stated in any Acts or just a default power by virtue
of their power to attach environmental conditions to permits.
54.     It is considered that during the implementation stages of an approved
prescribed project or activity, the proponent should be required to submit
design details of environmental protection/control plant and equipment to a
government agency other than the permitting agency for approval to proceed.
This should minimize costly retrofit of plant and equipment by minimizing the
likelihood of inadequate plant and equipment being installed resulting in
adverse impacts in the future.
55.     During the operational phase of a prescribed project or activity, in
addition to the permit from the permitting agency, the operator should be
required to obtain license to operate from an environmental c^ntrol authority
on an annual basis.
56.     The ONEB is the logical candidate to be nominated as the government
agency with the authority tao issue planning approval for prescribed projects
and activities. The ONEB is also the logical agency to be invested with the
environmental control enforcement responsibility.
Environmental Standards
57.    With respect to the power sector, the only emission standard for
atmospheric discharges is the limit on intensity of smoke emissions measured
in terms of Ringlemann scale. There is no noise emission standards other
than in relation to occupational exposure. There are emission standards for
industrial effluent which may be regarded as applicable to power station
discharges.
58.     There are no ambient noise standards.  There are ambient air quality
standards and two types of water quality standards.
59.     One set of the water quality standards is applicable to specified
coastal waters. The other is the surface water quality standards.



- 75 -
ANNEX 17
Page 8 of 8
60.     It is considered necessary that both standards are def4.ned.  However,
only  emission  standards  should  be  included  in  legislations.         The
environmental control enforcement authority should be charged with the
responsibility to ensure the achieve of the various ambient standards
through:
a. setting of appropriate emission standards;
b. co-ordinated environmental planning process to avoid undesirable
concentration of polluting industries or activities and to avoid
locating of incompatible uses on adjoining areas.
61.     The environmental control enforcement authority should be charged
with the responsibility to set the various ambient standards.  Amendments to
the ICNEQ Act should be made to ensure that the various standards and goals
are set with consultation, apart from experts, with industries, government
agencies with legitimate interests and representatives of relevant special
interest groups.
62.     As discussed earlier there are only limited environmental standards
of relevance to the power sector except for those related to water
discharges.  Recommendations are made in this Report regarding environmental
parameters for which emission standards and/or ambient standards should be
set.
63.     The  setting  of  environmental  standards  be  it  emissions  or
environmental quality standards, is necessarily an exercise in compromise.
The final outcome reflects the balance of what is acceptable from public
health point of view, what is desirable for the environment, what is
achievable technically and what is economically affordable. The decision is
influenced by environmental considerations, the social and economic
objectives of a government and the prevalent political realities at the time
of the decision.
64.     Therefore, no recommendations have been made in this Report on the
appropriate levels which should be adopted in the case of Thailand. Instead,
recommendation is made regarding sections of community which should be
included in the process to ensure a balance decision.



- 76 -
ANNEX 18
THAILAND
SECOND POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
List of Documents in Project Files
A.    EGAT - General
A.1   EGAT Power Development Plan (1988-2001), Report N4o. 10600-3106,
EGAT, August 1988.
A.2   Environmental Review
B.    Financial Reports
1.1   Annual Report 1987, EGAT.
B.2   Project Loans Report, June 30, 1989.
3.3   Lignite Mine Sector Financial Statement, 1987.



I HI1 fH
p  W
i~ I
1" 1"g
i_ l  Xii't
LiLJ L L@LJ
!~ ~~~~~~~ tjSS ft II



