Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CR  15 _ sA
Report No. 7260-ZR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZAIRE
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROGRAM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
August 11, 1988
South Central and Indian Ocean Department, Africa Region
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of



ZAIRE: NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROGRAM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit            =           Zaire (Z.)
US $1.00                             Z. 138 (February 88)
Z. 1.00                              US $0.007 (February 88)
MEASUREMENTS EQUIVALENTS
1 meter                              3.28 feet
1 kilometer                          0.62 mile
1 square kilometer       =           0.39 square mile
GOVERNMENT OF ZAIRE - FISCAL YEAR
January 1st                          December 31st
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Zaire in February 1988 and consisted of Dr. Jacques Baudouy
(mission leader) and Dr. Lamboray (public health specialist). The
report was prepared by Dr. Jacques Baudouy with contributions from
J-L. Lamboray, M. Over (health econunist) and R. Bulatao
(demographer).



Wi -   I  -I     I   .a.d .A5
ZAIRE: NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROGRAM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ABBREVIATIONS
AIDS               Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrom
BCC                Bureau Central de Coordination (Central
Coordinating Office for AIDS Control Program)
CDC                US Centers for Disease Control
CIDA               Canadian International Development Agency
DOH                Department of Health
DOP                Department of Planning
EEC                European Economic Community
EPI                Expanded Program on ImmunizatJon
FONAMES            Fonds National de MAdecine Socisle (National Fund
for Social Medicine)
GPA                Global Program on AIDS (WHC)
FP                 Family Planning
FRG                Federal Republic of Germany
HC                 Health Center
HZ                 Health Zone
IEC                Information, Education and Communication
IMR                Infant Mortality Rate
IN'.'.             Ir.stitut National de Recherche BiologiQue (National
Institute of Biological Research)
KAP                Knowledge, Attitude and Practice
MCH                Maternal and Child Health
MPR                Mouvement Populaire de la Revolution (the only
Political Party'
NACP               National AIDS Control Program
MYH                Mama-Yemo Hospital (the largest - 2000 beds -
hospital in Kinshasa)
NGO                Non-Governmental Organization
ODA                Official Development Assistance
PEP                Public Expenditure Program
PHC                Primary Health Care
PIP                Public Investment Program
PSI                Population Services International
PSND               Projet de Services de Naissances Desirables (FP
project).
STD                Sexually Transmitted Disease
UNDP               United Nations Development Program
UNICEF             United Nations Children's Fund
USAID              United States Agency for International Development
WHO                World Health Organization
WHO/GPA            WHO/Global Program on AIDS
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ZAIRE: NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROGRAM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
DEFINITIONS
Case Fatality Rate:           Percentage of deaths due to a disease
among the total number of people who have
contracted the disease.
Incidence Rate:               The number of new cases of a disease
which occur in a population during a
specified period of time usually
expressed as the number of cases per
1,000 persons.
Infant Mortality Rate:        The number of deaths of infants under one
year of age in a given year per 1,000
births in that year.
Life Expectancy at Birth:    The average number of years a newborn
would live if age/sex - specific
mortality rates prevailing at the time of
birth were maintained.
Pandemic:                     An epidemic occuring over an
exceptionally wide geographic area.
Prevalence Rate:              The total number of people affected by a
dIsease estimated either at a specific
tinie (point prevalence) or over a stated
period (period prevalence) expressed per
1,000 porulation (in case of low figures,
prevalence is expressed per 100,000
population).
Rate of Natural Increase:    The rate at which a population is
increasing in a given year due to a
surplus of births over deaths, expressed
as a percentage of the total population.
Rate of Population Growth:   The rate of natural increase adjusted .-)r
net migration, and exprebsed as a
percentage of the total population of a
given year.
Total Fertility Rate:         The average number of children that would
be born alive to a woman during her
lifetime if she passed through her
childbearing years conforming to the age-
specific fertility rates of a given year.



ZAIRE: NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROGRAM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
BASIC DATA
(all figures apply to 1987 estimates unless otherwise indicated)
General
Total area                                                2,345,400 Km2
Total Population                                          31 million (1985)
Urban Population (Z of total)                                  39 (1985)
Population Growth Rate                                          3.0
Urban Population Growth Rate                                    7.9
Population Density per Km2                                     13
Density per Km2 of Agricultural Land                          189
Population Age Structure (Z)
0 - 14 years                                             46
15 - 64 years                                             51
65 and above                                               3
Crude Birth Rate                                               45
Crude Death Rate                                               15
Total Fertility Rate                                            6.1
Infant Mortality Rate                                         114
Life Expectancy at Birth                                       49
Adult Literacy Rate (Z)                                        60
Primary School Enrollment (Z)                                  89
Secondary School Enrollment (Z)                                21
GNP per Capita                                             US$170 (1986)
Health
Population per Physician                                  15,000
Population per Paramedical Staff                           1,700
Population per Hospital Bed                                  560
Population Within Reach of PHC Services (S)                   50
DOH Share of Government Recurrent Expenditure             3.5? (average 1980-87)
Daily per Capita Calorie Supply (as X of requirement)   90? (UNICEF Standards)



ZAIREs NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROGRAM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMARY   . . . . . . . . . . .(i-i..)
I.   BACKG'nOUND
A.   Sectoral Background . . . . . . . . . .    1
B.  The AIDS Pand6mic . . . . . . . . . . .     2
C.  AIDS Epidemic in Zaire. . . . . . . . .     4
D.  Current and Potential Impact of AIDS  .     8
E.  Sectoral Strategy and Bank Involvement.    14
II.  THE PROJECT
A.   Project Objectives and Design . . . . .    16
B.  Summary Description . . . . . . . . . .    17
C.  Project Components  . . . . . . . . . .    18
III.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A.  Costs ....  .  .  .   ...... .  .  .   .    27
B.  Project Affordability . . . . . . . . .    29
C.  Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . .    31
D.  Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    32
E.  Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    33
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Project Preparation . . . . . . . . . .    34
B.  Organization and Management . . . . . .    34
C.  Monitoring and Evaluation . . . . . . .    36
V.   PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.  Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    37
B.  Risks ....  .  .   . . . . . .  .  .  .  .   .    39
VI.  ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . .    39



ZAIRE: NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROGRAM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
List Of Tables                                            Page no.
1.1     Percentage of Seropositives in Kinshasa . . . . .    6
1.2     Projected AIDS Impact on Population . . . . . . .    9
1.3     Projected AIDS Impact on Health Expenditure   . .   12
1.4     Total Cost of AID .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
3.1     Project Cests by Expenditure Category . . . . . .   28
3.2     Price Contingencies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
3.3     Financing the Recurrent Costs of the AIDS
Control Program ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    30
3.4     Procurement Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . .   3.
Annexes
1.      Prevalence of HIV for Zaire.
2.      Implicatlons of Control Measures for the Spread of HIV
Infection.
3.      Research Strategy For the Analysis of the Economic Impact
of AIDS.
4.      Project Implementation Schedule.
5.      Detailed Cost Tables by Component
6.      Project Costs by Financing Sources.
7.      Estimated Schedule of Disbursement.
8.      Selected Documents in Project File.
9.      NACP Organizational Chart.
llat
1.   ~IBRD 20674



(i)
ZAIRE: NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROGRAM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMaRY
Borrower:         Republic of Zaire
Beneficiary:       Department of Health (DOH)
Credit Amount:    SDR 6.2 million (US$8.1 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA Terms
Proiect Description
(a) Objectives. To: (i) prevent through sexual behavior changes, donated-blood
screening and sterilization of skin-piercing instruments Human
Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) transmission; (ii) irprove the data base on
AIDS in Zaire through epidemiological, sociological and economic research;
and (iii) reduce the impact of AIDS on individuals, families and
communities, through the integration of specific AIDS activities into
health and social programs. The project represents donors' contributions
(including IDA) to the first three years of NACP's implementation under the
overall direction of WHO/GPA.
(b)  Components.  The project would provide for: (i) the development of a
national Information, Education and Communication (IEC) program, in
parallel with condom supply (audio-visual equipment, IEC material
development, health staff and social workers training and condom
distribution); (ii) integrating AIDS control activities in Health and
Social Programs (blood screening, sterilization of skin-piercing
instruments, in-service traininig and superviaion program, strengthening
social activities); (iii) operational research and studies (HIV
transmission, sociocultural aspects of AIDS, cost-effectiveness of Control
Measures, constraints on condom use, case management strategies, economic
impact of the disease, strengthening the surveillance system); and (iv)
institutional strengthening (central coordinating office, regional, sub-
regional and Health Zone levels and non-governmental organizations).
(c)  Benefits and risks.  The project would provide immediate attention to a
pablic health crisis which has already a negative impact on health status
and health system in urban areas, and has the potential cko cause severe
human and economic losses in an already poverty-stricken country. The
proposed project would provide the resources required to: (i; make the
national AIDS control program fully operational; (ii) assist the Government
in reallocating resources intra-and int-ersectorally in favor of a balance
between priority public health programs, including AIDS control; and (iii)
coordinate donor support both financially and technically. The project's
main risks are: (i) the weak managerial capability of DOH, particularly in
regard to the complexity of the control program; (ii) the experimental
nature of the control measures; and (iii) the uncertainty regarding the
long term commitment from the donor community.



(ii)
ZAIREs NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROGRAM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Prolect Cost Summary
Estimated Costs                                    Local      Foreign   Total
- - - - US$ million - - -
- IEC/Condom Distribution                  1.10      4.70       5.80
- Integrating AIDS Control                 0.62      8.08       8.70
- Research and Studies                     0.60      0.40       1.00
- Institutional Strengthening              1.42      1.78       3.20
- PPF                                      0.06      0.24       0.30
Total Baseline Costs                 3.80      15.20     19.00
Physical Contingencies               0.03       1.27      1.30
Price Contingencies                  0.30       1.30      1.60
TOTAL PROJECT COST 1/                4.13      17.77     21.90
FinancinR Plan
- Government of Zaire                      1.67       -         1.67
- IDA                                      0.50      7.60       8.10
- Other Donors 2/                          0.30     10.17      10.47
Beneficiaries                            1.66       -         1.66
TOTAL                                4.13      17.77     21.90
1/    Inclusive of taxes and duties, whvich are negligible
2/    Other donors include: Belgium (US$1.5 million), Italy (US$1.2 million),
Federal Republic of Germany (US$0.6 million), USAID (US$1.7 million), EEC
(US$2.0 million), UNDP (US$1.0 million), TUNICEF (US$1.5 million), and WHO
(US$1.0 million). WHO and UNDP are responsible for coordinating donor
support, including IDA's contribution.
Estimated Disbursements
US$ million
FY89      FY90       FY91      FY92
Annual               1.0       2.5        3.0       1.6
Cumulative           1.0       3.5        6.5       8.1
Proiect ComPletion Date: June 30, 1992



ZAIREs NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROGRAM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Sectoral Background
1.01     The Population, Health and Nutrition Sector Review, which
gives the basis for overall sectoral analysis, is expected to be
distributed to the Board at the end of calendar year 1988. As in most
Sub-Saharan African countries, health conditions in Zaire are bleak.
In 1986 life expectancy at birth was estimated at 49 years, the infant
mortality rate (IMR) at 114 per 1000 and maternal mortality at 7 per
1,000 live births. Infections and parasitic diseases cause at least
50Z of all deaths in Zaire (as compared, for example to 1.5Z in the
USA).
1.02     The Za'rian health sector is characterized by a complex
organizational structure where a large share of health care services
are provided by NGOs, enterprise medical departments and private
providers. Overall, close to 502 of the population has access to a
health facility delivering primary health care (PHC). Among major
public health programs, the expanded program on immunization (EPI) is
probably the most successful: at the end of 1987 the national measles
vaccination coverage for under-one children reached 45?, a significant
achievement in such a large country. Total health care spending
(ircluding public, para public and private spending) is about US$6 per
capita (1986), an average figure in Sub-Saharan Africa. On the other
hand Government healtk expenditure has been steadily declining since
1980: in 1986, the health share of the Government expenditure was less
than 3Z and represented only US$0.33 per capita. Both figures are
extremely low, even for a low income country.
1.03     The major constraints for further health sector development
include: (a) a deteriorating economic situation which makes health
care and basic drugs scarcely affordable by the poorest segments of
the populationt (b) the Government's declining Mole in health
administration and health planning, due to major financial and
managerial constraints; and (c) increasing health hazards such as
maln"trition, malaria resistance to chloroquine, emerging 'modern"
health problems (traffic accidents, cardiovascular diseases, etc.) and
most recently the AIDS epidemic.



-2-
B. The AIDS Pandemic
1.04     The Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS), first
recognized in the USA in 1981, is a deadly disease caused by the Human
lImunodeficiency Virus (HIV)1 which has the ability of depressing the
human immune system and making the infected person extremely
vulnerable to opportunistic infections. In addition, the virus itself
can cause lesions in various organs, including the brain (where it can
cause dementia), the bowels, the heart, and other organs currently
being explored in search of AIDS-related manifestations. AIDS is a
global epidemic (a pandemic) affecting more than 130 countries in all
continents. The disease is transmitted through sexual intercourse,
the transfusion of contaminated blood, infected skin-piercing
instruments (medical or not) and from infected mothers to their
offspring. AIDS is mainly a sexually transmitted disease (STD). AIDS
transmission appears to be linked with the number of sexual partners
(which increases the risk of infection) and with factors causing a
direct contact between infected body fluids (such a sperm or vaginal
secretions) and the bloodstream. In some male homosexual communities
both conditions were met: high promiscuity as part of the lifestyle;
high prevalence of other STDs which, through mucosa ulcerations,
facilitate the penetration of the HIV; and in some cases traumatic
intercourse bringing the sperm in direct contact with the bloodstream.
It explains why the disease spread so quickly among some m,ale
homosexual groups and has gained high visibility worldwide.
1.05     In industrialized countries, male homosexual transmission is
currently the most common way of tr4nsmission but transmission
patterns are changing due to information campaigns promoting "safe
sex"; the role of contaminated needles and syringes among intravenons
(IV) drug users becomes increasingly important as a way of
transmission. Transmission through blood transfusion has been almost
eliminated with the systematic screening of all blood supplies.
Heterosexual transmission is now well-documented (both male-to-female
and female-to-male) but its potential to rapidly spread the disease is
still unknown; a recent study2 shows that the risk of heterosexual HIV
transmission is highly variable and the factors responsible for this
variability have to be determined. In developing countries, AIDS is
11   There are several types of HIV including LAV-2, HTLV-4 and other
HIV-related retroviruses. In this report, HIV stands for all
these viruses.
21   The authors (Dr. T. Peterman et al, Journal of the American
Medical Association, January 1, 1988) studied 80 families where
spouses repeatedly had sexual contact with the infected family
member. Eight percent of the husbands and eighteen percent of
the wives of the HIV patients tested pocitive for the virus.
Eleven wives remained uninfected after more that 200 sexual
contacts with their infected partners while one of the
seropositive women had had only a single sexual contact with the
infected husband.



-3-
also mainly a sexually transmitted disease (STD) juut, in contrast to
'-.ustrialized countries, transmission is essentially heterosexual.
The reasons for tl.is difference are not really known. Several
hypotheses have been proposed, including: (a) the high incidence of
other STDs; (b) the multiplicity of sexual partners and widespread
prostitution which increase the risk of contamination in some
countries; (c) the prevalence of diseases and conditions
(tuberculosis, malaria, malnutrition, etc.) which already deplete the
immune system and can facilitate HIV penetration and activation; (d)
the existence of sexual practices whirh may facilitate the contact of
infected body fluids with the bloodstream; and (e) in the case of
Central/Eastern Africa, the possibility of an earlier start of the
epidemic leading to higher infections rates than in the US or Europe.
Further research is urgently needed to investigate these various
hypotheses.
1.06     Unprecedented international efforts to understand and control
this disease have led in a short time to HIV identification and to
some understanding of AIDS pathogenesis. However, it is unlikely that
a vaccine and a cure can be developed in the near future, mostly
because the HIV ernvelope (key target for vaccines and drugs) has
changing genetic patterns. The World Health Organization (WHO) is
playing a leading role in AIDS control. In February 1987 WHO created
the Special Program on AIDS (SPA), since renamed the Global Program on
AIDS (WHO/GPA). The Fortieth World Health Assembly (May 1987, WHO
40.26), the Economic and Social Council (July 1987, Resolution E/1987
75) and the United Nations General Assembly (October 1987, kesolution
A/42/8) successively recognized the need for a globally coordinated
approach to AIDS control. WHO/GPA's objectives are to: (a) provide
technical and financial assistance to governments in planning,
implementing and monitoring AIDS programs, including AIDS education
activities; (b) coordinate, promote and finance biomedical, social,
behavioral, epidemiological and operational research; (c) coordinate,
promote and finance data collection and analysis to describe current
and predict future HIV infection trends along with associated social,
economic and demographic impacts.3 WHO/GPA activities are financed
through donor grants, such as the recent World Bank's contribution of
US$l million through the PPR-administered Special Grant Programs (July
1988). In order .o ensure a well-coordinated approach in AIDS control
activities at the country level WHO/GPA and UNDP have forged an
alliance to combat AIDS and to coordinate the support of all external
partners.
1.07     In industrialized countries, control measures are based on
Information, Education and Communication (IEC) programs, promotion of
the use of condoms, donated blood screening, and strict sterilization
measures for medical equipment.  The treatment of AIDS patients (which
includes some experimental drugs like azidothymidine (AZT) that seem
to slow down the progress of the disease) is extremely expensive and
3/   Since February 1987 WHO/GPA has made significant progress in
Africa: as of July 31, 1988 thirty countries including Zaire have
completed medium-term plans (MTPs) with WHO guidance and support.



-4-
is now a serious concern for medical insurance groups in
industrialized countries.  Legal and Civil Rights issues (including
employment or schooling of HIV-infected individuals) are becoming an
important dimension of the AIDS epidemic. The response of political
leaders to the AIDS threat has been a key factor in the early start of
control programs.  In some countries, the fact that some members of
the government had initially refused to consider the disease as a
potential threat for the non-homosexual population (in spite of the US
Centers for .Asease Control - CDC's warning) has certainly made the
epidemic more difficult and more expensive to control.
1.08     In developing countries control programs face major
constraints, including: (a) the reluctance of some leaders to
recognize that AIDS is a public health threat calling for major
control measures; (b) the lack of financial resources which is
aggravated by the current economic crisis; (c) the lack of the
required public health expertise, particularly in IEC; (d) the
"competition" with numerous other health priorities (malaria,
malnutrition, measles, etc); (e) the lack of implementation capacity
to carry out a major control program; and (f) the low level of the
population's education which makes information and communications
particularly difficult. Among the developing world, urban populations
of Central and Eastern African countries are the most heavily stricken
by the disease. Among these countries Zaire was the first to
recognize the gravity of the disease and to start epidemiological
research.
C. AIDS Epidemic in Zaire
1.09     Epidemiological Data.  In 1983, the first cases of AIDS in
Zaire were recognized. In 1984, the Government supported the
establishment of Projet SIDA, which is jointly supported by the
Belgian Institute of Tropical Medicine in Antwerp, the US Centers for
Disease Control (CDC) and the US National Institute of Infectious
Diseases, to start a systematic long-term study of the disease.
Estimated HIV seropositivity4 prevalence (or seroprevalence) rates in
Kinshasa (total population of about 3 million) are as follows: 4Z-8Z
in the general population; 6Z-102 in pregnant women; 62-10 in blood
donors; 30Z in prostitutes and 17Z in Tuberculosis (TB) patients. All
41   Seropositivity means that a test for determining antibodies to
the HIV in a person's blood is positive. The presence of these
antibodies means that a persor. has been infected with HIV and is
assumed to indicate continuing infection. The Seroprevalence
rate represents the number of seropositive people at a specific
time (point prevalence) expressed as a percentage of the
population per 1,000. The sero-incidence rate represents the
number of new seropositive cases in a population during a
specified period of time expressed as a percentage of the total
population or per 1,000.



-5-
these data come from reliable sources (including Projet SIDA). Data
from other cities, though scanty and based on small samples, indicate
that the disease already has a large geographical expansion.5 In
rural areas the few studies available give seroprevalences between 0
and 1S, but the samples are too small to be significant and further
research is needed. What is already clear is that the major risk
factor in a rural area is the mobility of the population, i.e.
frequent contacts with cities. A comprehensive AIDS/HIV statistics
database, prepared and regularly updated by the US Bureau of the
Census on the basis of published materials, is given in Annex 1.
1.10     Sero-incidence and case6 incidence rates are not really
known. In Kinshasa the sero-incidence rate has been estimated at 0.2Z
(2 new seropositive per 1,000 population) per year but a longer
follow-up is necessary to obtain more reliable data. Case incidence
in the general population of Kinshasa is estimated at 0.5 to 1 case
per 1,000 population per year. Among health workers of the Mama Yemo
Hospital (MYH) the sero-incidence rate is 2.0, revealing a high risk
population.7    Among hospital infected workers, 5? to 8Z of the HIV
seropositives develop the disease each year. Although sketchy these
data show that Kinshasa (and most likely the other major cities) is
facing a severe public he 1th problem, which could easily become a
disaster if the disease spreads rapidly to the entire country. The
key element which will determine the future importance of AIDS is the
speed of its transmission throughout the country.
1.11     AIDS Transmission in Zaire.  Based on available data, AIDS
transmission in Zaire occurs mainly through sexual intercourse (80Z),
infected blood transfusions and contaminated skin-piercing instruments
(15X), and from infected mothers to their offspring (5Z). Patterns of
sexual transmission are different from industrialized countries as
shown by the Male/Female sex ratio of 1 s 1.4, (in USA 13 : 1). The
reasons for this effective heterosexual transmission are not known.
Some hypotheses include: (a) the high rate of STDs as mentioned in
para. 3, in both men and women; (b) the number of sexual partners
which may be particularly high in some socioeconomic groups; (c) the
5/   For example in Dungu (Haut-Zaire), a city of 100,000 people,
prevalence rates are as follows: 5.8? in the general sedentary
population, 24.2? in the general mobile population and 32.3? in
prostitutes.
6/   A seropositive patient (HIV carrier) can remain asymptomatic for
some time (the time span can vary greatly from one individual to
another), before developing AIDS symptoms (weight loss, fever,
diarrhea, etc.) and becoming an "AIDS case".
7/   The risk factors of these health workers do not appear
occupational (high exposure to HIV-infected patients) but linked
to their age group and their sexual behaviors (multiple sexual
partners).



-6-
importance of prostitution, including occasional prostitution; and (d)
some sexual practices common in Central and Eastern Africa.8 High
risk groups include prostitutes, individuals with numerous sexual
partners, patients with STDs and people receiving blood transfusions.
In Kinshasa, a group at particularly high risk is females aged 15 to
29 as shown in Table 1 below.
TALE 1.1
Percentane ot Seroeoutive In Kinshasa.
By Am GroUD
Age Oroue            Male           Female
Flrot year of lIt-  8.1             8.1
1-14                1.0             1.6
16-19               8.7             9.8
20-29               4.4            10.8
8e-89               6.8             6.1
40-49                6.0            6.8
>60                 6.0            1.6
Source: Kinshasa Survoy on 6,899 healthy people
(Quinn et e., 1986)
1.12     Infection prevalence rates among school-aged girls (15-19) is
almost three times higher than the rates for boys. This may be due to
their young age at first intercourse and to the multiplicity of much
older sexual partners. If these assumptions are true, they would
represent important factors to consider during the design of an IEC
program.
1.13     Regarding transmission through blood transfusion, high risk
groups include: children with malaria and sickle-cell anemia and
pregnant women, because these people often require blood transfusions.
In addition, medical injections is a common practice in Africa: in
Kinshasa a child can receive as many as 20 intramuscular injections
during his first two years of life. This is due to the common belief
that injections are more effective than oral drugs. Given the poor
standards of sterilization in most heelth facilities the high number
of injections increase the risk of transmission through contaminated
8/   In some Central African cultures, after a delivery, women often
use a variety of astringent leaves and herbal preparations to
restore the vagina's elasticity. These practices (among others)
may reduce the vagina's moisture and lead to a rupture of the
genital mucosa during intercourse.



syringes and needles. However, the importance of this way of
transmission in the overall picture is likely to be small (by contrast
with intravenous drug users who directly flush contaminated blood in
their vein when they share syringes and needles).
1.14     Social Aspects of AIDS.  Among major public health problems
AIDS is a special case because of its deep social implications. As in
other affected Sub-Saharan African countries, it appears that a
combination of socioeconomic factors has favored the spread of AIDS in
urban areas of Zaire. First, the prolonged economic crisis which
started in the early 70's and which seems to have worsened in the past
few years has led to a major impoverishment of the population. Women,
who are the key providers of food and additional income (through
either menial jobs or established businesses) to the family, have
particularly suffered from the dramatic loss of purchasing power. Some
women have no other choices than to provide sexual services in order
to support their families.9 This occasional prostitution, in addition
to the 'professional" prostitution which also has developed in urban
areas of Zaire, can be extremely damaging in terms of spreading STDs,
including AIDS. Second, the "Deuxibme Bureau", the vernacular
expression for a second semi-official wife (polygamy is illegal in
Zaire), is the usual way of l'fe for many well-off men in urban areas.
In addition, the lifestyle among some members of the upper middle
class, at least in Kinshasa, promotes the frequent changes of sexual
partners and the contact with prostitutes (who are readily available
in numerous bars, night-clubs and hotels). Third, unemployment,
rural-urban migration and the need for people to be mobile in their
quest for jobs constitute a fertile ground for the spread of STDs
including AIDS. Finally, the bleak future that some young Zalrians
face in urban areas seems to accelerate the disappearance of
traditional cultural, ethical and religious values. This makes them
particularly vulnerable to an early and widespread sexual promiscuity.
(See HIV seroprevalence among females ages 15-29).
1.15     This description of the social aspects of AIDS should not be
seen as a derogatory assessment of the Zairian society. The Zairian
people are not the cause of the disease but its victims. In
industrialized countries also, many young adults have multiple sexual
partners and have a high risk of contracting STDs, including AIDS.
Central African cities may be ten to twenty years ahead of Western
cities due to an earlier start of the epidemic. Social aspects of the
disease, as brutal as they can be, have to be understood in order to
develop targeted and effective control programs.
91   B. Gundfest Schoepf; Women, AIDS and Economic Crisis in Central
Africa; paper ac4epted for publication in the Canadian Journal of
African Studies, October 1987.



- 8 -
D. Current and Potential Impact of AIDS
Demographic Impact
1.16     The World Bank has developed a model to assess the potential
demographic effect of the disease.10   Four population projections are
proposed: (a) a standard projection with no effect of AIDS; (b) a high
threat run (no decline in transmission rates); (c) a medium-threat run
(slow decline in transmission rates); and (d) a declining-threat run
(faster decline in transmission rates). The basis for modeling is a
seroprevalence survey conducted in 1985 in Kinshasa, already quoted in
para. 1.10. The potential impact of AIDS on the size of the
population and on demographic variables is summarized in Table 1.2.
Projections are not predictiona. and their validity is evidently
limited by uncertainties about the value of current and future
parameters, inherent problems with the complexity of social behavior
and limitations of the mathematical model itself. However, they are
useful to quantify the potential magnitude of the problem: for
example, under the high threat assumption, the infant mortality rate
is likely to rise from 102 (projection 1985-1990) to 130 per 1,000
instead of being reduced to 70 per 1,000 by year 2005. This kind of
impact would more than annihilate any progress made through
immunization and primary health care (PHC).
10/ R.A. Bulatao. Initial investigation of the demographic impact of
AIDS in one African country. Working papers, 1987. The World
Bank.



9 -
TABLE 1.2
Prolectod AIDS Impact on population
Asetmatione
Yoar    No Aide       High threat    Medium threat    Declining Threat
Popu l ati on (thousand)
1985    8667           36667          3O657             36557
1990     56seo         85616           85625            85627
1995    41001          40886          46878             40916
2000    46957          46837           46646            46712
2£06    63298           51642          52888            62851
Lif. expectancy at birth
1985-96   51.5          61.1           51.2              51.2
1990=95   63.6          52.6           62.6              53.0
1996-U   56.1           62.8          65.6               64.9
260-06   68.7           62.4           54.7              67.2
Infant mortality rate
1985-90    102           106            106              16
1990-96    92            106            162                98
1996-00    81            115            104                91
2060-05    76            186            167                81
Source: R. Bulstao, working paper, The World Bank, 1987.
Tmpact on Health and Social Services
1.17     Health Services.  At the moment, the most visible impact of
AIDS in Zaire is the high number of AIDS patients in urban health
facilities. For example, at Mama Yemo Hospital (MYh), AIDS patients'
bed occupancy rates eccount for: 252 in the internal medicine ward,
33? in the tuberculosis (TB) ward and 10? in the pediatric ward.
Since the occupancy rates of these wards are close to 100?, one can
assume that a significant percentage of patients who otherwise would
have access to hospital care are kept out. At the Cliniaue Ngalidma,11
11/  Clinique Nqali6ma is a Belgian-run hospital with good quality
health care.  Since user charges are relatively high, most of the
clients are either insured people (employees) or better-off
citizens.  Overall the clients are representative of the
middle/upper middle class of Kinshasa.



- 10 -
50Z of the deaths are AIDS-related and 1OZ of the children's deaths
(under five years of age) are AIDS-related. At the Cliniques
Universitaires (600-bed teaching hospital) the picture is similar. In
other large cities data are not readily available but anecdotal
evidence suggests that the disease is spreading to communities through
the main lines of transport (particularly roads widely used by truck
drivers, but also probably along the Zaire River). In all cities and
small towns visited by the Appraisal mission, local health staff
acknowledged that the number of clinical AIDS cases was increasing
steadily. On the other hand, in rural health facilities clinical AIDS
cases were sparse but affecting better-off people.12
1.18     AIDS patients are hospitalized for severe opportunistic
infections, including pneumonia, acute diarrhea, severe
oral/oesophagal candidiasis (fungal infection) and various other AIDS-
related problems including Kaposi Sarcoma (skin cancer), major weight
loss and central nervous system disorders (dementia). Concurrently
with the rise in AIDS incidence, there is an increase in the number of
TB cases (due to the depression of the immune system) and syphilis
cases (for unclear reasons). All these diseases require difficult and
expensive treatments: multiple antibiotherapy, intravenous (IV)
fluids, forced feeding for renutrition, etc. Since the disease and
its manifestations are new and poorly understood, physicians
"experiment' with various therapeutic schemes, which is both time
consuming and expensive. In addition the X rays, laboratory tests and
other diagnosis activities are often numerous and resource consuming.
This can create a heavy burden for some urban hospital facilities.
For example, at MYH, where the situation has been steadily
deteriorating for the past ten years due to a lack of operating funds,
the AIDS epidemic might represent a final blow. The situation is
somewhat better in Kinshasa's other hospital facilities since their
lower occupancy rates have allowed them to absorb AIDS patients more
easily than MYH. In other urban areas data are too scanty to assess
the impact of AIDS on the functioning of health services.   In rural
areas, the number of AIDS cases is still low and does not represent so
far a major burden for health facilities.
1.19     Social Services.  The diagnosis of AIDS with its fatal
prognosis and association with sexual promiscuity puts an extreme
psychological strain on the patient and its family. The cost of
treating the frequent opportunistic infections and taking care of the
patient either at the hospital or at home creates financial problems
that most families cannot address without borrowing from relatives and
sometimes from friends. However, given the pool economic situation of
Zaire this solidarity has obvious limits. Beyond this immediate
liquidity problem, there is the longer term problem of families where
one, and eventually two of the household income earners die from AIDS.
12/ According to managers of rural development projects in North
Equateur, there is an important seasonal migration of prostitutes
from urban to rural areas at the time when farmers sell their
cash crops. After a few weeks, prostitutes are back in town.



- 11 -
The number of AIDS-stricken families which will fall under the poverty
line and the number of orphans is likely to substantially in.crease in
urban areas within the next few years. In view of this worrisome
situation, the extreme weakness of public social programs is even more
blatant. The Department of Social Affairs, which, in theory, should
be the leading agency for welfeare programs, has such a minuscule
budget that in 1987 only sixty social cases were taken care of for the
entire country. In fact, social assistance is mostly provided by NGOs
(particularly the religious ones) at the community level. The NGOs'
ability to cope with the new needs created by the AIDS epidemic it}
difficult to assess given the lack of quantitative data on their
activities. However, it is clear that some guidance and operational
support would help these organizations in identifying and assisting
AIDS-stricken families.
Economic Impact
1.20     Health Expenditures.  The cost of treating an AIDS patient
from onset of the clinical manifestations until death has been
estimated by a joint WHO/World Bank mission in December 1987.13 These
preliminary calculations are based upon (a) the estimated costs of
specific clinical manifestations associated with AIDS and (b) the
estimated proportions of AIDS patients with each manifestation. Given
the multiplicity of health care delivery systems in Zaire, the costs
of treatment dramatically vary from one system to another: US$132 in
PHC facilities (Health Zone Systems); US$228 for employees (enterprise
medical insurance system); and US$1,585 in the private sector (private
physicians and clinics). A weighted average (702 of the patients
attend PHC facilities, 25Z are insured and 5Z use private facilities)
give an average cost of US$229 for each AIDS patient in Zaire (in
constant 1986 dollar). This cost can be considered as an annual cost
since it is estimated that on average in Zaire AIDS patients die
within a year after starting clinical manifestations. US$229 is a
high figure compared to the annual average incomes of US$890 in
Kinshasa and US$144 in rural areas. AIDS-stricken "amilies will face,
if they seek care for the AIDS patients, a serious financial problem
and might fall below the poverty line. This problem will be
compounded if the AIDS patient is the key income-earner in the family.
The number of families which will be affected in the future is an
important factor to be considered when planning health resource
allocation.
1.21     In order to assess the potential impacts of AIDS on health
expenditures at a macro level, an epidemiological model14 has been
used to project annually the expected number of AIDS cases, based on
the current level of infection (6Z in urban areas and 1? in rural
13/ Members of the mission were Mead Over (PHRHN) and Stefano
Bertozzi (consultant). Their full report and further work are
available in project files.
14/ This model has been prepared by Dr. J. Chin from WHO/GPA.



- 12 -
areas), the conversion rate of infected person to AIDS case (42 per
year) and the conservative assumption that the infection incidence
rate which led to the current seroprevalence would stay the same (2
per 1,000 per year). Since it is unlikely that all AIDS cases will
have access to health care systems (for geographic or economic
reasons), estimates of the number of treated cases have been made
based on the current and projected health coverage levels. The direct
cost of AIDS has then been estimated by multiplying the number of
treated cases by the average treatment cost. These direct costs of
AIDS are compared to the projected National Health expenditures in
Table 1.3 below.
TABLE 1.8
Prolected AIDS Zesact on H.alth ExDmndtture
Year     Cases   t Cause    Direct Costs           Health Expendit.
(oco)  treated (x)I/  US millon           USS ml1lion
(ooo)                   Total (X)V/  Gov(X)!/ ConsumersQlMg
(1)     (2)       (3)         (4)           (5)       (8)        (7)
89     24      12  (60)      2.7        210 (1.2) 11.6 (23)  70  (3.8)
90     28      16  (62)      3.3        218 (1.6) 12.0 (27)  71  (4.6)
91     37      20  (54)      4.6        223 (2.0) 12.4 (87)  74  (6.2)
92     47      27  (56)      6.0        230 (2.6) 12.8 (47)  77  (7.7)
98     68      84  (56)      7.7        236 (8.2) 18.1 (5e,  79  (9.7)
2 0GM    160    106  (79)      24.0       286 (8.8)  16.0 (160)  96 (26.0)
2 d10    286    214  (76)      48.9       860 (18.6)  20.0 (244)  120 (40.7)
Note: all cost. In constant 166 US$.
P-rcentages: / (8) over (2); V (4) over (6); V1 (4) over (6); I/ (4) over (7).
1.22     Financing the direct cost of AIDS would increase national
health expenditure by 1.22 in 1989 up to 13.52 in 2010. The share of
health expenditure in the GNP would have to increase form 3.5Z to
4.02. Given the absence of national risk-sharing/cost-sharing
mechanisms in Zaire the key issue is the equity of di,tribution of
this financial burden among health providers and health consumers. As
shown in Table 1.3 it is obvious that the State cannot afford to
finance these direct costs: its health budget would have to increase
by 232 in 1989 and by 58Z in 1993 (not to speak of 244Z in 2010).
Consumers could initially absorb these costs if cost-sharing
mechanisms were put in place (increase of 102 within 5 years);
however, starting around year 2030 the increase due to AIDS costs
(25Z) would be too high to te absorbed without subsidies. This model
shows that AIDS will have a significant impact on health expenditure



-13 -
and that this impact will grow steadily unless cuntrol measures are
effective. Thus, decision makers and health planners should start
developing resource allocation strategies in order to protect some
segments of the population from the AIDS-related financial burden.
1.23    Mlacroeconomic Impact.  The macroeconomic impact of AIDS
(productivity losses associated with AIDS-related disability and death
and direct cost of taking care of AIDS patients) iJ difficult to
quantify given: (a) the lack of knowledge of the extent of the
epidemic and its effects; (b) the lack of accurate data on incomes by
socio-professional categories; (c) the importance of the informal
sector in the nation's economy; (d) the absence of data regarding
unemployment rates; and (e) the inherent difficulties of measuring the
productive value of human resources. However, such an analysis is
necessary since some characteristics of the AIDS epidemic are likely
to have a negative economic impact: (a) disability and deaths mostly
occur in the most productive age group (15-45); (b) the epidemic is
spreading in urban areas whe-e educationi levels are higher; and (c)
there is no indication that a cure or a vaccine will be available
soon.
1.24     Preliminary estimates of the productivity losses have been
made by the December 1987 WHO/World Bank mission (already mentioned in
para. 1.19). These estimates are based on the calculation of healthy
life years (HLYs) saved per case of HIV prevented. This methodology
takes into account estimates of HIV incidence, and days of healthy
life lost from (a) acute illness; (b) disability before premature
death; and (c) prerlture death. These healthy days of life lost are
then discounted to their present value and weighted for productivity
by estimating the age earning profile.15 In Zaire, the HLYs
(productivity weighted and discounted) saved per case of infection
prevented would be on average 6.2.  Based on average annual incomes
(respectively US$890 in urban areas and US$144 in rural areas) the
monetary value of these 6.2 HLYs would be US$5,512 in urban areas and
US$893 in rural areas. Since currently 802 of AIDS cases occur in
urban areas, the weighted indirect cost of each case of infection is
approximately US$4,600; which is more than twenty times higher than
the direct cost of each AIDS case.
1.25     Using the epidemiological model to project the number of
expected cases, the Appraisal mission made estimates of the annual
total (direct plus indirect) cost of AIDS, taking into consideration
the balance between the increasing number of AIDS cases in rural areas
and the urbanization process, and assuming that adults (income
earners) would represent 752 of the cases. Findings are summarized in
Table 1.4 below.
15/ See Over, Bertozzi, Chin, N'Galy and Nyamuryekurg's "The Direct
and Indirect Cost of HIV infection in Developing Countries: The
Cases of Zaire and Tanzania" in the project file.



- 14 -
TABLE 1.4
Total Cost of AIDS
Year   Pop.    Cases Adult Direct Costs Indirect Costs Total Costs Projected GDP3/ Total
million  (000) Cases USS million   USS million   USS million USS million    as X
(000)                                                   CDP
N9   3S       24    18.0   2.7            15.5        18.2      5,880       0.V
90   86.6    29    21.0   8.8             83.5        86.9      6,980       0.6
91   87.2    87    27.8   4.8             67.4         62.0     6,260       1.0
92   38.4    47    85.8   6.0             87.7        93.8      6,461       1.6
93   89.3    s8    48.6   7.7             125.1       132.9     6,602       2.0
20e0   48.0   160   112.6  24.0            221.9       246.0     8,064        3.1
2010   60.0   286   2138.   48.9           406.8       464.7    10,080        4.6
Note: all costs are In constant 1988 US$
1/ GDP Is assumed to grow at ax per yebr from 1989-93, 4X thereafter.
Table 1.4 shows that, if transmission rates are not cut,
AIDS-related costs will become quite significant within 5 years. The
comparison with the GDP gives the order of magnitude of the annual
productivity loss and this loss would be extremely high by 2010 if the
epidemic is not by then under control.
E. Sectoral Strategy and Bank Involvement
1.26     The Government has shown its commitment to addressing this
public health issue by supporting the creation of the Projet SIDA in
1984, establishing a National AIDS Committee in 1985 and producing,
with WHO support, 6 the National AIDS Control Program (NACP) in 1987.
In June 1987, the State Commissioner (Minister) of Health and Social
Affairs officially launched a national information campaign, the scale
of which is still extremely limited due to the lack of financial
resources and domestic technical expertise in IEC. WHO, through its
GPA, has provided start-up funds for the national control program
(about half a million US dollars) and a technical assistant for
management. Other international agencies have provided some support
to AIDS control through their ongoing activities. Among donors, USAID
has been the most active, so far, through several existing projects,
including rural primary health care (SANRU), tne School of Public
Health, and the Family Planning projects (PSND and TIPPS). USAID
funding levels have been US$0.7 million in FY87 and it will be about
161 As mentioned in para. 1.06, WHO, through its Global Program on
AIDS (GPA), is the leading agency in developing general AIDS
control strategies and providing technical assistance and short-
term financial support to national AIDS control programs.



- 15 -
US$l million in FY88. Other donor-supported activities include the
vaccination research program of the French-supported National
Institute for Biomedical Research (INRB) and the Belgian/NIH-
cofinanced Proiet SIDA and blood screening at Clinique NgaliXma. FGR,
Italy and EEC are financing blood banks in Kinshasa, Goma and
Lubumbashi respectively.   More recently (April 1988) the AfDB has
accepted to finance a US$1 million research project.
1.27     All these efforts had to be strengthened and organized given
the magnitude of the problem and the high cost and complexity of
control measures. Most activities so far have been research-oriented
and not con-rol-oriented. This is understandable given the background
of the professionals who started working on AIDS -- scientists,
epidemiologists and laboratory technicians who are primarily
interested in understanding the disease and evaluating its prevalence
and incidence. Other skills are required to develop a control program
(health planning, team management, IEC experts, sociologists, lawyers,
field epidemiologists, etc.), but they are either not available in
Zaire or not involved in the control program. This situation mr.y lead
to a piecemeal approach (each specialized team dealing with its own
interests) which would be most detrimental in terms of effectiveness
and efficiency.
1.28     As a first step to address these issues, the Government and
WHO/GPA organized in February 1988 a donor meeting to discuss the
mediurn-term plan of the NACP and prepare a preliminary financing
strategy. During the meeting, the participants agreed that major and
urgent efforts were required to: (a) make the NACP priority-oriented
and fully operational as soon as possible; (b) assist the Government
;             in reallocating resources between ongoing health activities and AIDS
control activities; and (c) coordinate donor support both financially
and technically. In all these areas the World Bank could make a
significant contribution, given (a) its expertise in
planning/programming/budgeting large national programs, financial
management, broad-based economic analysis; and (b) its leading role in
aid coordination as chairman of the Consultative Group. Ultimately,
most donor3 pledged additional funding to the NACP as detailed in
para. 3.08.
1.29     The proposed general strategy conforms to the Global Strategy
on AIDS as stated in WHO's Guiding Objectives and Principles (Fifth
Meeting of Participating Parties). The specific strategy is two-
pronged: first, the rapid implementation of a self-standing AIDS
project aimed at contributing within three years to the effective and
timely launching of the National AIDS Control Program (NACP) as part
of the WHO-supported MTP and second, the development of a long-term
AIDS control component as part of the proposed FY91 Social Sector
project. This approach would allow to: (a) help to establish an
overall control strategy, including the institutional framework in
which the NACP would operate; (b) support urgent control activities



- 16 -
(IEC, blood screening, control of other STDs) described in the MTP
document which may diminish the future magnitude of the epidemic; and
(c) prepare effectively, in conjunction with WHO/GPA, the AIDS
component of the future Social Sector project (FY91) through an early
involvement in field operations.
1.30     Any delay in the Bank's assistance to the Government and
WHO/GPA would make the disease more difficult and more expensive to
control in the future since: (a) certaLn programmatic improvements in
the NACP are unlikely to be implemented promptly; (b) the required
amount of financial resources would not be attained, and (c) without
the Bank's coordinating role it would be more difficult for Zaire to
mobilize and organize cofinancJrig.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives and Design
2.01     The proposed project represents donors' contributions
(including IDA's)17 to the first three years18 of NACP's
implementation under the overall direction of WHO/GPA. Thus, the
project objectives are fully congruent with NACP's general objectives
which are: (a) to Prevent HIV transmission, through: (i) sexual
behavior changes induced by an IEC program; (ii) wide availability and
use of condoms; (iii) adequate treatment of other STDs; (iv) donated
blood screening; (v) sterilization of skin-piercing instruments; and
(vi) control of perinatal HIV transmission; (b) to improve the
database on AIDS in Zaire, through: (i) strengthening and developing
the laboratory infrastructure; (ii) developing the AIDS surveillance
system; (iii) improving the knowledge of AIDS-related behaviors in tne
general populati.n; (iv) developing socio-economic surveys in relation
to AIDS; and (v) developing operational research; and (c) to reduce
the impact of AIDS on individuals, families and communities, through:
(i) special assistance to AIDS cases and seropositive patients; and
(ii) information and education of people in contact with infected
persons. These objectives are relevant to the country's needs, but
17/ Donors' contributions have been assessed as of February 11-12,
1988, date of the latest Donor Meeting. Further contributions
(from Canada for example) are expected, and are likely to
increase the scope of the project.
18/ The three-year period is consistent with the three-year rolling
PEP process currently being established by the Government with
Bank's support.



- 17 -
they have to be prioritized and linked with phased operational
objectives. The proposed project would support this effort and has
been designed as an urgent assistance operation to the NACP. It
constitutes the first phase of a long-term support aiming at helping
the country to deal with this major epidemic. During its three and
one-half years of implementation, control measures would be developed,
tested and integrated into health and social systems and long-term
strategies would be developed.
B. Summary Description
2.02     The proposed project consists of four components: (a) IEC
program developmtnt and condom distribution; (b) integration of AIDS
control activities in existing health and social programs; (c)
operational research, including the development of a surveillance
system; and (d) institutional strengthening of the NACP. All
components are closely inter-related and mutually reinforcing: they
aim at making the NACP fully operational and effective as soon as
possible . The base costs are US$19.0 million.
2.03     IEC Program Development and Condom Distribution (US$5.8
million). The IEC component would: (a) attempt to induce behavioral
changes in both the general population and target groups (prostitutes,
students, teachers, soldiers, truck drivers, migrant workers, etc.);
(b) inform and educate 10-14 year olds before they enter a high risk
age group; (c) inform AIDS patients, HIV seropositives and families on
ways of coping with the disease. This would require a combination of
mass media programs and person-to-person communication. In addition,
condoms would be made widely available to respond to the expected
increase in demand.
2.04     Integrating AIDS Control Activities (USS8.7 million).  AIDS
control activities have to be integrated nationwide in health and
social programs, in order to reach a large segment of the population
efficiently and assist health facilities in dealing with an
increasing number of AIDS patients and HIV infected individuals. This
would require specific support for: (a) blood screening on a large
scale; (b) sterilization of skin-piercing instruments; (c) in-service
training, operational support and supervision for case management,
STDs detection and treatment and communication activities; and (d)
social programs at the community level through both public sector
programs and NGOs.
2.05     Operational Research and Studies (US$1 million).  Operational
research and studies are essential since, AIDS being a new disease,
the effectiveness of control measures has to be tested. In addition
to on-going research activities, the proposed component would support
research on: (a) HIV transmission; (b) sociocultural dimensions of
AIDS; (c) cost-effectiveness of control measures; (d) constraints to



- 18 -
condom use; (e) case management strategies; (f) developing diagnosis
tools; (g) economic impact of the disease; and (h) the development of
a national surveillance system. These studies would enable the NACP
to be more effective and efficient.
2.06     Institutional Strengthening (US$3.2 million).  Institutional
aspects of the NACP are particularly important given: (a) the
complexity of the control program; (b) the intersectoral natisre of
many control activities; (c) the need for developing cofinar.cing
strategies; and (d) the necessity of monitoring several implementir.g
agencies. The project would support institutional strengthening at
the central, regional, sub-regional and Health Z0ne (iiZ) levels.
C. Proiect Components
Development of an IEC Program
2.07     This componer:t has the broad objective of disseminating
information which would lead to a reduction in HIV sexual transmission
through development of a "sexual responsibility" concept, limitation
of the number of sexual partners, promotion of condom use, promotion
of early STD treatment, and education of seropositive patients.
Several knowledge, attitude and practice (RAP) surveys and specific
studies on sexual behavior are part of the component preparation. The
implementation of this component will be facing some major challenges
including: (a) the sensitivity of some messages (use of condom,
limitation of the number of sexual partners); (b) the necessity of
condom availability to respond to the expected increase in demand; (c)
the lack of national expertise in implementing large IEC programs; and
(d) the necessity of combining and balancing mass media approaches and
targeted interpersonal communication techniques. Several specialized
internati'nal agencies have expressed interest in supporting the
development of this IEC program. From the USA, Population Services
International (see following paragraph) is already involved; t.he
Academy for Educational Development(AED), through its USAID-supported
international communication project (AIDSCOM) might also contribute to
the IEC program, at a more peripheral level. Additional support would
also be available from Canada (CIDA/Laval University) and Belgium
(NGOs specialized in school health education). Coordination of these
efforts would be essential to ensure the prompt and effective
deployment of a comprehensive IEC program (see project implementation,
para. 4.06).
2.08     Mass Media.  This sub-component aims at developing a broad
awareness of the seriousness of the AIDS epidemic and means of
avoiding the infection. Radio, television and written materials
(press, leaflets, brochures) will be used to convey general
information on: (a) the lethal nature of AIDS; (b) transmission modes;
and (c) means of preventing transmission (including use of condoms and
reduction of number of sexual partners). This approach is somewhat



- 19 -
targeted at the most educated segments of the the population (people
who can read) and to urban populations (reached by TV and radio
networks) where the epidemic is, at the moment, most prevalent. The
design of messages and their presentation will be done by the IEC
statf cf the NACP's Bureau Central de Coordination (BCC), which will
also be in charge of identifying target groups and specific
communication strategies.  The BCC w.fi be assisted by Population
Services International (PSI), a U.S. private voluntary organization,
being funded by USAID to undertake this activity.  The project would
provide equipment and operating funds for IEC material development,
production and broadcasting.  This mass-media approach is expected to
raise the general awareness of the population, but, in order to obtain
significant behavioral changes, it has to be complemented by targeted
face-to-face communication strategiec.
2.09     Person-to-Person Communication.  This strategy will focus on
three major target groups: children in the 10-14 age group, the
population covered by health facilities and the citizens participating
in the political party (Mouvement Populaire de la Revolution - MPR)
activities. The 10-14 age group, in which the seropositivity rate is
extremely low, represents the highest priority in terms of prevention
since they are about to enter into the most infected age group (15-
29), particularly for women. If this segment of the population could
be protected nationwide, it is likely that transmission rates would
diminish or at least reach a plateau. As a first step the proposed
program would aim at reaching the 10-14 year olds of Kinsha: (about
400,000 children) through the schooling system. The 10-11 year olds
are in primary schools where the enrollment rate is close to 90X. The
12-14 year olds are in secondary schools where the enrollment rate is
close to 50Z. Approximately 300,000 children would be reached this
way, and might be able, through contacts with friends in the
community, to disseminate information to the majority of the target
population. About 10,000 teachers would have to receive special
training, as part of the proposed program. If this approach is
successful, it would be progressively replicated nationwide, starting
with major cities.
2.10     Patients attending health facilities and the population
covered by outreach health programs (such as immunization) are also an
important target group which can receive specific information and
recommendations through direct contact with health workers and social
workers. Of particular importance are the patients receiving care for
STDs (an important cofactor for HIV infection). In order to carry out
these tasks, the health staff would receive an IEC in-service training
as part of the global in-service training described in para. 2.17.
2.11     Finally, citizens participating in MPR activities may expand
information to their communities with more persuasion than "ordinary"
citizens. The MPR network is relatively well organized and benefits
from presidential support. As part of the program MPR leaders would
be trained in basic IEC techniques in order to insure consistency in
the messages delivered to the public. Some other target groups are



- 20 -
important, including the army, truck drivers and 'professional"
prostitutes. The army can be reached through their public relation
office which is in charge of conveying educational (most!, political)
messages to the soldiers. The truck drivers can, to some extent, be
reached through the truck driver association. The prostitutes, as an
organized group, are more difficult to reach, except at the community
level where small scale experience have already been attempted with
some success in poor peri-urban areas of Kinshasa.
2.12     Targeted Condom Distribution.  In order to respond to and
stimulate an increase in demand for condoms, the proposed project
would follow a two-pronged strategy: to make condoms widely available
in strategic places such as bars, night clubs, hotels, health
facilities, enterprises, pharmacies, shops, markets and others to be
identified; and to promote their use among target groups including
prostitutes, students, employees, civil servants, etc. Several
channels of distribution would be used: private pharmaceutical
networks, NGOs' distribution systems, the Family Planning Project
(PSND), EPI, the Tuberculosis Control Program and others to be
identified. Efforts have to be coordinated in order to ensure a wide
distribution in a short time. Condom availability and use are key
elements of the control strategy since, according to epidemiological
modelling, only the wide use of condoms can have a significant impact
in reducing HIV transmission in a population where HIV seroprevalence
is already high (see Annex II). Given the importance of increasing
condom use, their selling price would be subsidized by 502 (see para.
3.06). In some cases, in order to launch a promotion program, condoms
would initially be distributed free to some high-ri3k groups (such as
prostitutes, soldiers and truck drivers).
2.13     Program Management. The DOH at the central, regional, sub-
regional and Health Zone (HZ) levels will be institutionally
strengthened to plan, monitor and evaluate IEC activities. At the
service delivery level the PHC network, including NGOs and enterprise
medical departments will be the key implementing vehicle: FONAMES (the
para-statal agency in charge of monitoring nationwide PHC
implementation) will play a leading role in retraining the health
staff. The proposed project would provide IEC material and equipment,
vehicles, training, technical assistance, condoms and operating funds.
Integration of AIDS Control Activities in Health and Social Programs
2.14     Several AIDS control activities, including blood screening,
sterilization of skin-piercing instruments, case management, STDs
treatment, counseling of AIDS patients and seropositive individuals
and social support to families should become part of the routine
activities of the health and social systems. The project would
support the integration of these activities through the provision of
in-service staff training, equipment, medical supplies, supervision
and operating funds.



- 21 -
2.15     Blood Screening.  Currently, only two health facilities in
Kinshasa routinely screen donated blood (MYH and Clinique Ngaliema)
and the only blood bank is the one at Clinique Ngaliema for its
patients exclusively. This represents an extremely small supply of
safe blood for a city like Kinshasa where 60 to 120 blood transfusions
occur every day. Additional blood banks are being established at MYH
and the teaching hospital with FRG financing. The NACP aims at
creating eight regional blood banks in the major cities (financing has
already been secured for Goma through Italian cooperation). This
program is indeed useful but addresses only part of the problem since
at least 50? of blood transfusions occur in small hospitals or health
centers in an emergency context: the donated blood comes from
relatives of the patient or from "professional" donors who sell their
blood on the spot. Thus, in addition to the blood bank development
strategy, rapid screening tests should be distributed19 to primary
health care facilities where blood transfusion is often used. In
addition, the project would support the establishment of standards and
protocols for adequate use of transfusions as an emergency therapeutic
tool.
2.16     Sterilization of Skin-piercing Instruments.  As mentioned in
para. 1.12 the effectiveness of HIV transmission through contaminated
needles and syringes is probably extremely low. However, it does not
mean that health staff should be complacent about it and the AIDS
epidemic should be a good opportunity for enforcing all the standard
sterilization techniques which should be applied by health staff.
These standard procedures should be sufficient to virtually eliminate
this means of transmission. The proposed project would support these
activities though the provision of sterilization equipment and staff
training as part of the larger AIDS-related in-service training
program.
2.17     In-Service Training and Supervision Program.  The training
and supervision program would focus on case management, detection and
treatment of STDs and IEC techniques. Case Management would include
the implementation of: (a) standard treatments for each type of AIDS-
related opportunistic infection and disease symptoms; (b) an adequate
balance between hospital care and home care according to the stage of
the disease; (c) counselling for affected individuals, the family and
the community (including the work place and the schools); and (d)
adequate case reporting. STDs detection and treatment could
contribute significantly to the reduction of AIDS transmission. As
mentioned in para. 1.04 ulcers due to STDs increase the risk of HIV
transmission, particularly from male to female. The health staff will
have to move from passive detection of STDs to active screening and
treatment in accordance with adequate therapeutic protocols. In
addition, STDs prevention measures (to be promoted by the health
19/  Five rapid screening tests are being currently experimented with
in Kinshasa (Projet SIDA). These tests are fast (a few minutes)
but give a certain amount of false seropositives. They can be
used as a fast screening technique when an urgent blood
transfusion is needed. They cannot be used as a diagnostic test
since they have to be confirmed by the more reliable tests (ELISA
and Western Blot).



- 22 -
staff) are similar to those used for AIDS transmission and could have
an important synergistic effect. Communication activities would aim
at: (a) promoting AIDS prevention among the population covered by
health facilities (see para. 2.10); (b) advising local authorities
(including the teachers) on the content of messages that they should
convey to specific target groups; and (c) advise asymptomatic HIV
seropositive patients on the necessary behavioral changes. Regarding
the latter point, mother-neonate transmission is a specific and
sensitive topic, given the extreme importance of motherhood in Africa.
About 50Z of the HIV-infected mothers will transmit the disease to
their offspring. In children the disease is lethal within 2-3 years.
The only means to prevent this transmission are contraception and
sterilization. Given the sensitivity of these issues, health staff
should be given instructions by the Government to have these decisions
made at the individual level after adequate information.
2.18     The in-service training program will be carried out by the
DOH through FONAMES which is already largely experienced with this
type of activity. Since the number of health staff to be trained is
close to 10,000 , the training program would have to be phased,
starting with areas where seroprevalence is highest, i.e. urban areas.
2.19     Social Programs.  AIDS-related socio-economic problems will
increase the strain on social services (mostly private, as mentioned
in para. 1.18), particularly in urban areas. The project would
support social interventions to help households and enterprises cope
with the impact of AIDS. These would be designed using information
from the economic impact studies (see para. 2.27) and carried out by
both the public and private sectors.  At the public sector level the
project would provide operational support to selected Centres de
Promotion Sociale in areas where HIV infection is highly prevalent -
and to social services located in hospitals. At the private sector
level the project would support NGOs working on AIDS-related social
problems through the provision of technical assistance, in-service
training, and operating funds.
Operational Research and Studies
2.20     In addition to on-going research activities (see para. 1.21)
the proposed project would support a program of operational research
and studies aiming at: (a) analyzing HIV-transmission parameters; (b)
assessing the social and behavioral dimensions of AIDS; (c) comparing
the cost-effectiveness of various control measures; (d) identifying
the specific constraints on condom use and ways of overcoming them;
(e) developing case management strategies; (f) developing diagnosis
tools for HIV infection; (g) assessing the financial and economic
impact of the disease; and (h) developing the AIDS surveillance
system. Several institutions in Kinshasa have the capability of



- 23 -
carrying out zesearch and studies: University of Kinshasa (School of
Public Health, School of Medicine), Institut de Recherches Economiaues
et Sociales, Departement de Demographie, Institut National de
Recherche Biologique (INRB); Prolet SIDA; among others which would be
identified during project implementation. In addition, several
international organizations (for example the USAID-supported AIDSTECH
project) have already expressed interest in supporting these research
efforts. Given the technical specificity of the research and study
programs, it was agreed during negotiations, that the DOH shall not
carry out any operational research program or conduct any study as
part of the Project, except on the basis of a detailed description of
objectives, methodology and costs previously approved by IDA (para.
6.02 (a) ).
2.21     HIV transmission.  There are still uncertainties regarding
the effectiveness of various ways of HIV transmission and the factors
which facilitate or prevent this transmission. This information will
be important in improving the design of preventive programs and
assessing the potential for further spread of the epidemic.
2.22     Sociocultural and Behavioral Dimensions of AIDS.  To
understand how AIDS spread so rapidly in some population groups
requires a knowledge of social, cultural and behavioral aspects of the
society which are not often scrutinized, including: sexual behavior
among various socioeconomic groups, importance of occasional and
professional prostitution, stability of relationships between spouses,
attitude towards women, prevalence of homosexuality, etc. The KAP
surveys used for developing the IEC program (see para. 2.07) would
certainly help to grasp some of these elements but they are too
superficial to have enough analytical depth.  A more "ethnological
approach" based on the analysis of the social, economic and cultural
characteristics of AIDS patients and their implications in terms of
mechanisms leading to high risk sexual behaviors would lead to a
better assessment of the potential risk of transmission among various
socioeconomic groups, and to an identification of potential ways of
diminishing these risks.
2.23     Cost-effectiveness of Control Measures.  Given the limited
resources available to the health sector, it is important to carry out
a cost-effectiveness analysis of the various proposed control
measures, in order to assist health planners in designing the control
program and reallocating resources within the health sector. In
particular, a study is needed of the relative cost-effectiveness of
alternative approaches to reducing transmission through blood
transfusion: screening for low-risk donor recruitment versus better
criteria for transfusion. In addition, a cost/benefit analysis of
AIDS prevention programs would give government decision makers a basis
for intersectoral reallocation of resources. In order to carry out
these studies, an in-depth analysis of AIDS costs is required, as
proposed in para. 2.27.



- 24 -
2.24     Constraints on Condom Use.  According to preliminary analysis
of the effectiveness of various control measures, the wide use of
condoms would be the measure with the highest potential to effectively
curtail HIV transmission rate (see Annex 2). Unfortunately, condom
use implies a major behavioral change, one extremely difficult to
accomplish in both developed and developing countrien.20   An in-depth
analysis of the constraints specific to the Zairian society would he
most useful for improving the condom promotion program.
2.25     Case Management Strategies.  In industrialized countries, the
high cost of hospitalization of AIDS patients has led to the
development of case management strategies balancing hospital care and
home care with the assistance of social community programs. These
strategies have allowed a dramatic reduction in the cost of treating
AIDS patients without reducing the quality of care. This approach
should be applied to Zaire and include the development of standard
therapeutic schemes (see para. 2.17). The implementation of such a
strategy would reduce both the direct cost of AIDS and the workload of
health facilities.
2.26     Developing Diagnosis Tools.  The laboratory tests for HIV
infection should be improved in two areass rapidity and facility in
the case of rapid screening tests (used for donated blood), and
specificity in the case of tests confirming the diagnosis (such as
Western Blot). The latter point is particularly important since some
physicians are reluctant to inform the seropositive individuals on
their status, given the percentage of false (or ambiguous) positive
results with the currently available tests. Proiet SIDA, which has
the capability of conducting such studies, would receive the necessary
financial support from the proposed project.
2.27     Economic impact of AIDS.  As mentioned in para. 1.23 a joint
WHO/World Bank mission has prepared a research strategy for the
analysis of the economic impact of AIDS in Zaire. The detailed
proposal (which has been - in principle - accepted by the Government)
is in Annex 3. The overall objective of the study is to estimate, as
accurately as possible, the direct and indirect (loss of productivity)
cost of AIDS to the Zalrian economy for each of a number of distinct
population groups (in both urban and rural areas) and treatment
options. The research methodology would include prospective and
retrospective studies on both population-based random samples and
convenience samples of particularly important target groups. The
studies would be carried out by local groups or researchers with the
internal support of two short-term technical assistants in economic
analysis.
20/ Dr. N. Adler, Dr. C. Irwin, American Journal of Public Health,
April 1988. This University of California-San Francisco study has
found that even in a city where there is a high awareness of AIDS
and during a period when AIDS prevention education intensified,
most sexually active adolescents do not use condoms (2Z of girls
and 82 of boys surveyed said they used condoms every time they
had intercourse).



- 25 -
2.28     StrenRthening the Surveillance System.  The NACP includes a
proposal for establishing a comprehensive HIV infection Surveillance
System including: (a) a study of HIV seroprevalence in the general
population, (b) a monitoring of the geographical expansion of HIV
infection in "sentinel" groups; (c) a study of HIV infection's
incider.ce; and (d) the reporting of AIDS cases. Some of these
activities are already funded by WHO and Prolet SIDA; the proposed
project would complement these efforts in order to fully develop the
Surveillance System.
2.29     The study of HIV seroprevalence will be carried out in
several major cities (starting with Kinshasa) and in a sample of rural
areas. This study would give the extent of HIV infection in the
general )opulation (by age groups and by sex) at a given point in time
("point prevalence"). Repeated a few years later, this study would
inform on the overall trends of the epidemic. The study will be
implemented with WHO technical and financial support.
2.30     In order to assess the magnitude of HIV infection's
geographical expansion, some "sentinel" groups, particularly
susceptible to HIV infection, would be regularly tested. These groups
include prostitutes, TB patients, students, patients with STDs,
soldiers, truck drivers, etc.
2.31     The speed at which HIV infection is transmitted in a
population is a key factor to assess the potential magnitude of the
epidemic and to measure the impact of control measures. The only way
to evaluate precisely this speed of transmission is to measure the
sero incidence of HIV infection in a specific and stable population (a
"cohort"). A follow-up study of this cohort over several years
permits the assessment of the annual incidence rate of HIV infection.
This type of study is difficult to implement (the cohort has to be
stable and confounding factors and bias have to be eliminated) and is
time-consuming. The Proiet SIDA has started such a study on employees
of a large private enterprise in Kinshasa. The proposed project could
support the execution of similar studies in a few other cohorts.
2.32     Finally, as mentioned in para. 2.17, health staff will Le
trained in AIDS case reporting, based on clinical criteria, since
confirmatory tests are expensive. This reporting system would allow
the AIDS control program managers to assess the impact of the epidemic
on the health systems.
Institutional Strengthening
2.33     Institutional aspects of the NACP are particularly important
since: (a) the control program is complex, with many medical, social,
economic, legal and political implications; (b) the control activities
are intersectoral and have to be coordinated by several institutions
(DOH, Department of Education, Department of Planning, etc.); (c)
financing comes from several sources with their specific accounting



- 26 -
procedures; and (d) implementing agenci.es are numerous and scattered
all over the country. The project would support institutional
strengthen.ing at the central, regional, sub-regional and HZ levels.
2.34     Central Level.  At the central level, the BCC has a key role
to play in project management (see para. 4.04). WHO is already
providing technical assistance to the bCC with an administrative
officer and is planning to provide an epidemiologist and an IEC
specialist. The BCC will require further strengthening with a program
manager (deputy BCC director), an accountant, and a team of local
consultants to be contracted as needed. -he project would also
provide the necessary equipment and logistical support.  In addition,
the project would provide fellowships, seminars and study tours to
train program managers of various levels. Given the importance and
complexity of project management, it was agreed during negotiations
that the following would be conditions of credit effectiveness: (a)
that a specialist in health program management with satisfactory
qualifications and experience be appointed by DOH as BCC deputy
director during the three years of project implementation;21 and (b)
that an accountant with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
IDA be appointed by DOH as BCC chief accountant during the three years
of project implementation (para. 6.01 (d)).
2.35     Regional Level and Sub-Regional Level.  The monitoring of
NACP's implementation will be decentralized at the regional and sub-
regional levels through the Public Health inspectorates. The project
would support seminars to inform and train these individuals. The
project would also provide some operational support to assist regional
and sub-regional inspectorates to carry out supervision activities.
2.36     HZ Level.  The HZ chief medical officer and his/her staff
would receive the following operational support from NACP: (a)
detailed guidelines for developing AIDS control activities in HZs; (b)
resources (rapid HIV screening tests, condoms, drugs, IEC material,
operating funds) to initiate AIDS control activities through the
health facilities network; (c) feedback information to keep the HZ
staff abreast of AIDS control strategies; and (d) means to report and
notify the central level about the progress of AIDS epidemic in the
HZ. HZ committees (which include the key community leaders) would
assist in developing intersectoral collaboratWon (Education,
Administration, Social Services, NGOs, etc.). Institutional
strengthening at the HZ level would be progressive, starting with the
most operational HZs in both urban and periurban areas, to reach about
100 HZs within three years (one third of the total).
21/ This specialist would be recruited after a joint review of the
proposed candidacies by the Government, UNDP (which finances this
position), WHO/GPA (which is the implementing agency for UNDP and
the lead advisor for the program) and IDA (since the specialist
would have an important role in managing the IDA's credit).



-27 -
2.37     Non-Governmental Health Sector.  Several non-governmental
networks will actively participate in AIDS control activities,
including NGO-run health facilities, enterprise medical departments,
and private health facilities. These institutions may eventually
require some institutional strengthening in order to improve their
implementation capability. Thus the project would provide support to
these institutions, including training  and some operational
assistance as needed.
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Costs
3.01     On the basis of a three year implementation period, total
costs of the project amount to Z. 3.0 billion, or US$21.9 million
equivalent. Base costs as of February 1988 are calculated at US$19.0
million equivalent (86Z) and contingencies at US$2.9 million
equivalent (14Z). Since goods and equipment for project purposes
would be imported free of custom duties and internal taxes, base costs
are net of tax liabilities. The estimated cost, expenditure
categories and foreign exchange component are summarized in Table 3.1
below.



- 28 -
TABLE 81
Prorect Cost by Exsdiltur. Coteaory
ACcount. Cost Sua rY
US. I low
Local            Foreign            Total
Invostment Costs
- Material Dovpt             246                 341              S7
- Training                   722                 496              1,217
- Equipmnt                    -                  808               908
- Furniture                   42                  63               106
- Tech. Assistanco           252               1,128             1,380
- V-hicls                                        499               499
- Research                   699                 870               969
- PPF                        e6                  240               800
Total Invostment Costs      1,921              8,939              6,880
Recurrent Costs
- Salaries                   881                                   881
- Stipends & Tr. Allowances    677                -                677
- Equip. Maintenance          22                  87               109
- Vehic. op. A Maintenance    68                 252               815
- Condoms                     -                8,861             8,861
- Medical Supplies            -                7,010             7,010
- Office Supplies             47                  47                94
- Utilities                  150                  -                150
- Audit                        4                  41                46
Total Recurrent Costs       1,844             11,848             18,192
Total Baseline Costs       8,765              16,287            19,062
Physical Contingencios        80               1,230              1,28O
Price Contingencio-          292               1,299              1,691
Total Costs                4,087              17,816             21,903
195                81x               100
3.02      Basis of Cost Estimates.  Project costs are estimated in
Februacy 1988 prices.  Costs of equipment, vehicles, furniture and
supplies are based on CIF unit prices on local market prices, adjusted
to include installation. Cost of training, operational research,
local and international consultants, fellowships and other services
reflect local or international rates as applicable.
3.03      Contingency Allowance.  Physical contingencies are estimated
at 10? for equipment, furniture and medical supplies. No physical
contingencies are allowed for technical assistance, studies and
operational research. Assuming that the high local inflation rate
(more than 100Z in 1987) would be counterbalanced by the local
currency's devaluation, all unit costs are calculated in US dollar



- 29 -
(exchange rate of February 1988) and estimated price increases (Table
3.2 below) are based on the annual rates of price escalation from the
base costs in accordance with the implementation schedule (see
Annex IV).
TABLE 8.2
Price Continsue.
ion         199        1991
For-T gn      as          4X         4X
3.04     Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange
component is US$17.1 million or 80? of project costs. It is based on
the expectation that: (a) about 402 of the furniture will be locally
manufactured with an indirect foreign exchange of 65Z; (b) 1002 of
equipment, vehicles and supplies would be imported; (c) about 902 of
technical assistance would be provided by foreign consultants; and (d)
training would have a foreign exchange component of 50?.
B. Proiect Affordability
3.05     The recurrent cost implication of the proposed project were
calculated assuming the following for the 1989-91 period: (a) GNP
growth rate of 3? per year; (b) a constant share of Government
recurrent expenditure of 28? of GNP; and (c) a constant share of 3.5?
for DOH in the government budget.
3.06     In 1992 the project would have a recurrent cost implication
of about US $6 million. The cost structure would be as follows: (a)
salaries, maintenance and vehicle operation, US$l million; (b) medical
supplies US$3.2 million; and (c) condoms US$2.2 million. In
comparison to these recurrent costs the projected 1992 Government
health operating budget - US$12.4 million - appears highly
insufficient to finance the program. Table 3.3 below shows the
proposed financing plan.



- 30 -
TABLE 8.8
Financina Recurrent Cost of the AIDS Control Prosra. 1092
(millions of USt 1981 )
Recurront Costs     Govt.   Consumers  Foreign Aid   Total
- Salaries, rate A    0.6         0          0.6        1.0
v-hiclo operation
- Condoms             0         1.1          1.1        2.2
- Medical supplies    0         1.8          1.8        8.2
Total                0.6       2.7         8.2        6.4
Projected Expenditure  12.9   77 0
X increase           4         8.6
Sourc*- pprsisl mission, February 1988.
3.07     The DOH operating budget would have to increase by 4Z in
1992. Its share of the total gov2rnment recurrent expenditure would
have to increase from 3.5% to 3.6X. Such an increase should be easily
acceptable by the Government given the importance of reducing the
spread of the epidemic. The increase in health service consumer
expenditure should also, in theory, be affordable (3.6? of projected
expenditure) since user charge and full cost recovery are usual
features of the health system in Zaire. However, as mentioned in
para. 1.21, the key issue will be the inequitable distribution of
AIDS-related expenses, given the absence of risk sharing/cost sharing
mechanism among the population not covered by medical insurance. Such
mechanisms could be experimented as part of the proposed FY91 sectoral
adjustment lending. Meanwhile, foreign aid will have to support both
DOH and consumers by financing 502 of operating expenses, as shown in
Table 3.3. In addition, project affordability will have to be
considered in relation to financial implications of other health
sector investments. As part of the IDA-supported Structural
Adjustment Credit the PEP, which includes the NACP since March 1988,
is being reviewed in order to avoid low-priority investments which
would divert essential resources from priority programs such as the
AIDS control program. It was agreed during negotiations that, by
September 30 of each year of project implementation, the three year
rolling PEP of the Borrower for the health sector would be presented
to IDA for review and comment, starting September 30, 1988 (nara.
6.02 (b)).



_ 31 -
C. Proiect Financing
3.08     An IDA credit of US$8.1 million equivalent would finance 37Z
of total project costs, including 422 of foreign exchange costs and
12S of local costs. Coordinated cofinancing would be provided by
several donors, including Belgium (US$1.5 million), Italy (US$1.2
million), FRG (US$0.6 million), USAID (US$1.7 million), EEC (US$2.0
million), UNDP (US$1.0 million), UNICEF (US$1.4 million), WHO (US$1.0
million); for a total of US$10.  million.22   WHO and UNDP will be
responsible for coordinating and monitoring cofinancing mechanisms.
Since most financial pledges are additional contributions to on-going
donor-supported activities, it did not appear necessary to include
cofinancing conditions for project effectiveness. Furthermore, even
if other donors financing did not materialize (aa unlikely hypothesis
given the importance of controlling the AIDS epidemic), IDA's
contribution would still be essential to support core NACP activities.
The Government would allocate US$1.5 million to the project (72 of
total cost) and beneficiaries' contributions would amount to US$1.5
million (72 of total cost). Canada and France have also expressed
interest in participating in the project, but have not yet committed
any specific funding. If these resources become available during
project implementation for financing specific project components, the
Government would be able to carry out additional activities broadening
the scope of the project.
22/ These cofinancing amounts are preliminary estimates based on on-
going financing anxd p.edges made during the February 1988 Donor
Meeting in Kinshasa. Detailed cofinancing strategies would be
prepared during the first meeting of the Joint Coordinating and
Monitoring Committee (see para. 4.05).



- 32 -
D. Procurement
3.09     Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.4 below.
TABLE 3.4
Pro.-ct El-nnt     ICB         LCD       Other          NA     Total Cost
- Equipment     0.94 ( .27)                                   0.94 ( .2;)
- Furniture                 0.14 ( .06)                       0.14 ( 08)
- Vehicles      0.51 ( .82)                                   S.61 ( .82)
- Material Dvpt.                       0.69 ( .22)            0.69 ( .22)
- Training/TA                          2.98 (1.49)            2.98 (1.49)
- Research                             1.11 (.566)            1.11 ( .56)
- PPF                                              0.6 (0.6 ) 0.5 (0.6 )
- Condoms       4.84 (1.44)                                   4.84 (1.44)
- Md. Supplies   8.07 (2.70)                                   8.67 (2.70)
- Other Op. Coat                                    2.72 ( .62) 2.72 ( .52)
18.80 (4.78)  0.14 ( .68) 4.68 (2.26)   3.22 (1.62) 21.9 (8.07)
Note: Amounts In parentheses reprosent IDA financing.
3.10     Goods.  Given DOH's lack of experience in procuring medical
and educational equipment and supplies, UNICEF would be appointed as
procurement agent for MOH and would carry out the procurement
following ICB procedures in accordance with IDA guidelines. In view
of the relatively small number of vehicle (30) and their variety
(pick-ups, 4-wheel drive, passenger cars), limited tender inquiry or
international shopping (minimum 3 bids) would be used. Procurement of
vehicles would be limited to contractors who have or are prepared to
establish after-sale services and spare part facilities. Procurement
of furniture amounting to US$60,000 equivalent in total, would be done
following LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Contracts for
miscellaneous goods amounting to US$100,000 equivalent in total, would
be procured through prudent shopping (at least three price
quotations).
3.11     Services.  The appointment of consultants would be done
following procedures that are satisfactory to IDA and in accordance
with IDA guidelines.  Terms of reference and conditions of employment
of consultants as well as their qualifications would have to be
satisfactory to IDA. The selection of consultants and candidates for
the fellowship program would be submitted to IDA for review.



- 33 -
3.12     Bank Review Requirements.  Drafts tender documents and master
lists of furniture, equipment, supplies, and vehicles with related
cost estimates anA prequalification of contractors will be reviewed by
IDA. IDA review of tender documents prior to award would be required
only for contracts above US$50,000 equivalent. All other contracts
would be subject to review by IDA after the contract award.
E. Disbursement
3.13     Disbursement of the IDA credit would be as follows: 100Z of
foreign expenditures and 90Z of local expenditures for furniture,
equipment, materials, vehicles, medical supplies, training,
consultants and expert services, studies and operational research; and
507 of non-salary operating costs. Withdrawal applications for
expenditures of less than US$10,000 will be submitted against
statements of expenditure (SOEs). All other disbursements will be
fully documented. The SOEs would be retained by the Borrower for
inspection by supervision missions and review by the annual audit.
The Borrower would not submit application for reimbursement valued
below US$20,000 equivalent.
3.14     The project would be completed in three and one-half years,
including six months to finalize accounts and submit final withdrawal
applications. It is expected that the loan would be fully disbursed
by June 30, 1992.
3.15     Special Accounts.  In order to ensure that funds for project
implementation would be available when required, a special account
would be established with a Bank acceptable to the Association. This
special account would be managed by DOH's BCC to carry out the
project-related activities. The initial deposit by IDA would cover
about three months' anticipated expenditure, estimated at US$0.75
million. This amount would be available from the IDA credit amount
afi-r credit effectiveness.  The special account would be replenished
by jDA on the basis of documentary evidence of payments for goods and
services made by BCC.  In addition, the Borrower would also open in
BCZ a project advance account to cover three months of Government
contribution to operating costs and to be replenished quarterly. It
was agreed during negotiations that establishment of these accounts
and an initial deposit equivalent to US$125,000 in the project advance
account would be conditions of credit effectiveness (para. 6.01(a)).
3.16     Accounting and Auditing.  The project would be subject to
normal governmental accounting procedures, which are satisfactory to
IDA. The DOH's BCC would be strengthened with a certified public
accountant to work specifically on the proposed project accounting
(see para. 2.34). Annual auditing would be required for all
expenditures financed under the project, with particular attention to



- 34 -
those expenditures reimbursed under SOEs. Auditing would be performed
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. It was agreed during
negotiations that audit reports would be submitted yearly to IDA,
within the six months following the end of the Borrower's fiscal year
(para. 6.02(c)).
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Proiect Preparation
4.01     In September 1987, the Department of Health ar4 Social
Affairs (DOH), with the tcchnical and financial suppor-    WHO/GPA,
had prepared a medium-term plan (1988-92) for the implb.   ation of
the National AIDS Control Program (NACP). In October 198/, the Medium
Term Plan (MTP) which was intended to provide a framework for all AIDS
control activities in Zaire, was endorsed by WHO/GPA and shared with
the donor community, including the World Bank, for an eventual
support. In December 1987 a Bank mission, on the basis of the MTP,
pre-appraised the proposed project and specifically identified with
key members of the National AIDS Committee what could be the Bank's
contribution to the NACP in the context of the WHO/GPA supported
Global AIDS Control Strategy.   In addition, a set of specific
recommendations were made to improve the design of the MTP, and
consequently additional documents (integrating AIDS control activities
in the PHC system and management of AIDS cases and HIV seropositives)
were prepared by the DOH and shared with WHO/GPA. On February 11-12,
1988, a donor meeting was organized by the Government and WHO/GPA, to
solicit pledges from bilateral and multilateral organizations,
including the Bank. Following the donor meeting, a Bank mission
appraised the AIDS control project. In June 1988, the Government
received a US$300,000 PPF to complement the funding that WHO provides
for the preparation of AIDS control activities.
B. Oritanization and Manaaement
4.02     The project will be implemented through the existing
management structure, which has been strengthened by the creation of a
National AIDS Committee, a Central Coordinating Office (BCC) and two
executive committees, as described in the following paragraphs.
WHO/GPA and UNDP will have a key role to play in project
implementation, particularly in regard to: (a) policy and strategy
development; (b) donor coordination, including the development of
consistent financing plans; (c) technical assistance to AIDS control
activities; and (d) the review of detailed plans of operation.



- 35 -
4.03     National AIDS Committee.  The national AIDS committee is
composed of representatives from various institutions, including the
Department of Planning, DOH, the Department of Education, the
Department of Women's Condition, Department of Information, MPR and
the Presidency. The chairm&n is the State Health Commissioner. This
committee is responsible for defining the policies and strategies of
the NACP and for regularly monitoring the progress of the program.
The committee can also be called upon if some major issues arise
durin3 program implementation. The National AIDS Committee has an
executive secretariat, the Bureau Central de Coordination (BCC).
4.04     Bureau Central de Coordination (BCC).  The BCC is under the
direct supervision of the State Health Commissioner. It is composed of
a Director, two epidemiologists, an administrative officer (WHO
consultant), a laboratory specialist, two IEC specialists, (including
a consultant from Population Servic^s International, as mentioned in
para. 2.08) a public relations person, a deputy administrative officer
(WHO consultant), two secretaries, five drivers and three workers. As
mentioned in para. 2.34, the BCC will be strengthened under the
proposed project by a program manager (Deputy Director) experienced in
the planning and management of large public health programs, an
accountant and additional support staff as needed. The BCC is in
charge of coordinating, maintaining and evaluating all control
activities. More specifically, the BCC will have to: (a) prepare the
annual plans of operations; (b) coordinate and control activities to
be implemented by various agencies (such as FONAMES, PSND or Projet
SIDA); (c) directly carry out some activities (such as the aggregation
of epidemiological data, the execution of some studies or the
development of IEC messages); (d) provide funding to implementing
agencies and control their expenses; and (e) contribute to the
coordination among the various funding agencies. The latter task
would be carried out in collaboration with WHO, which is providing
overall guidance and support to program implementation and with UNDP,
which will help coordinate the participating bilateral and
multilateral agencies. In order to ensure an effective and consistent
implementation process, it was agreed during negotiations that by
October 31 of each year the DOH would submit to IDA for review and
comment the annual project operation plans starting December 31, 1988
(para. 6.02 (d)).
4.05     Joint Coordinating and Monitoring Committee.  In order to
avoid duplication and overlapping among contributing agencies, the
Government created in July 1988 a joint coordinating and monitoring
committee (Commission mixte de suivi des ressources exterieures dans
le cadre du programme national de lutte contre le SIDA), as described
below.  This committee would include representatives from the DOH,
DOP, BCC, UNDP, WHO and each donor agency supporting the program. It
was agreed during the February 1988 AIDS Donor meeting that UNDP would
play a leading role in providing technical assistance to this
committee, in accordance with the WHO/UNDP Alliance to combat AIDS.
The committee is in charge of: (a) preparing the overall financing



- 36 -
plan; (b) monitoring the implementation of this plan, and, if
necessary, looking for additional funding; and (c) assessing the
overall program implementation performance.
4.06     Implementation Committee.  The BCC will have to "contract"
both intra and intersectorally several implementing bodies in order to
carry out most of the cortrol activities. In order to ensure a strong
coordination and collaboration between the various implementing
agencies, an implementation committee (commission d'4x4cution du
programme SIDA) was established in July 1988 in order to have the key
managers for each project component meet on a regular basis.
Objectives, strategies, programs and budget will be revised by this
committee under the overall guidance of the BCC.
C. Monitoring and evaluation
4.07     The BCC would monitor the progress of project implementation
through process indicators to be developed as part of the annual
operations plans. In addition, standard outcome indicators would be
developed in collaboration with WHO/GPA in the near future. Each
project component would have its specific set of process indicators,
to be monitored by the managers of each implementing agency. The BCC
would be responsible for overall projecL implementation monitoring and
for initiating corrective actions as necessary. Meanwhile, the
proposed set of process indicators include:
(a) for the IEC component: ti) the posting of IEC staff at the
regional and sub-regional levels; (ii) the number of general
and targeted IEC campaigns; (iii) the number of condoms
distributed; and (iv) the number of school-aged children
reached by the education program.
(b) for the integration of AIDS control activities: (i) the
number of health facilities with blood screening
capabilities, (ii) the number of health staff having received
in-service training, and (iii) the number of AIDS-related
social programs.
(c) for operational research and studies: the number of studies
and operational research programs being implemented.
(d) for the surveillance system: (i) the number of seroprevalence
and seroincidence surveys being carried out; and (ii) the
number of reported AIDS cases.
(e) for institutional strengthening: (i) the recruitment of
additional staff and technical assistance at the central
level; (ii) the number of retraining seminars for regional
and sub-regional personnel; and (iii) the level of
operational support for non-governmental programs.



- 37 -
4.08     All these indicators are quantitative and would not give much
information on the quality and impact of the various operations. In order
to assess the qualitative aspect of ongoing control activities the BCC
would have to carry out some specific sample surveys. In addition, the
operational research program would give some indepth information on the
performance of che various control activities and their potential impact on
HIV transmission. It was agreed during negotiations that a project
performance review, including project management, would be carried out
annually under terms of reference acceptable to IDA and that the review
findings and recommendations would be transmitted to IDA not later than
October 31 of each year of project implementation (para. 6.02(e)).
V. PROJECT BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
Short-term Benefits
5.01     The proposed project would provide immediate attention to a public
health crisis which has already had a negative impact on health status,
health systems, health financing and the workforce and has the potential
for causing severe human and economic losses in an already poverty-stricken
country. Within three years, the project would help to: (a) establish key
preventive measures aimed at protecting the most vulnerable segments of the
population (10-14 year olds and women in reproductive age); (b) rationalize
the packaging of AIDS control measures; (c) make the N{ACP fully operational
and institutionally sound; and (d) understand the AIDS epidemic patterns.
During this launching phase, a major drop in HIV transmission cannot be
expected nation-wide; however as shown in specific and highly motivated
population groups in the US,25 control measures aiming at inducing safer
sexual behaviors can be effective in a short time.
5.02     Protecting Vulnerable Groups.  Children in the 10-14 age group,
and particularly the females who will enter the most HIV-infected age group
(15-29) will be a target group of the Project's IEC component. Protecting
this segment of the population, which is still largely uninfected, is a
priority. Intersectoral collaboration between the DOH and the Department
of Education would ensure, through the proposed project, an early start of
targeted IEC activities. In addition, the project would provide the level
231 In 1982 in San Francisco the HIV infection prevalence rate was 232
among homosexual men (sample of 1,000 individuals, non-drug addicts).
The incidence rate was about 122 per year, and in 1984 the prevalence
rate was close to 502. In 1983 a massive targeted IEC campaign
promoting "safe sex' was launched (limitation of the number of sexual
partners, use of condoms, treatment of STDs, etc.). Since 1984 the
incidence rate has dropped dramatically to the current level of 2S per
year and the prevalence rate remains at around 50Z. Concurrently, the
incidence rate of other STDs dropped by 922 between 1980 and 1986.



- 38 -
of resources needed to reach, through IEC techniques and condom promotion,
other target groups, including prostitutes, soldiers, migrant workers and
other high risk groups which are at the same time vulnerable groups and
vehicles for transmitting HIV infection.
5.03     Rationalizing Control Measures.  Through the early start of major
control measures (IEC, condom promotion and distribution, blood screening,
assistance to AIDS patients, etc.) and specific operational research aiming
at assessing the effectiveness and efficiency of these measures, the
project would: (a) assist in developing the most cost-effective packaging
of AIDS control measures; (b) initiate the integration of AIDS control
activities into health and social programs; and (c) monitor the impact of
control measures on selected target groups.
5.04     Develop.  g NACP's Institutional Framework.  The project, through
its institutional strengthening component, would make the NACP's
organizational structure fully operational by: (a) developing the
managerial structure at the central (BCC), regional, sub-regional and HZ
levels; (b) establishing intra-and intersectoral coordination and
implemen,ation mechanisms; and (c) balancing the governmental and non-
governmental sectors' roles in the AIDS control program.
5.05     Establishing Financing Mechanisms.  The project would establish
financing mechanisms aiming at: (a) ensuring long-term and coordinated
external financing; (b) integrating the AIDS control program in the three-
year rolling PEP; (c) developing cost-recovery mechanisms for essential
commodities (condoms, medical supplies); and (d) establishing risk-
sharing/cost-sharing mechanisms at the community level.
5.06     Understanding the Epidemic.  Through various studies, the project
would contribute to a better understanding of the epidemic, including an
analysis of: (a) the physiological factors contributing to HIV
transmission; (b) the sociological and behavioral parameters contributing
to AIDS spread; and (c) the epidemiological trends, including prevalence
and incidence of the infection in various geographical areas and
socioeconomic population groups. These baseline data would allow decision
makers to improve the design of the various control strategies.
Long-Term Benefits
5.07     As described in para. 2.01, the proposed project would represent
the first phase of a longer term program aiming at: (a) protecting the
majority of the population from HIV infection; (b) assisting the country in
coping with the burden of illnesses and deaths among people who are already
infected and will develop the disease; and (c) alleviating the AIDS-related
negative impact on the nation's economy.
5.08     Health Benefits.  The program would: (a) reduce the impact of AIDS
on morbidity and mortality in both adults and children; (b) contribute to
the control of STDs; (c) assist the health system in coping with AIDS
patients; and (d) avoid major imbalance in resource allocation between
priority public health programs.



- 39 -
5.09     Social Benefits.  The program would set up social structures and
mechanisms to assist AIDS-stricken individuals, families and communities.
This aspect of the program would particularly benefit the poorest families,
which would not have otherwise the means of either taking care of AIDS
patients or losing family income earners.
5.10     Economic Benefits.  By diminishing HIV transmission, the program
would reduce the magnitude of AIDS-related morbidity and mortality and thus
diminish the productivity losses induced by the epidemic. The preliminary
results of a cost/benefit analysis, comparing the costs of control measures
to the economic value of AIDS cases averted, already indicate that the NACP
would have a net economic benefit.24
B. Risks
5.11     The project's main risk concerns the weak managerial capability of
DOH, particularly in regard to the complexity of the control program. The
project is designed to address this risk by distributing managerial
responsibilities among various implementing entities and several
coordinating/monitoring committees. In addition, the project's
institutional strengthening component would provide training, technical
assistance and operational support aiming at developing planning and
managerial capabilities at both the central and peripheral levels. The
second risk is related to the experimental nature of the control measures:
some of the proposed control activities may not have the expected impact on
HIV transmission. The various project-supported operational research
programs are designed to respond to this uncertainty and to adjust as
necessary the NACP. The third risk concerns the potential for financing
shortcomings on the long term. It is likely that the AIDS epidemic will be
a long term problem in Zaire and there is a risk of donor fatigue in
financing the NACP. The joint coordinating and monitoring committee
(Government, WHO, UNDP, Donors) would be created to address this risk.
VI. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     The following would be conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) that the Special Accounts (IDA revolving funds and project
advance account with initial deposit equivalent to
US$125,000) be established by the Government (para. 3.14);
24/ In the US a cost-benefit analysis of screening blood donors for HIV
has shown a benefit:cost ratio of 1.2 : 1. (R.S. Eisenstaedt, T.E.
Getzen, American Journal of Public Health, April 1988).



- 40 -
(b)  that a specialist in health program management with
satisfactory qualifications and experience be appointed by
DOH as BCC deputy director during the three years of project
implementation; and that an accountant with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to IDA be appointed by DOH as BCC
chief accountant during the three years of project
implementation (para. 2.34).
6.02     It was agreed during negotiations that:
(a)  the DOH shall not carry out any operational research program
or conduct any study as part of the Project, except on the
basis of a detailed description and terms of reference
previously approved by IDA (para. 2.20).
(b)  by September 30 of each year of project implementation, the
three year rolling PEP of the Borrower for the health sector
would be presented to IDA for review and comment, starting
September 30, 1988 (para. 3.07);
(c)  audit reports would be submitted yearly to IDA, within the
six months following the end of the borrower's fiscal year
(para. 3.15);
(d)  starting December 31, 1988, the DOH would submit the annual
project operation plans to IDA for review and comment by
October 31 of each year (para. 4.04);
(e)  a project performance review, including przject management,
would be carried out annually under terms of reference
acceptable to IDA, and the Review findings and
recommendations would be discussed with IDA not later than
October 31 of each year of project implementation (para.
4.08).
6.03     Subject to the above e nditions and assurance, this project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 6.2 million (US$8.1
million equivalent) to the Republic of Zaire.



- 41 -
Paget*
PREVAU31ARE Di aI.
Oaograph.c Reference  Population      Se-  Age    Prov.   Size o   Viru-    Typ of  Soure
Area       D te        Subgroup            Group  Rate    Sampl    Tested   Tyet          ID Nbo    C_nt
ARU         1987       TOTAL AREA    8I/ 17-76    5.3        S19      HIV       ELISA, va AOOO   North-erast Zaire, Mean age -
82.7: Sea ratio - 1.7
ARU         1987       MARKET         B    17-75   10.6      16o      HIV       ELISA. WV  AOO0   North-east Zaire: mean age -
DISTRICT                                                                  32.7: Sex ratio - 1.7
DUNCU       1986-87    MOBILE         B   ALL    24.2         33      HIVI    LUN         SOO5 I  Norte-eaetern Zaire
POPULATION
DUNOW       1986-87    SEDENTARY      a   ALL       5.6      311      HIVI      Uw        SOOIl  North-eaetern Zaire
POPULATION
OUNL        1986-87    MOBILE         F2V  ALL    11.1         9      HNVi      UW        50011  North-eastern Zai r
POPULATION
DUNOU       1986-87    SEDENTARY      F   ALL    10.0        160      HIV1      Uw        S0011  North-eastern Zaire
POPULATION
DtOJ1       1986-87    MOBILE         M§J ALL    29.2         24      HIVI    LUN         SOOlI  North-eastern Zaire
POPULATION
DUNGU       1986-87    SEDEBTARY      H   ALL       1.3      161      HIVI      kNW       SOOlI  North-eastern Zaire
POPULATION
OU4QJ       1988       NOT            F   ALL       4.0      126      HMlV      Uw        SOOII  North-eastern Zaire
PROSTXTUrES
DU4aLC      198t       PROSTITUTES   F   ALL    32.4          84      HIVI      Uw        50011   North-eastern Zaire
ED.ATBPR   1976        PERSONS TESTED 8   ALL       0.8      689      HIV       BLISA, VS FOOOI  Sare collected during an
RESION                 FOR EBOLA VIMUS                                                            investigation of Ebol virue.
8 110.diedu2 hea11t8hy:
KINSiASA    1987       PREQA?T        F   ALL       6.0    2574       HXVI      Uw        80010
KINSHASA    1987       PRE4ANT        F    15-44    5.7    6000       HIVI      UW        NOOOB
KXNHASA    1986        ASYMPTOMATIC   B   ALL       6.7      264      HIV       ELISA     K0001  AsyAptomtic for AIDS/ARC
HOSPITAL                                                                  Mean age was 23.2
PATIENTS
KINSHASA   1986        MOTtF          F   ALL       6.0      529      HIV       ELISA.IFA JOOO1  Number of cases based
prevalence rate and sample
KINSHASA    1985       HOSPXTALIZED   8   00-02   1.5       180      "IV       UW        DOOO1  Children 9 to 24
CHILDREN
KINSHASA    1988       WELL-CHILD     8   00-02   8.6         S6      HXv       LW        D0001  Children 9 to 24 mo,ths
CLINIC                                                                    LAV/HTLB-II.
KINS4ASA    1988       ADMISSIONS AT B   02-14   10.6        368      HXV       ELISA, VSb DO01  40 of the 868 were HIV
MAMA YE40 HOSP.                                                           positive using ELISA test.
24/40 aeropositives and
107/328 seronegatives had
previously received blood
transfusions. LAV/HTLVIII.
KINSHASA    1986       MOTHI4tS       P   ALL       8.0      191       IV       ELISA, WB JOO01  Mothers of children attending
well-baby cl nice, Mama Yo=
hospital: number of case
based on prevalence rate and
* mple sie.
1/Bboth
j9F: fetale
orc: U.S. Bureau of The Census. Center for International Resarch. AIOS/HIV Statistics Databas.



- 42 -
Ceogrephic  Referenc   Populution       Sex Ago       Pr*v.    Size of   Virus      Type of   Source
Area        D te         Subgroup            Croup   Rate      Semple    Tested    Teot       ID No. Coments
KINSHASA    :aS6         IWATIENTS IN  B    ALL       27.0      169       HIV       ELISA, VS JOOOt  Inpatient in tubarculceis
SANITDRIU1                                                                    saniteriu tori   k h  cnf`irad
pulmonary tubercu losis, median
age: 29. 60S  men 43 of 53
BITSA-positive a;mples ware
teoted by VS: number of coesa
bae,:d,on sample size and
prevalnce rate.
KINSHASA    1985         PROSTITUtES    F    ALL      27.0      376      HIV        ELISA, VS J0001   Cases baeed on preovlence rate
and smaptie size.
KINSHASA    1985         INPATIENTS     B    09-67   84.3       274      HIV        ELISA, WB MOO08   Tuberculosis Sanitorium. 691
of HIV positiv* were
tubercular: 601 Sale and 401
fefma Is.
KINSHASA   1lo"          HOSPITAL        8   00-00   11.8       102       HIV       ELISA-, VB  0009   Mam  Yeso Hbpital. Age: 1-8
PATIENTS                                                                      mnths.
KINSHASA    1985         HOSPITAL       B    00-02   12.4       258      HIV        EUISA, WO M0009   Mass Ysmo Hospital.
PATIENTS                                                                      Age; 2 to 24 months. Snmple
851 saIe, 451 female. Risk
factors: 16/32 mother HIV
positive. Major risk factors:
injections and blood
transfusions.
KINSHASA    1985         HOTHUSE  OP    P    1-9    7.8         250       HIV       ELISA, WS H#0002   Moan Yso  HoASpital
HOSPITAL                                                                      16/20 seor-positive children.
PATIENrS
KINSHASA    1485         HOSPITAL       a    ALL      12.8      156       HIV       ELISA, Va i10009   Mma Yomei Hospital
PATIBITS                                                                     Aos: children 9 sonths and
KDISHASA    1985         SLOW DOCNOL         ALL      12.0       25      HIV        kw        ZOOCS
KINSHASA    1984-85      HOUSB4OLD      8    ALL       9.8      204      HIV        EUISA, VS M0002   Contacts of AIDS and HIV
CONTACTS OF                                                                   patients.
AIDS
KINSHA'SA    1984-85     NTON-SPOUSE    b    ALL       4.8      18s       HIV       ELISA, VS W 0002   Household contact of patients
HOLUS40LD                                                                    vith AIS or HIV positive.
CONrACT
KINSHASA    1984-85      HOSONSLD       a    ALL       1.9      165      HIV        ELISA, VS M0002   Contacts of HdV negative
CONTACTS OF                                                                   patients.
HIV NM.
KINI0ASA    1984-8       PATITAS        B    02-14   10.9 2      68      HIV        ELISA, WV  MO001   Mam  Yemo Hospite. Moan
ag-1.1 yearsr. Risk factors:
61blood transfusions. 94.91
medical in actions, 251
acarifica Ion. 10 iseronegative
children died (10/328) = 3.0511.
KIPISHASA    1984-85     HEALTHY        F    ALL       6.9     2117      HIv        ELISA, VS 0.0002   Coase  estimated based on
PERSONS                                                   a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sample size and prevalence
KIPSISA    1984         HOSPITAL       8    20-29    9.2       468       #4IV      ELLSA, VS #40007   Mams Yomo Hospital.
PFJtSONNEL
KINSASA    1984          HOSPITAL       B    S0-S9    6.o      1211      HIV        ELI5A, VS H0007   Mama YVeo Hospital.
KINSHASA    1983         OUTPATIENTS    B    13-6e    6.0       100      HIV        ELISA, WB W I001   Mam Yxo Hospital, 53 male,
PFSI>NEL                                                                     47 femle.
KINSHASA    1980         MOTHES AT      F    ALL       S.C      498      HIV        EISA,    J0001   Use of frosen stored zera
WELL-BABY                                                  IFA, RIPA          indicated: number of cases
CLINICS                                                                       based on prevalence rate and
"aMple size.
NODEW       1986-87      RANOMN         a    00-14    0.0       170      HIVI       Uw        SOO5I   North-eastern Zaire. Village
SAMPLE                                                                       near Dungu.
NDEDU       1984-87      RAP'O          B    ALL       0.5      222      HIVI       UW        S0011   North-eastern Zaire. Village
SAMPLE                                                                       near Oungu.
NDEDU       1988-87      RANDOM         P    ALL       1.0      108      HIVi       UW        S0011   North-eastern Zaire. Village
SAMPLE                                                                        near Dungu.
NDEWU       1986-87      RANDOM         n    ALL       0.0      110      HIV1       UW        50011   North-eastern Zaire. Village
SAWLE                                                                         noar Dungu.
AOOOG         Akter, I., B. Lrouze, S  Mabika We Bantu, at al., 1987, Distribution of Antibodies to HIV1 in an Urban Co_un"ty
(Aru, Upper Zaire), Second International Symposium on AIDS and Associated Cancers in Africe, Naples, Italy, 10/7-9,
Abstract, TH-34.
80010         Bmerde, E., R. Ryder, F  Bhetie  et *l,  1987, Congenital HIV Transmission at an Upper Middle Class Hospital in
Kirshaos, Second International Syeposium on AIDS in Associated Cancers in Africa, Naples, Italy, October 7-9,
Abstract, F-2.
F0001         Forthal, 0. N, J.P. Setchell, J. Mann, t al., 1986, HTLB-III/LAV in Sera Collected in 1976 Equateur Region, Zaire,
International Conference on AIDS, Paris, 6/23-25, Absteact.
0OOO0         John Hopkins University, 1986, Issues in World Health, Population Reports, 7, Series L, No.6.
K0001         Kalambay, Kaysbe, .J. M. Mann, H. Harris, et al., 1986, LAV/HTLV-III Seroprevalence among patients without AIDS or
ARC hospitalized at University Hospital, International Conference on AIDS, Paris, 6/25-25, Abstract.



- 43 -
HO0D7         Mann, Jonathan. Henry Francis. Thomms C. Quinn, at *i.. 1986, H1V Seroprvevlence Among Hospital Workers in Kinshasa,
Zairs,  J,  December 12, Vol. 286, No. 22, pp. 3099-3102.
H0oo0         Mann. Jonathan, Fergin Davechi, Thoase Quinn,    of., 1986, Ri;k Factoro for Human Iiunodeflency Virus
S.ropositivity Aong Children 1-24 Months Old in Kinshasa, Zaire, Lancet, Septeber 20, Vol. 2. No. S60, p. 654-
686.
MOOll          Mann, Jonathan, Henry Francis, Poole Baudoux, et al., 1986, Human Iunodeficiency Viru- Seraprveylence in Pediatric
Pationto 2 to 14 Years of Age at Mama Yamo HoopItol. Kinshasa. Zairc, ued iatrico, OctAer 4, Vol. 78, pp. 673-677.
NOOOS        NHa. VW.  R. Ryder, *nd H. Francis, 1987. Congenital HIV Trans.ieaion in a Lsrce Urban Hospital in Kinahasa  Second
Intarnational Sypoeius on AIDS and Asocisted Cancers in Africa. Naples , Italy, October 7-9, Abstract, F-i
Q000          Quinn. Thoiaa, Peter Piot, Josph McCornlck, at al., 1987  Serologic and Immunologic Studies in Pmtienta with AIDS
in North Americo and Africa, J, May o, Vol. 2S7, No. 14, pp. 2617-2621.
Q2002         Quinn, Thomas C   J M  Mann. J.W. Curran *t al., 1986, AIDS In Africa: An Epideelologic Paradigs, Science  Nov. 21.
Vol. 234, pp. 95i-962
SOGil         Surmont, I., *nd J. Deseyter, 1987, Urban to Rural Spread of HIV Infection In '.unau. Zsire, Second International
Symposium on AIDS and Asociated Cancers in Africa, NMples. Italy, 10/7-9, Abstract. TH133.
ZOOO1         Zmgury  D, KD  Lurhu, R.C. Cll., at al., 198S, HTLV-III/LAV Infection In Central Africa. International Symposium
on African AIDS, Brueel-, November 22-23, Abstract.
ZOOOS         Zagury, D., K. Lurhu-, R.C. C(llo, et al., 1987. HfLV-III/LAV Infection in Central Africa  Second Intrnational
Symposum on A'DS and Associated Cancers in Africa, NMples, Italy, October 7-9. Abstract. S.8.1.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14
IMPLICATIONS OF CONTROL MEASURES FOR THE SPREAD OF HIV INFECTION1
A. Framevork
1.       Figure 1 includes five possible control measures, from
vacci4ie development to information, education, and communication (IEC)
programs. Each measure gives rise to particular behaviors in the
population. these behaviors being the proximate determinants that lead
to modificitions in HIV transmission. Figure 1 suggests that
targeting control measures at different groups may lead to important
differences in the distribution of the proximate determirant behaviors
across the population.
2.       How the control measures affect the proximate determinants is
poorly understood. For instance, IEC is known to increase condom use,
but what types of IEC programs, how much of them, and how much must be
invested in them are all questions without reliable answers.
Empirical research is seriously lacking on these issues. Therefore,
we focus here only on the proximate determinants and their impact on
the HIV epidemic.
3.       The effects of a vaccine is excluded since development may be
a decade or more away, and distribution would impose further delays.
When realistic prospects for a vaccine develop, this exclusion can be
reconsidered.
B. Method
4.       The simulation model is a standard epidemiologic-demographic
model that allow HIV to be transmitted sexually, perinatally, through
needles, or through blood, represents the progression from infection
to frank AIDS mainly from data on transfusion cases, and projects the
population to provide estimates of susceptibles. Parameters were
obtained for the model from the literature and, where this did not
suffice, were estimated iteratively by running the model and
attempting to fit reported rates for a Central African country with
relatively high HIV seroprevalence.
5.       Among the key parameters for transmission are the number of
new sexual partners and numbers of injections and transfusions. These
were defined by dividing the population into subgroups and assigning
an appropriate rate to each subgroup. Across subgroups, number of
sexual partners was assumed to average between 3 and 4, but the
distribution was skewed so that 60 to 80 percent of the new pairings
were accounted for by the most sexually active subgroup. Injections
were assumed to average 4 per person per year, again highly skewed,
and transfusions 4 per thousand persons per year. These means were
the initial values provided to the program, which alters them in two
ways. First, population in each subgroup changes over time, so that
the means strictly apply only in the first year. Second, in the case
of sexual partners, the program adjusts the rates to ensure agreement
between the number for males and females.
1/ This annex is a summary of R.A. Bulatao and E.R. Bos' working
papers, The World Bank, 1988.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14
6.       A base scenario was constructed, in which all the proximate
determinants were assumed to stay constant from the present to 2010.
Alternative scenarios were then constructed as variations oni the base
scenario, allowing the proximate determinants to vary individually,
increasing or decreasing by some constant percentage beginning in the
year 1990.
7.       To reduce the complications of these simulations, a number of
simplifications were introduced. First, the results to be reported
will focus mainly on adults. The simulations do generate figures for
children, but they are assumed to be infected only perinatally, and
not through injections or transfusions. Second, adults are assumed to
stay in a particular sexual-frequency subgroup throughout their lives.
Some random movement between subgroups can be introduced; initial
tests showed that it made little difference, and this is therefore not
explored here. Third, proportionate mixing is assumed: the likelihood
of a sexual pairing is proportionate to the frequency with which the
prospective partners take new sexual partners relative to the
frequencies for all competing individuals. Fourth, separate urban and
rural sectors are not distinguished. Consideration will be given to
relaxing each of these limitations in later work.
C. Results
Effects of changes in sexual behavior
8.       Figures 2 & 3 illustrate the effects of changes in sexual
behavior. Condom use (assumed to be 90 percent effective in
preventing infection) is represented *v alternative scenarios in which
the percentage not using condoms declineb annually by either 2 or 10
percent. (The rate of change is applied to non-users rather than
users in order to allow slower growth in condom usage as the
proportion using approaches high levels and to prevent this proportion
from exceeding 100 percent).  These rates o. change resemble rates of
change for non-use of all contraception: Kenya, for instance, achieved
a 2 percent annual reduction in contraceptive non-use between 1977 and
1984, Mauritius a 4 percent annual reduction between 1971 and 1984,
and Zimbabwe a 6.9 percent annual reduction between 1979 and 1984.
For higher rates, one has to look to Asia, where Singapore, for
instance, achieved a 9.1 percent annual reduction in contraceptive
non-use between 1970 and 1977 (Mauldin and Segal 1986).



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14
9.       In the low-condom-use scenario, usage goes from 0 percent of
all sexually active pairings in 1990 to 33 percent in 2010. In the
high-condom-use scenario, usage reaches 88 percent in 2010. Figure 1
also shows an alternative scenario where number of sexual partners
changes, with the average sexually active individual having only two-
thirds the number of partners in 2010 as in 1990. Such a decline
appears quite plausible in view of rapid changes in sexual behavior
found among high-risk groups in various countries (Carne et al., 1987;
icCusick et al., 1985).
10.      Figures 2 and 3 focus on the percent of adult females who are
HIV-seropositive. Among adult males, the percer.tages Are similar but
not exactly identical. These HIV seroprevalence c.'rves lag slightly
behind curves for proportions of seroconverting, which are roughly one
tenth as high.
11.      Figure 2 indicates that high condor use could have a
substantial effect, reducing peak seropreval?nce from 13 to 8 percent
and hastening the inevitable decline from peak seroprevalence by about
five years. Low condom use has a smaller effect. The figures also
illustrate the effects of targeting. In the "balanced' condon use
scenario. the high-sexually-active group is assumed to adopt high
condom use and the low-sexually-active group low condom use, whereas
in the "skewed" condom use scenario, the two groups' situations are
reversed. The balanced scenario involves only 50 to 65 percent as
much condom use as the skewed scenario, because the low-sexually-
active group is much bigger than the high-sexually-active group.
However, the balanced scenario produces much greater reduction in HIV
spread.
12.      The more modest declines assumed in numbers of sexual
partners also appear to have some effect (Figure 3). Again, targeting
makes a big difference. If the 2 percent annual declines take place
mainly among the more sexually active, the outcome is almost as good
as if the declines come across the board.
Effects of medical interventions
13.      Figure 4 illustrates the effects of medical interventions.
The proportion with genital ulcers, assumed to be 5 percent among the
most sexually active women (and much lower in all other groups), is
assumed to decline to half of a percent in 1993. The proportion of
injections that use sterilized needles is assumed to start at 20
percent in 1990 and to reach 60 percent in 1991 and 95 percent in



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14
1994. And the proportion of transfusions involving screened blood is
assumed to start at 10 percent in 1990 and to reach 55 percent in 1991
and 94 percent in 1994.
14.      These changes are more extreme, in percentage terms, than the
assumed changes in sexual behavior, but, as Figure 4 shows, the
results on HIV transmission are negligible. None of these changes in
proximate behavior appears to produce a substantial effect.  Each
change will be considered further.
i5.      Even assuming four injections annually per capita, as the
base simulation does, this source accounts for only 1 to 3 percent of
all infections (Figure 5). Sterilizing needles cannot, therefore,
have a large effect. The probability of transmission through an
infected needle was assumed to be about half the probability of
transmission to a woman through intercourse with an infected man. If
the former probability were raised to the level of the latter,
infection through injections could eventually account for about 6
percent of all infections, and sterilizing needles would therefore be
more important. If, in addition, injections were assumed to be twice
as frequent in the population, injections could eventually account for
12 percent of infections. These alternatives may be somewhat less
realistic, but reliable evidence on this matter has not been found.
16.      Like injections, transfusions account for 2 percent or fewer
seroconversions. The probability of infection if the donor is
seropositive is already set at 95 percent, and cannot go much higher.
Transfusions could conceivably be more frequent than 4 per thousand.
If they were much more frequent, blood screening could then have a
larger effect.
17.      The simulation assumed that the proportions of women with
genital ulcers were 5 percent, 1 percent, and 0.1 percent in the high-
sexually-active, medium-sexually-active, and low-sexually-active
groups, and 0.1 percent among men in all sexual activity groups. It
also assumed that the risk of transmission, given genital ulcers, was
five times as great as the risk without ulcers. No basis exists for
substantially raising the proportions with genital ulcers. The effect
of ulcers on transmission is essentially unknown and might conceivably
be much greater. If instead ulcers multiplied the risk fifty-fold
rather than five-fold, they would contribute to a much more rapid
spread of infection (Figure 6).



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14
Effects of timing and targeting
18.      In the base scenario, 1985 HIV seroprevalence, across the
entire society, is about 1.25 percent. What if control measures are
being considered in a country with lower seroprevalence? One way to
look at this is to assume that such a country is at an earlier stage
of the epidemic, but is following the same basic path. Then the same
base scenario can be used, but with control measures being introduced
several years earlier. Figure 7 illustrates the situation where a 2
percent decrease in proportion not using condoms starts in 1990, in
1985, or in 1980 (also see Table 1).  An earlier start clearly allow
the epidemic to be contained at a lower level.
19.      The demographic effects of the various interventions have not
been detailed up until now because they do not vary much from
previously reported results. In all the simulations, total population
is barely affected, but mortality, and especially infant mortality, is
increased. Compared to an equivalent society with no HIV infection,
by 2010, the crude death rate could be as much as 20 percent higher
due to AIDS. Condom use reduces the impact on mortality, but this
effect is not noticeable for a decade after the condom program begins,
auId .s   t .Lally OUSll.
D. Conclusion
20.      Table 1 summarizes the effects of behavioral changes and
medical interventions of the HIV epidemic. In a situation where HIV
is relatively widespread, changes in sexual behavior are essential to
reduce the scale of the epidemic. Earlier changes lead to better
containment of the epidemic than later changes. The other proximate
determinants do not appear as important for overall control of HIV
transmission. Nevertheless, they may be important for other reasons:
to guarantee the integrity of the health delivery system, for
instance, or as part of a broad-scale attack on the disease in which
synergisms among control measures may be critical. As Figure 1
illustrates, a program to control sexually transmitted diseases may
have not only direct effects on genital ulcers but also effects in
promoting condoms and reducing number of sexual partners. Given the
vast uncertainties about how to change sexual behavior, such linkages
should not be ignored.



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14
21.      These results obtain under the specific parameters used in
these simulations. Parameters were chosen to reflect an African
situation, with high but declining fertility and mortality, relatively
high HIV seroprevalence, rough parity between males and females
infected, a blood supply not fully monitored, and a minimal
contribution to transmission of homosexual behavior and intravenous
drug use. Where these conditions do not hold - in the US, for
instance - different priorities for control measures might apply.
Whereas some parameters were based on clinical and epidemiological
studies, others have little basis other than their contributing to
scenarios roughly consistent with the reported HIV situation.
Clearly, given the likely impact of the virus, much more and much
better data on the relevant behaviors are needed.



-50 -                             ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14
Figure 1
Effects of control measures on the HIV epidemic.
COYTROL MEASURE                        PROXIMATE DETERMINANT
Vaccine
development,                         > Vaccination
distribution           T               of susceptibles
A
Blood donor                          > Use of
screening              R               screened blood  -          Lower HIV
> seroin-
G                                          cidence
Provision of                           Use of
sterilized             E             > sterilized          |
needles                                needles                        '
T14
I             > Fewer genital              Lower HIV
STD control                            ulcers                     seroprev-
N                                          alence,
I     fewer AIDS
Information            G             > Greater                    cases,
education,                 _           condom use          I      fever AIDS
communication                                                     deaths
> Fewer sexual        |
partners



ftpri 2                     ANNEX II
Effecis of Condom  Use:               Page 8 of 14
PUCUE Sy sgPOMVC AMONG ?gMAL
13
12
I    *  2    *  3    a             x  a
CM1 USZ SCEZNARIOS
1    Base                       No condom use
2    Low condom use             Proportion not using condoms decreases
annually, from 100% in 1990, by 2%
3    Skewed condom use          Proportion not using condoms decreases
annually, from 100% in 1990, by
10% among the low sexually active
5% among the medium sexually activ--
2% amonq the high sexually active
4    Balanced condom use        Proportion not using condoms decreases
annually, from 100% in 1990, by
*             ~~~~2% amonq the low sexually active
5% among the medium sexually active
10% among the high sexually active
5    High condom use            Proportion not using condoms decreases
annually, from 100% in 1990, by 10%



-52 -     11az 3                         ANNEX II
Effects of Fewer Sexual Partners:    Page 9 of 14
pUcUiV iv ilElPdIve AMNG VCMALUO
13-
12-
10 
*ww
* 
IL
1ts      1tO         I          I00        25X       2010
a  I    +  2    93    A  4
S UAL PATNZS SC :NOS
1   Base                      No change in numbers of new sexual
partners
2   Skewed reduction          Number of new sexual partners decrease
annually from 1990 by
2% among the low sexually active
1% among the medium sexually active
0% among the high sexually active
3   Balanced reduction        Number of new sexual partners decreases
annually from 1990 by
0% among the low sexually active
1% among the medium sexually active
2% among the high sexually active
4   High reduction            Number of new sexual partners decreases
annually from 1990 by 2%



- 53      figur 4                         ANNEX II
Effects of Medical Inierventions:    Page 10 of 14
fVQi IV sItlOSrVC AMON0 rEMAL5
13
12
I tr
10
z     a
0  7-
4-
3
2
IO190     199        2Wf        2W         2010
0  1    +  2    0  3    A  4    x  a    v  4
IEDTCAL flITERVENTON SCENARIOS
1   Base                       No interventions
2    Injections                Unsafe injections reduced beginning
1990 by 50% annually
3   Transfusions               Unsafe blood supplies reduced beginni
1990 by 50% annually
4   Low STD control            Genital ulcers reduced beginning 1990
by 20% annually
5   High STD control           Genital ulcers reduced beginning 1990
by 50% annually
6    All interventions         Unsafe injections, unsafe blood
supplies, and genital ulcers all
reduced beginning 1990 by 50% annuall,



~ 54 -    FigureS                       ANNEX II
Aliernative Effects of Safer Injections Page 11 of 14
I MV 5mC Om#Ud mu *C1iONS
2 -
o                                         -, -, -  -  -  - -.. "
tf0    1f70   tZ0  "*   190    t    201    200S 
Y 11A 1
a  X    +  2    <>      A  4 *       a f  
e   .xTZRNTrVEINJECT5QN COCTROL SCENAROS
--   BaLse                     No reduction in unsafe injections
2    Reduction-                Unsafe injections reduced beginning
1990 by 50% annually
3    Serious                   Unsaf e in jections, which are about
twice as likely to transmit HIV, are
not reduced
4    Serious-reduction         Unsafe injections, which are about
twice as likely to transmit HIv, are
reduced beginning 1990 by 50% annually
5    Severe                    Unsafe injections, which are about
twice as likely to transmit HIV and
twice more frequent in the Population,
are not reduced
6    Severe-reduction          Unsafe injections, which are about
twice as likely to transmit HIV and
twice more frequeat in the population,
are reduced beginning 1990 by ;0%
annually



-55 -      Figure 6
ANNEX II
Alternative Effects of STD  Control:             Page 12 of 14
PUCVdT WV sMPosMnvt AMONG WMLO
I-
12                       2
12
ALTERNATIVE STD CONT!ROL SCENARIOS
z~_ a
I    Base                       Genital ulcers raise susceptibilityt
HIV infection 5-fold, and do not
decrease in prevalence
2    High STD control           Genital ulcers raise susceptibility tc
HIV infection 5-fold, and are reduced
in prevalence beginning 1990 by 50%
annually
3    Severe                     Genit'al ulcers raise susceptibility tc
HIV infection 50-fold, and do not
decrease in prevalence
4    Severe-high control        Genital ulcers raise susceptibility to
HIV infection 50-fold, and are reduced
in prevalence beginning 1990 by ;oZ
annually



- 56 -     Figure 7                           ANNEX II
Effecis of Timing of Condom  Program:  Page 13 of 14
POCR5 WiV SM053MVC AMONG VCMALI
12
1,
3~~~~~~~~~~C ta             
M
Id    I
4
2
ISSS  1q90   1991        2000~~~~~ MA A         2010
0  1    0  2      3     A  4
TIZaNNG OF CONDOM INCREASE SCM(ARMOS
1    Base                       No condom use
2    1990                       2% annual increase in condom use start-
in 1990
3    1985                       2% annual increase in condom use starts
in 1985
4    1980                       2% annual increase in condom use starts
in 1980



- 57 -                                    lUiv~i. ILI
Page 14 of 14
Table 1
Effects of behavior change and medical interventions on the
XIV epidemic: Percentage reductions in various parameters from the base
scenario as of 2010
Percentage      HIV serocon-
of adults HIV   versions per      Cumulative
seropositive    1000 adults       -------------
Behavior change or            -------------   ------------    AIDS   AIDS
medical intervention          Female   Male   Female  aHle    cases  deaths
Condom use (annual reduction
in nonuse, from 1990)
Low (22)                          23     25        31     34        7       7
Skewed (10 to 2%)                 35     38        46     49       11      10
Balanced (2 to 10%)               61     64        75     78       23      22
High (10%)                        68     72        82     85       27      26
Reduction in sexual partners
(annuallvy from 1990)
Skewed (2 to O%)                   5      6         8      8        1       1
Balanced (0 to 2%)                23     26        28     31       It      10
UiRh (2Z)                         26     29        32     35       12      11
Hedical interventions
(annual reduction, from 1990)
Unsafe injections (502)            2      2         3      3        1       1
Unsafe blood supplies (502)        2      2         2      2        1       1
Genital ulcersiT202)               1      1         1      1        1       1
Genital ulcers (50%)               1      1         1      0        2       2
All interventions (50%)            5      5         5      5        4       4
Condom use (year when 2%
annual reduction begins)
1990                              23     25       31      34        7      7
1985                              31     35       38      42       16     15
1980                              40     45       45      49       28     27



- 58 -                                     ANNLA I
Page 1 of 9
A RESEARCH STRATEGY FOR THE ANALYSIS OF THE
ECONOMIC IMPACT OF AIDS ON ZAIRE*
r.        OBJECTIVES AND POLICY RELEVANCE
1.        Like other diseases, the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
(AIDS) depletes the limited resources otherwise available either for raising
society's per capita income or for enjoying the.income level already
attained. The annual losses to society can be defined as the annual cost of
the disease per HIV-infected individual multiplied by the number of HIV-
infected individuals. This research strategy proposes a group of research
protocols to estimate the cost per infected individual, leaving as a
separate exercise the estimation of the current and future prevalence of
HIV-infection.1
2.        It is conventional to divide the resources lost to society as a
result of a disease into two categories, called the "direct" and the
"indirect" cost of the disease.2 The direct cost is defined here as .he
entire social cost of the resources used to treat patients with the
disease.3 The indirect cost is defined as the lost output due to the
* ;r -U _  a; a draft which the consultants have advised the
Government of Zaire to adopt as an annex to the Plan a Moyen Terme (Mid Term
Plan).
1 Strategy 1.2 of the provisional Plan a Moyen Terme, September, 1987,
proposes a budget of $376,700 over a period of three years to estimate the
prevalence of EIV infection in the general population and in several
"sentinel" groups. The development of appropriate mathematical models for
projecting current seroprevalence rates to future rates of incidence and
prevalence of AIDS is proceeding in research institutes around the world.
2 This distinction has been applied to estimating the cost of AIDS by A.A.
Scitovsky and D.P. Rice, "Estimates of the Direct and I:,direct Costs of
Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome in the United States, 1985, 1986 and
1991," Public Health Reports, Vol. 102, No. 1, pp. 5-17. They estimated the
treatment cost per AIDS case in the United States in 1985 to be between
$20,353 and $54,273, while the estimated indirect cost was between $160,470
and $200,053 (all in 1984 dollars).
Resources consumed must be evaluated at their "opportunity cost," that
is, at the value they would have had in their next most productive
alternative use. This research strategy ignores costs of research and
prevention, which are sometimes included in the definition of direct zasts.



~ 59 -                                 ANNEX III
Page 2 of 9
morbidity and mortality of otherwise productive HIV-infected individuals.
Since every disease imposes direct and indirect costs on society, the cost
of AIDS must be measured relative to the cost of other diseases.
3.        Importance of Direct Cost Estimates.  Estimates of the direct cost
of treating individual HIV-infected patients in Zaire will help decision
makers to: (l) weigh the extra treatment costs of these individuals against
the treatment needs of other patients; (2) develop low-cost treatment
protocols; and (3) anticipate and prepare for the impact of the projected
growth of the AIDS epidemic. Furthermore, since preventive programs would
avert some of the costs, estimates of their magnitudes will help decision-
niakers determine the priorities of these programs.  To serve.these purposes,
estimates of direct costs must include information on the matnitude of
treatment cost in a broad range of settings, on the deRree of variation in
cost from one setting to another and on the reasons for the variation of
these costs.
4.        ImDortance of Indirect Cost lst:Lmat2s.  Sinca estimates of the
indirect cost of a single XIV infection in Zaire measure the harm done to
national economic output by the disease, these estimates will help decision-
makers to determine the importance of AIDS prevention relative to prevention
of other diseases and relative to expenditures on other productive sectors.4
5.        Calculating the Total Cost of AIDS in Zaire.  The research
strategy will be to estimate the direct and indirect cost of AIDS to the
Zairian economy for each of a number of distinct population groups and
treatment options. One way to define these population groups is to
categorize each individual according to the occupation of the head of the
household as in the left margin of Table 11.1. The next step is to estimate
the direct and indirect cost per infected person in each of these groups.
Once these cost estimates are available, they can be combined with estimates
of the size of each of these groups and the prevalence of HIV infection in
4 In a perfect market for cures of non-contagious diseases, the amount
paid for a cure would include the value to the individual and his or her
family of the averted consequences of the disease and there would be no need
to compute the additional so-called "indirect" cost of the illness.  The two
major reasons to add the indirect cost to the direct cost in the present
analysis are: (1) it is impossible to purchase a cure for AIDS, so that
willin*ness-to-pay for treatment necessarily understates willingness to
avert the individual consequences o£ the disease; (2) capital market
imperfections prevent disease victims from revealing their valuation of any
disease, by preventing them from borrowing the full present vaiue of their
future stream of savings to treat it.



ANNEX III
60-                                 Page 3 of 9
each to gomputs an estimate of the aggregate cost of the disease to the
economy.
Table I1.1. Framework for Assessing Impact of HIV
Infection on the Zairian Economy
ANNUAL COST PER            PREVALENCE
LABOR FORCE       HIV-INFECTED PERSON: GROUP       HIV       GROUP
GROUP            DIRECT   INDTRECT   SIZE   INFECTION    COST
(a)        (b)       (c)      (d)        (a)
Urban (M & F)
Unemployed
Homemaker
Unskilled
Skilled
Managers
Civil Servants
Rural  (H & F)
Unemployed
Homemaker
Agricultural
Worker
Subsistence
Farmer
Commercial
Farmer
Merchant
II. STUDY METHODOLOGY
6.        Multiple Studies. Despite the AIDS epidemic, HIV-infection and
its associated costs are manifest in only a small proportion of the general
population. This proportion must be further subdivided to discover the
impact of AIDS on individual industries or segments of the economy. To
obtain information on the effect of AIDS on all these subsets of the economy
through a random sample alone would be prohibitively expensive because of
5 The cost per HIV-infected person is computed as a weighted average of the
costs,of individuals at different stages of their dtsease.  The alternative
of using lifetime cost per HIV-infected person instead of annual cost would
require using the incidence rate in place of the prevalence rate of the
disease.



ANNEX III
-61 -                              Page 4 of 9
the size of the required sample. A more cost-effective research strategy is
to supplement or "enrich" the data from a small random sample of the general
population with data from a series of targetted samples. This approach has
the additional advantage of being consistent with the geographic and
institutional heterogeneity of Zaire's health care "system" and with the
diversity of its health care research establishment. The following
paragraphs define the various desired studies, first by methodology and then
by labor force category.
7.        Methodological Distinctions.  The major methodological
distinctions applied below are: (1) the distinction between prospective (P)
and retrospective (R) studies; and (2) the distinction betweemnpopulation-
based random samples (PBRS) and samples of convenience (CS). Of the four
possible combinations of these two distinctions, the most rigorous is a
prospective study of a population-based random sample (P-PBRS), but this is
also the most expensive and time-consuming to perform. Conversely
retrospective studies of a sample of convenience (R-CS), though more likely
to be biased, are relatively quick and inexpensive.  The R-CS class of
studies will provide quick answers which will guide the start-up phase of
Zaire's AIDS control program. As the more time-consuming P-PBRS studies ar.
cowjleted, it will be possible to piece together a more complete picture of
the effect of AIDS on the economy using an analytical framework like that of
Table II.1.
8.        Prospective, Poculation-Based Studies.  The aim of a prospective,
population based study (P-PUS) would be to collect longitudinal data on a
panel of individuals who hive been randomly selected from a well-defined
population. Because of seasonal fluctuations in health care utilization and
the slow progressior. of HIV infection, subjects in these studies should be
followed for at least a year. The population studied should have a
presumed prevalence rate of HIV-infection of at least one percent.
Examples of possible populations include (a) the urban and peri-urban
population of Kinshasa or Lubumbashi; (b) the population of a Health Zone
with high prevalence, such as one near Lake Kivu; (c) any of the several
high-density "urbano-rural" districts in Zaire.
9.        Substantial cost savings can be achieved if the population-based
seroprevalence surveys to be implemented under Strategy 1.2 of the Plan a
Moyen Term are used to identify the individuals to be followed in the
prospective study. If researchers propose to study a different population
or draw a different sample, they must explain why the results of the study
would justify the additional expense and they must describe their proposed
sampling methodology in detail. On the basis of an initial serological
examination, the sampled individuals are divided into two groups of
individuals as follows:
a.   Sero-positives: Re-interviewed periodically for duration of study.
Minimum size of this sub-sample should be about _0.  :. the
expected seroprevalence rate is 1.0%, then 5,000 people will
have to be tested to identify 50 seropositives, of which



ANNEX III
- 62 -                                  Page 5 of 9
about 5 to 10 may be expected to have clinical AIDS. In
order to enrich the sample with additional AIDS patients. the
50 randomly chosen subjects should be supplemented with an
additional ten AIDS patients to bring the total sample of
seropositives to 60 subjects.
b.   Sero-negative controls: Same questionnaire and interview schedule
as sero-positives. This sub-sample should be approximately
half the size of the sub-sample of sero-positives. (See the
discussion below of sample size.)
10.       Two prospective studies on population-based samples should be
performed, one on an urban sample and one on a rural sample. Collected data
would include serological status, labor force participation by industry and
wage rate (for indirect cost') and health care utilization and expenditure
(for direct costt).
11.       ?,-osgecrtve, Studies of Convenience SamDles.  A prospective study
of a sample of convenience (P-CS) is appropriate when the available s;mple
is particularly important for policy or epidemiological reasons. For
example, to understand the effect on utilization of a major urban hospital
or of the facilities of a health zone, a random sample of patients can be
sero-tested and followed over time. To understand the interaction of AIDS
and other health problems, a random sample of all patients presenting with a
specific disease or of members of a specific risk-group can be studied
prospectively. Examples include mothers and children, tuberculosis
patients, students, or prostitutes. Alternatively, to understand the effect
of AIDS on worker productivity and health care utilization, a random sample
of employees who benefit from the same employer-sponsored health care system
can be followed.6  In these studies, as in the P-PBRS studies described
above, a control group of seronegatives must also be followed.
12.       Five small prospective studies of convenience samples (P-CS)
should be performed, three in representative enterprises from the primary,
secondary and tertiary sectors of the economy, one on a rural health zone
and one on an urban public hospital such as Hopital Mama Yemo. These
studies will enrich the data available from the P-PBRS studies . Data
collection instruments can closely parallel those developed for the P-PBRS
studies described above.
13.       Retrospective Studies of Convenience Samples.  When adequate
medical records are available, it may be desirable to analyze these records
retrospectively in order to estimate the relative expenditures of   -
positive and other individuals.  Such records may be availaDle .or patients
who are treated in a particular health facility, or for emplovees who are
6
6 The Comite National de Lutte Contre le SIDA may wish to seek guarantees
of confidentiality from employers before assisting them with serologic
surveys of their employees.



- 63 -                                  ANNEX Ii
Page 6 of 9
served by a single health care system. A retrospective study of a sample of
convenienea (R-CS) has the advantage of quickly producing individual
expnditure histories, which would take much longer to accumulate in a
prospective study. Sias may be introduced because the sample of patients is
not representative of the population and because medical records may be
Incomplete and will not contain information about expenditures in other
facilities or systems (e.g. traditional providers). However, such studies
are fast and inexpensive compared to prospective studies and can enrich the
prospective data by providing baseline data.
Table 11.2. Segments of the Labor Market Analyzea'by
Each Class of Study
Class of Study
P-PBRS          P-CS              R-CS
LABOR FORCE      |Urban Rural   Entrps Rur Urb   Entrps  Hth Zn
GROUP            1     2        3     4   5      6        7
Urban  (M & F)
Unemployed       a                        m              m
Homemaker       t&m                      t&m            t&m
Unskilled        m             2&3        m     2&3      m
Skilled          a            2&3         m     2&3
Managers         m            2&3         m     2&3
Civil Servants   m                        m              m
Rural  (H & F)
Unemployed             t              t                  t
Homemaker        t                        t              t
Agricultural          t&m      1     tEm         1       t
Worker
Subsistence            t       1      t                  t
Fanrme
Commercial            t&m      1     t&m         1
Farmer                                                      I
Merchant              tEm      3     tEm
Miner         I        m       1        I   II  1
Notes: m - modern sector; t - traditional economy; 1 - primary
sector (agriculture and mining); 2 a manufacturing sector;
3 * tertiary sector (banking, retailing and other
services).
14.  Assemblint the Pieces.  Table II.2 above illustrates how each of the
seven classes of study contributes to the overall picture of the cost zf
AIDS. Information on modern sector workers residing in urban areas is
obtained from the urban P-PBRS study (Class 1) and enriched by the --CS



- 64 -                             ANNEX III
64                       ~~~~~~~~Page 7 of 9
studies of secondary and tertiary sector enterprises (Class 3) and of an
urban hospital (Class 5) and by the R-CS studies in these enterprises and in
a Peri-urban Health Zone Study (Class 7). Information on rural residents in
various segments of the labor market is similarly pieced together.
15.  Once the elements of Table II2 are available. they can be used to
calculate the average direct and indirect costs for each labor force
category for columns (a) and (b) of Table 11.1. Meanwhile the
seroprovalence studies will have been completed, providing the data for
column (d) of that table. At this point the calculation can be completed.
16. Sample Size. The study design to be employed for most of the studies
proposed here will be (1) to draw two random samples, of which one consists
of M,x seropositives and the other of N seronegatives; (2) to gather
longitudinal data on both samples, either retrospectively or prospectively;
and then (3) to calculate the averages of each of several variables in each
sample. The statistical problem is to choose the two samole sizes, N. and
NY, so that a difference between the two means will be confirmed at an
acceptable level of statistical significicance if it exists. As an example
from actual data, the average cash reimbursements by an employer over nine
months for outside medical services to a group of seropositive employees was
7,517 Zaires with a standard deviation of 11,436 Zaires. Over the same
period the xnverage raimbursements for a randomly chosen group of
seronegativts employees was 3,314 Zaires with a standard deviation of 9,559
Zaires. Assuming the relative values of these figures are typical of the
order of magnitude to be found in other study settings, one can calculate
the alternative values of N. and Nv corresponding to a given significance
level for the difference between the two means. In Figure II.1, the various
combinations of N. and N are displayed graphically for each of three
specific levels of signiicance.



40
* 30
00
10
'Wumbeer of 2Wfl6gOIw0
Figu~  1.1 ~   8SP~e  iSS NeeSsaryto Con lflX, a Differaevein the
14ea1Ze f Tw  Uypte i s  at ?  frobabilit; Levels
Re.aTh   of veil  Rypothsticcptablbt   of..f~1So   .05 could be
i'mmee  cfanl bize.boSfl
bh*- 5 1 4-  o6    fo i a    total  Ip u  m f
7~ ~~~lyacp                      Ya1  fori if ca,nW   cm ini t  obtained
6 6 .   Tsu eC t h  s lte  i U G S '  th  sam e   le v e l  o f   s isnsft c  P °A st
obta'insd'w  tively- th"  opl  Size Of      the least .3Pensive
vih     "27anstd deNdY  on the, total numbe'r Of " subebtS. i
coiubi study o*tfll dpends     i  jndiCated in the fiU byterOWa           -
40 ad 1y-17tor atti tota0  if 57 subjeCts'
18.  The  1enra frule forthe Of iSo    ml   iei  to put more subjecets
in te grUP  ipeced  o hae alarg? vrifllc  n th  prsent case, it
appears tat a rato of 5 boicael  tOf  to one  be*T.thee  srPOsitisS and
in theil be                i         hetfac  that the            . se toe
apparstha~t Tgrati  of1.  mayntl be tyical  oothefatr studY situations5 thea
samplnegszs  shouldI be inrasd  prhalps to N 966 and y4.4   orattl
sapl  s7ie of  100. Ti   zlPe  aclto   hee1i e                  s ple sizes
neededrto demoultrae ainfereasec e    letieen hie means o  tw  4'if ferent
sampllsieS        s TodmnTratextatpl that difeehe ieas of   tvcti  magnitude. at
a siml" leel of5~~fficne   wul retqui?         o larS   certain.  Inra
Sapl       Sz    Ofsa id  th e nu diber     bf  efoOStiVS   nrp a    pcfC su: i   ruraltd b
nhead   tota   dmn st strloated   ina  the t  dreil na l asro 're  ,aSflmSsure. T   iUr
taMI..  sh os   that   sipnto iaponte,   aol sh r euta e o  eooiie  a
~0~pnsaeve bamoretafqa   ub?o   eongtvsi  re  ~oti
7The naedgreo        stithca  Porer.. .itv,c                         ooti



- 66 -                                       ANNEX III
Page 9 of 9
areas and in other settings where the variances can be expected co be
smaller relative to the means, sample sizes could be reduced.
III. RESOURCES
19. Serotestinf Capacity. Each of the studies described above, whatever
its methodology, will require serotests of the studied individuals to
distinguish the costs incurred by a seropositive individual from those of a
seronegative one. However, the serotestin1n capacity of Kinshasa
laboratories is limited.  Thus, each seroprevalence studv on any population
should be considered as a possible site for an economic imoact studv.
Furthermore, if a choice between two sercprevalence studies presents itself,
the usefulness of each for a subsequent economic impact study should be one
of the criteria used to choose between them.
20.  Economic Advise.  Of the several governmental and non-governmental
organizations wnicn may contribute to economic impact studies, some have
available economic advise and others do not. The Bureau Central de
Coordination undertakes to make general economic advise available to all
impact studies and to provide more extensive support to a few of them by
requesting consultant health economists from the World Health Organization.
21. Financial Resources. The Bureau Central de Coordination will have
limited funds available to finance the incidental expenses (fuel,
photocopying, etc.) for one.or two small studies which are approved by the
Comite Central pour la Lutte Contre le SIDA. In addition, the Bureau and
the Comit4 welcome proposals for studies to be cofinanced by the Bureau and
other organizations.
IV. OPTIMAL TIMING OF STUDIES
22. Among the seven types of studies defined above, certain deserve a
higher priority because they are relatively simple to execute and relatively
important for the choice of preventive strategies. Retrospective studies on
convenience samples (Type R-CS) in urban enterprises and universities have
the highest priority, because of the serious implications of the epidemic in
these milieus for the future productivity of the country. In second place
would be prospective studies on these same populations (Type P-CS), which
will be necessary to determine the bias introduced by convenience samples.
In third place, but still important, are prospective studies on population-
based random samples (Type P-PBRS), which are the only way to learn tne
economic impact of the disease on the general population.



- 67 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1989   1990   1991
IEC PROGRAM DEVELOPMENTICONDOM DISTRIBUTION
Material Dvpt
Video Programs                          4       4      4
Audio Programs                          8       8      8
Manuals                               prod.-Distribution-
Written Materials                     prod.-Distribution-
Training
Seminars                                4      3       3
Conferences                            10     10      10
Study tours                             5      5       5
Technical Assistance
International                           1      1       1
Local                                  10     10      10
Staffint
Central level                           5      5       5
Regional staff                          3       6      9
Condom Distribution
General (thousands)                    70    140    280
Targeted (thousands)                   10     20      40
Vehicles
4wd                                    10     -       -
Pass cars                               5     _       -
INTEGRATING AIDS ACTIVITIES
Trainint
Physicians                             30     80    280
Lab. technicians                       30     80    280
Public Health Nurses                  100    200    300
Social Workers                        100    200    300
Ecuiment
Blood Banks                             1      1       1
Laboratories                            3      3       3
Med. Equipment                         50    100    150



- 68 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
(continued)
1989   1990   1991
SuDervision
Central Level                          3      6       9
Regional Level                         9      9       9
Sub-Regional Level                    27     27      27
Medical Supplies
Blood Tests                          60,000 90,000 120,000
Case Management Packages             10,000 15,000  20,000
RESEARCH AND STUDIES
HIV Transmission                      xxX    xxx    xxx
Sociocultural Dimensions              xxx    xxx    xss
Cost Effectiveness Control Measures          xxx    xxx
Constraints on condom use             x
Case Management Strategies            xss
Developing Diagnosis Tools            xI=    xxx    xxx
Economic Impact                       xxx    xxx    xxx
Surveillance System                   xx     xxx    xxx
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Trainina
Fellowships                            5      5       5
Seminars                               1      1       1
Study Tours                            5      5       5
Technical Assistance
Epid (WHO)                             1      1       1
IEC (WHO)                              1      1       1
IEC (PSI,                              1      1       1
Admin. (WHO)                           1      1       1
Program Mgt.                           1      1       1
Accounting                             1      1       1
Others (Local Consultants)             x      x       x



- 69 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
|                        Z~~~~~~TPL14NATION SCHDL
(continued)
Staffing
Central Level                            10
Regional Level                            9      9      9
Sub-Regional Level                       27    27      2t
Vehicles
4wd                                      10
Pick-ups                                  5



-70 
ANNEX V
UTIONk A101~~~~16i ~Page   1   of   4
Til   0S1111IN922
'Is"
SJOOb2T,  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~WECOTS                         0000420 CORP  C03b       LKk    930000  000.
Coot  a'       to          0~         ~        ~~~~1 0;              o
1. 20015W"Ek M0I1
0. £0TE01. CEVEOUPN1OI
I0ll  pro# ,sOoo                2.300         4          4           0              to.000      00,00        No00  rA     501    0,00      25,00     25,000        40I
04.2 & Cr00 auii~        0u~          0         0                            1,20,    13,20       1.200 FAT?      54      ,000     0,000     4,60          et
0000   apchr                1,000          I          I           0               0,04      I.0m       l,0;0 PAT       54      ,0        ,0         ,500        el
9702   01  00             20      3000       3000         1004i            600,       40,00      40,040 MbT       50 I    ,00     0,00      0,00           0
00ogn 0.00.0        5,040          0~~~~~~ 5,0406                                       0          0 PAT       50     5,000     2,5o      2,500         0I
2,00020 WhOA!        20      5000       ~~~~       ~~500  S00          50,000    50,04  000      0401 0         1 20,        1,0       15000          00
oieduo b&at         ~          2,0        50                        I20                                  2.000M           01    5,00       2,000     250           0
310(  rkIcuro                  I020               20230                          000      2004       3,042            50      000     3,0         2000 
Molgopuotif ~ ~   ~~2'00                                  2  0-Jo                                 2 BOb           501       240       500       so          00
r0t000                       0        20 05        0                t000       5,0       2,040            51 5,000        25000     2,00
oreduct I Kkure                                                        2~~~~~~~~3,0 0 4000  40,50040 ml 0  10,40     n500       15,400        0
kb-T    Pott ota  0141  C0UOET2 0.71                                                              20o200  24071                  42140   c2o3  321,a
8. 1101106                                                            2                  00      s00        300  A                5   00         tN   25n 
tt-  ~         2,00           0                                      0.00     3.0        3,414            t0o0,0          150040   753             00a
Co0roucuoel  t                  2,0c       200         200         20               2,00      20,00 0    2w 0,040 MT      50   I00,40      3,0       3,000
010,Tta NABun                    5,000  T                              511.000   219,2000    25100133                       500 42,70   371,511   321,500
Onitao                         50,000         2                                     40,00  30  00        30  0? T         240    50,000    0o"       SO,3          000
hon.ret                        20,000        I          1 2                          00,000    20             0L000    20,00RII 50   0 "    000   0400             000
OtdyfOa s                       2,040        20          5                           0000    2500             0 OP       0012,000 To00 50   7-O    20,040           a
kb-total 11021911161                                                                   10,000    700         750t                  10,00   11,0    80.00
C. 1103U 40 ISIOOE
Local C5ll200                                20   2000                              20,04     2000       2000 10          001  3000 N      0,00      0olo          01
Su0tottiEUIC1.  SSITIOO                                                              2)0,3      2000       2000EP          to    0,000    5000    30,000            I
0Offi20,000                                  00                                    200,000         0          0 0E0      000   20.0,00         0   240,000        00
Pcououae  cDI,KN                22.000 S                                               000           0          001        200     0.000         0    100,000        0
Sub-entota  00201                                                                    240,000 000    I I     0 00    10 20,o 000                  0  240,0400
TtL 06101111t0t1100                             t          t COSTS                    4240,70    204,200    334,730 la         o,2fl,70    40, 000   008,3
E. 544.4001
40 ad rio.o                     2000        102          2          2               20,040     200        2,00  I         oo0  1200        2,00     0 20,0         00
24 r~~ama0 itoH           2~00   00 0            0         20               2,000    2400        24000  OIL        00 1,00    1,00                0        0
0.0-0,0.   00.0013,00                                                                           2,00       3,4             I      00,000    00,000 
Centrala 01002,00                              20         20          0              20,0,000   ,00        2000 STP          0     0,000    4000           0         01O
toa   iftupm  osts 21000                         7         5            22,1,00   314,20    36710,0. 9                        01.027,400   252,040   10101
C. 011021  401101
OUa o  detr2,00                              12         12           2               2,5400    2,400      2,500 0190      100    7,50       2 200    400           00t
hOac                     500      I~~~~~~IS     a            02 0  20                      03       5400091        010   21,500    at00      120           001
0 regioa   2tf                     00       20         20          20               24000    24040       240000090         01   32.00    7200          20          100
kb-total 0109A0LAR     60380                                                            320       3,140      3,000                  4,300o    2,040.     1,0
0. 01020. 1920  I 4000o1.2   o                                                                  2   o       0 0PP             t 6,00        6 00           a         o
looll            1.54000      20                                      3:00 00  00 000    40,00 5000 01TI2  40120,000    24,000   0400               01
Paooo.9.rcar                    3,000        25        154           1              27,000   15,000       25.000   I 010  01052,000         0,000    300           00
Isob-total 0102I0.  C41* TRVE 121141.                                                  ss,ooo    ss.ooo0   1ss,oo                  oos,ooo    32,ooo         0
VI arto   tltI02 2                         0000I     2 I0        000               02,000   20,0           2,.400 COO     2000  600,000        0    640000         201
Si1-total 13338TRANTO                                                                 54,000 2,00,00  2,04,00                      93,1400         0 3,730,000
4 tad 11100                                     to COlto                               4020   ,2,00   0   2,0324                1,34.240   242,444   6,20,040
Tobtatl                                                                               2,3206NAby  5,000 0504,00  2 5,70000        5,0a,.00   097.000 4120,020



- 71-                                                                          ANNEX V
Page 2 of 4
.sisi        00112
Tible02. MIh      I   1  WIIWIIID
htatli Cast TIbI
IIIt Vn                                                    a         a           UL    FEI        T
3IU1 FE    TOTIL.WIl
Uwit  -    -  -                                     - _    -A
Cont         n                     91                  3         0         97
A. TAlOItS
s                               No                    so500     2                15,000   40,000    140,000  115    501  I",000    7,10        7,50          Ot
250       30         00        210               7,500   20,000    7e,0e00o13s      50   9,5e00   4,750   48,50            O0
ullicialth hIs                  250       t00        200        300              25,000   50,000      5,e0001Ti      5021    000    15,000   1,000 0n
I8  NwSiMs                      250       to0        200        30               25,000   50,000    75,000 TNE       5       ,50,000   75,0   15,0010        0
So-total  MUIU11                                                                    12,500  1u0,000   30,000                 m,500  296,2O  26,25
e. EouIpEII
Laratorin                    25,000         3          3          31   75,                    0      1,000 n  NoEW  1001 225,00          *  225,00          In
slw1m % a6                   20,000         1          I                         20,000   20,000     20,000 Er9     1001  60,000         0   6,00           i0n
h6 sqpat                       1,000       50        100        Is,              50,000  100,000   150,000 3         IOU  300,000           300,000        10
Sik-total EKIPIEnT                                                                 t4,000   If,O000   241,000                   ,000        0    5,000
tal IUVESIiN   t CTS                                                                217,50    35,000    05,000 1o,7,50o   296,250  *1,250
-~~ ~      ~                                                               - -                           rnS
A. STIPES & TAVEL  OICES
Costral ltl                   2,000        3          6          I               6,000   12,000    1t,000 o IP       o0  36,000   36,000          0         02
oi l Inh l                     1,500        9         le         27              13,500   21,000    40,500 s1TP       o0  11,000   81,000          0        02
W   Ag Ialevel                 1,000       27         54         It             27,000   54,000 e     1,000 5119      02  162,000   162,000        0         0
3b-total IIPIEI 1 RAMl AR DWE      S                                                46,500   9000   £39,500                  279,      219,000        0
3. IUtAL OInIftoES
Sto tstdtt                        3    2000o       30000      40000              60,000  9,3000    120,0on00 UN      002 270,000         0  270,000         lot
Orqs                   ~~~~~150    10000   Ism0       2000            1,500,000 2,250,000 3,000,000 NM    I 1002,1,000           0 6,10000         102
Sib-total IIlEICAL SWPI.IES                                                      1,560,000 2,340,000  3,120,000            7,020,000        0 7,020,000
C. EDUIPIEI MIMITEITAEE
Laorater"                     2,500         3         &           9               7,500    5,000    22,500 E133      602  45,000    9,000   36,000          102
B1oo  lakts                   2,000         I         2           3              2,000      ,000      6 ,000 EMS     SO?  12,000    2,400    9,600          lo
bE .qupmt                        50        50        £50        300              2,500 %  7,500    15,00 EOPII    002  25,090             5,000    20,000   501
3mb-total EWIPUNT KAINTENMIIE                                                    12,000   26,500    43,500                 82,000   £6,400    s,600
jtal RECET COSTS                                                                   1,610,50 2,459,500  3,303,000             7,31,000   25,400 7,065,600
ta                                                                                 1,36,000 2,814,500  3,901,000             3,55,500  591,40 7,966,050
.__--a_.                                                                         _-                      -
03-ba-fl



-72-                                                                   ANNEX V
Page 3 of 4
HAllOW. AINS CUME NOES
ASSISaICE noJEct
Tible 03. RESEARCH ND STULIES
Detalled Cost Table
SIuIAN! FE    TOTAL                     PHYSICAL
UANTITY                               BSE COSTS           ACCoUmT CON   COSTS    LOCAL   FOMIGH  COT.
Unit      ----
Cost         99        90          93                 n         0        91
INVESTMENT COSTS
A. RESEARCH
NHI Trannusison              10,000        I          I                        I 30,000    30,000 1 0,000 RES      501  S3,00o    35,000   15,000         01
Vaccine dewe   ent           10,00         t          t          t             t80,8 t8,88000  0     0,000 RES     50so 30o,00    158000   15 ,000        0
Drug Aeeoao                   0,000                              I              30,000   30,000    30,000 RES      501  3000    3500        3500          0
blood tet dnevopemt          t                        10,0 O   110,00   30,000    10,000 RES                       501  30,000   35,000   35,000          0l
Sib-total RESEARCH                                                                40,000   40,000    40,000                320,000   Ao,000   60,000
B. SCCIOCIURAL SuRVEYS
Urban areas                  10,000        1          3          3             10,000   30,000    30,000 RES       50!  10,000   35,000   35,000          01
Rral areas                   10,000        3          3          3             10,000   30,000    30,000 RES       501  70,000    35,000   35,000         02
Sbi-total SOIOCILIUML  SURVEYS                                                    20,000   60,000    60,000                340,000   70,000   10,00
C. ECDONIC STUDIES
Direct costs                 30,000        1          I          3             30,000   30,000   S3,0o 00 S        501   O,000         45,000    4,000    0
Indirect costs               30,000        1          t          I             30,000   30,000    30,000 RS        501  90,000   t5,000   45,000         0N
SuLb-total ECOMIC STUDIES                                                         60,000 0o,ooo       60,000               160,0000      1OO 0 0,t000
B. WERAE  AL RESEAI
Ca  uinatat                  25,000        1          1          1             25,000   25,000    25,000 ES        501  75,000   37,500   37,500          01
Cost recovery                25,000        1          1          1             25,000   25,000    25,000 RES       501  75,000   37,500   37,500          01
Social progras               25,000        1          1          1             25,000   25,000    25,000 RES       501  75,000   37,500   37,500          OS
Laden ose                    25,000        1          1          1             25,00u   25,000    25,000 RES       502  75,000   37,500   37,500          01
Sub-total OPERATItS  RESEARCH                                                    000,000  100,000   300,000                300,000   150,000  150,000
E. DIVELOPINS THE SURVEILLANCE SYETER
Setrprevalence surveys       50,000        I                     1             50,000        0    50,000 RES       501 1o,o000   50,000   50,000          Ot
Setsenl cesups               15 o000                  I          I             35,s000   38000    15,000 RES       50?  45,000   22,500   22,500         O0
Reporting AIDS cases          3,000        1         3           9              3, 000    9,000    27,000 RES      501  39,000   39,500   39,500          01
Sub-total DEVELW'IBS TIE SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM                                      93,000   39,000   307,000                229,000  114,500  314,500
oVtl IRVESTRENT COSTS                                                              303,000  290,000   367,000               969,000  484,500   484,500
03: 7±10



- 73 -                                                                                      ANNEX V
Page 4 of 4
ZAIRE
AIlAtlO     AIDS 0O8ROL P31060.
ASSISIOE'E PROJEC
tiDllt IC . 11;TITUTI IHAL STRENGTHEN1IN
OWta,ld  Cott fable
411,311                               ~~~~~~~~~~SUI8AOI FE  TOTAL.                 PITSIC&i.
tliOOTITo                                BASE COSTS            ACCOULT COP  COSTS      1Lm       FM00061  COAT,
Unit                             ------
Cosot         E;         f           91                  89         90         91
.........    --        .....        ---                           .....      ----- 
I. IlNVES9IMEhl COSTi
A. ,.F.IbhW
FelIon0sho                     20,00          S 5                                   100.0Ot   100,OG5    100,000 1I00       50   300,006   150,000   150,000        01
Sesinors                        5,0S          1           I           1               5. 00v    5,00,     5,000 TANG6     S;  3S,000        7,500     7.50N         O
Sto. IoU'so                      50i*W        5          5            :              25,000    .5,9.      2,75000 *               7,500    37,500                    0t
Sub-total IRAINIII                                                                     1;0.009   130,000    IS0,000                 390,000   105,000   195,000
0. TECNtICAl ASSISTANCE
Pfo3ras tnaoaq.aent            sO,000          I          I           I              80,000    10,000     80,000 tA       0Oot 240,000           0   240,000 °O
EpiA (8HOJ                      0,000         I           I           I              80,000    80,000     80,000 1A        1lOO  240,000         0   240,000        O0
IEC (800                      80,000         1           1           I              80,000    80,000     80,000 TA       1001 240,000           0   240,000         01
Adamn 4800)                    00,000          I          I           I              00,000    60,000     A0,000 1A        Icot  080,000         0   180,000         03
kt iotnq                       50,000         1           1           I              30,00    50,0        90,000 TA        1001  150,000         0   t50,000         Ot
Ecoenos,t                      10,000         3           3           3              30,000    30,000     30,040 TA       tOO1   90,000          0    90,000        0o
Local co eltant                10,0C0         n          t              t0,000    60,000                  40,000 TA          0   t8O,OO0   180t,00         0         Ot
Sub-total TCINIlCAL ASSISlA8CE                                                         440,000   440,000    44O,OO                1,320,000  ItO,000 1,140,000
C. VEHICLES
4d                             20,000        10                                     200,000         0          0 VEH       OOt 200,000           0   200,000        lO3
pa'aieoqf Car                  12,000         5                                      60,000         0          0 VEN      tOOt  40,000           0    60,000        10l
Sob-total VHtICLES                                                                     260,000         0          0                2tO,000          0   260,00
O. FURITlURE
Central level                  10.000         1                                      10,000         0          0 FURl      601    0,N00      4,000     *,000        lOt
regional level                  5,000         9                                      45,000         0         0     F0r3l  01   45,000    38,000    27,000         lOt
Sub-Oegiooal level              2,500        20                                      500                       0 FURN       601  50,000   20,000    30,000          3Ot
Sob-total FUlIItTURE                                                                   3000            0          0                 105,000    42,000    63,000
total IVESTET COSTS                                                                       935,000   570,000    570,000              2,075,000   437,000 1,659,000
;1. OCCURENT COSTS
A. SALARIES
Central level                   4,200        10          10          10              42,000    42 000     42,000 SAL        Ot 126,000   126,000           0         Ot
reoMonal level                  3,i00         9          1i          2;              32,400    04,000     97,200 SAL        02  194,400   194,400          0         01
Sob4elonal level                3,000        27          54          71              01,000   362,00.3   20,N000 S0L        Ot 4t6.000   45t,000           0         Ot
Sub-total SAIARIEi                                                                     155,400   263,000   352,200                 776,400   776,400          0
i. STIPENOS & TRAVEL ALLOAOKSM
Central lInel                   2.000         10         10          10              20,000    20,000     20,000 STIP       Ot  60,000    60,000           0         O0
regional level                  1.50ti        5          le          27              13,500    27,000     40,500 STIP       O    8t,000    80, 0O          0         0O
Sub-Reional level              13000         27          54          71              27,000    54,000     71,000 St1P       01  152,000   152,000          0         O0
Sub-total STIPEDS5 & TRAVEL ALLOWANCES                                                  60.500   101,000    131,500                293,000   293,000          0
C. VEHICLE OPER. & 0UlrtT.
4 mu                            4.000        10          10          10              40,000    40,000     40,000 V1EK      003  120,000    24,000    96,000         302
PasOner car                     ; O;          5           5           5              15 00  _15,000       15,000 VfHII     80    45,000     9 000   35,000          lOt
iSb-total VEHICLE OFEk.   M itAlhi                                                      55,000    55,000     55,000                105,000    33,000   132,000
2. OFFICE SUFFLIES
Central letel                   3,200          I          I                           3 ,000    3,000      3,000 OFFS      503    9,000     4 500      4,500        lOt
renioval level                  1,50tt        V           9           9              3,500    33,50       13U 500 OFFS     501   40,900    20,250    20,250         103
Sub-Oeoionaa levve                750        20         20           20              15,000    15.000     15,000 OFFS      501  45,000    22,500    22,500          lOt
Sub-total OFFICE SOFPLIES                                                               31 ,5     3,500      33i5,500                i4,500    47,250    47,25
E. UTILITIES
Fb.roF                         10.000         1           1           I              10.000    10 000     10,000 U01L       03   30,000    30 000         0         I0;
iomajnications                 10,000         I           I           I              10,000    00000      10,000 UTIL        1   30,0000    50,000         0        10;
Insurance                      30,000         1          1            1              30,000    30,000     30,000 UTIL      O0   90,000    90,000          0         3t0
Sub-totil UTILITIE                                                                      50,000    50,000     50,000                 190,000   150,000         0
F. AU0IT
local                           5.000         1                      1               5,000     5,000      5,000 AUD        03   15,000    15,000          0         03
Inte'nation.1                  3o.00t;        1           I           I              10,000    10,000     10,000 AU0      1001   30,000          a    30.000         0;
Sub-totil AUDI,                                                                         15,00     15,000     15,000                  45,000    15,000    30.000
Totil F.ECUAPEhT COSTS                                                                    367,400   521,300    635,200              152.,900 1,314,650   209,:50
Total INOESTIicOT COSTS                                                                 3 ,32,400 1,091,300  1,205,.90              3,598,900 1,7310,50 1O 67,.25v
03-Auq -0
03:5;:50 Fh



- 74 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 1
PROJECT COSTS BY FINANCING SOURCE
(US$ .000)
Government   IDA   Other   Beneficiaries   TOTAL
Donors
Investment Costs
Material Dvpt.                 -       220     449        -          669
Training                      -        714     803        -         1517
Equipment                     -        270     541        -          811
Furniture                     -        160      79        -          139
Tech. Assist.                 -        785     868        -         1653
Vehicles                       -       320       90       -          410
Research                      -        550     555        -         1105
PPF                           -        500      -         -          500
Total Invest. Costs           -       3419    3385        -         6804
Recurrent Costs
Salaries                    1039        -       -         -         1039
Stripends & Travel Allow.   356        265     174        -          795
Equip. Mtce.                  -         84      52        -          136
Veh. op. & Mtce.              -        318      41        -          359
Condoms                       -       1796    1815       730        4341
Med. Supplies                  -      2108    5037       930        8074
Office Supplies               39        80      -         -          119
Utilities                    178        -       -         -          178
Audit                         58        -        -        -           58
Total Recurrent Costs       1670      4650    7119      1660      15099
TOTAL                 1670     8069   10S04    1660         21903



- 75 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 1
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISEUSNIENTS
(USO illion)
IDA FISCAL YEARIOQARTER END
Disburs_mat      Accmumlated         Cumulative
durint muarter    disbursement    disbursement (1)
FY89
March 31, 1989                 .46               .46                5
June 30, 1989                  .54             1.00               12
MF90
September 30, 1989             .57             1.57               19
December 31, 1989              .60             2.17               26
March 31, 1990                 .64             2.81                34
June 30, 1990                  .68             3.49               43
FY91
September 30, 1990             .73             4.22               52
December 31, 1990              .77             4.99               61
March 31, 1991                 .81             5.80                71
June 31, 1991                  .71             6.51               80
FY92
September 30, 1991             .69             7.20               88
December 31, 1991              .53             7.73               95
March 31, 1992                 .27             8.00                98
June 31, 1992                  .10             8.10              100



- 76 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 1
SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
1.   ProRramme National de Lutte Contre le SIDA, Plan a Moven Terme
1988-1992, Republic of Zaire, September 1987.
2.   Prise en Charge des Malades Atteints de SIDA et Individus HIV
positifs, Republic of Zaire, DOH, October 1987.
3.   Int6gration de La Lutte contre le SIDA dans le Programme National
de SSP, D4partement de la Sante Publique et Affaires
Sociales, February 1988.
4.   Zaire Population, Health, and Nutrition Sector Review,
November 17, 1987, The World Bank.
5.   Initial Investigation of the DemoRraphic Impact of AIDS in One
African Country, R.A. Bulatao, June 1987, The World Bank.
6.   Assessment of the Economic Impact of AIDS in Zaire:
Back-to-Office Report and Annexes, M. Over,
January 1988, The World Bank.
7.   Implications of Control Measures For the Spread of HIV Infection:
Working Paper, R.A. Bulatao, E.R. Bos, April 1988.
The World Bank.



- 77 -
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 1
C*ART T
Organizational Structure of the NACP
NATIONAL
AIDS
IC1MCTEEI
Strategies         Polcies
Financing
IMPNT-HATION 0|JITCODNTN 
dMITEE                 BCC              ANllD MONITORIYt;
Integrated                   supervision
mnltisectorial                monitoring
control                      evaluation
activitles
SOCIAL SYSTEMS
nMPLEMIENTIIG                       ______________
AGENCIES                         PRODUCTIVE SYSTEMS
CONMNUNITIESIFAMILIES L INDIVIDUAL



IBRD 21081
J                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'0'             24'                                2I5'3
MALI /     NIGER                                                             -                                                     232
-  -            /   L7 HAD   i/.
'AIJ  ~ 4   SUDAN                                                CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
CE j   t   .>   /                        .tX                                           /   _.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N ~SUDAN
NIGERIA    /              A                                                                                                                                                          SUDAN
ETHIOPIA             aANGUI,9         Ed,
J CAMEROON, ENTRAL FA"iCAN REP                                                                              \ A  e_,                     A-.,                                                            4
EQ GUINEA           V-_T  tc  /                A      RENVA
CiABIN                                                              /Orm..fle tI
rJ2~~Q         SRANIA ~'i       N
N  vKIns%oso; A    I H F  O PRRUNDI
4t'K,n~ha~a                                                                                                           HAU    -ZAIRETANZANIA
ANGOLA
r-        Z          .~AMIIQUE.          SEI EOU AtEUR
ZAMBIA            z
°_____________________________________BAK                                                                                                                                                            UGANDA
GA  B ON                ( ~~PEOPLE'S  REPUJBLIC    I'
OF THE CONGOD   /-NS 5                            <' !: -                                                                 4gD
-                   'IA -'2~_r   @,T                                    )      ,, gM., NdaenI
N                                    . §             +       ~ @486~-e        _(           /           >             /      K     I    N       O      U      <>N
BRAZZ VILLE                  .        C'b-  ' I
J                       /     lEAS               id           0 C   I           L                                                 -              mAe ,ETANZANIA
(1         --.hW 1<                                                 X 5Rp     IA      A                                                               l 7 K..Tqro
KIlometers                                                                                            ()     \          -   9andapll.l.r 
0      100     200      300                                                                            * \--             y
O     50   100   150   200                                                                   I -,                              K
a'                       12'                                  16°
ZAIRE '
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROGRAM                                                                                                                                                   V'.                    '8
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
POPULATION DENSITY           -      Paved Roads
above 40 km                         Ma, Earth Gravel Roads
15-40 K-    m                       Railroads                                             bIA .                                       o Is   *t- pOLWEr It -              S  P) rh5 mm   h P S by
Th. s-ad OaSA Ifff Mk5,5nn,
5-15k,,                       t    Akrelnds                                 ANGOLA                  * s''m '                                1               a6          ' orantssonoosnep
belowS: 5 k,,e    NatIonal Capitals                                                                               i         |P i                        'IUSH             I-a a Tlma    Worltd6nAr
*    Reg,on Captals                                                               !             _                  BuMMlid                              F-e he
R,ves                       -12-                                                                      ,      u      7U6               nlfmPo2"l   ne 2
Zone Boundaries                                                               '0. pod or ,the hm PanS arid b
Sub-region Boundaries                                                                        AdA-1 a AdSenn n -h lp 18
- -   Region Boundaries                                              _       _Sense\j.ni Or  eM. a,
---  Internatonal Boundaries
201'24                                                               208                               32
SEPTEMBER 1988



