Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFiCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14743
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROGRAM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1953-ZR)
JUNE 27, 1995
Population and Human Resources Division
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disciosed without World Bank authorization.



FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS        Acquired Immuno-Deficiency Syndrome
BCC         Bureau central de coordination (Central Coordinating
Office for the National AIDS Control Program)
BRC         Bureau regional de coordination (Regional Coordinating
Office for the National AIDS Control Program)
GPA         Global Program on AIDS (WHO)
-IV         Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus
IEC         Information, Education, and Communication
NACP        National AIDS Control Program
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
PCR         Project Completion Report
PEP         Public Expenditure Program
SDR         Special Drawing Right
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Programme
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
WHO         World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 27, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Conmpletion Report on Zaire
National AIDS Control Program Assistance Project (Credit 1953-ZR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Zaire National AIDS Control
Program Assistance project (Credit 1953-ZR, approved in FY88) prepared by the Africa Regional
Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
This was the Bank's first free-standing AIDS control project. It was designed to help Zaire's
AIDS Control Program become fully operational. The project was to (a) help prevent transmission of
the AIDS virus (HIV), (b) improve the quality and amount of information on AIDS in Zaire, and (c)
reduce the impact of AIDS on individuals, families and communities.
Despite a strong technical design, project implementation experience was disappointing and
discemable achievements insignificant. Weak project management and low government commitment
were obstacles to the intended quick infusion of resources. Rapid deterioration of Zaire's socio-
political, physical and financial environment, including looting of project premises in 1991 and 1993,
created increasingly difficult conditions for the project. IDA's decision to extend the project
implementation period for two and a half years in 1992 reflected the expectation that positive political
changes at the time would turn Zaire's chaotic conditions around, but the situation soon resumed its
downward spiral. Thus, increasingly difficult economic and political conditions led to the
suspension of all disbursements in July 1993, and declaration of non-accrual status four months later.
The project was closed in January 1994, with only 41 percent of the IDA credit disbursed.
The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory, its institutional development impact as
negligible and its sustainability as unlikely. The project had little impact on the evolution of the
AIDS epidemic in Zaire and made slight contribution to the development of the country's capacity to
combat AIDS. The risks of rapid macroeconomic change and limited political commitment to the
resolution of public health problems, and their implications for successful implementation of this type
of project, were not identified at appraisal.
The PCR is of high quality and frankly documents key lessons learned. Because this is the
first free-standing AIDS project, an audit is planned.
Attachmentm
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROGRAM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 1953-ZR
CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................................... i
1. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ...........................................                                                       1
A. PROJECT IDENTITY ...........................................                                                                             1
B. BACKGROUND .1.......................................                                                                                     I
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ................................................................................................. 2
D. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION ..............................3
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .............................                                                                                     3
F. PROJECT RESULTS .............................                                                                                            6
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .............................                                                                                    7
H.ANANK           ORERFORMANCE .BANK...............................PE..........................ORMANCE.............................................. ..........
I. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .............................                                                                                       8
I. PROJECT RELATIONSHIPS .............................                                                                                     8
K. CONSULTING SERVICES .............................                                                                                        9
L. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA .............................                                                                             9
M. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED .............................                                                                            9
N. BANK'S COMMENTS ON BORROWER'S PART 11 .....................................................                                            I 1
2. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ............................................ 13
A. PROJECT IDENTITY .....................................................                                                                 13
B. BACKGROUND ......................................................... 13
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ................................                                                                    13
D. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION ................................                                                                       14
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................................                                                                                15
F. PROJECT RESULTS ................................                                                                                        16
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ................................                                                                                17
H. BANK PERFORMANCE ................................                                                                                       17
I. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ................................                                                                                  17
J. PROJECTRELATIONSHIPS ................................                                                                                   18
K. CONSULTING SERVICES ................................                                                                                   18
L. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA ................................                                                                         18
M. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED ........................................................................                               18
N. BORROWER LETTER RECONFIRmING PART II ................................                                                                   20
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii                                                                                                     Contents
3. STATISTICAL INFORMATION .........................................................                                        21
TABLE 1: RELATED BANK  CREDITS .........................................................                                   21
TABLE 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE .........................................................                                       21
TABLE 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS .................................... 22
TABLE 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .........................................................                                  22
TABLE 5(a): PROJECT COSTS BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY .................................................. 24
TABLE S (b): PROJECT FINANCING PLAN  (APPRAISAL ESTIMATE) ........................................... 24
TABLE 6: PROJECT RESULTS ..........................................................                                        25
TABLE 7: STATUS OF COVENANTS (AS OF OCTOBER, 1993) ....................................................... 26
TABLE 8(a): USE OF BANK RESOURCES - STAFF INPUTS .........................................................  27
TABLE 8 (b): USE OF BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS ..........................................................                     28



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
NATIONAL AIIDS CONTROL PROGRAM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1953-ZR)
PRIEFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the National AIDS Control
Program Assistance Project in Zaire, for which Credit 1953-ZR in the amount of SDR 6.2
million (US$8.1 million equivalent) was approved on September 8, 1988 and signed on
October 26, 1988.
2.    This credit became effective on May 30, 1989. Because of major delays in
implementation of the project, the closing date was extended initially from June 30, 1992
to December 31, 1992, and then again to December 31, 1994. On July 15, 1993, as the
Government of Zaire had failed to make scheduled payments to the Bank, disbursements
on this and all other Bank-financed projects in Zaire were suspended. On November 15,
1993, Zaire was placed in non-accrual status. Because prospects of a resumption of
disbursements were minimal and the political and economic conditions for project
execution were steadily deteriorating, all Bank-financed projects were closed. Credit
1953-ZR was closed on January 12, 1994, nearly a year ahead of the extended closing
date, and the credit balance of SDR 3,776,527.73 (US$ 5.2 million equivalent) was
canceled. The last disbursement was made in November, 1993.
3.    Parts I and III of this PCR were prepared by the Population and Human Resources
Division of the Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department (AF3PH). Part II was
prepared by the Borrower. An addendum to Part I provides Bank comments on the
Borrower's observations in Part II. There was no formal completion mission since the
project was canceled early due to Zaire's non-accrual status; however, a Zairian
consultant helped to gather data on results from the Borrower. The report follows the old
PCR format because the task was initiated prior to introduction of the new
Implementation Completion Report format.
4.    The PCR is based on the President's Report, the Staff Appraisal Report, the
Development Credit Agreement, reports by the Borrower, Bank project supervision
reports, correspondence between Bank and Borrower, and the personal knowledge of
Bank staff and the Zairian consultant who assisted in the PCR.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
NATIONAL AIIDS CONTROL PROGRAM ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1953-ZR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES
1.    The rapid spread of the AIDS epidemic in Central Africa and the growing alarni
about its potential impact on economic and social development led to the preparation of
the Zaire National AIDS Control Program Assistance Project, the first free-standing AIDS
Project financed by the Bank. Recognizing the threat of AIDS to national development,
the Project was an innovative effort intended to provide an infusion of resources to allow
a quick scale-up of the level of activity to combat AIDS while the Government and donors
developed longer-term control strategies. The total project cost, including parallel
financing from eight other donors, was to be US$21.9 million. The IDA Credit was for
SDR 6.2 million (US$8.1 million equivalent).
2.    The project's key objectives were to: (a) prevent transmission of the AIDS virus,
(b) improve the data base on AIDS in Zaire, and (c) reduce the impact of AIDS on
individuals, families, and communities. Its four key components were (a) development of
an EEC (information, education, and communication) program, and distribution of
condoms, (b) integration of AIDS control activities, (c) operational research and studies,
and (d) institutional strengthening.
B. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
3.    The overall outcome of this project was unsatisfactory. Its impact on the
course of the epidemic and on the establishment of control efforts was disappointing. The
expectation that the Ministry of Health's Bureau central de coordination (BCC) could
quickly absorb and effectively manage substantial resources turned out to be overly
optimistic. Expecting an improvement in overall Zaire conditions, the Bank agreed in
1992 to extend the closing date of the IDA Credit from June 30, 1992, to December 31,
1994. Zaire's non-payment of arrears, however, led to suspension of all disbursements on
July 15, 1993 and declaration of non-accrual status four months later. When the project
was finally closed in January, 1994, only 41% of the IDA Credit had been disbursed. The
annual disbursement rate was only one-fourth the level expected.



ii                  Zaire: National AIDS Control Program Assistance Project
4.    Several reasons for this outcome can be cited, for the most part not related to the
technical design of the project, which was sound. The most important weakness, except
during the initial months of the project, was the lack of leadership and management skills
in the BCC and the lack of familiarity with Bank procedures. The Bank's proposed offers
of technical assistance for procurement and financial management were not accepted,
perhaps because some Government officials did not want international consultants in key
project functions. Frequent turnover of BCC and Ministry staff did not help. Second, the
sharp deterioration in Zaire's political and economic situation, especially after 1990,
created a difficult environment for effective implementation. Widespread looting and civil
chaos in 1991 led to the departure from Zaire of most of the project's donors. Third,
delays were caused by: (a) a disagreement between the Borrower and the donors
concerning technical assistance which was not settled until 18 months after Credit
effectiveness, and (b) a nine-month suspension of disbursements from the Special Account
owing to the BCC's use of its funds for ineligible expenditures. Fourth, even though the
BCC did not have the capacity to execute AIDS control activities, it was slow to focus on
its limited mandate of mobilization and coordination, thereby missing the opportunity to
engage effectively the regions, health zones, and other public programs as well as private
sector and NGO institutions in the fight against AIDS.
C. RESULTS
5.    The project had little impact on the evolution of the AIDS epidemic in Zaire;
furthermore, it made only a partial contribution to institutional development of the
country's capacity to combat AIDS. Only US$3.3 million of Credit proceeds was
disbursed over a period of five years. The Government did not manage the Credit in such
a way as to receive the quick infusion of resources that was intended, and did not place
high priority on effective implementation. The most successful AIDS interventions during
this period, such as education programs and social marketing of condoms, were funded by
grants from other donors and implemented by NGOs and the private sector.
6.    On the positive side, the project did contribute to the overall effort by financing
inputs such as laboratory equipment, condoms, AIDS test kits and other supplies, as well
as BCC operating costs, preparation of training and management modules, training of
health professionals, and data gathering for surveillance of the epidemic.
D. SUSTAINABILITY AND CONCLUSIONS
7.    The political turmoil, civil upheavals, and catastrophic deterioration of the
economy from 1991 onwards created conditions where project sustainability became
unlikely. On the positive side, a few outputs should have a continuing impact, such as the
development of training modules and management tools, training of service providers, and
public education campaigns. Most of the trained health providers remain in their



Evaluation Summary                                                     iii
positions, and the increased public awareness of AIDS prevention should not be
completely erased by the deterioration in Zaire's fortunes.
8.    Major conclusions and lessons learned include:
(a)    The Bank should resist the pressure to lend to governments lacking
political commitment to development or refusing to follow economic
policies conducive to effective investments. If the implementation
environment turns measurably worse after a project is approved, the Bank
should be quicker to consider suspension or early cancellation. If a
decision to lend is made, the Bank should insist on adequate project
management structures, even if it means in unusual situations like those in
Zaire using consultants and establishing project implementation units.
(b)   Roles of various actors should be clearly defined at the project preparation
stage. The failure of the BCC to limit its mandate to coordination rather
than control of executing institutions resulted in ineffective mobilization of
the regions, health zones and other public and private institutions.
(c)    The frequency, regularity and quality of Bank supervision do make a
difference. Earlier identification of implementation problems and timely
corrective measures might have helped. When problems developed, it
might have been helpful to identify concrete actions to be required of the
Government as a condition for continuation of the project.
(d)   Implementation success cannot be isolated from the larger political,
economic and social context. Better project management would have
made a difference, but could not have completely shielded the AIDS
control effort from Zaire's overall decline.
(e)    Given that the recruitment and retention of good project leaders and
mangers are crucial for successful project launching and implementation,
the Bank should be prepared to delay or halt project launching and to
interrupt implementation if necessary until satisfactory staff are assigned
and retained.
(f)    Adequate understanding of Bank disbursement and procurement
procedures by the implementors, whether through training of local staff or
through consultants or a combination of both, should be a sine qua non of
project effectiveness.
(g)   To facilitate channeling of support to poor NGOs, the Bank should
consider greater flexibility in its disbursement procedures, such as
providing advances where NGOs cannot launch activities without up-front
financing, rather than reimbursing only after an expenditure is made.



iv                   Zaire: National AIDS Control Program Assistance Project
(h)   Incentive payments to local project staff may not produce productivity
increases in the absence of satisfactory management.
(i)   In situations with high probability of civil strife, back-up project data bases
and duplicates of financial records should be stored in safe locations away
from project office premises.
9.    Although shortcomings in the Borrower's management of the Credit were the
major factor in the disappointing project outcome, the implementation environment that
existed from late 1991 onward created conditions where even the best management team
would have faced a difficult challenge. Nevertheless, if the BCC had been led more
aggressively, and had taken advantage of available technical resources for procurement
and financial management, it would have been able to use all project resources for
additional education campaigns, training, importation of FHV test kits and distribution of
condoms prior to the July 1993 suspension of all disbursements to Zaire. Even if some of
the BCC's activities would not have been sustained permanently, those inputs would have
protected the health and saved the lives of many Zairians.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL PROGRAM ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
(CREDIT 1953-ZR)
1. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROJECT IDENTITY
Name               :     National AIDS Control Program Assistance Project
Credit Number      :      1953-ZR
RVP Unit           :     Africa Region
Country                  Zaire
Sector             :     Human Resources
Subsector          :     Health
B. BACKGROUND
1.1   At the time of project preparation, IDA's principal strategy in Zaire was to support the
country's structural adjustment program. The Government decided in December 1987 to
develop social programs aimed at alleviating the impact of adjustment on the poorest segment
of the population. A Zaire Population, Health, and Nutrition Review drafted in 1987 found
that the AIDS epidemic represented the most threatening public health problem in urban Zaire,
with HIV infection rates in Kinshasa at the 6-8% level, high enough to wipe out gains from
progress in primary health care. Furthermore, a Bank/WHO analysis suggested that an
unchecked AIDS epidemic would have measurable adverse effects on economic growth.
1.2   The Government, concerned at the rapid spread of AIDS, joined forces with WHO to
organize a donor meeting in February 1988, to discuss strategies and financing for a medium-
term action plan, as part of the National AIDS Control Program (NACP) which had been
established the previous year. The role envisaged for the Bank was built on its experience in
the planning, financing, and managing of large national programs, and in the mobilizing and
coordination of aid from many donors. From this setting emerged the decision to launch the
World Bank's first free-standing AIDS control project. It was a pioneering effort for both the
Bank and the Government in that it recognized the degree to which AIDS is a threat to
national development. As for the broader policy issues and resource needs of the social
sectors in Zaire, the Bank addressed them through three other projects: the Social Sector



2                    Zaire: National AJDS Control Program Assistance Project
Adjustment Project, the Higher Education Rationalization Project, and the Third Education
Project (See Part III, Table 1).
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DEscRiPrIoN
1.3   Project Objectives: The project, designed to help the National AIDS Control
Program become fully operational, was focused on the following objectives:
(a)   To prevent transmission of the AIDS virus (HIV), by:
(i)   changing sexual behaviors, through information, education, and
communication (EEC) programs;
(ii)   distributing condoms;
(iii)  treating other sexually transmitted diseases;
(iv)   screening donated blood;
(v)   sterilization of skin-piercing instruments;
(vi)  controlling perinatal HIV transmission.
(b)   To improve the data base on AIDS in Zaire, by:
(i)   strengthening and developing the laboratory infrastructure;
(ii)   developing the AIDS surveillance system;
(iii)  improving knowledge of AIDS-related behavior in the general
population;
(iv)   developing socio-economic surveys in relation to AIDS;
(v)   developing operational research.
(c)   To reduce the impact of AIDS on individuals, families, and communities, by
providing:
(i)   special assistance to AIDS cases and seropositive patients;
(ii)  information and education for those in contact with infected persons.
1.4   Project Description: The project was designed with four components:
(a)   EEC Program Development and Condom Distribution (US$5.8 million)
(b)   Integration of AIDS Control Activities (US$8.7 million)
(c)   Operational Research and Studies (US$1 million)
AIDS being a new disease, operational research and studies were considered essential
if the effectiveness of prevention and control measures were to be tested. This
component was to support research on: (i) HIV transmission; (ii) sociocultural
dimensions of AIDS; (iii) cost-effectiveness of control measures; (iv) constraints to
condom use; (v) case management strategies; (vi) potential diagnostic tools;
(vii) impact of the disease on the economy; and (viii) development of a national
surveillance system. These studies were to make the NACP more effective and
efficient.



Part 1: Project Review from Bank's Perspective                      3
(d)   Institutional Strengthening (US$3.2 million)
The NACP was to be strengthened institutionally through: (i) provision of personnel,
equipment, and vehicles for its central coordinating office (BCC); (ii) provision of
operational support to upgrade managerial capabilities at the regional and subregional
levels and in health zones, in addition to support in the form of training/supervision,
equipment, and supplementary working capital; and (iii) establishment of mechanisms
for the coordination of government and non-government AIDS control activities.
D. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
1.5   The project was designed in the context of a clearly enunciated medium-term plan of
action prepared by the Government with technical assistance from WHO. It was intended to
provide a quick infusion of resources over the next three years (US$8.1 million from IDA and
US$10.5 million in parallel financing from other donors) so that the level of the AIDS control
effort could be scaled up rapidly. It was anticipated that this would give the Government and
other donors time to plan longer-term strategies and mobilize supplementary resources. Close
coordination with other donors, particularly WHO and UNDP, was planned. The strategy on
which the project and its components were based was appropriate for the period.
1.6  In principle, BCC's role was to be limited to coordination and supervision of all AIIDS-
related activities, while the executing function was to be taken up by the regions, the health
zones, and other public and private agencies. Unfortunately, however, BCC at times sought
to function as an executing agency.
1.7   To summarize, the disappointing results of the project (next section) were due to
management shortcomings and unforeseeable deterioration in the implementation environment
in Zaire rather than to initial faulty design.
E. PROJCT IMLEMENTATION
General
1.8   Credit 1953-ZR became effective on May 30, 1989. In summary, its concrete
achievements were insignificant, for two main reasons:
(a)   Lack of dynamism, in conjunction with weak management, on the part of the
project leadership, and
(b)   A work and implementation environment rendered difficult by the country's
economic deterioration and political paralysis.



4                    Zaire: National AIDS Control Program Assistance Project
Country Context
1.9   At the time the project was approved, Zaire was engaged in a structural adjustment
program and the Government was expected to introduce well-coordinated economic policies
with a strong focus on the social sectors. Abandonment of the structural adjustment effort in
March. 1990 was followed by precipitous and continuing economic decline. In April 1990,
President Mobutu authorized multi-party politics, leading unfortunately to political chaos and
unprecedented governmental instability. Hyperinflation, a drop in the purchasing power of the
local currency, social disturbances and looting in September 1991, and January 1993, the
collapse of the banking system and of transportation and communications systems, and non-
payment of civil service salaries together brought implementation of the project to a virtual
halt. The BCC offices were looted and destroyed on two occasions. Equipment and vehicles
were either stolen or damaged and accounting records destroyed.
1.10  Suspension by most donors of their cooperation programs after the looting of 1991
became a further serious obstacle to the implementation of project activities, particularly in
the programs for social marketing of condoms, AIDS education, blood screening, and
research. The IDA credit then became the only substantial source of outside financing to the
BCC. Because of Zaire's failure to pay its arrears to the Bank, however, disbursements on all
Bank-financed projects were suspended on July 15, 1993. Subsequently, on November 15,
1993, the Bank declared Zaire in non-accrual status and proceeded to close its project
portfolio.
Sector Problems
1.11  Given that the Bank had not had previous experience in the health sector in Zaire, it
might appear, in retrospect, that the Government's ability to function effectively and manage
resources efficiently had been assessed too optimistically. Unfortunately, the health sector
could not escape the consequences of the overall political chaos and economic deterioration.
Partly for such reasons, Bank financing of institutional strengthening measures had only
limited success. The politicization of the health ministry and the high turnover of senior
officials (for example, five Ministers of Health in 1990 alone) distracted the Government's
attention from the project. Finally, the counterpart funds promised by the Government were
not allocated in the anticipated amounts or according to schedule.
Project-Level Problems
1.12  The expected capacity of the BCC to administer a program effectively and to mobilize
regions and executing agencies did not materialize. The BCC was slow to accept its limited
role of coordination, support and monitoring and for a number of years sought to function as
an executing agency as well. The result was that it both failed to mobilize and catalyze the
regions and health zones, and missed the opportunity of engaging other public and private and
NGO organizations in the fight against AIDS. Frequent turnover of BCC Directors was also
a problem. The Director at the time of appraisal, a dynamic leader, was killed in a car
accident widely regarded as suspicious. His successors, assigned in 1989, 1990 and 1993,
were not as successful in articulating a strategy for AIDS control and in managing a program.



Part 1: Project Review from Bank's Perspective                       5
1.13  Two specific problems involving the Bank were also responsible for major delays in
implementation. First of all, the Government and the donors disagreed on technical assistance
arrangements. At the time of negotiations, there had been agreement between the Government
and the Bank that two long-term consultants would be assigned as a condition of credit
effectiveness - a program manager to serve as deputy director of the BCC and an accountant.
In addition, it was expected that the Ministry of Health would ask UNICEF to act as its agent
for the procurement of goods. Owing to the Health Ministry's later persistent resistance, the
World Bank, WHO, and UNDP eventually agreed to require only one resident international
consultant, a lower-level planner, but this resolution was not reached until October 1990,
sixteen months after project effectiveness. Furthermore, the Ministry never requested
UNICEF to act as its agent for procurement. The BCC did not follow up on other offers of
technical assistance for procurement so the major procurement programmed never got off the
ground. Second, BCC's non-compliance with applicable Bank procedures led to suspension
of disbursements from the Special Account for nine months until the Goveriunent reimbursed
IDA in 1991 for ineligible expenditures under the Account.
1.14 Even if there had not been leadership and management weaknesses in the BCC, it
would have been difficult to escape the consequences of the deteriorating socio-political,
physical and financial environment. Social and political instability manifested in strikes,
disturbances, and lack of security of property and persons, especially in Kinshasa, was
responsible for the loss of numerous days of work. Physical constraints, chiefly inadequacies
in office equipment and supplies after the looting of BCC premises in September 1991, made
dependence on costly outside services inevitable, especially for document preparation and
copying. Financial constraints were created by: (a) irregularity on the part of the Government
in making counterpart funds available, which in turn disrupted disbursement of Credit
proceeds by IDA; (b) lack of liquidity in the local banking system and systematic non-
acceptance of checks in payment for goods and services; (c) inflation rates which eventually
reached several thousand percent per year, and (d) suspension of bilateral and multilateral
cooperation arrangements with Zaire, and ensuing inability to fund the National AIDS Control
Program.
1.15  In view of the fact that Zairian civil service salaries were very low and that the
Government had virtually ceased paying them after the country's sharp economic decline, the
Bank agreed on an exceptional basis to classify most BCC personnel as consultants,
authorizing incentive payments from Credit proceeds. A total of US$10,000 per month was
paid to six Zairian experts and 10 support personnel. The principle of incentive payments had
been accepted by the Bank under other projects in Zaire as a temporary means of motivating
personnel until the authorities had had time to introduce far-reaching reforms throughout the
civil service. In this particular instance in Zaire, however, the system of incentive payments
did not lead to any real improvement in the productivity of BCC personnel, mainly because of
poor management.
1.16  IDA agreed in 1992 to extension of the Credit closing date from June 30, 1992 to
December 31, 1994 in view of the following: a Government which took office in 1992
brought some hope that the situation would improve; the BCC had taken various steps to
improve project management; the Public Health Minister and the BCC management team had



6                   Zaire: National AIDS Control Program Assistance Project
undertaken to channel necessary resources and support to the project executing agencies; the
BCC decided to press ahead with condom distribution and the establishment of laboratories;
and the Government released counterpart funds. This particular government survived only a
few months, however, and the political and economic environment continued to deteriorate
rapidly. The expected improvement in project implementation never occurred.
F. PROJECT RESULTS
1.17  In financial terms, out of a total of US$8.1 million, only US$3.29 million (41%) of the
credit was disbursed. The unspent balance has been canceled. Table 5(a) in Part HI shows
the distribution of planned and actual disbursements by credit category. What results the
project did achieve had to do with the EEC program, distribution of HIV test supplies, safety
and laboratory screening of the donated blood supply, and program management.
1.18  IEC Program: A major project objective was to change sexual behaviors. Although
outputs are hard to measure, important inputs were financed. The Ministry of Education
arranged AIDS awareness sessions for students. Over the period 1991-1994, training was
provided for 1,714 individuals (physicians, nurses, trainers working at the central level, and
others) although not all of it was related to this project. Other donors besides the World Bank
- WHO, UNICEF, USAID, L'armre du salut - helped finance these activities. Table 4,
Part HI, gives details on project-related training.
1.19  Condom distribution: A total of 7,793,806 condoms were distributed, thus
exceeding the initial target figure of 560,000 by an enormous margin. By one formula, this
might have averted over a thousand cases of HIV transmission.
1.20  Safety of the blood supply; laboratories: It was intended to establish a blood
testing laboratory in each region. Although the BCC cleared through customs 12 lots of
equipment for the central laboratory and 11 referral laboratories, the slow pace of the
Borrower's bureaucratic procedures, as well as the numerous difficulties that affected the
project execution process (e.g. the lack of transport to the regions, in this case), meant that
this equipment (except for one laboratory in Kinshasa) was never installed and remains in
storage. One concrete achievement was the selection of transfusion criteria to limit and
improve blood donations.
1.21  Distribution of HIV tests: Out of a planned total of 270,000 screening test kits, the
BCC succeeded in distributing 104,408 (39%) to health zones and medical facilities in all
regions of the country except South Kivu.
1.22  Program management: In the area of institutional strengthening, the BCC developed
not only training modules but also an impressive National AIDS Control Program Procedures
Manual covering Program content, personnel management, procurement, budget and finances,
information systems, and operating procedures. The Manual was the result of the combined
efforts of experts attached to the BCC and several other agencies.



Part 1: Project Review from Bank's Perspective                         7
1.23  Supplies, equipment, premises: The credit financed vehicles and equipment.
Because of losses from looting, the BCC had to re-equip itself with an essential minimum of
office supplies, equipment, and vehicles, as well as rehabilitate heavily damaged buildings for
which Government funds were used.
1.24  Supporting NGOs and other executing agencies: Although explicit objectives
concerning BCC grants to various executing agencies were not written into the Credit
Agreement, it was always intended that the BCC would be a coordinating agency working
through other organizations. This approach was resisted for some time by BCC leadership;
however eventually proposals were solicited in 1992. There was an enthusiastic response, but
there were too many financial and administrative problems in the declining economy and this
effort never got off the ground in a significant fashion.
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
1.25  Given the urgency of the AIDS threat, including both its economic implications and
the high death rate it caused, complete self-financing was never established as an objective at
the national program level. It was logical that long-term subsidies should be made available
for AIDS control programs. Consistent with overall health policy in Zaire, cost sharing for
services at the individual level was expected of those able to pay. This policy, combined with
the Government's recognition of the seriousness of the AIDS challenge, augured well at the
time of appraisal for a measure of long-term sustainability. If Zaire had prospered
economically as anticipated at the time it was following a structural adjustment program,
many of the project's components would probably have been sustainable. As the situation
evolved, however, few of the activities financed continued after cancellation of the credit. On
the positive side, it is reasonable to assume that sorne project outputs will continue to have a
favorab!e impact, such as management tools and experience at the BCC, production of
training modules and training of health providers, and public education campaigns.
H. BANK PERFORMANCE
1.26  The Bank's leadership in developing a standalone AIDS control project helped to raise
the perceived priority of AIDS as a development issue in Zaire, in the Bank, and probably in
the region. The preparation process involving many institutions in the design as well as in
parallel financing helped reinforce global approaches to AIDS control. The technical content,
influenced heavily by WHO, was basically sound.
1.27  The project suffered at times from the inadequacy and irregularity of Bank supervision.
Opportunities were lost for early identification of problems as they arose (weaknesses in
financial management and procurement problems) and for timely corrective measures to make
the adjustments required by the rapid changes in Zaire. In retrospect, abandonment by the
Bank, WHO and UNDP (in view of the Government's later objections to it) of the plan
included in the 1988 Credit Agreement to put a long-term consultant manager and an
accountant in BCC was a mistake (see Section E, para 1. 13). When the donors agreed under



8                    Zaire: National AIDS Control Program Assistance Project
pressure to reduced roles for consultants, they might have been more insistent on alternative
solutions to assure adequate levels of knowledge of Bank procedures and sufficient
management controls. One approach might have been to have added procurement experts to
more Bank supervision missions, so that, for example, some simple procedural matters in
international competitive bidding might have been corrected earlier..
1.28  The Bank rules were seen as very rigid by the BCC. In Zaire's post - 1991 crisis
situation, BCC would have preferred to see more flexibility in the Bank's procurement and
disbursement procedures, but the adaptations requested entailed a level of risk the Bank was
not prepared to accept.
I. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
1 29  Section E comments extensively on the deleterious impact of the country situation and
BCC performance on project implementation. On the positive side, the Gove-nme;nt had been
prompt to recognize the seriousness of the threat of AIDS and to set up a major
administrative structure consisting of the BCC at the central level and a Regional
Coordination Office (BRC) in each region to deal with it. The major negative factors were
the BCC's weak leadership and management, combined with the hostile economic and political
environment in Zaire after 1990. In the final analysis, it is to the Borrower that the main
responsibility for the disappointing outcome of the project must be ascribed.
1.30  Furthermore, the Borrower proved unable to maintain the momentum and
coordination that had existed among the donors at the outset of the project. The results of
consultations and resource coordination among the donors were unexpectedly meager for lack
of appropriate leadership and adequate mobilization. For instance, the authorities seldom
organized meetings of the NACP Implementation Committee or the Joint Committee on
Resource Coordination in the later years of the project.
J. PROJECT RELATIONSHIPS
1.31  The Bank and the BCC maintained satisfactory working relationships. Cooperation
with the other donors through the Joint Committee w as good at the beginning of the project;
subsequently, although consultation and coordination among the donors continued, the close
links established initially became weaker. Data on disbursements of other donors are not
available; however all the bilateral agencies pulled out after the 1991 civil breakdown. WHO,
UNICEF and UNDP continue to provide modest assistance.
1 .32  In contrast, relations between the BCC project management team and senior
authorities in the Ministry of Health were stormy from 1992 onward. Ministry officials
resented direct communication between the BCC and the Bank, and tried to be more directly
involved, but the Bank insisted on continuing its direct relationship partly to maintain the
integrity of project operations. In late 1993 the Ministry removed the BCC Director who had
insisted on a degree of independent management. Furthermore, relations between the BCC



Part 1: Project Review from Bank's Perspective                        9
and potential executing agencies were strained during the period the BCC exceeded its limited
mobilization and coordination role and exercised excessive control over implementation.
K. CONSULTING SERVICES
1.33  Since the Bank had only limited experience with AIDS, this project, as well as the
overall AIDS control effort, benefited greatly from technical assistance from other donors,
particularly WHO and USAID. In the short term, the USAID approach of minimizing the role
of government and relying on outside contractors and NGOs proved effective, giving
impressive results in extending condom use and in AIDS education, the areas in which USAID
was the principal donor. In the longer term, however, these programs could not be continued
after USAID's departure from Zaire in late 1991.
1.34  WHO's Global Program on AIDS provided several resident consultants: an
epidemiologist, an administrator, a planning and programming specialist, and an IEC
specialist. The performance of these consultants was satisfactory, although their assignments
within the BCC were not at a level that enabled them to exert a significant impact on the
project. If the Government had been intent on using their services more effectively, or if the
donors had continued to insist on their being placed at higher levels of management, project
results would probably have been better. For example, if the BCC had been prepared to use
more consultant assistance for procurement and financial management, it would have been
able to use all project resources for additional education campaigns, training, importation of
HIV test kits and distribution of condoms prior to the July 1993 suspension of all
disbursements to Zaire. Even if some of the BCC's activities would not have been sustained
permanently, those inputs would have protected the health and saved the lives of many
Zairians.
1.35  Several local consultants were engaged short-term by the BCC, but their performance
has not been evaluated.
L. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
1.36  In the looting that occurred in 1991 and 1993, important project documentation
including financial records disappeared. This gave rise to difficulties in planning subsequent
project activities, verifying progress against planned outputs, and monitoring budget
estimates. Despite these setbacks, the BCC has an extensive database on AIDS in Zaire, e.g.
surveillance data on AIDS cases and blood tests since 1985.
M. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
1.37  To summarize the Bank's judgment of project implementation, the overall outcome
was unsatisfactory. The project did provide a partial contribution to the institutional
development of Zaire's capacity to fight AIDS, although negative developments in the general



10                   Zaire: National AIDS Control Program Assistance Project
political and economic environment tended to swamp the positive impact of the project. The
project activities are unlikely to be sustained for the most part as long as the country situation
remains hostile to effective implementation.
1.38  Various lessons described in the preceding pages that may be worth considering in
future projects are summarized below:
(a)   The Bank should resist the pressure to lend to governments lacking political
commitment to development or refusing to follow economic policies conducive
to effective investments. If the implementation environment turns measurably
worse after a project is approved, the Bank should be quicker to consider
suspension or early cancellation. If a decision to lend is made, the Bank should
not compromise on requiring adequate project management structures.
Although independent project management units are not favored in principle by
the Bank, and the assignment of long-term consultant advisors should be
minimized, Zaire probably was an exceptional situation where the donors
should have been more insistent on management structures which would better
ensure the integrity of project implementation. With little evidence that the
Zaire environment provided sufficient guarantees for the efficiency and
integrity of resource use, the Bank should have insisted on the originally-
agreed plan for a consultant manager as Deputy Director of the BCC and for a
consultant accountant, with an emphasis in their duties to enhance local
capacity.
(b)   The roles of the various actors should be clearly enunciated at project
preparation stage and the implementation capacity of government institutions
should not be overestimated. If the coordinating function of the BCC and the
executing function of health regions and zones and of other public and
private/NGO institutions had been formulated with greater clarity, one might
have seen enhanced relations among the various actors, increased capacity
building, and greater overall project success.
(c)   The frequency, regularity and quality of Bank supervision do matter. Timely
identification of problems and finding solutions can spell the difference
between success and failure over the life of the project. When problems
developed, it might have been helpful to identify concrete actions to be
required of the Government as a condition for continuation of the project.
(d)   Success in implementation cannot be isolated from the larger political,
economic and social context of the country. Better project management would
have made a difference, but could not have completely shielded the AIDS
control effort from Zaire's overall decline.
(e)   The Bank should insist on the recruitment and retention of satisfactory project
leaders and managers, even if it means delaying or halting project launching



Part 1: Project Review from Bank's Perspective                          11
and interrupting implementation until acceptable staff are assigned and
retained.
(f)    Adequate understanding of Bank disbursement and procurement procedures by
the implementors, whether through training of local staff or through
consultants or a combination of both, should be a sitne qua non of project
effectiveness.
(g)   The Bank should consider greater flexibility in its disbursement procedures in
projects supporting poor NGOs that have no resources to launch activities
without up-front financing. For example, the Bank should consider
mechanisms to provide advances to jump start NGO activities rather than only
reimbursing after the expenditure has been made.
(h)   Incentive payments to local project staff may not produce productivity
increases in the absence of satisfactory management.
(i)   In situations with high probability of disruption or civil strife, back-up project
data bases and duplicates of financial records should be stored in safe locations
away from project office premises.
N. BANK'S COMMENTS ON BORROWER'S PART H
1.39  This addendum provides Bank comments on the Government's observations in Part
II, as well as on the October 19, 1994 letter received from the Director of the BCC/SIDA,
which is attached to Part II. The Borrower prepared Part II after receiving a near-final
draft of Part I. The October 19, 1994 letter attached to Part II is the Government's
reconfirmation of its original comments after receiving officially from the Bank the final
version of Part I. The letter also alludes to its argument in Part II, Sections H and M that
the inflexibility of the Bank's rules and regulations was a factor in the unsatisfactory
outcome of the project (see also Bank comment in Part 1, Section H). The Bank's
comments in this Section N were written after receiving Part II and the letter. They were
not sent to the Borrower in the interest of finalizing the PCR in a timely fashion.
1.40  Part II was written by the management of the BCC/SIDA and endorsed by senior
officials in the central Ministry of Health. Since the current BCC/SIDA Director was
appointed only in late 1993 after disbursements were suspended, Part I comments do not
apply to him personally; however, other senior BCC/SIDA staff have worked extensively
on the project.
1.41  A major frustration of the BCC/SIDA technicians trying to implement an AIDS
control program in the last several years was the hostile implementation environment
created by the rapidly degenerating political and economic conditions in Zaire. In the
interests of seeing activities move forward to save lives from AIDS, they hoped that the
World Bank would be flexible in its requirements and procedures governing special



12                   Zaire: National AIDS Control Program Assistance Project
accounts, procurement regulations, and disbursement practices to make up for the
challenges posed by their government's gross mismanagement of the economy. They felt
that since the project dealt with the subject of AIDS, the Bank should have been prepared
to make exceptions to its usual requirements, which they perceived as unnecessarily rigid.
The meaning behind the Part II, Section E, para (c) comment on questions put to
supervision missions remaining unanswered is that the answers provided, which stated
Bank standards and procedures, were not satisfactory from their point of view. If this
dilemma suggests any generic issue for Bank study, it may be the question of the
appropriate role of the Bank, and the possible modalities for collaboration, in country
situations which are especially problematic.
1.42  Part II points out that if a planned, large-scale international procurement had taken
place, most of the project funds would have been disbursed. This is true. The Bank
contends, however, that if the BCC/SIDA management had treated this action with
priority, prepared the documents earlier, and accepted the offer of consultant assistance
suggested by the Bank, this procurement could have been completed before the mid-1993
suspension of disbursements. A lesson for the Bank, perhaps, is to remain adamant about
adequate technical expertise, from either consultants or sufficient training of local staff, to
assure that procurement and other implementation actions can be undertaken according to
Bank requirements.
1.43  The Borrower describes most consultants as necessary but expensive, Bank-
imposed evils that should be used only when local expertise is nonexistent (see Part II,
Section K). The Bank does not always insist on consultants, but judged that in this
situation, proven, local expertise was not available in management, accounting and Bank
procedures, given the newness of the AIDS control effort and the BCC. In addition, the
lack of credible management controls throughout the Zairian system was a factor. The
Bank viewed the assignment of international, long-term consultants in management and in
accounting as part of the institution-strengthening contribution of the project. The Bank
also argues in Part I, Sections E, H and K of this PCR that, if it had continued to insist on
the consultant management arrangements originally negotiated but later resisted by the
Borrower, major errors in financial management and delays in procurement preparation
could have been avoided, resulting likely in an institutionally stronger BCC and the
completion of the project prior to the portfolio-wide suspension of disbursements. This
differing perspective underscores the absolute importance of measures to build local
capacity.



2. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE
(Translation)
A. PROJECT IDENTITY
Name            .  National AIDS Control Program Assistance Project
Credit Number   :  1953-ZR
Unit               Africa Region
Country         :  Zaire
Sector             Human Resources
Subsector       :  Health
B. BACKGROUND
2.1   The BCC was established after the launching of a research venture known as the
"Projet SIDA" (AIDS Project). Thus the first director of the BCC, coming from the
AIDS Project, tended to focus more on research than on developing the new agency's
program. The criticisms of the BCC voiced by the first supervision mission had more to
do with this situation than with other factors. In any case, the Government responded
promptly by appointing a specialist in public health and a specialist in epidemiology to the
staff of the BCC, in order to ensure that the program was based on a comprehensive view
of the AIDS problem.
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
2.2   The objectives of the project, well set out in Schedule 2 of the Development Credit
Agreement itself, were five in number:
1.    To develop an IEC program and to distribute condoms
2.    To integrate AIDS control activities
3.    To support operational research and other studies
4.    To strengthen the relevant institutions
5.    To provide necessary logistical support
2.3   These objectives were not peculiar to this project, but had been included in others
and were shared by a range of donors. However, the following donor "predilections"
were identifiable:



14                  Zaire: National AIDS Control Program Assistance Project
*  Objective No. (1)       : USAID and UNICEF
*  Objective No. (2)       : UNDP and WHO
*  Objective No. (3)       : included in Projet SIDA (Zairian, Belgian, and
U.S. cooperation), at least in the special area
of epidemiological research
*  Objectives Nos. (4) & (5)  : UNDP and the World Bank
2.4   This pattern of interests, and the fact that the Joint Committee on Resource
Coordination hardly met, explains the readily understandable tendency on the part of the
BCC to focus the proceeds of Credit 1953-ZR on objectives (3) and (4) - at least until
the time of the first episodes of looting, in 1991, after which the Bank was the only donor
still prepared to make funding available.
D. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
(a) Project Design:
2.5   As far as planning matters are concerned, the report issued by the Bank's
supervision mission to Zaire in March 1990, a year or so after Credit 1953-ZR came into
effect, criticized the BCC for having ignored the possibilities afforded by the "health
zones," the operational units for implementation of the country's policy on primary health
care. The BCC responded the following December by issuing its 1991-1994 Revised
Medium-Term Plan, which called for the AIDS control program to be decentralized down
to the regional and health-zone levels and estimated the cost of funding program activities
over the three-year period at US$23 million.
2.6   At the May 1991 meeting organized by the BCC (under WHO sponsorship) for the
purpose of mobilizing those resources, donor commitments were obtained for US$17
million. Unfortunately, with the hasty departure of donors like UNICEF, WHO, USAID,
etc. from Zaire only three months later, these promises were never acted upon, and BCC
efforts throughout 1991 thus came to nothing.
(b) Project Organization and NManagement:
2.7   Under the terms of Ministerial Order No. BUR/CE/ SPAS/0024/87 of August 26,
1987 creating the BCC, this entity was vested with responsibilities for the coordination,
execution, monitoring, and evaluation of activities included in the National AIDS Control
Program, responsibilities which were to be delegated in each region to the corresponding
BRC.
2.8   It has to be recognized that a strategic error was committed at the outset, in the
sense that the regional bureaus were set up prematurely. As the report issued on



Part 2: Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective                15
completion of the March, 1990 supervision mission pointed out, they were a failure,
essentially because they had nothing to coordinate; and since the physicians serving as
heads of health zones had had no training in AIDS control, there was no integration of
activities at this level. However, simply keeping the BRCs on an operational footing
absorbed a significant proportion of budget funds. The BCC's 1991-1994 Revised
Medium-Term Plan emphasized, though rather late in the day, that training for health-zone
personnel was a prerequisite for any integration of basic activities.
2.9   An additional adverse factor was that, although health-post staffing profiles
specified the need for physicians and other specialized public health personnel, staff
assignments were not always made accordingly, a situation that gave rise to many of the
project management problems observed.
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
2.10  Apart from the difficulties occasioned by looting, a well-informed observer would
also point to the following as having disrupted implementation of the project to an equal
degree:
(a)   Lack of a model: All other health programs developed in Zaire (e.g.
expanded vaccination, measures to combat iodine deficiency, anti TB
campaign, etc.) were tailored to fit into the structure of its public health
system, the Government's policy being to integrate such activities at health-
zone level. With the advent of AIDS, multi-sectoral action became an
imperative, and suddenly the concept of execution agencies turned into a
vital question. The National AIDS Control Program, implemented through
the BCC, slowly mobilized such agencies, but without ever defining clearly
the relations that were to exist between them and the health zones, the
operational units around which its planning was centered.
(b)   Resources inaccessible because of time-consuming procedures: While
it is true that the BCC did not master international procurement procedures
immediately, it is equally true that the time they require is disproportionate
when the problem being addressed is as urgent as an epidemic. Even BC-
PASS with its proven technical sophistication in this field was unable to
complete all orders before the suspension of World Bank project
disbursements to Zaire. Program implementation was also delayed by
disbursements of funds being wrongly routed to other countries - Brazil,
for example.
(c)   Costly and inefficient supervision: Although there were many
supervision missions to Zaire, very few made any real difference to the
course of the project - a result of the inflexible nature not only of the
conditions governing the Credit but also of Bank procedures. Numerous
questions put to supervision mission personnel remained unanswered.



16                  Zaire: National AIDS Control Program Assistance Project
2.11  This was especially true of the search for ways to fund the project executing
agencies, which came to regard the difficulties as evidence of dishonesty on the part of the
BCC itself The situation was as follows: In approximately April, 1993, when the World
Bank had approved the principle of funding certain executing agency projects, a
commitment as regards an actual funding procedure was not forthcoming. On the one
hand, virtually none of the agencies was able to commit its own funds to project activities
in the expectation of reimbursement from the World Bank, and on the other the BCC was
unable to mobilize funds from its own local currency account to support them. The only
solution that remained was for the Bank to place funds directly at the disposal of the
agencies. It should be no surprise that this was not possible.
F. PROJECT RESULTS
2.12  As indicated in the review of project objectives given above, the majority of
activities funded from Credit proceeds were associated with Objectives Nos (4) and (5)-
for example, BCC office rehabilitation works, purchases of equipment for the regional
laboratories, and purchases of vehicles for both central and regional use.
2.13  The major purchases of medications and reagents, unfortunately canceled although
contracts had just been signed, would have absorbed virtually the entire remainder of
Credit proceeds, leaving almost nothing with which to finance the executing agencies.
2.14  Contrary to the assertion that the BCC never proved capable of mobilizing the
executing agencies, the achievement represented by World AIDS Day 1993 demonstrated
clearly that the BCC had turned itself into an AIDS resource and coordination institution
for numerous executing agencies, which through its intervention were able to obtain
funding from OXFAM.
2.15  In December, 1993 and January/February/March, 1994, a total of 32 agencies were
able to engage in AIDS awareness activities just in Kinshasa.
2.16  Furthermore, the list of training courses annexed to this report {List available from
AF3PH} makes it clear that the BCC never skimped, when funds were available, in
equipping agencies to go ahead with AIDS-related activities. With assistance from
UNICEF, WHO, the World Bank, and other partners, the Zairian National AIDS Control
Program successfully organized 20 training sessions (five at national level, nine at regional
level, and six at local level). A total of 1,714 individuals received instruction in different
types of AIDS control activities: 96 physicians (6%), 366 nurses and laboratory assistants
(21%), 130 journalists and IEC workers (8%), 541 schoolteachers (32%), 52 trainers
working at central level (3%), and 532 individuals (young people, women, workers, arned
forces personnel, etc.) belonging to potentially vulnerable groups (31%).



Part 2: Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective                17
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILrrY
Valuable experience: Development of training modules, and training of central-level
trainers
2.17  As a result of these activities, also funded from Credit proceeds, the BCC was
given the tools to enable it to provide training for health-zone personnel, integrate AIDS
control measures at the central level, and supervise and coordinate the program at the
intermediate level.
2.18  Owing to the training of a centrally-based corps of trainers, the BCC now
possesses the capacity to organize parallel training sessions in the health zones.
2.19 WHO funding also enabled the BCC, in late 1993 and early 1994, to set up
training sessions for head physicians in the Kinshasa and Equateur-South health zones,
and to schedule similar courses in the Equateur-North zone for July 1994. This activity
remains an essential one, in the sense that it allows ongoing integration of AIDS control
measures, which is the only guarantee the program can be sustained in the field.
H. BANK PERFORMANCE
Rigidities in World Bank policy
2.20 As AIDS control is both a social and humanitarian problem, the World Bank could
have been expected to make exceptions where its usual requirements were concerned. If
its aim was to prevent the spread of HIV throughout Zaire, this should have taken
precedence over possible financial and policy difficulties.
2.21  After the lootings, the Bank was the only institution left to assist the BCC, as all
other donors had withdrawn. Although it did indeed support the AIDS control program
while prevailing social and economic conditions were still acceptable, it too abandoned the
program when those conditions deteriorated further. By doing so, it set an inherently
contradictory standard of comparison.
2.22  It is precisely in difficult situations that additional aid is needed.
L BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Loan disbursement rate: A questionable indicator of project progress
2.23  World Bank periodic conclusions on the extent to which project implementation
was advancing - in other words, on project performance - were tied to the capacity of
the project management authority to utilize the funds put at its disposal. While probably
the kind of approach to be expected of the typical banker, it is disconcerting in cases like



18                  Zaire: National AIDS Control Program Assistance Project
the one under review here. The BCC never considered its function as conduit of funds to
the country as an end in itself, believing instead that its fundamental role was to utilize
these funds in activities that would lead to the achievement of project objectives. In actual
fact, the BCC played this role wisely: if account were taken of the total earmarked to
cover the cost of the large-scale international procurement arrangements that were
interrupted, then the rate of utilization of Credit proceeds would at once go up from
"weak" to "strong."
J. PROJECT RELATIONSHPS
2.24 Relations between the Borrower and the Bank were cordial at all times. Similarly,
the BCC spared no effort to maintain a cordial atmosphere with the various partners
working with it on the National AIDS Control Program.
K. CONSULTING SERVICES
2.25 The majority of consultants on the project were regarded as necessary evils,
inescapably associated with the signing of certain agreements. As far as the future is
concerned, steps should be taken to ensure that local expertise in any particular field is
nonexistent before unwarranted proposals are made to use the very expensive services of
international experts.
L. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
2.26 Although the BCC twice suffered extensive documentation losses as a result of
looting, it has managed to put together a data base on HIV infection rates by reviewing all
available sources within Zaire.
M. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
2.27  Launching this project proved to be a time-consuming process, and many pitfalls
affected its implementation. Its continued existence can be ascribed only to its ability to
adapt to the numerous changes that occurred in the Zairian environment. While BCC
experts made every effort to carry out their work whenever adverse circumstances were
encountered, World Bank rules and procedures remained unchanged.
2.28 In the circumstances, failure to complete the project was inevitable.
2.29 As far as the future and problems like epidemics are concerned, the Bank should
re-examine its assistance arrangements. It should be able to depart from many of its rules
so that it can respond rapidly to urgent problems. Unfortunately, there is nothing typical
about AIDS as an epidemic, so that an evaluation of the errors the Borrower and the Bank



Part 2: Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective                  19
committed together in the course of this project will not be possible for another five or 10
years. Such an evaluation will show the true achievement of the project.



20                  Zaire: National AIDS Control Program Assistance Project
N. BORROWER LETrER RECONFJIMNG PART II
(Translation)
October 19, 1994
Central Coordinating Office - AIDS
National AIDS Control Program
Ministry of Public Health
Republic of Zaire
Mr. Raymond Martin
AF3PH - J 7047
World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433, USA
Subject: Project Completion Report
Sir:
We thank you for your letter dated August 26, 1994, by which you transmitted the
draft of the Project Completion Report on assistance to the National AIDS Control
Program giving the point of view of the Bank.
We take this opportunity to inform you that no modification has been made to the
document prepared by the Borrower that we have transmitted to you earlier.
However, we note that some of your statements are rather tough on the Borrower,
especially if we recognize the special conditions in which the project had to be
implemented. We think that, objectively speaking, responsibility for the uncompleted
project has to be assumed equally by the Bank and the Government of Zaire.
Very sincerely yours,
The Medical Director,
Dr. Matela Baangi
cc: Minister of Plan, Minister of Finance, Secretary General of Plan, Secretary General of
Public Health, Mr. David Berk, Chief of Population and Human Resources Division of
World Bank, Price Waterhouse.



3. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Credits
Credit          Purpose         Year of         Status              Comments
Title_lN_o.                     Approval
Social Sector   To protect        FY 1991      Disbursements      Project design aimed to
Adjustment      vulnerable                     suspended since July  support public health
Project         populations,                   15, 1993 due to    policy development and
CR-2196         maintain essential             Zaire's non-payment  services, given non-
programs, and                 of arrears. Project   functioning of
develop new social            closed January 20,   government, but
sector policies               1995                deteriorating country
situation precluded
effective implementation
Education III   To improve        FY 1991      Project closed April  Project never got off the
CR-2213         primary education              27, 1994 due to    ground, with less than $1
through financing             Zaire's non-accrual   million disbursed out of
inputs and                    status and inability   $21 million
supporting                    to implement, given
implementation of             political and
sector strategv               economic situation
Higher          To prepare        FY 1988      Closed June 30,    Although $9.2 million out
Education       strategy, improve              1993 on originally    of planned $12.2 million
Rationalization    planning and                planned date       disbursed, the project
Project         management, and                                   achieved few of its
CR-1839         provide inputs for                                objectives, due principally
improved higher                                   to the deteriorating
education                                         country political and
economic situation
Table 2: Project Timetable
Original          Date Revised        Date Actual
Timetable
Identification (EPS)
Preparation
Appraisal Mission                                                 2/11 - 3/1/88
Credit Negotiations             _                                 7/27 - 8/1/88
Board Approval                                                          9/8/88
Credit Signature                                                      10/26/88
Credit Effectiveness                                                   5/30/89
Credit Closing                6/30/92           12/31/94               1/12/94
Credit Completion



22                    Zaire: National AIDS Control Program Assistance Project
Table 3: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$ Million)
Fiscal Year          1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994
Appraisal Estimate         1.00       3.49      6.51      8.10
Actual                       .30      1.22      2.60      2.74      3.13      3.29
Actual as % of Estimate    30%       35%       40%       34%      39%        41%
Table 4: Project Implementation
Note: The column Appraisal Estimate shows the cumulative outputs expected for the
three year period FY 1989-1991. The column Actual or PCR Estimates shows
estimated outputs over a five and one-half year period, i.e. FY 1989 to mid-FY 1994.
Indicators              Appraisal          Actual or PCR Estimates
Estimates
World       Other        Total
Bank      Sources
L IECPROGRAM
DEVELOPMENT/
CONDOM DISTRIBUTION
Material Development
Video programs                          12             3          -             3
Audio programs                          24             -        12             12
Manuals*                         no quantity           -    10,000         10,000
Written materials**              no quantity       30,000    30,000        60,000
Training
Seminars                                10                       -              -
Conferences                             30             6                        6
Study tours                             15                  -                   -
Technical Assistance
Intemational                             3
Local                                   30                       1              1
Staffing
Central level                           15             2                        2
Regional level                          18            11                       11
Condom Distribution
General                             490,000     7,275,406                7,275,406
Targeted                            70,000        518,400                 518,400
Vehicles
4wd                                     10            10                       10
Passenger cars                           5             5                        5
IL INTEGRATING AIDS
ACTITIES
Traininf
Physicians                             390            65        31             96
Lab technicians                        390
Public health nurses                   600            12       354            366
Social workers                         600                     673           673



Part 3: Statistical Information                                                      23
Indicators                Appraisal             Actual or PCR Estimates
Estimates
World        Other          Total
Bank       Sources
Eguipment
Blood banks                                  3
Laboratories                                 9              12                         12
Med. equipment                             300               -          -
Supervision
Central level                               18               6                          6
Regional level                              27              22                         22
Sub-regional level                          81               -          -
Medical SuRplies
Blood tests                            270,000          43,608     60,800         104,408
Case mgmt. packages                     45,000               -    22,747           22,747
IIL RESEARCH & STUDIES
HIV transmission                                                         2               2
Sociocultural dimensions
Cost-effectiveness control                                               2               2
measures
Constraints on condom use                                               10              10
Case mgmt. strategies                                                    4               4
Dev. of diagnostic tools                                                 2               2
Economic impact                                                          9               9
Surveillance system
IV. INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING
Training
Fellowships                                 15               1                          1
Seminars                                     3               2                          2
Study tours                                 15               1                          1
Technical Assistance
Epid (WHO)                                   3               -1                         1
IEC (WHO)                                    3                          1               1
IEC (PSI)                                    3                          1               1
Admin. (WHO)                                 3                          1               1
Program Mgt.                                 3                          1               1
Accounting                                   3                          1               1
Other (local consultants)                     -              -          4               4
Staffin
Central level                               10              10          -              10
Regional level                              27              22                         22
Sub-regional level                          81               -          -
Vehicles
4wd                                         10               7                          7
Pick-ups                                     5               2                          2
*      Four books/pamphlets published
**     Fold-out charts and picture sets published or in production



24                  Zaire: National AIDS Control Program Assistance Project
Table 5(a): Project Costs by Disbursement Category (US$ Million)
Disbursement         Appraisal       Revised Estimate         Actual
Category           Estimate       (February 2, 1993)   Disbursements
Equipment,                 .60                1.31                .64
vehicles, furnishings
Materials, medical        4.09                3.72                .58
supplies
Consultants, expert       1.29                1.29               1.02
services, trainingz
Studies, research          .60                .12                 .03
Operating costs,           .50                1.31                .63
excluding salaries
Refunding PPF              .30                .16                 .16
Unallocated                .72                .19
TOTAL                     8.10                8.10               3.06
Note: Actual disbursements shown are slightly lower than totals in other tables because of
difficulties in applying consistent exchange rates among SDR, dollar and local currencies
and an exchange rate loss to the Credit Account of SDR 85,848.61 (about $112,156)
because of the depreciation of the dollar against the SDR over the course of the Credit.
Table 5(b): Project Financing Plan (Appraisal Estimate) - (US$ '000)
Source            Local Costs      Foreign Costs         Total
Government of Zaire           1,670                               1,670
IDA                            500             7,600              8,100
Other donors                   300             10,170            10,470
Beneficiaries                 1,660                               1,660
TOTAL                        4,130             17,770           21,900
Parallel financing from other donors included Belgium $1.5 million, Italy $1.2 million, Germany
$0.6 million, USAID S1.7 million, EEC $2.0 million, UNDP $1.0 million, UNICEF $1.5 million
and WHO $1.0 million.



Part 3: Statistical Information                                       25
Table 6: Project Results
Note: This project was a pioneering effort by the World Bank to assist countries in the
relatively uncharted strategies of fighting the new epidemic of AIDS. Outcome indicators
were not specified at the time of appraisal but were to be developed in collaboration with
the WHO/Global Program on AIDS. The project was seen as an initial three and one-half
year effort to help Zaire jump start its AIDS control program which would eventually
provide long-tern health, social and economic benefits. The SAR suggests a number of
short-term benefits, which although not quantified, are evaluated as of early 1994 in the
table below.
INTENDED BENEFITS                           RESULTS
Protecting vulnerable groups through  The Ministry of Education readily allowed
intersectoral collaboration between the  AIDS awareness sessions for young
Ministries of Health and Education and  people to be given by trained instructors.
lEC targeted to children and IEC and
condoms for other high risk groups.
Rationalizing control measures to develop  *  Streamlining of the diagnostic process;
cost-effective packages of AIDS control   * establishment of notification criteria;
interventions, integrate them into health    * selection of transfusion criteria to limit
and social programs, and monitor their   blood donations and improve blood-
impact on target groups.                 supply safety.
Developing NACP's Institutional       Meetings of executing agencies (mostly
Framework, strengthening managerial   NGOs which submitted programs).
structure, establishing coordinating
mechanisms, and balancing government
and NGO roles in AIDS control.
Establishing financing mechanisms to  Consultations on rate schedules that would
ensure financing, integrate AIDS control   make services accessible but ensure system
in Public Expenditure Program, develop    viability (tests through transfusion
cost recovery mechanisms, and establish    centers).
risk and cost sharing mechanisms at the
community level.
Understanding the epidemic's          Compilation of surveillance data on AIDS
physiological and behavior parameters and  cases and blood tests 1985-1993.
epidemiological trends, through various
studies.



26                  Zaire: National AIDS Control Program Assistance Project
Table 7: Status of Covenants (as of October, 1993)
SECTION           DESCRIPTION OF                      STATUS
COVENANT
3.01 (a)     Commitment to objectives; carry    Lack of practical actions and
out project with due diligence and  implementation years behind
in conformity with appropriate  timetable ran counter to original
practices; provide resources   govemment commitment to
required.                      objectives; counterpart funds not
available; climate very difficult due
to political chaos and economic
decline.
3.01 (b)     Carry out project in accordance  Only partial achievement of
with Implementation Program in    planned outputs and much delay in
Agreement.                     many of those outputs
accomplished.
3.01 (c)     Establish project account in which   Account established, however
it shall deposit quarterly amount    regular and adequate counterpart
required for following three   funds not deposited. Funds not
months.                        accessible because of liquidity
shortage.
3.01 (d) (i)   Establish and maintain Joint  Joint Committee never established.
Committee to monitor external
resources, prepare financing plan,
monitor implementation and
evaluate progress.
3.01 (d) (ii)   Establish and maintain       First and only Implementation
Implementation Committee to    Committee meeting held was in
review and revise as appropriate    October 1992.
objectives, strategies, program and
budgets.
3.03         Furnish by October 31, a plan of    Some workplans submitted,
operations for coming year.    although late. 1993 workplan
prepared but of limited value given
country situation.
3.04         Furnish by October 31, progress    Only 1 report prepared, for
report on preceding year.      October 31, 1992; submitted on
May 27, 1993.
4.01 (b) (i)    Have records and accounts audited  Complied with through 1992.
each year.                     _
4.01 (b) (ii)   Provide copy of audit no later than  Latest audit, on 1992 accounts,
_l__     _    six months after end of year.   submitted in July 1993.



Part 3: Statistical Information                                      27
SECTION           DESCRIPTION OF                      STATUS
COVENANT
4.01 (b) (iii)  Furnish other information on  Complied with.
records, accounts and audit as
requested.
4.01 (c)     Maintenance, retention,         Complied with, although all
examnination and auditing of   records destroyed in January 1993
financial records.             looting of BCC/SIDA offices.
4.0 2        Furnish by September 30, a three-  Not complied with.
year rolling program for public
expenditures in the health sector.
5.01 (a)     Deposit of $125,000 into Project   Complied with.
Account.
5.01 (b)     Specialist in management of public  IDA agreed that WHO advisor
health programs nominated Deputy  would fili his role. Incumbent was
Director of BCC.               transferred.
5.01 (c)     Satisfactory accountant appointed   Accountant with limited
as Chief Accountant of BCC.    competence imposed on BCC by
Secretary General of Health.
Table 8(a): Use of Bank Resources - Staff Inputs (in Staff Weeks)
Stage of      Planned        Revised          Final
Project Cycle
Before                                             11
Appraisal
Appraisal                                         29
through Board
Approval
Board                                              12
Approval
through
Effectiveness
Supervision         92             85             49
TOTAL                                            101
Note: The stages in the table above do not correspond neatly to the categories listed in
the Bank's computerized timetable records, e.g. there is no category for board approval
through effectiveness. In the above table, FY 1989 time of 18 staff weeks described as
supervision in the records is divided arbitrarily as 12 SW prior to effectiveness and 6 SW
to supervision, based on the timing of field missions.



28                   Zaire: National AIDS Control Program Assistance Project
Table 8(b): Use of Bank Resources - Missions
Stage of              No. of   Days  Specializations  Performance   Types of
Projecl     Date    Persons   Field    Represented        Rating       Problems
Cycle           Field                      ~~~~~~~~~Status
Appraisal       2/88      2         20  PHS, WLD
Bd.          9,10/88      2
approval
thru
effectiveness
t,         11/88      1              ED
Post- EFF.    6,7/89      2              PHS
I'          2/90      1              PHS                     2
it___      10/90      1          4  PHS                             CPF, PR
I"        12/90       1    1         1
2/91
5/91      2          6  PHS
8,9/91      1          2  PHS                     2
9/92      2         10  PHS,IS                  2       CPF,PR
o          11/92      1          2  PHS                      2      CPF,PR
=_______  6/93     1         5  PHS                      3       CPF,PR
I_______ L 9/93            1          4 4|PHS                    3       DS,F,PR
Codes for Specializations:   EC    economist
ED   =  education
PHS  =  public health specialist
S    =  implementation specialist
WID =  women in development
Codes for Types of Problems: CPF  =  counterpart funds
DS   =  disbursements suspended
F    =  financial
PR   =  procurement












IMAGING
Report No:      14743
Type: PPAR



