E806
October 2003
TURKEY EFIL II PROJECT
SUB-PROJECT AND SUB-BORROWER ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW PROCEDURES
I. Background
1.    All sub-loans to be financed under the EFIL II should be subjected by PFIs to an
environmental review process incorporating the procedures described in this section. The PFIs
should use these procedures in reviewing and appraising sub-borrowers/sub-projects, and to
inform Beneficiary Enterprises of environmental requirements for sub-loan appraisal, so that
sub-projects can be implemented in an environmentally sound manner. These procedures and
requirements incorporate the Republic of Turkey's regulatory requirements for Environmental
Review (Regulation on Assessment of Environmental Impact (ER) published in Official Gazette
No:23028 and dated June 23rd,1997, as supplemented by Article 10 of Environmental Act
No:2872 dated August 9th, 1983).
2.    The procedures essentially consist of Environmental Screening, Environmental Impact
Assessment, and Environmental Mitigation where necessary. The Environmental Screening will
be carried out by the PFIs at an early stage in their sub-loan review procedures to determine the
appropriate environmental risk category for the sub-borrowers/sub-projects, and may require the
contracting of external expertise. Following screening, an Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) in line with the environmental classification of the sub-borrower/sub-project will be
recommended. The sub-borrowers will be responsible for carrying out any environmental
analysis and for confirming that the proposed sub-projects comply with national environmental
guidelines, and for obtaining the necessary clearance from the appropriate licensing authorities.
Once the analysis is performed and recommendations incorporated into the sub-project, the PFI
will appraise the proposed sub-loan package which would include, where appropriate, an
environmental mitigation plan. The implementation of the mitigation plan will be monitored by
the PFI. The overall review process will be monitored by the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU). The environmental screening process and responsibilities of key parties are described in
detail below.
II. Environmental Screening Categories
3.    Environmental Screening is the first step in the environmental due diligence process of
reviewing the sub-loan application to determine the environment risk category of the sub-
borrower/sub-project and identifying the type of EIA that will be required. Each sub-loan
application package submitted by the PFIs to the PIU should include an environmental screening
form (Appendix VI.C), of which there are two parts, the first half to be completed by the
sub-borrower and the second to be completed by the PFI. The environmental screening form
will summarize the nature of the sub-borrower/sub-project and the screening category. I f an
EIA is required, a description of the relevant aspects addressed by the assessment including an
indicative timetable for the preparation of the assessment (integrated into the preparation of the
sub-project) should be provided. The form will also provide a section to indicate an estimated
cost of the environment analysis.
4.     Sub-borrower/sub-project environment screening categories (I, II ,III & IV) are defined
as follows, with examples of sub-borrowers/sub-projects likely to be included under each
category listed in Appendix VI.B.
A   1


﻿Category I (low risk): These would include sub-borrowers/sub-projects whose environmental
impacts are expected to be negligible, for which no EIA would be required. These can
generally be described as sub-borrowers/sub-projects which do not belong to categories II,
III and IV.
Category II (intermediate risk): These would include sub-borrowers/sub-projects whose
environmental impact is certified as negligible by report given by the LEA. This category
also includes sub-borrowers/sub-projects which may have intermediate levels of regular and
accidental emissions. A pre-EIA (simpler form EIA) would be recommended in these cases,
which may simply require specifying well-defined mitigating measures and adopting
accepted operating practices.
Category III (high risk): These would include sub-borrowers/sub-projects which may have
highly significant, negative and/or long-term environmental impacts, the magnitude of which
are difficult to determine at the sub-project identification stage. A full EIA (in-depth EIA)
would be prepared by the sub-borrower in parallel with the techno-economic feasibility
study of the sub-project. The costs of the mitigation measures would be included in the EIA
and incorporated in the feasibility study.
Category IV: Comprises sub-borrowers/sub-projects which would include the production and/or
use of materials (listed in the related section of Appendix VI.B) which will not be financed
by the IBRD.
III. Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
5.    An EIA is a process conducted by the sub-borrower to identify, predict, evaluate, and
mitigate the environmental impacts and risks which may arise from the proposed sub-project.
The purpose of the EIA is to recognize environmental impacts/consequences early in the sub-
project preparation process, so that they can be incorporated into the sub-project design. EIAs
identify ways of improving sub-projects environmentally by minimizing, mitigating or
compensating for adverse impacts. An EIA would also describe the steps that were taken for
public consultation.
6.    A pre-EIA would be required for Category II type sub-borrowers/sub-projects where the
potential for negative impacts are localized, easily identified and the required mitigating actions
are well-known and easily prescribed.
7.    A full EIA would be required for Category III type sub-borrowers/sub-projects in which
there is potentially long term or irreversible impacts of unknown extent. They would include
regular emissions as well as the potential risk of accidental releases. Each EIA will have to be
publicly disclosed on the TSKB's website at www.tskb.com.tr once a sub-project is approved by
TSKB and the Bank
8.    The scope of the EIA will vary widely depending on the nature and location of a sub-
borrower/sub-project; thus, it is difficult to give clear guidance on the length of time required
for an EIA or the associated costs. The preparation and financing of the EIA, including the role
of public participation, is the responsibility of the sub-borrower and normally closely linked to
the feasibility study of the proposed activities.


﻿IV. Environmental Review Process (Role of PIU, PFIs and IBRD)
9.    All sub-borrowers/sub-projects will follow the environmental review process presented
schematically below.
STEP 1: The sub-borrower prepares an initial sub-project concept.  Following informal
discussion with the PFI, in which the PFI alerts the sub-borrower of its environmental
assessment requirements, the sub-borrower prepares Part A of the environmental screening
form (Annex B) and includes this with the initial sub-project concept. At this time, it is the
responsibility of the sub-borrower to initiate discussions with the LEA in order to fulfill any
local and national environmental review requirements (such as investment incentive
certificate and/or other official approval/permits). It will be the responsibility of the
sub-borrower to obtain the appropriate permits and licenses as required by national law in
order to facilitate the clearance process with the local LEA. These requirements are
considered separate, but parallel, to those presented here and satisfying them is the
responsibility of the sub-borrower.
STEP 2: The PFI screens the sub-project and informs the sub-borrower of the EIA category prior
to appraisal and subsequent follow-up requirements for sub-loan processing.
STEP 3: The sub-borrower, or its consultants, submits the environmental analysis (if applicable).
The sub-borrower will obtain a positive EIA report, given by the relevant LEA, in
conformity with applicable Environmental Regulations for the activities listed in Category II
and III of Appendix VI.B.
STEP 4: T he P FI reviews t he environmental analysis that has b een submitted a nd reports i ts
findings to the sub-borrower. The PFI provides its clearance once the analysis is judged to
be satisfactory.
STEP 5: The sub-borrower incorporates the recommendations provided in the analysis into the
sub-project design and implementation plan, including associated estimated costs.
STEP 6: The sub-borrower finalizes the sub-loan application p ackage, including the relevant
environmental documentation, and submits it to the PFI for its appraisal.
STEP 7: The sub-loan becomes effective upon verification of the LEA approval and clearance,
which can be obtained at any step in the sub-project preparation cycle.
STEP 8: The sub-borrower submits the clearance letter of the LEA to the PFI.
STEP 9: The PFI monitors the implementation of the EIA mitigation plan and informs the PIU.
10.   Prior and Post-Review - IBRD/PIU. Environmental evaluations and review procedures
will b e subject to ad-hoc review by the PIU and IBRD supervision missions. The review o f
evaluations will ensure that: the work was of satisfactory quality, community participation took
place when a ppropriate, t he appropriate r ecommendations w ere m ade, a 11 d ocumentation w as
properly filed and recorded, and that t he c onditions o f approval by t he 1 ocal LEA were m et.
During EFIL II implementation, IBRD missions will supervise the overall screening process and
implementation of environmental recommendations for selected sub-borrowers/sub-projects.


﻿The IBRD supervision team will also review, ad-hoc, environmental documentation. Therefore,
all this documentation should be kept on file with the PFIs and forwarded to the PIU as needed.
11.   Environmental Documentation. The PFIs need to include the following environmental
documentation in sub-loan application packages they submit to the PIU:
Table 1
Environmental            Environmental Documentation to be included in
Category                       Sub-loan Application Package
Category I           Environmental Screening Form (Appendix V.B)
(Investment Incentive Certificate and/or other official
approval/permits if applicable)
Category II          Environmental Screening Form (Appendix V.B)
Positive Pre-EIA statement from related LEA
Pre-EIA report
Category III         Environmental Screening Form (Appendix V.B)
Positive Full EIA statement from related LEA
Full EIA report
Schedule for Implementation of EIA recommendations


﻿V.5 Environmental Review Process Flow (*)
- Prepares Initial Project Concept
(1) - Satisfies Environmental Certification Requirements (Investment Incentive
certificate or other official approval/permits)
- Presents the sub-project to PFI for category screening
CATEGORY I                   (2)                                                        (2)         o    CATEGORY IV
Projects can proceed                                           Projects not to be
financed
without an EIA
CATEGORY II           4        (2)                      (2)    Projects requiring a
Projects can proceed with a                 full EIA
Pre EIA
CATEGORY III
Review EIA, provides
Submit a positive EIA Report                               clearance or conditionality
V                      regarding respective category                                     for clearance
(3)(4
PF1
Review subloanInoprtsEArcmedin
documentation(ianreurdinosbpjcteig
and approves                                            adpeet tt        F
Enterprise                          (7)
Subloan is effective and is
monitored for environmental                               Submit the clearance letter of
compliance                                                LEA to PFI
PFI                                (9)
Provides PIU monitoring
Information
SThis process as depicted in the chart above is required for manufacturer, manufacturer-exporter


﻿Appendix A           Responsibilities of Key Participants
Participant                   Activity                      Supporting Documentation
Beneficiary   *   Submission of sub-project concept to PFI  *  Part A of environmental
Enterprise    *  Arrangement and financing of EIA          screening form
(sub-borrower)  *  Obtain required permits/licenses       *  Copies of permits, licenses
*  Obtain clearance from related LEA      *   Clearance statement
*  Implementing and financing of EIA      *  Periodic reports and sub-
*  Maintain files documenting EIA process    project completion report
and selection of expert                *  Files
Participating  *  Explain environmental screening of sub-  *  Include environmental
Financial       borrowers/sub-projects                    information with sub-loan
Institutions  *  Review of sub-loan application package     application
(PFIs)         for required environmental documentation  *  Environmental screening form
*  Maintain complete files of environmental  *  Documentation as in Table 1
documentation for review by the PIU and  *  Include environmental
IBRD                                      documentation in normal PFI
*  Monitoring compliance with mitigation     records
plans                                  *  Periodic monitoring reports
Project     *  Distribution of Operations Manual to PFIs  *  Include environmental
Implemen-     *  Verification that PFIs have followed EIA  category and EIA status in
tation Unit      procedures                                normal periodic reporting
(PIU)                                                    activities
Environmental   *  Review and clear sub-borrowers/sub-    *  Provide sub-borrower with
Official        projects according to national/local      clearance letter
Institutions     regulatory requirements                *   Issuance of appropriate
(National and  *  Issue permits and license requirement      documentation
Local EAs)       information
IBRD        *  Carry out prior and post reviews       *  Appendix B
*  Identification of problems/ issues and
proposal of solutions


﻿Appendix B        Examples of Sub-borrower/sub-project Categories
The following examples of sub-borrowers/sub-projects and their suggested
categorization are indicative only and will need to be reviewed throughout
EFIL II implementation to assess their appropriateness concerning the types
of sub-projects which are actually submitted to the PFIs. As it would be
impossible for this list to be exhaustive, sub-borrowers/sub-projects which
can not be identified as belonging to one of the categories below should be
brought to the attention of the PIU to transmit to the IBRD for further
guidance.
Category I Sub-borrowers/sub-projects (Low Risk)
This category includes the sub-borrowers/sub-projects which have no
environmental impacts and do not belong to categories II, III and IV. Some
examples of this category are:
1. Manufacture of wood products/small scale furniture manufacturing,
carving, crafting, etc.,
2. Small scale stone crafting,
3. Small scale meal fabrication and upgrading,
4. Small scale instruments and hardware manufacturing,
5. Software development and manufacturing,
6. Establishment and equipping of art, design and telecommunications
studios,
7. Purchase of computer equipment, and
8. Purchase of transportation equipment.
Category II Sub-borrowers/sub-projects (Intermediate Risk - Requiring
pre-EIA according to the ER)
1. Processing of intermediate product, and production and storage of every
kind of chemicals.
2. Petroleum, petrochemicals or chemical product depots (total storage
capacity more than 500 but less than 5.000 in3
3. Food and spirit industry
a) Slaughterhouses, facilities processing meat and meat byproducts
(1000 tons/year inclusive, up to 4000 tons/year live weight),
b) Facilities producing animal or vegetable oils,
c) Production of milk and milk products (capacity 5000 1/day and
above)
d) Beer or malt production facilities,
e) Alcohol spirits and beverage production facilities,
f)  Facilities producing and processing fresh water and marine
products, and
g) Canneries.


﻿4. Textile plants,
a) Synthetic yam, fiber factories
b) Individual finishing, dyeing, and sizing facilities,
c) Wool squeezing, oil removal and bleaching plants,
5. Industries where wood is subjected to chemical treatment, plywood, wood
veneer, and artificial wood factories,
6. Cement grinding, filling and packaging facilities,
7. Brick and roof tile factories,
8. Steel making,
a)  Facilities producing liquid steel scarp metal (those not included
in Category (III)
b) Rolling mills ( those not included in Category III),
c) Hot forgery and cold pressing facilities (those not included in
Category III),
d) Cast factories (those not included in Category III),
e) Facilities producing pipes (those not included in Category III),
9. Production and assembly of railway equipment, wagons and every kind
of railway vehicle,
10. Factories producing every kind of motors and engines,
11. Electronics and electromechanical facilities,
12. Coal and lignite briquette facilities,
13. Geothermal power production,
14. Kitchen gas and coke facilities,
15. Petroleum exploration and production activities, and
16. Mining activities: mine exploration and mining of the metals which are
covered by the Mining Law and not referred to in Category III, as well as
quarries which are specified in the S tone Quarries Ordinance and Salt
Water and/or ore preparation process.
Category III Sub-borrowers/sub-projects (High Risk - Requiring full
EIA According to the ER)
1. Refineries, gasification and liquefaction facilities,
a) Crude oil refineries (excluding those facilities producing
lubrication agents out of crude oil),
b) Facilities where coal or bituminous schist are liquefied or
gasified (500 ton/day or above)
2. Petrochemical complex
3. Tire producing factories (tire, tube, column, back rubber, plane tire, cord
cloth, etc.)
4. Those plants where agricultural herbicides and pesticides or
pharmaceutical products are produced,
5. Battery or cell producing factories,
6. Factories where flammable and explosive compounds are produced,
7. Petroleum, petrochemical or chemical product storage facilities (total
storage capacity is 5000 m3 and above),


﻿8. Integrated facilities producing chemical fertilizer and intermediate
fertilizer products,
9. Cement factories, clinker producing facilities,
10. Ceramic, porcelain, glass factories,
11. Textile or carpet factories with finishing, dyeing and sizing facilities,
12. Raw leather processing facilities (exclusive of those facilities producing
finished products from processed leather),
13. Cellulose and celluloid producing facilities, factories producing paper
pulp, and every kind paper,
14. Sugar factories,
15. Yeast factories,
16. Integrated meat facilities complete with slaughterhouses, side product
processing and similar facilities (4000 ton / year live weight and above),
17. Specialized industrial zones,
18. Manufacture and assembly of every kind of motorized vehicle,
19. Steel plants,
a) Integrated steel facilities producing raw product from ore,
b) Facilities producing liquid steel from junk material (Production
capacity 100.000 tons/year and above),
c) Rolling mills (production capacity 100.000 tons/year and
above),
d) Hot wrought and cold pressing facilities (production capacity
10.000 ton/year and above),
e) Cast factories (production capacity 5.000 tons/year and above),
f) Facilities producing pipes (production capacity 100.000
tons/year and above),
20. Non-ferrous metal production,
21. Thermal power plants,
22. Hydro-power plants,
23. Petroleum and gas pipelines (pipe diameter 600 mm and above),
24. Power transmission lines with a voltage of 154 kilovolts or above,
25. Bottom dredging (200.000 m3 and above),
26. Ship dismantling shipyards,
27. Shipyards,
28. Water supply activities with an annual underground water pumping
capacity of 10 million m3 and above, as well as water supply activities
with an annual surface water pumping capacity of 3 million m3
(exclusive of water storage facilities),
29. Mining activities, the licenses for which are obtained pursuant to Mining
Law no 3213,
a) Coal mines,
b) Ferrous metal mines,
c) Industrial metal mines for Boron compounds, Barite, Diatomite,
Phosphate, Sulfur, Fluorite, Zeolite, Calseon, Feldspar, Trona,
and trace soil elements,


﻿d) Every kind of ore enrichment facilities (except for simple ore
enrichment facilities such as crashing, sieving etc.),
30. Petroleum production activities at sea, and
31. Solid waste storage facilities (garbage disposal areas larger than 10
hectares, or with a storage capacity of more than 100 tons per day).
Category   IV    Sub-borrowers/sub-projects  ineligible  for  IBRD
financing/IBRD Negative List
1. Trade in wildlife and wildlife products prohibited under the CITES
convention,
2. Release of genetically altered organisms into the natural environment,
3. Manufacturing, distribution and sale of banned pesticides and herbicides,
4. Drift seine netting in the marine environment,
5. Radioactive products,
6. Hazardous waste storage, treatment and disposal,
7. Manufacturing of equipment and appliances containing CFCs, halons
and other substances regulated under the Montreal Protocol,
8. Manufacturing of electrical equipment containing polychlorinated
biphenyls (PCBs) in excess of 0,005 % by weight,
9. Manufacturing of asbestos-containing products,
10. Nuclear reactors and parts thereof,
11. Tobacco, unmanufactured or manufactured,
12. Tobacco processing machinery, and
13. Manufacturing of asbestos containing products.


﻿Appendix C: Environmental Screening Form
(a)     PART A: To be completed by sub-borrower
PFI:
Sub-project title:
Manufacturing Sector/Product:-
Brief description of sub-project (nature of project, sub-project cost, physical
size [site area, production per year, etc], existence of any property transfer, or
on-going operations, plans for expansion of operations or new construction,
potential estimated impact on production)
Preliminary environmental information (list of environmental documents
already available at time of screening)
PART B: (To be completed by PFI)
*          Screening Category:
*          Environmental issues apparent at screening (what environmental
issues are raised by the sub-borrower/sub-project)
*          Reason for screening category
*          Compliance with pollution control standards (discuss status of
compliance of current and planned operations)
*          Proposed mitigation (indicate measures to be taken to address
the environmental issues raised by the sub-borrower/sub-project, how
they may be incorporated into the sub-project design, and any potential
covenants)
*          Terms of Reference for environmental studies to be undertaken
(indicate s cope, time frame, and appropriate cost of any environmental
analysis required)
*          Community participation requirements (list any requirements
under national or local laws for the sub-borrower/sub-project sponsor to
inform, consult or involve the public, NGOs etc.)
*          Next Steps (list actions for the PFI, the sub-borrower, the
environmental consultant if any)
SIGNATURES
DATE
SUB-BORROWER
PFI LOAN OFFICER
ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENER:


