                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR0000610




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                    (IBRD-72130)




                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 303.10 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                   TÜRKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A..

                                      FOR THE

         SECOND EXPORT FINANCE INTERMEDIATION LOAN (EFIL II)




                                   January 4, 2008




Private and Financial Sector Development Department
ECCU6
Europe and Central Asia Region

            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective October 2007)

                  Currency Unit = TRY
                    1.00 = US$ 0.8515
                 US$ 1.00 = 1.174 TRY

                     FISCAL YEAR
                   January - December


        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BRSA         Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
EFIL         Export Finance Intermediation Loan
EIA          Environmental Impact Assessment
EU           European Union
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IEG          Independent Evaluation Group
ISRs         Implementation Status Reports
IT           Information Technology
LIBOR        London Interbank Offered Rate
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PDO          Project Development Objectives
PFI          Participating Financial Intermediaries
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
SAL          Structural Adjustment Loan
SME          Small and Medium Size Enterprises
TL           Turkish Lira
TSKB         Türkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi/Turkish Industrial
             Development Bank




           Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
         Country Director: Ulrich Zachau
          Sector Manager: Lalit Raina
      Project Team Leader: Lalit Raina
        ICR Team Leader: Steen Byskov

                                                   TURKEY

              Second Export Financial Intermediation Loan (EFIL II)

                                                CONTENTS
Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 B. Key Dates..................................................................
 C. Ratings Summary......................................................
 D. Sector and Theme Codes ..........................................
 E. Bank Staff..................................................................
 F. Results Framework Analysis.....................................
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ...................
 H. Restructuring (if any)................................................
 I. Disbursement Profile.................................................
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 7
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 11
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 12
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 14
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 15
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 16
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 17
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 22
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 23
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 25
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 26
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 27
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 33
 Annex 9: Financial Performance of Borrower and PFIs............................................... 34
 Annex 10. Distribution of loans by region, sector, and loan size................................. 37
 Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 38
 MAP

A. Basic Information
                                                                     Export Finance
Country:                Turkey                 Project Name:         Intermediation Loan 2
                                                                     (EFIL 2)
Project ID:             P082801                L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-72130
ICR Date:               02/08/2008             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     TURKIYE SINAI
Lending Instrument:     FIL                    Borrower:             KALKINMA
                                                                     BANKASI (TKSB)
Original Total
Commitment:             USD 303.1M             Disbursed Amount:     USD 303.0M

Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
TSKB
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process        Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/26/2003     Effectiveness:        03/19/2004       03/19/2004
Appraisal:             10/14/2003     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              01/13/2004     Mid-term Review:      07/01/2006
                                      Closing:              09/30/2009       09/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Highly Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Highly Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:           Highly Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory    Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Highly Satisfactory    Performance:          Highly Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)              Rating

                                               Quality at Entry
at any time (Yes/No):
Potential Problem Project No                   (QEA):                 None

Problem Project at any                         Quality of
time (Yes/No):            No                   Supervision (QSA):     None

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:  Highly Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                          35               35
Micro- and SME finance                                           35               35
Other domestic and international trade                           30               30


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Export development and competitiveness                         Primary          Primary
Other financial and private sector development                 Secondary       Secondary
Small and medium enterprise support                            Primary          Primary

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                       Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:         Ulrich Zachau                      Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:           Lalit Raina                        Khaled F. Sherif
Project Team Leader:      Steen Byskov                       Lalit Raina
ICR Team Leader:          Steen Byskov
ICR Primary Author:       Steen Byskov



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Project development objective

  (i)   Provision of medium and long-term working capital and investment finance to
private exporters, and contribute to further facilitating export growth in Turkey; and




                                              ii

  (ii)    Improvement in the quality, and safety of, and access to, finance through
development of financial intermediation in the Turkish private financial sector by banks
and leasing companies.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval         Target         Completion or
                                              documents)         Values          Target Years
                Financial intermediary participation as measured by the number of PFIs
Indicator 1 :  participating in the project and the number of PFIs different from those
               participating in the first EFIL.
                                                                              11 PFIs (5 banks
                                                                              and 6 leasing
Value                                      Five banks and                     companies)
quantitative or At least three banks and   three leasing                      participated, of
Qualitative)    two leasing companies      companies                          which all but 2
                                                                              banks were new
                                                                              relative to EFIL I.
Date achieved 12/04/2003                   12/31/2006                         10/01/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved well beyond target (38 percent above target based on the number of
achievement)    PFIs).

Indicator 2 :   Export multiplier: (incremental export/loans disbursed) - to be measured over a
               three year period
                                                                              The export
                                                                              multiplier for 2003
                                                                              to 2006 is 7.1.
                                                                              Exports by
                                                                              participating firms
                                                                              grew by 117
Value                                                                         percent from US$
quantitative or Not applicable             Not available                      2.1 billion in 2003
Qualitative)                                                                  to US$ 4.6 billion
                                                                              in 2006.

                                                                              For comparison,
                                                                              export growth for
                                                                              the country was 81
                                                                              percent in the
                                                                              period.
Date achieved 12/04/2003                   10/01/2007                         10/01/2007
Comments        Although a target was not set at approval, an export multiplier of 7.1 is a very
(incl. %       good achievement over a three year period.


                                                iii

achievement)
                Sub-loan payment performance as measured by the amount of non-performing
Indicator 3 :   sub-loans and leases; and interest and (/or) principal defaults/total amount of
               sub-loans and leases disbursed
                                                                               Non-performing
                                                                               ratio: 1.4 percent.

Value                                                                          For comparison,
quantitative or Not applicable             Not available                       non-performing
Qualitative)                                                                   loans amount to
                                                                               total loans in
                                                                               Turkey equals 3.7
                                                                               percent.
Date achieved 12/04/2003                   10/01/2007                          10/01/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Although a target was not set at approval, an NPL ratio well below the general
achievement)   NPL ratio in Turkey is very good.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Credit line utilization as measured by the amount of sub-loans disbursed to sub-
                borrowers
Value
(quantitative   US$ 0                      Disbursement of                     US$300 million
or Qualitative)                            US$210 million

Date achieved 12/04/2003                   06/30/2007                          06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        The credit line was fully disbursed two years ahead of projections, and thus
achievement)   disbursement was very successful.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                 DO                         IP                 Disbursements
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     06/17/2004            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      39.27
  2     12/19/2004        Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory                  160.50
  3     06/06/2005        Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory                  210.49
  4     04/14/2006        Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory                  270.65
  5     11/16/2006        Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory                  289.72
  6     07/17/2007        Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory                  303.03




                                                iv

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                             v

             1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background. A financial sector still recovering from the financial
crisis in 2001 and continuing macroeconomic volatility led to difficulties in accessing
investment finance for exporting companies. With uncertainty surrounding domestic
demand, exports were recognized as a driver of growth. Inflation remained high and
domestic currency financing was not realistic for investment needs, so dollar and euro
loans were the norm for investment finance. Firms and financial institutions were well
aware of the risks of taking on foreign currency long term finance, but exporting firms
were at least partially shielded from exchange rate risk and domestic demand conditions.

Rationale for Bank Assistance. The Turkish authorities requested the Bank to provide an
export credit line, which would be intermediated through the financial system and would
help fill the gap in medium- and long-term finance to private exporters. Notably, the
requested EFIL II project would largely maintain the design of its successful predecessor
EFIL I project that had provided a timely and focused response to the unmet demand
from banks and exporting companies for medium- and long-term funding, both during the
pre- and post-crisis periods. The credit line would help the financial sector further
develop its investment lending business by demonstrating that medium term lending can
be a viable business proposition while building the necessarily skills at PFIs to appraise
medium term loans.

Importantly, the Government of Turkey had demonstrated its commitment to policies and
strategies intended to revitalize Turkey's real sector and export-oriented industries in
particular, while the project was consistent with the FY04-06 CAS (R2003-0181)
objectives. The CAS noted that the process of crises recovery depended on revitalizing
the real sector suffering from a credit crunch. Its key priorities for the medium term
included completing the banking and financial sector reforms and revitalizing the real
sector by filling the gap in accessing credit facilities, supported by EFIL II.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The project specified the following PDOs:
    · Provision of medium and long-term working capital and investment finance to
        private exporters, and contribution to further facilitating export growth in Turkey;
    · Improvement in the quality, safety of and access to finance through development
        of financial intermediation in the Turkish private financial sector by banks and
        leasing companies.

To measure progress, the project designed the following performance indicators:
    · Export multiplier: incremental average aggregate annual exports generated
        (measured over 3 years for all sub-borrowers)/total credit line disbursed;



                                               1

    · Range of financial intermediaries participation: number of additional Participating
        Financial Intermediaries (PFIs) participating in EFIL II different from those in the
        first EFIL;
    · Sub-loan performance indicators: amount of non-performing sub-loans and leases;
        interest and or principal defaults/total amount of sub-loans and leases disbursed.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The PDOs did not change during the operation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries of EFIL II were Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFIs,
banks or leasing companies) and Turkish private exporting enterprises (exporters). TSKB
intermediated the credit line through PFIs to exporters.

The exporters would benefit from the provision of medium- and long-term working
capital and investment finance to make productive investments at a time of (i) increasing
demand for longer term credit as the economy was showing strong signs of rebounding
from a recent slump and export performance was on the rise; and (ii) inability by the
financial sector to support these trends with very much needed longer term finance at a
reasonable cost.

The PFIs would benefit from access to medium- and long-term funding to help them
expand their business in medium- and long-term lending and financial leasing1 (financial
leasing is hereafter just referred to as leasing) while reducing maturity mismatches that
lead to both interest rate risk and refinancing risk. In addition, the project's requirements
for compliance with banking and leasing regulations and financial covenants would help
ensure that the PFIs remain financially sound. The ultimate objective was to strengthen
and improve the ability of the Turkish financial sector to provide medium- and long-term
financial resources to the enterprise sector.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project had a single component, a credit line for exporters with the provision of
medium- and long-term funds through two distinct channels, or sub-components: (i)
commercial banks providing investment and working capital loans, and (ii) leasing
companies providing lease finance for acquisition of productive assets (equipment and
machinery).




1A financial lease, as opposed to an operating lease, is an arrangement in which
ownership is transferred to the lessee at the end of the lease period. Thus, a financial lease
is more similar to a loan than an operating lease. Operating leases by the leasing firms are
currently not permitted in Turkey.



                                               2

The credit line was provided by the Bank to TSKB, with a government guarantee to the
Bank, while TSKB passed it on in the form of subsidiary finance to PFIs for further on-
lending to eligible exporters. The structure of the credit line is summarized below in
Figure 1.

                                Figure 1: Structure of the EFIL II Credit Line

                                                     Government guarantees TSKB's
                                    IBRD             repayment to IBRD


                    IBRD extends credit            Government of
                    line to TSKB                       Turkey

                                    TSKB
                                                TSKB pays a guarantee fee
                                                to the Government
             TSKB extends subsidiary
             loans to PFIs


                                       PFI 1         PFI 2           PFI 3        ......... PFI 11

             PFIs extend sub-loans and
             leases to exporters


                Exporter 1      Exporter 2  Exporter 3    Exporter 4     Exporter 5......... Exporter n




At the level of PFIs, the project had originally allocated US$100 million to lease finance
and US$200 million to bank sub-loans.

1.6 Revised Components

The component was not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

No significant changes were made. Reallocations took place on two occasions between
the leasing and the banking channel, which on a net basis increased leasing allocations by
US$13 million and reduced the banking allocation with the same amount.


            2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project's preparation, design, and quality at entry were based on the following:

(i) Consistency with Bank and Government priorities. The project's design to fill the gap
for export enterprises in accessing credit facilities fitted closely the FY04-06 CAS for
recovery from the crises by revitalizing the real sector. The project similarly supported
the Government's principle objective of real sector recovery and growth.

(ii) Incorporation of lessons learned in the first EFIL project. Important lessons
incorporated in EFIL II were (i) project design should be kept as flexible as possible, with
minimum or no statutory requirements; (ii) use sensible financial indicators for the



                                                          3

selection of both the PFIs and exporters in line with established market practices; (iii)
avoid restrictive procurement requirements unsuitable for private sector borrowers,
proven to be a hindrance to expeditious project implementation; (iv) combine the
Borrower and Implementing Agency functions in one and the same entity for higher
quality and expeditious project implementation; and (v) pre-commit financial
intermediaries to borrowing a certain part of a credit line as an incentive to be quick and
effective in finding and financing eligible sub-projects, thus leading to quicker
disbursement of the loan.

(iii) Introduction of leasing in credit lines. The inclusion of leasing companies as
financial intermediaries was an innovative aspect of the project, not previously used in
World Bank credit line operations in the ECA Region. It helped: (i) reach smaller
exporters, which do not necessarily have access to bank loans, but are accessible by
leasing companies; (ii) assist the development of the leasing sector and thereby deepen
the financial sector; (iii) provide a vehicle for the World Bank to engage with the leasing
sector to identify development challenges.

(v) Decentralized decision-making and sound incentive structure. With TSKB carrying
the credit risk of and selecting PFIs, and PFIs carrying the credit risk of and selecting
exporters in the project, the choices of the participants in the project was made by the
entities best capable of identifying good financial intermediaries and firms. Qualitative
criteria set out in the project and monitored during supervision helped control that the
choices were made on a sound basis.

(vi) Identification of risks and associated mitigation measures. Risks included (i)
macroeconomic risk with a large government debt overhang and high current account
deficit; (ii) risk of delays in three state owned bank privatizations; and (iii) political risk,
and implementation risks. Mitigations included the Government's demonstrated
commitment to sustained economic and political stability and reforms; that the economy
had become more adaptive to negative shocks following the floatation of the currency;
and exporters' track record of resilience to macroeconomic instability demonstrated on
the occasion of the 2001 crisis. On the project level, the World Bank team had strong
confidence in the financial, institutional, managerial and technical capacity of TSKB,
which had experience in managing foreign credit lines, including those from the World
Bank.


2.2 Implementation

The strong capacity of TSKB was the most important factor in the successful
implementation of the credit line. TSKB implemented very streamlined Internet-based
loan processing procedures. It proactively monitored the performance of PFIs and, in
coordination with the PFIs and the Bank team, ensured that funds were allocated and re-
allocated to well-performing PFIs with demand for the funds, so the credit line continued
disbursement in a timely manner and with proper procedures in place for intermediating
the funds to exporters. Reallocations among PFIs included a shift towards leasing
companies reflecting rapidly increasing demand for medium term funds from the leasing



                                                4

industry. Another example of TSKB's responsiveness to the market conditions is that
TSKB renegotiating its lending rates to some of the already participating PFIs.

The project's implementation performance was successful in assessing credit risk with
exporters, with only two out of the 249 participating firms classified as non-performing
during the project's life time. One of the companies recovered leaving non-performing
loans standing at US$ 4.3 million or 1.4 percent of the total credit line as of October 2007.

Foreign ownership in the financial sector increased during the life of the Project and
supported the PDO, but at the same time it posed a threat to the project. Foreign
ownership of financial intermediaries helped them gain access to funds at lower costs and
thereby stimulated access to finance in Turkey. At the same time, however, it created a
more competitive environment for disbursing funds under the Project. TSKB proved its
responsiveness to the changing market conditions and renegotiated its lending rates with
some of the PFIs.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The project had a good monitoring and evaluation framework design, with the original set
of PAD indicators tracking performance at all stages of the credit line implementation.
This design was reinforced during the supervision mission by additional indicators for
tracking developmental impact and financial prudence.

The original indicators proposed in the PAD were on export performance, the scope of
financial intermediary participation, and on sub-loan/lease performance, (see section 1.2).
In addition, supervision missions monitored the following quantitative indicators (see
also qualitative impacts discussed in Section 3.2 and Annex 2): (a) planned employment
impact associated with the project, (b) financial performance of the Borrower and PFIs,
and (c) loan distribution by PFI, firm size, sector, and geographical location.

The indicators were effectively monitored. TSKB developed an IT system to interface
with PFIs for sub-loan applications and monitoring. Financial performance of TSKB and
the PFIs was monitored through independent auditors' reports and separate letters
confirming adherence to the eligibility requirements. TSKB performed occasional
consistency check and cross referencing for the data.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Procurement, financial management practices, and the environmental review process for
the operation were supported by the operational manual with guidance for TSKB and
PFIs. The well-developed operational manual and a diligent PIU helped ensure effective
implementation of safeguards and fiduciary compliance.

With regard to fiduciary compliance, all financial management aspects related to
implementation were satisfactory. TSKB had worked with the World Bank before and



                                              5

was very familiar with the Bank's fiduciary requirements related to procurement,
disbursements and applicable safeguards.

The financial soundness of PFIs was supported by improved banking and leasing sector
regulations, project requirements aligned with the regulatory environment, and an
incentive structure that ensured that borrower were effectively pre-screened and
monitored. Banking and leasing sector supervision has improved since the EFIL I
implementation period, and EFIL II ensured the soundness of PFIs through (a) a
prudential regulation compliance certificate; and (b) independently audited IFRS
financial reports. For leasing companies separate eligibility requirements were applied
and compliance was assessed based on quarterly project implementation reports, semi-
annual external auditor compliance certificates, and annual external audit reports of the
participating leasing companies. During project implementation, supervision of the
leasing sector was strengthened as the supervisory responsibility was transferred from the
Turkish Treasury to the independent regulator, BRSA. In addition, since TSKB carried
the credit risk of PFIs, it had strong incentive to pre-screen and monitor PFIs to ensure
that they are financially viable institutions.

Environmental protection procedures were effectively implemented at TSKB and PFIs.
Detailed procedures were designed in the operational manual. The majority of the
approved sub-loans were classified as having negligible environmental impact and not
needing an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), whereas two sub-borrowers were
required to provide an EIA and be monitored. Some projects were rejected during loan
the approval procedure based on environmental standards of loan applicants.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

EFIL II was designed to enable participants to continue the activities independent of the
project on a commercial basis as the Turkish financial sector's access to medium and
long term funding increases, and this has been partially achieved. The financial sector's
access to medium term finance has improved, but deposits in Turkey remain short term,
and syndicated loans are still mostly of 1-2 years maturity. TSKB has built lending
relationships and experience with PFIs. PFIs have expanded their client base and honed
their skills in making medium- and long-term credit. They have used the loan to
demonstrate that medium term lending can be a profitable business proposition. Exporters
have built a credit history with financial intermediaries and improved their financial
records and documentation required for bank loans, thus improving their ability to gain
access to credit.

However, additional operations could help sustain the achievements of EFIL II and
expand the scale and scope of the development impact. In particular the following needs
remain relevant: (i) access to medium and long term funds; (ii) further development of
medium term lending skills; (iii) expansion of the scope of financial institutions included;
(iv) scaling up the project, which reaches only a small part of the exporting sector; (v)
better reach smaller firms, which still suffers from poor access to credit; and (vi) better




                                               6

reach borrowers outside major urban areas, which are experiencing relatively worse
access to credit as evidenced in the recently published Turkey ICA.

EFIL II has already been followed up with a repeater operation, EFIL III, and a credit line
for SMEs, the SME Access to Finance project. EFIL III includes new banks and leasing
companies as PFIs (relative to those included in EFIL I and EFIL II) and thereby expands
the scope of the financial intermediaries benefiting from the project. The SME Access to
Finance credit line supports smaller firms and has an additional regional objective to
serve an area in the central and eastern part of Turkey, where lending to SMEs is still
weak.

Additional needs remain (i) for medium and long-term finance to private exporters, (ii) to
further build capacity in the financial sector, (iii) to scale up the impact of the project, and
(iv) to better reach smaller firms and those with inadequate access to medium term funds.
Exports/GDP in Turkey remains low compared to some other emerging markets, and
with the proximity to EU and the customs union in place there is still ample scope for
expansion of export industries if their investments can be funded. For the leasing
companies the funding mismatch remains an even greater concern than in the banking
sector. Additional credit line financing should be considered to build on the success of
the past and ongoing projects.


                               3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objective, design and implementation of the project remain highly relevant with
regard to Turkey's and the World Bank's development objectives. The CAS for FY04-
FY07 (a new CPS is underway, but not yet completed), aimed to improve the business
climate and identified export growth and stability of financial markets as key outcomes.
It identified increase in export capacity of enterprises financed through lines of credit as a
Bank Group benchmark. The Turkish Government in its development plan for 2007-
2013 includes competitiveness in export markets as a main objective and includes
improvement to the financial system as a key underpinning goal to achieve this.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The PDOs were very well achieved and ahead of time. The first PDO indicator was
overachieved, and the next two indicators showed better results than what should be
expected in Turkey.

Providing medium- and long-term working capital and investment finance to private
exporters. The credit line provided US$ 300 million worth of medium term financing for
exporters through 11 financial intermediaries. US$187 million was provided by 5 banks,
and US$113 million was provided by 6 leasing firms. The project thus added US$300
million worth of financial intermediation. This is equal to around 0.3 percent of total
domestic credit to the firm sector in Turkey, but it is a much larger part of investment


                                               7

finance in Turkey, which remains underdeveloped. The maturities of sub-loans and leases
were quite long with more than half the loans having maturities of four years or more
(Figure 2). The impact was well dispersed across 249 exporters in several industries and
geographic areas (see Annex 10) with some concentration in the Marmara region and in
the textile sector.

                                                    Figure 2: Maturity of Sub-loans and Leases
                                                 120


                       ses                       100
                          eald
                              an                  80

                                ans
                                                  60
                                   ub-losfo
                                           erb    40


                                              Num 20


                                                   0
                                                      <1Y  1Y-2Y 2Y-3Y 3Y-4Y 4Y-5Y 5Y-6Y 6Y-7Y 7Y-8Y
                                                                       Maturity of loan



The project reinforced the general trend of increased credit in Turkey. Bank loans grew
by 223 percent and leasing volume grew by 143 percent between 2003 and 2006 in
US$ terms. The growth continued in the first half of 2007 albeit at a slower pace.

Further facilitating export growth in Turkey. The export multiplier (measuring
incremental exports divided by loan amount) was 7.1 for the project meaning that for
every dollar of loan taken by an exporter, it increased exports by 7.10 dollars. Exports by
sub-borrowers in the project grew by 117 percent (or US$ 2.5 billion) between 2003 and
2006 and thereby reinforced the general trend of increasing exports. Turkish exports in
general expanded by a cumulative growth of 81 percent in US$ terms between 2003 and
2006. The strong export performance has been in spite of a tendency of appreciation of
the Turkish currency throughout the life of the project (Figure 3) and a strong growth in
domestic demand, which increased by 31 percent between 2003 and 2006 and thereby
creating an incentive for Turkish firms to become more inward-looking in their marketing.




                                                                       8

                          Figure 3: Turkish Currency has Appreciated in
                                                        Real Terms
                           Real Effective Exchange Rate Index, CPI-based
                        200

                        180

                        160

                        140

                        120

                        100

                         80

                         60

                         40

                         20

                          0
                            99        00        01        02        03        04        05        06
                              19        20        20        20        20        20        20        20

                                Dec       Dec       Dec       Dec       Dec       Dec       Dec       Dec

                       Source: Central Bank of Turkey.

Improving quality and safety of and access to finance through development of financial
intermediation in the Turkish private financial sector by banks and leasing companies.
Sub-loans and leases performed reasonably well with 1.4 percent being non-performing
relative to a 3.7 percent NPL ratio in the banking sector as of October 2007. Two of the
participating 249 exporters were classified as non-performing borrowers during the life of
the project, and one of them later recovered to performing status. The borrower and
participating financial institutions remained financially healthy during the operation with
one exception. One PFI incurred losses and had to increase provisions for pension
liabilities, which pushed the capitalization of the bank below the regulatory minimum.
The bank was subsequently recapitalized by its owners and is now in compliance with
banking regulations. The loans' concentration in the manufacturing sector and in the
Marmara region is explained by the overall exporters' concentration in this sector and
region. Within the manufacturing sector, a large share went to the textile sector (36.7
percent), which accounts for about 27 percent of Turkey's manufacturing exports2. The
concentration in this traditional Turkish export sector may reflect that these firms have
better track records to prove their creditworthiness than emerging industries with better
growth potential. It suggests that there is still room for developing good credit appraisal
practices for medium term financing.

Employment at participating exporters was planned to grow by 4,993 individuals as a
result of the projects financed by EFIL II3. At the time of sub-loan/lease application the



2 Including wearing apparel.

3 The employment impact is specific to the project for which the loan proceeds are
applied, but it reflects the planned impact at the exporter level rather than the actual
impact. During the loan application process borrowers were asked how many employees
they planned to add in connection with the investment for which they were borrowing,
and that is the basis for the data.



                                                                 9

exporters indicated what the planned employment impact of the project association with
the loan would be. Job creation was not an objective for the project when designed, but it
is an important objective for the World Bank and for Turkey, and it is therefore an
important added benefit of the project.

Furthermore, as Annex 2 further develops, the project had significant impact towards
achieving the PDO through indirect channels, namely (i) a demonstration and spillover
effect, with TSKB and the PFIs demonstrating that medium term lending can be a viable
business proposition; (ii) capacity building for TSKB (for example a new IT system to
process loan applications by PFIs through the Internet), PFIs (improving their skills in
making medium and long term credit through better credit appraisal and higher
documentation requirements) and exporters (improving formal documentation for gaining
access and getting credit), (iii) improved environmental practices of exporters and the
capacity of PFIs to assess environmental risks of borrowing companies.


3.3 Efficiency

The project was efficient in terms of generating exports. For every dollar of loan
extended, the exporters increased exporters by 7.1 dollar; and for every US$ 60,000
borrowed the exporters planned to add one employee (see also Annex 2 and section 3.2).

It is likely that the project had a causal effect on the outcomes although it cannot be
firmly proved. The alternative that the project merely crowded out private sector
financing does not seem plausible. First, there is very little financing of firms by leasing
firms and banks that have the long maturities offered in EFIL II, suggesting that there is
not a significant private market to crowd out. Second, a regression analysis showed that
firms that receive larger loans experienced greater export growth. Third, for instance
export growth and NPLs were benchmarked against and outperformed the rest of the
economy. The only way to firmly establish causality would be to benchmark against a
control group created by randomly rejecting loan applications from firms that had already
been approved by the PFI and TSKB ­ an experiment which is impossible in practice.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: HS ­ Highly Satisfactory
The development objectives of the operation were and remain highly relevant for
Turkey's and the World Bank's development agenda. The project overachieved on its
indicators, it did so efficiently and faster than planned, and it had additional positive
effects such as employment generation, improved environmental practices, capacity
building at financial intermediaries, and a demonstration effect to develop medium term
financing.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development



                                               10

The project's impact on poverty is indirect as it helps firms grow and create employment.
At the macroeconomic level, the project supported expanding export activity, which
contributes to economic growth and social development. The employment impact of
creating about 4,993 jobs likewise has a positive social impact.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project helped strengthen leasing and bank project finance credit appraisal
procedures among the PFIs. Some PFIs, though not all, indicated that the credit appraisal
and documentation requirements under the project helped them upgrade their lending
practices and in some cases prepare for merger with international banks that required
some of the same processes. One leasing company was a new entrant when it started
participation in the EFIL II project and used the requirements as a starting point for
developing their credit appraisal processes.

TSKB built an Internet-based IT system to process sub-loan applications from PFIs,
which is being used in other projects. It allowed for an expeditious interaction with PFIs
for the approval of sub-loans and leases, and the structured IT system reduced the scope
for errors. PFIs found the interaction with TSKB very efficient, and the system
contributed to that. The IT system is also being used in the EFIL III project and is an
asset that will remain with TSKB.

The project improved the environmental practices of exporters and the capacity of TSKB
and PFIs to assess environmental risks of borrowing companies. The project's
environmental requirements dictated that either an Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) had to be submitted or an "EIA not required" certificate had to be provided. In
order to implement the requirement, the PFIs built capacity to assess environmental risks
and the effectiveness of mitigation at borrowing firms.

TSKB and PFIs have used the loan to demonstrate that medium term lending can be a
viable business proposition. This has been a crucial higher-level objective for the project,
aiming to ultimately encourage medium- and long-term credit by creating the market and
demonstrating its business rationale. This will further strengthen exporters' access to
investment finance in the future

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
None.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

No survey was done or workshop was held.


                  4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

Rating: Moderate
Risks to the project outcomes encompass general country risks, risks to financial
intermediation, export performance, and project specific risks. General risks include


                                             11

political risk, natural disasters (the Istanbul region, which is the hearth of commercial
activity in Turkey, is earthquake prone), the war in neighboring Iraq, international
financial market turbulence, and macroeconomic mismanagement all of which have
happened in the past. Specific export sectors could be affected by changes in the
international competitive environment. For instance the textile sector could see declining
prices as China and India continue to grow their capacity. The project aims to improve
the domestic financial sector's resilience to shocks, but otherwise these factors are
beyond the control of the project.

Project specific risks include the future performance of TSKB, the PFIs, and the sub-
borrowers. TSKB's financial performance has been monitored during supervision
missions and the bank remains sound. Its liabilities have long maturities making the bank
fairly resilient to financial turbulence (Annex 9 provides additional information on the
financial performance of TSKB and the PFIs). PFIs, likewise, have been monitored
during supervision for their financial health and with one exception (see section 3.2)
found to be performing well. Non-performance on the loan obligations by exporters may
well happen as it has twice in the project. The aggregate export performance of the sub-
borrowers, however, will not be materially impacted by a few non-performing firms
because the project is disbursed across 249 different firms, and as a group they are
unlikely to pose a risk for the projects outcomes.

                                                        Box 1: IEG Lessons from World Bank
   5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER                   Lines of Credit
                  PERFORMANCE                           In 2006, IEG produced an evaluation of
                                                        lines of credit and found the following
                                                        characteristics to be associated with
5.1 Bank Performance                                    better outcomes:
                                                        i)   stable macroeconomic conditions;
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at             ii) stronger financial sectors, including
Entry                                                        satisfactory competition policies
Rating: S - Satisfactory                                     and good legal and regulatory
The project's identification and design were                 regimes governing financial

compatible with the CAS, the project built on                institutions, and mostly market
                                                             determined interest rates, few
the lessons learned the first EFIL, and it was               distortionary credit and tax policies,
consistent with the Government's development                 and limited state ownership of
strategy for the sector as also noted in section             financial institutions;
2.1.                                                    iii) use of clear eligibility criteria in the
                                                             selection of participating financial
                                                             institutions; and
Importantly, the project had the benefit of             iv) use of only private sector financial
learning from a predecessor operation, the first             intermediaries.
EFIL, and it was able to refine the project to          In addition, smaller size of lines of credit
ensure a successful implementation. A                   is associated with lower cancellation

particular strength was the development of a            rates.

detailed operational manual, which helped               Source: Independent Evaluation Group
ensure that the project was implemented                 (2006), "World Bank Lending for Lines
effectively and that the PIU was following bank         of Credit: An IEG Evaluation", The
procedures.                                             World Bank, Washington, DC.




                                               12

The project design was well aligned with the later published IEG (2006)
recommendations for lines of credit (Box 1): (i) the macroeconomic environment was
stabilizing with inflation reaching single digit levels in 2004, although clear
vulnerabilities remained; (ii) banking sector reforms (supported by World Bank SALs)
were substantially progressing in improving the regulation of the banking sector; (iii)
clear eligibility criteria for PFIs were identified in the PAD; and (iv) only private
intermediaries were used (the Government was guarantor for TSKB's financial obligation
to the World Bank, but not directly involved in implementation). Notably, the loan was
disbursed quickly although the loan size was relatively large.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: HS ­ Highly satisfactory
Effective supervision by the World Bank team helped ensure a successful project by
responding to Borrower needs and by being proactive in addressing implementation
hurdles on the horizon, which the team collaborated with TSKB to overcome. TSKB in
its feedback highlights the importance of effective collaboration with the World Bank
team. Moreover, development results were effectively monitored and the supervision
expanded the scope of measurement to include for instance employment, which is a key
development priority, and geographical and sectoral dispersion of the loans.

Importantly, the quality of supervision has resulted in the institutionalization of best
practices for TSKB and participating PFIs. TSKB's lending practices improved in
sophistication and efficiency, including an IT system to expedite sub-loan processing,
while PFIs benefited from building institutional capacity in assessing credit risk for
medium term financing and managing environmental risks.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: HS ­ Highly Satisfactory
Based on the above, the overall Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry and quality
of supervision is Highly Satisfactory toward achieving the development outcomes.


5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: HS ­ Highly Satisfactory
The Government's performance was Highly Satisfactory. Not only did the Government
take the credit risk of TSKB by providing a guarantee, but throughout the life of the
project the Government has been very supportive of the World Bank credit line project
with TSKB. Prudent macroeconomic policies and strengthening of the supervisory
framework also contributed to the success of the project. The regulatory framework was
substantially strengthened in part as supported by a new banking law and in part with the
transfer of supervisory responsibility of the leasing industry from the Turkish Treasury to
the BRSA. Although Government's direct role in a credit line project with the private
sector is relatively small, it has been a critical and very positive role.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance


                                               13

Rating: HS ­ Highly satisfactory
The performance of the Borrower and implementing agency, TSKB, was Highly
Satisfactory. TSKB pro-actively supported PFIs implementation, effectively performed
its responsibilities, developed an IT system to help interaction with PFIs and project
monitoring, and reacted swiftly to changing market conditions by reallocating funds
between PFIs and renegotiation costs to PFIs with foreign participation. PFIs voiced only
praise for TSKB during the ICR mission except for the unanimous (and expected)
complaints about pricing. In addition, monitoring data was promptly produced and
utilized in decision-making.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: HS ­ Highly Satisfactory
Based on the above, the overall Borrower performance is rated Highly Satisfactory.


                                   6. LESSONS LEARNED

In addition to lessons learned from EFIL I as described in Section 2.1, EFIL II offers the
following lessons:

Simplicity and alignment with existing business practices at PFIs speed up the
implementation of the project. Eligibility constraints and reporting requirements that go
beyond what PFIs normally require increases transaction cost of the project, slows
implementation, and may have a tendency to shift funds to firms with relatively better
access to finance. The application process for individual loans and leases reportedly
required about twice the amount of manpower compared to normal lending practices. A
solution may be to rely on existing credit appraisal practices at PFIs to a greater extent.

Onerous environmental, procurement, and other project requirements tend to lead to
funds being allocated to larger businesses rather than reaching those that need them
most. The fixed costs incurred by these requirements make it relatively more attractive
for PFIs to lend the loan funds to larger customers with greater loan sizes. PFIs
indicated that project requirements made it uneconomical to cater to the smallest
borrowers. For leasing companies, loan sizes under the project were roughly twice what
they were for the leasing companies' entire portfolio indicating that bigger firms are
targeted in the project. Reevaluating our safeguard requirements in the context of credit
lines and carefully designing our information requirements to minimize compliance costs
while serving the safeguard objectives will help ensure successful implementation and
better achievement of the development objectives.

Responsiveness to changing market conditions reduces implementation delays. During
the project, loan funds for two banks in the project became uncompetitive and would not
have continued to disburse. Prompt reallocation to other PFIs ensured that the overall
project was not delayed as a result.




                                             14

7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The borrower, TSKB's, ICR is included in Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

The following is a summary of the main points put forward by participating PFIs in
written feedback and during interviews in the ICR mission.

· The project has been successful in achieving its objectives by helping (i) PFIs grow
    their business; (ii) PFIs extend maturities of liabilities; (iii) increase awareness and
    expertise on environmental issues.
· The credit line cost to PFIs become expensive towards the end of the implementation
    period. Most, although not all, PFIs indicated that the price of the credit line had
    become high relative to other funding sources and in particular as price competition
    in the financial sector had become stronger.
· It would be desirable to simplify credit appraisal requirements and to simplify the
    application process. PFIs indicated that the time spent on applications under this loan
    was roughly twice the time for loans funded by own sources.
· Obtaining environmental documentation from small firms was difficult. The smaller
    the firm, the more likely it is to find it difficult or not worthwhile obtaining
    environmental documentation required under the project.
· It would be desirable for PFIs to have a fixed (as opposed to variable) interest rate.
    In particular leasing companies found that a fixed interest rate in the loan would help
    them manage interest rate risks. Leasing contracts are at fixed interest rate, and some
    leasing companies used interest rate swaps to hedge the interest rate risks resulting
    from the variable rate lending from TSKB.
· Including the tourism industry as an export industry would help implementation.
    Firms in the tourism industry were not eligible as exporters although tourism services
    to non-residents are exports (by economic statistics definitions). There is strong
    demand for investment lending in the tourism industry, and several PFIs indicated
    that inclusion of tourism would have helped implementation of the project.




                                                15

                         ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                 Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                      Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)   Estimate (USD
                                                         millions)          Appraisal


Total Baseline Cost                            0.00               0.00

Physical Contingencies                         0.00               0.00               0.00

Price Contingencies                            0.00               0.00               0.00
Total Project Costs                            303.1            303.01              100%
Credit Line                                    300.0
Unallocated                                     .069
Project Preparation Fund                        0.00              0.00                 .00
Front-end fee IBRD                             3.031              3.031             100%
Total Financing Required                       303.1            303.01              100%




(b) Financing

                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds              Type of      Estimate      Estimate   Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing     (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)     millions)
Borrower                                                   0.00          0.00          .00
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                          303.10        303.01       100%




                                            16

                               ANNEX 2. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT

This Annex summarizes the outputs that have been realized under the project. It
assesses quantitative output targets against those set out in the PAD, in addition to the
qualitative impact as assessed during supervision and by the ICR team.

The project had a single component, and the quantitative outputs are described
below and in Table 1 according to the development objective they supported:

(i) Provide medium- and long-term working capital and investment finance to private
exporters. Credit line utilization, as measured by the amount of sub-loans disbursed to exporters,
was highly successful with the credit line to private exporters in Turkey fully disbursed (US$ 300
million) by June 2007, two years ahead of projections. Financial intermediary participation, as
measured by the number of PFIs participating in the project and the number of PFIs different
from those participating in EFIL I, was high with 11 PFIs4 (5 banks and 6 leasing companies), of
which all but 2 banks were new relative to EFIL I. Thus, the project was successful in three
dimensions: (i) attracting broad participation from institutions different from those in EFIL I; (ii)
including leasing companies in addition to banks; (iii) including second-tier financial institutions,
i.e. those that have otherwise more difficult access to funding.

(ii) Contribute to further facilitating export growth in Turkey. Export growth impact, as
measured by the export multiplier (incremental export/loans disbursed) for participating firms
over a three year period, 2003 to 2006, was 7.15. In other words, for every dollar borrowed under
EFIL II, exports by participating firms grew by 7.1 dollars. Although establishing causality is
difficult, exports per se for the participating firms grew by 117 percent from US$2.1 billion in
2003 to US$4.6 billion in 2006, when, for comparison, export growth for the country as a whole
was 81 percent over the same period. A regression analysis showed that firms that receive larger
loans experienced greater export growth, and that the effect was stronger for investment loans
than for working capital loans.

(iii) Improve quality and safety of and access to finance through development of financial
intermediation in the Turkish private financial sector by banks and leasing companies. Sub-
loan payment performance, as measured by (i) the amount of non-performing sub-loans and
leases and interest and (/or) (ii) principal defaults/total amount of sub-loans and leases disbursed




4 Two of the participating banks merged during the operation, and they are counted as
separate banks in this report, because they originally participated as separate banks. In
TSKB's ICR in Annex 7, the two merged banks are counted as one. This explains why
TSKB reports 10 PFIs in Annex 7, and this Annex reports 11 PFIs.

5 The base year in the export multiplier is the calendar year before the first loan was
given except if it was given in the last quarter of the year. If the loan was given in the
last quarter of the year, the base year is the calendar year in which the loan was given.
The incremental growth is calculated according to 2006 data regardless of the base year.



                                                   17

has been very satisfactory. Only two borrowers were classified as non-performers6 with a total of
US$ 5.6 million worth of outstanding balance equaling 1.9 percent of the total disbursed amount.
One loan subsequently regained status as performing reducing the non-performing rate to 1.4
percent. For comparison, non-performing loans to total loans in Turkey equals 3.7 percent. The
financial performance of TSKB and PFIs was closely monitored during supervision through
reviews of audited financial statement. With one exception, all intermediaries remained sound
and well performing throughout the implementation period (Summary financial indicators are
provided in Annex 9). One PFI's capital fell below the regulatory minimum in 2006, but the
bank was recapitalized without intervention or Government support, but rather through capital
injection and a merger with another bank in 2006. The loan was broadly distributed across 249
firms with the largest individual loan amounting to 3 percent of the total project amount. The
loans were geographically concentrated in the Marmara region (73 percent), which includes
Istanbul (see Annex 10). The regions hosts a large share of Turkey's exporting industries and the
main offices of many firms operating throughout Turkey. In addition, the financial sector is
strongly concentrated in Istanbul, and therefore it is not surprising to see loan concentration in
that area. Loans were somewhat concentrated in the textile sector (36.7 percent) and in the basic
metals and fabricated metals sectors (21.8 percent). 50 percent of the loan volume was for loans
of more than $2.5 million. The level of big loans reflects that many big firms are also those that
export.

(iv) Contribute to employment (added during supervision). Employment has become the most
important development objective in Turkey, and supervision missions therefore collected data on
the planned employment impact of the projects, although this is not an objective of the project.
At the time of application, the exporter reported the number of employment they planned to add
as a result of the financing they received or project they undertook financed by the project. 4,993
individuals would be added to the 56,461 already employed by the exporters according to the
firms' plans.

In addition, EFIL II was designed to enable participants to continue activities
independent of the project on a commercial basis, thus adding a qualitative impact
dimension, assessed during supervision and by the ICR team:

(i) Demonstration and spillover effect. TSKB and PFIs have used the loan to
demonstrate that medium term lending can be a viable business proposition. This has
been a crucial higher objective for the project, aiming to ultimately encourage medium
and long-term credit by creating the market and demonstrating its business rationale. The
spillover effect is a longer-term goal, going beyond the scope of this ICR.

(ii) Capacity building. The project has had a considerable impact among (i) TSKB,
which has built lending relationships and experience with PFIs, and a new IT system to
process loan applications by PFIs through the Internet; (ii) PFIs, which have expanded
their client base and honed their skills in making medium- and long-term credit; (iii)
exporters, which have built a credit history with financial intermediaries and improved
formal documentation for gaining access to credit. Indeed, a large number of the PFIs


6 Non-performing loans are classified according to BRSA regulations in the sub-standard,
doubtful, and loss categories.



                                                 18

indicated that the credit appraisal and documentation requirements under the project
helped them upgrade their lending practices and in some cases prepared them for mergers
with international banks that required similar lending processes.

(iii) Improved environmental practices. The project has improved the environmental
practices of exporters and the capacity of PFIs to assess environmental risks of borrowing
companies. The project's requirements for environmental protection procedures went
beyond what the PFIs had in place and mostly required the exporters to obtain "EIA not
required" certificates from the local authorities.




                                             19

Table 1: Quantitative impact assessment
               Indicator and target                            Results as measured
Output: Provide medium and long term working capital and investment finance to private
exporters
Credit line utilization as measured by the amount  The credit line was fully disbursed
of sub-loans disbursed to sub-borrowers.           (US$ 300 million) by June 2007, two years
                                                   ahead of projections.
Financial intermediary participation as measured   11 PFIs (5 banks and 6 leasing companies)
by the number of PFIs participating in the project participated, of which all but 2 banks were
and the number of PFIs different from those        new relative to EFIL I.
participating in the first EFIL.
Output: Contribute to further facilitating export growth in Turkey
Measured by the export multiplier: (incremental    Exports by participating firms grew by 117
export/loans disbursed) - to be measured over a    percent from US$ 2.1 billion in 2003 to
three year period                                  US$ 4.6 billion in 2006.

The PAD and ISRs did not specify a target.         For comparison, export growth for the
                                                   country was 81 percent in the same period.

                                                   The export multiplier for 2003 to 2006 is
                                                   7.1.
Output: Improve quality and safety of and access to finance through development of
financial intermediation in the Turkish private financial sector by banks and leasing
companies
Sub-loan payment performance as measured by        Two borrowers defaulted with a total of
the amount of non-performing sub-loans and         US$ 5.6 million worth of outstanding
leases; and interest and (/or) principal           balance equaling 1.9 percent of the total
defaults/total amount of sub-loans and leases      disbursed amount. One borrower later
disbursed                                          regained status as performing thus reducing
                                                   the non-performing ratio to 1.4 percent as of
                                                   October 2007.

                                                   For comparison, non-performing loans
                                                   amount to total loans in Turkey equals 3.7
                                                   percent.
Financial performance of the Borrower and PFIs     With the exception of one PFI, which later
                                                   recovered, all financial intermediaries in the
                                                   project remained sound throughout the
                                                   project's implementation period. Financial
                                                   indicators are included in Annex 9.
Loan distribution                                  Loans are widely distributed among 249
                                                   entities with a maximum sub-borrower loan
                                                   size of 3 percent of the total project amount.
                                                   There is significant concentration in the
                                                   Marmara region (which includes Istanbul),
                                                   in part because exporting industries are
                                                   concentrated there, and possibly also
                                                   because the PFIs are headquarter in this
                                                   region. The textile industry, which



                                                20

                                             accounts for about 27 percent of Turkey's
                                             exports, accounts for 37 percent of the
                                             loans. Details are included in Annex 10.
Output: Employment (added during supervision)
Employment growth of participating sub-      The planned employment growth as a result
borrowers                                    of the project was 4,993.

The project did not specify a target for
employment growth.




                                           21

                     ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

At the level of exporters, which are the ultimate beneficiaries, economic and financial
analysis has not been conducted, but outcomes (export performance and planned
employment impact) have been measured (see Annex 2). There are 249 sub-borrowers in
the project, and it would not be practical to go beyond those measures for economic and
financial analysis considering that intermediaries already find it to be a significant cost of
the project to collect just the outcome measures.




                                              22

 ANNEX 4. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES



(a) Task Team members


           Names                       Title               Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                     Specialty
Lending
                                                                Team leader
Lalit Raina             Lead Financial Sector Specialist  ECSPF (preparation &
                                                                supervision)
Marius Vismantas        Financial Sector Specialist       ECSPF Team member
Marie-Renee Bakker      Lead Financial Sector Specialist  ECSPF Team member
Young Ok Hong           Program Assistant                 ECSPF Team assistant
Ahmet Gurhan Ozdora     Sr. Operations Officer            ECSSD Team member
Dilek Barlas            Senior Counsel                    LEGEC Legal
Rohit Mehta             Senior Finance Officer            LOAG1 Disbursement
Salih Kemal Kalyoncu    Procurement Specialist            ECSPS Procurement

Ayse Seda Aroymak       Sr. Financial Management Spec.    ECSPS Financial
                                                                Management
Supervision/ICR
                                                                Team leader
Lalit Raina             Sector Manager                    ECSPF (preparation &
                                                                supervision)
Steen Byskov            Financial Sector Specialist       ECSPF Team leader (ICR)
Nasreen Chudry Bhuller  Program Assistant                 ECSPF Team assistant
Ilias Skamnelos         Financial Sector Specialist       ECSPF Team member
Marius Vismantas        Financial Sector Specialist       ECSPF Team member
Irina L. Kichigina      Sr. Counsel                       LEGEM Legal
Ahmet Gurhan Ozdora     Sr. Operations Officer            ECSSD Team member

Ayse Seda Aroymak       Sr. Financial Management          ECSPS Financial
                        Specialist                              management

Zeynep Lalik Mete       E T Consultant                    ECSPS Financial
                                                                management
Furuzan Bilir           Operations Officer                ECSPS Disbursement
Salih Kemal Kalyoncu    Procurement Specialist            ECSPS Procurement




                                        23

(b) Staff Time and Cost


                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                                  USD Thousands
                               No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                        consultant costs)


Lending

  FY03                                  1.10                    6.99
  FY04                                 54.63                  309.43
  FY05                                  1.05                    1.35
  FY06                                   .03                    0.04
  FY07                                 --                       0.00
  FY08                                 --                       0.00
                        Total:         56.81                  317.81
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                 --                       0.00
  FY04                                  2.45                   22.00
  FY05                                 26.88                  135.42
  FY06                                 23.31                  123.97
  FY07                                 15.06                   73.70
  FY08                                  9.22                   -0.09
                        Total:         76.92                  355.00




                                   24

                     ANNEX 5. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS


No survey was conducted.




                                      25

           ANNEX 6. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS


No workshop was held.




                                 26

    ANNEX 7. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR


Below is the original ICR of TSKB.

1. Assessment of the operation's objective, design, implementation and operational
experience

1.1 Operation's objective

Primary objective of EFIL II was to provide medium and long-term investment finance as
well as working capital to private exporting enterprises (Beneficiary Enterprises).

The secondary objective of the loan was the further improvement in the ability of the
Turkish financial sector to provide financial resources to the enterprise sector, through
further development of intermediation by private financial institutions, including banks
and leasing companies.

The operation's main objective above all was to intensify the export volumes of Turkish
companies through very well structured financial intermediation scheme.

Evaluation of the results shows that the objectives of the operation were achieved.

1.2 Operation's design

Lending was done through six leasing companies and four private banks (PFIs)
throughout the loan utilization period. Leasing companies have not been financial
intermediaries in World Bank projects in Turkey before. The inclusion of leasing
companies as financial intermediaries is an innovative aspect of the project, not
previously used in World Bank credit line operations in the Europe and Central Asia
(ECA). The banks and the leasing companies that took part in the lending operations
were selected according to the eligibility criteria agreed between the Bank and TSKB.
TSKB took the risk of the PFIs selected for participation. The PFIs made the sub-loans to
private exporting enterprises for the financing of raw materials, spare parts, plant and
equipment, and works, both for working capital as well as investment purposes. The PFIs
took the credit risks of the borrowing enterprises. As of the closure of the facility, the
status of funds allocated and utilized by each PFI was:

PFI                                                     Amount (USD million)
Garanti Finansal Kiralama A..                                              37.00
TEB Finansal Kiralama A..                                                  20.00
Fortis Finansal Kiralama A..                                               19.30
Fon Finansal Kiralama A..                                                  17.50
Yapi Kredi Finansal Kiralama A..                                           13.34
Halk Finansal Kiralama A..                                                  5.99
Turk Ekonomi Bankasi A..                                                   42.00



                                             27

Yapi ve Kredi Bankasi A..                                                  73.30
Oyakbank A..                                                                  44
Fortisbank (Disbank) at the time of the loan                               27.55
agreement A..
Total                                                                    299.98

At the inception of EFIL II, four leasing companies (Garanti Finansal Kiralama A..,
Yapi ve Kredi Finansal Kiralama A.., TEB Finansal Kiralama A.., Fortis Finansal
Kiralama A.. (formerly Di Ticaret Finansal Kiralama) and four private banks
(Oyakbank A.., TEB A.., Fortisbank A.. (formerly Disbank), Koçbank A.. (later on
Yapi ve Kredi Bankasi A..) and Yapi ve Kredi Bankasi A.. signed Subsidiary Loan
Agreements (SLAs) with TSKB. The original breakdown of the facility among the PFIs
was USD 200 million for sub-loans and USD 100 million for lease financing. FFK Fon
Finansal Kiralama A.. and Halk Finansal Kiralama A.. entered the facility as PFIs
afterwards.

1.3 Operation's implementation

The implementation of the facility was swiftly carried-out by TSKB. The PFIs were
chosen according to the agreed criteria and the loan was committed to PFIs within a few
months after the signing of the loan agreement. Backed by the lessons learned from the
previous credit line operations (EFIL I) the process was improved during the
implementation period by TSKB.

In order to expedite a faster implementation of the project, a user friendly computerized
system was developed by the IT department of TSKB. With the aid of this time saving
system, paperwork lessened considerably. All the stages of sub-loan processing including
the submission and approval of the original sub-loan applications as well as disbursement
requests and disbursements of PFIs were done electronically. The computerized system
worked very satisfactorily and reduced the overall sub-loan processing cycle time. TSKB
demonstrated the functioning of the system to the PFIs before the implementation of the
project. The system was very much appreciated by the PFIs. All the PFIs were given
training about the system, the environmental requirements of the loan, project appraisal
and disbursement process. TSKB used its IT system at every stage of the operations and
all authorizations and transactions were performed through the system.

In addition to the computerized record, TSKB also maintained backup paper files for
those sub-loans where procurement and disbursements had taken place.


During the implementation period, TSKB PIU provided consultancy services to the PFIs
both on-line and via phone and orchestrated the loan scheme successfully.

1.4 Operational experience




                                            28

During the preparation phase, a separate Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was
established by TSKB in parallel with the Bank's requirements under the supervision of an
Executive Vice President to oversee the implementation of the project. PIU staff worked
closely with the Bank staff. As the primary project counterpart for the Bank the team was
entrusted the overall administration of all aspects of the credit line and required reporting
(FMRs) to the Bank. The interaction between TSKB and PFIs, and TSKB and the Bank
was excellent during the project. The disbursement to the PFIs was completed by June 6,
2007 well before the closing date of the project (September 30, 2009). The trainings
given to the PFIs regarding environmental issues, procurement and project appraisal
improved the PFIs institutional capacity. Finally, TSKB's wholesale lending function,
well established today, became more sophisticated and more effective to the benefit of
the overall Turkish private sector.


2. Assessment of the outcome of the operation against the agreed objectives

The Primary objective of EFIL II was to provide medium and long-term investment
finance as well as working capital to private exporting enterprises (Beneficiary
Enterprises). A total of 249 companies utilized funds amounting USD 299.98 in the EFIL
II facility. Therefore the primary objective has been well achieved.

The secondary objective of the loan was the further improvement in the ability of the
Turkish financial sector to provide financial resources to the enterprise sector, through
further development of intermediation by private financial institutions, including banks
and leasing companies. The number of PFIs participating in EFIL II was higher than that
of EFIL I. In EFIL I there were six participating PFIs (all banks) where as in EFIL II
there were ten PFIs (four banks and six leasing companies). Additionally, the leasing
companies, which have access to smaller companies, were included for the first time in
EFIL's history as well as the World Bank's previous implementations in the Europe and
Central Asia (ECA) region. This objective has also been fully achieved


Additionally the facility has led to an important diversification towards the smaller
companies across the country. Smaller exporting companies typically not serviced by the
banking system were financed with the proceeds of the loan through the intermediation of
the leasing companies. The smallest amount of leasing finance extended to a single
company was around USD 55,000.

Koçbank A..        (Later on Yapi   ve Kredi Bankasi     A..), Fortisbank A.. (Dibank
formerly) and Yapi ve Kredi Bankasi A.. participated as PFIs both in EFIL I and EFIL
II. The remaining PFIs, which participated in EFIL II were all newcomers.

During the lifetime of EFIL II reallocations among the PFIs were realized. The final
breakdown between sub-loans and lease finance was USD 186.9 million and USD 113.1
million.     The small-unallocated amount USD 69,000 and unutilized amount USD
21,687.85 was cancelled as of June 14, 2007 and August 10, 2007 respectively. Of the



                                             29

total loan amount, USD 210 million (70 percent) was utilized for investment loans and
USD 89.9 million (30 percent) was utilized for working capital loans. Average loan sizes
for the leasing and loan components of the facility were USD 631,982.70 and USD 2.4
million respectively. For the overall credit line the average loan amount was USD 1.2
million.

Overall sub-loan performance was very satisfactory. Only two loans of negligible
amounts were classified as non-performing loans by two PFIs.

The operation's main objective above all was to intensify the export volumes of Turkish
companies through very well structured financial intermediation scheme. This objective
has also been achieved. The exports of EFIL II sub-borrowers were 3.6 billion USD in
2004 and 4.6 billion USD in 2006. The export multiplier has been calculated as 3.5. The
export volume and the export multiplier are expected to go up in the coming years as
13% of the facility was disbursed in the second half of the year 2006 and since 70% of
the loans were for investment purposes.


3. Evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the preparation and
implementation of the operation, with the special emphasis on lessons learned that
may be helpful in the future

Since TSKB already had an experience in working with the Bank spanning over five
decades, there weren't any problems regarding the adaptation to EFIL II operation.
Nevertheless it is important to state that for the first time, in a Bank loan ­ in EFIL II
project, TSKB acted as an APEX Bank and had the Borrower and the Implementing
Agency functions. As TSKB was one of the sub borrowers in EFIL I intermediated by
Eximbank, the experience gained helped TSKB to empathize the requirements and needs
of the sub borrowers.

The lessons learned suggest that lines need to be designed as flexible as possible. The
documentation and paperwork involved and reporting requirements should be kept to a
minimum. Tourism, which is one of the main foreign exchange generating sectors, should
be included among eligible sectors. The inclusion of tourism sector would have sped up
the disbursement of the facility. With regards to procurement the deployment of local
commercial practices expedites the disbursement process. Setting higher thresholds for
national and international competitive bidding will help the pace of disbursements.

4. Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, any co financers, or of other partners
during the preparation and implementation of the operation, including the
effectiveness of their relationships, with special emphasis on lessons learned

The Bank's performance during the preparation and implementation stages was very
satisfactory. During the preparation and implementation of the project both parties (Bank
staff in Washington and IBRD Ankara Office and TSKB PIU) had a very cordial




                                            30

relationship and issues relating to the implementation of the project were swiftly
resolved.

5. Description of the proposed arrangements or future operation of the project

Achievements of the predecessor EFIL II project lead to the EFIL III project, which is
still successfully implemented by TSKB. The utilization of EFIL III has already
amounted to USD 144.9 million and EUR 48.6 million as of September 17, 2007. There
are newcomers to the Loan such as  Leasing, Finans Leasing, Alternatifbank, Alternatif
Finansal Kiralama, Denizbank and Finansbank. The successful completion of the EFIL
loans may lead to newly structured financial intermediation loans.

6. Information on the economic, financial, social, institutional, and environmental
conditions in which the operation was implemented.
The environment that EFIL II facility was realized was as follows:

The Turkish banking sector suffered from a series of macroeconomic and structural
problems in the years surrounding the 2001 Crisis. After all, the "twin crises" of 2001
were also a banking crisis. Consequently, the ratio of total assets/GDP dropped from 77%
in December 2002 to 70% in December 2003. In principle this negative development
should have imperiled the sustainability of GDP growth performance and constituted an
obstacle economic recovery had to surmount, but nothing of that sort has happened. As
explained below, loan growth and GDP growth have been kind of decoupled in the
aftermath of the 2001 crisis, suggesting that the corporate sector, especially SMEs, have
found other financing opportunities. Unrecorded economy is sizeable, which further
limited banks' penetration and loan growth perspectives, especially as far as corporate
loans go. Furthermore, despite the liberalization-oriented policy of the last 25 years, the
government was (is) still a major player in the banking sector. Theoretically, large public
banks may play a role in regulating the market through cost-of-service -or, as more
commonly known, rate-of-return- regulation by acting as von Stackelberg leaders in a
leader-follower game, but historic experience did not hint to anything of that sort.

The picture depicted above has begun to change when non-retail loans, including
corporate, started to respond in Q1 2004. The balance sheet of the system had already
begun to change in the second half of 2003 when retail loans were triggered by the
ongoing recovery, and especially, by lower interest rates. Inflation reversed course when
the trend was clearly broken in April 2003, and from then on both inflation and the
nominal and real rates of interest spiraled down visibly. A balance sheet that was entirely
dominated by the securities portfolio gave way to loan growth, and loans quickly rose to
unprecedented levels. The restructuring and transformation of the banking sector
persisted into 2005 as banks tried to adapt themselves to lower interest rates and continue
to rebalance their balance sheets in favor of loans and other new fee-generating
instruments, especially mortgage, asset management and suchlike. The strategy was
clearly to bet on TRY stability, emphasize the loan book at the expense of the securities
portfolio, turn to TRY loans and boost the interest income and fee & commission income
through more emphasis on retail loans. The loans to assets ratio continued to trend up in



                                             31

2003-2004-2005, but still wandered (wanders) below the EU average, which showcases
the potential for further profitability improvement. Furthermore, expanded product lines
and cross-selling opportunities associated with growing non-interest income may offer
traditional diversification benefits for a bank's revenue portfolio. If non-interest income
and net interest income are negatively or only weakly correlated, for example, non-
interest income may diversify bank revenue and improve the risk/return trade-off.

Profitability increased sharply in 2003 and banks continued to be profitable in 2004 also,
but this was basically due to mark-to-market and trading gains -especially in 2003-
although fee & commission income gained some momentum also. By the end of 2004,the
tendency to build retail corporate marketing units, specifically targeting SMEs, had
already undergone some way. But competition should be fierce in this area and spreads
rather low. SME finance, which we expected to come to the forefront by 2005 -and it did
to some extent, is promising, and given existing European trends that are replicated in the
accession countries, but it takes good risk management, a sizeable retail presence and
franchise. Although free equity has been on the rise, not all banks are unconstrained in
that respect and that also adds an upper bound to whatever profits may be expected to
accrue there. Balance sheets are indisputably cleaner now, as compared to a few years
ago. Banks have had more free equity in 2005 as compared to 2003-2004. Almost all
major banks improved their free capital positioning in 2004.




                                             32

  ANNEX 8. COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS


PFIs provided written comments and feedback during the ICR mission. A summary is
provided in Section 7.c, but, due to confidentiality issues, the original comments are not
available.




                                            33

 ANNEX 9: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF BORROWER AND PFIS

                TSKB Financial Performance
                       2004         2005  2006  2007H1
                                Percent
Capital adequacy ratio 42.8          36.8  32.9   25.0
Equity/assets          16.7          16.7 14.5    14.0
Return on equity       13.3          21.4 18.7    17.9
Return on assets         2.2          3.5   2.9    2.6
Gross NPLs/loans         4.2          2.4   1.3    1.2
                             Millions US$
Total assets           1,707        2,470 2,881  3,609
Loans                  1,038        1,329 1,757  2,018
Equity                  285           412  418     504




                            34

          Financial performance of banks acting as PFIs
                      Return on      Return on
      Percent           assets        equity         Equity/assets
TEB
               2003            2.0           17.6            11.4
               2004            1.1            9.4            11.1
               2005            1.7           18.1             8.7
               2006            1.5           20.6             6.7
   2007 (as of June)           1.5           23.4             6.6


YKB
               2003            0.9            5.5            16.8
               2004           -0.2           -1.4            18.8
               2005           -6.4          -49.6             6.7
               2006            1.4           20.8             6.8
   2007 (as of June)           1.7           22.4             8.0


Oyakbank
               2003            1.5           12.6            11.8
               2004            2.2           18.5            11.6
               2005            4.2           35.7            12.1
               2006            1.0           10.6             8.3
   2007 (as of June)           1.0           11.5             9.5


Koçbank
               2003            1.2           17.7             7.1
               2004            1.2           16.4             7.0
               2005            1.9           13.8            18.4
               2006           n.a.           n.a.             n.a.
   2007 (as of June)          n.a.           n.a.             n.a.


Fortisbank
               2003            3.8           23.8            16.8
               2004            1.7           11.5            13.8
               2005            1.3            9.1            15.4
               2006            1.0            6.9            12.9
   2007 (as of June)           2.5           16.0            18.6




                              35

         Financial performance of leasing companies acting as PFIs
                        Return     Return on        Net lease     Equity/
       Percent         on assets    equity     receivables/assets assets
Garanti Leasing
                  2003        3             12                 80     29
                  2004         -             -                 91     20
                  2005        3             27                 83     12
                  2006        3             34                 97     11
      2007 (as of June)       4             31                 97     11
TEB Leasing
                  2003        4             25                 71     15
                  2004        3             20                 78     15
                  2005        4             24                 77     15
                  2006        3             21                 87     11
      2007 (as of June)       2             21                 82     11
Fortis Leasing
                  2003         -             -                 90      8
                  2004        2             23                 92      9
                  2005        4             37                 96     10
                  2006        3             34                 88      6
Fon Finansal
Kiralama
                  2003       15             86                 74     21
                  2004       12             53                 93     23
                  2005        7             37                 72     18
                  2006        5             30                 75     13
      2007 (as of June)       3             21                 67     16
YK Leasing
                  2003       14             40                 82     34
                  2004       10             28                 85     39
                  2005        8             24                 90     28
                  2006        8             26                 94     28
      2007 (as of June)       6             26                 92     22
Halk Leasing
                  2003        2             18                 87     11
                  2004        3             29                 89     10
                  2005        3             26                 92     10
                  2006        4             37                 89     10
      2007 (as of June)       4             39                 90     11




                                      36

      ANNEX 10. DISTRIBUTION OF LOANS BY REGION, SECTOR, AND LOAN SIZE

                                                    Amount     Share   Number
                       Region                      ('000 US$) (percent) of loans
Marmara                                               220,863     73.6       183
Aegean                                                 24,392      8.1        23
Mediterranean                                            7,967     2.7        11
Central Anatolia                                       18,048      6.0        12
Black Sea Region                                       11,545      3.8         6
Southeast Anatolia                                     17,164      5.7        14
Total                                                 299,979    100.0       249
                                                    Amount     Share   Number
                       Sector                      ('000 US$) (percent) of loans
Textiles and textile products                         110,065     36.7        94
Basic metals and fabricated metal products             65,377     21.8        57
Rubber and plastic products                            32,220     10.7        27
Pulp, paper and paper products, publishing and
printing                                               26,755      8.9         8
Electrical and optical equipment                       16,134      5.4         9
Food products                                          12,328      4.1        11
Other non-metallic mineral products                      7,885     2.6         7
Wood and wood products                                   5,428     1.8         2
Production and distribution of petroleum products        4,150     1.4         1
Machinery and equipment                                  4,007     1.3        10
Logistics                                                3,579     1.2         2
Baby healthcare products                                 2,888     1.0         1
Leather and leather products                             1,575     0.5         4
Chemicals, chemical products                             4,319     1.4         3
Agriculture and food packaging                           1,626     0.5         5
Furniture                                                1,182     0.4         6
Mining and construction materials                          462     0.2         2
Total                                                 299,979    100.0       249
                                                    Amount     Share   Number
                      Loan Size                    ('000 US$) (percent) of loans
< $250,000                                               9,845     3.3        69
$250,000 - $1,000,000                                  55,533     18.5        97
$1,000,000 - $2,500,000                                79,202     26.4        48
> $2,500,000                                          155,398     51.8        35
Total                                                 299,979    100.0       249




                                         37

                      ANNEX 11. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS


Export Finance Intermediation Loan (EFIL) Project Appraisal Document, Report No:
19271-TR, June 1999.

Export Finance Intermediation Loan (EFIL) Implementation Completion Report, Report
No: 27566, December 2003.

Second Export Finance Intermediation Loan (EFIL II) Project Appraisal Document,
Report No: 26937-TR, December 2003.

Independent Evaluation Group (2006), "World Bank Lending for Lines of Credit: An
IEG Evaluation", The World Bank, Washington, D.C.

The World Bank (2007), "Turkey: Investment Climate Assessment" , The World Bank,
Washington, D.C.

Project Aide Memoires, various.

Operational Manual for EFIL II.

Financial reports for TSKB and PFIs.




                                         38

39

