Report No. PID7927
Project Name                     Nigeria-Primary Education II
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           EP - Primary Education
Project                          NGPE66571
Borrower(s)                      Federal Government of Nigeria
Implementing Agency              Federal Ministry of Education
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                June 29, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         September 20, 1999
Projected Board Date             December 14, 1999
1. Country and Sector Background
There are six major issues in the subsector - insufficient human resource
capacity to effectively manage and deliver the system, inadequate access,
inequity - by gender and urban/rural criteria, poor quality, insufficient
funding and generally uninformed planning. This has had a series of
consequences that the Federal Government of Nigeria is seeking to address.
Capacity Although sufficient staff are allocated to primary education
management and curriculum delivery the quality is very variable. Knowledge
and skills are largely outdated and there re few opportunities for ongoing
staff development. There are some orientation courses for school heads and
deputies but these do not appear to be very effective. In some instances the
initial academic qualifications of entrants into pre-service training
colleges is low. In all instances the standard and scope of teacher
education is too theoretical and lacks the practical base required to develop
good classroom practices. Government has attempted to raise the
certification for teachers from Grade II (post-junior secondary) to National
Certificate in Education (NCE ) (post-school certificate) . The NCE course
does respond to the needs of the system because it is too theoretical and
does not have the inbuilt flexibility necessary for teachers who will operate
under very difficult circumstances. Furthermore, there has not yet been
established an enabling culture of teacher professional and administrative
support either within the schools or from various levels of government. The
'inspectorate' still remains largely a supervisory body - as opposed to
advisory and capacity building. A suitable career structure for primary
education personnel remains to be developed.
Access and equity. At present, the total number of primary school age
children in Nigeria is about 19.5 million. Out of this number, 15.7 million
or about 81% are enrolled in 41,531 schools.   The remaining 3.8 million
primary school age children are out on the streets. Enrollment rates are
higher in the south than in the north. Female enrollment rates are lower
than male in the north; on a par with male in the south-west and higher than
male in the south-east. Generally, urban enrollment rates are higher than
rural and, because of the scarcity of classrooms classes tend to be



overcrowded in urban areas. Under-population is common in remote rural areas
in all states. Some of those who enroll soon drop out of school for various
reasons. Average primary school completion rates are estimated at 69% -
girls 71% and boys 68%.   Among the reasons for the increasing tendency to
drop out are: i) lack of financial resources on the part of parents; ii)
existence of resource-poor school environment; iii) the unattractiveness of
existing school curriculum; and iv) teacher absenteeism. Existing
infrastructure is in a state of decay. According to one government survey, a
total of N81.2 billion is needed to replace school infrastructure alone,
excluding school running costs, school workers salaries, provision of basic
textbooks, etc.
Quality The standard of education in Nigeria has fallen in recent years. The
internal effectiveness or technical efficiency of the system is variable but
generally low. As evidenced in a study of achievement conducted by UNICEF.
This may be attributed to the cumbersome curriculum, the dearth of textbooks
and other instructional materials, the low quality and motivation of primary
education teaching staff and the comparative absence of teacher professional
support. The increased demands for access and equity in education have
created the need for better quality in the system
Funding Financing of the sector has historically been problematic mainly due
to the fact that primary education is the official constitutional
responsibility of local governments with state government assistance. Both
local and state governments rely heavily upon the federal government's
statutory allocations to cover their financial responsibilities which are
many - primary education and health care, local infrastructure including
roads and markets, and administrative costs. Specifically they were
responsible for primary education and healthcare personnel salaries. Local
government revenue collection is minimal, probably not even reaching 10% of
requirements and they rely almost exclusively on their statutory allocation.
As a consequence during the oil slump in the early 1980s teachers' salaries
were often unpaid. Traditionally the responsibility for providing primary
education has been shared among the different levels of government, parents
and community. With these cost-sharing arrangements it has always been very
difficult to calculate the share of government resources that were allocated
to primary education. The closest estimate reached was that approximately
1.2 percent of GDP was allocated to primary education annually as compared
with 1.5 percent in 1990. Other African country allocations are:
Planning National educational plans are developed in the context of the
country's National Development Plan. Federal and state planning units with
NPEC are responsible for data collection and planning for primary education.
Their institutional capacity is weak - although NPEC is endeavoring to
upgrade this. NPEC has detailed data on primary education for 1996 and 1997.
The former is being processed. However, data collection, processing and
publication at the federal level seems to have deteriorated. Several studies
of issues within primary education exist but they require considerable
updating to be useful in the present context.
Government Strategy Primary education is considered "cutting edge" by the
Nigerian government in its educational development plans. The government is
committed to creating an enabling environment for learning and teaching at
the primary education level. In 1988, the government approved a revised
strategy for the development of primary education, with the following key
-2 -



elements: i) there was an urgent need to salvage primary education; ii) a
National Primary Education Fund (NPEF) was established, into which the
federal government contributed annually an amount equivalent to 65 percent of
the calculated cost of primary school salaries of teaching and non-teaching
staff. iii) appropriate provisions would be made to ensure that each level
of government make its own contributions and that funds be passed onto the
local government and at that level by used specifically for the purpose of
primary education; iv) a National Primary Education Commission (NPEC) was
established as a parastatal of the Federal Ministry of Education to
coordinate and supervise the development of primary education. NPEC
supervised the administration and use of the fund for primary education. A
federal decree incorporating these decisions was promulgated in August 1988.
The decree also outlined the structure and functions of primary school
management institutions to be established at state, local, district and
village levels. It mandated the following institutions to be set up: a)
Primary School Management Boards in each State; b) Local Government Education
Authorities in each local government area, c) District Education Committees
in each district of the local government area, and d) Village Education
Committees in each village in the district. In 1994, a revised formula for
federal government's contribution to primary education was set up and has
been in force since. The contribution is made based on: states share
(equally 50%-), educationally disadvantaged states (25%), pupil enrollment
(159-), population of states (10%-)
The National Primary Education Commission implements government
policies and initiatives on accelerated development of primary education
nationwide. Throughout 1998, primary teachers' salaries and entitlements
were promptly paid. It is reported that enrollment in public schools is
improving as a result of the prompt and regular payment of teachers salaries
since NPEC came into existence. The government strived to maintain minimum
standards in various aspects of primary education. It has begun improving
the curriculum and its implementation. A national committee on improving
curriculum has started work. The government is also reviewing complaints of
over-deduction from Local Governments' Accounts from source. Efforts are
being made to establish a pension scheme for retired teaching and non-
teaching staff.
A major program to support primary education improvement was adopted by
the government in the early 1990s and to support this program the government
accepted assistance from the World Bank in the form of a Credit to support
the Primary Education Project. This project is currently being implemented
by the Federal Ministry of Education through the National Primary Education
Commission. This program includes activities to upgrade and monitor quality,
improve planning and research, and improve resource allocation.
To improve the supply of instructional materials the Special Petroleum
Trust Fund has provided resources to supply textbooks to some states.
Renovations to existing infrastructure are being effected through budgetary
allocations from the federal government, the Education Tax Fund (a 2%- tax
levied on companies in Nigeria to support education), and through community
initiatives and parent-teacher associations.
The Ministry of Education is responsible for the control of educational
quality nationwide. It is required to inspect all schools below the tertiary
level to ensure: i) maintenance of minimum standards of educational practice;
-3 -



ii) operation of a common system of education nationwide; iii) introduction
of positive classroom innovations; iv) achievement of quality in education in
Nigeria. In 1998, the Ministry of Education assisted the States in
developing their inspectorate services and ensuring that they were properly
equipped to carry out their specified functions and responsibilities. It
gathered, collated, published and disseminated relevant educational data to
assist effective supervision and management of schools. The Ministry also
provided national guidelines for effective and efficient inspection of
schools. In addition, it provided the blueprint of the organization and
administration of schools to Head Teachers and Principals. It ensured that
appropriate physical facilities are provided for effective and efficient
management of schools. Training and orientation were conducted to remedy the
inadequacies observed in inspected schools.
2. Objectives
Improvements in the effectiveness of primary education in: (i) 550
focus schools throughout Nigeria; (ii) approximately 800 schools benefiting
from self-help initiatives; and (iii) generally, across the subsector.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Bank has been the only major development agency during the 1990s that has
been supporting education sector in Nigeria. The project will provide a
timely opportunity for Nigeria to expand the benefits that have been brought
about, particularly through the ongoing Primary Education Project, to a wider
beneficiary population. It is also the strength of continuous major
engagement in the sector which allows the targeted intervention without
generating a sense of geographical bias.
4. Description
1. Strengthened capacity for schools administration, financial management,
professional and administrative support to teachers, and curriculum delivery
through training in:
(i) management
(ii) accounting
(iii) curriculum delivery
(iv) teacher support
2. Improve access and equity through a more conducive teaching and learning
environment created by:
(i) self-help projects
(ii) furniture provision
(iii) steel boxes to hold classroom collections of library books.
(iv) rehabilitation of classrooms
3. Improving quality through training (as above) and by inputs of:
(i) instructional materials
(ii) library books
(iii) teachers' guides
-4-



4. Providing an enhanced information base for decision-making and planning
through research and statistical data gathering and processing through:
(a) studies of:
(i) attaining UPE
(ii) distance education for UPE teacher development
(iii) the learning process - classroom interactions
(iv) curriculum relevance
(b) data collection, processing and dissemination on:
(i) student enrollment retention & performance
(ii) teacher statistics
(iii)school infrastructure and learning materials
(iv)community involvement in schools
(c) monitoring and evaluation of:
(i) self-help projects
(ii) PEPII project inputs and use
(iii) PEPII impact
1. Strengthened capacity for schools administration, financial management,
professional and administrative support to teachers, and curriculum delivery.
2. A more conducive teaching and learning environment created.
3. Improving quality of inputs.
4. Providing an enhanced information base for decision-making and planning
through research and statistical data gathering and processing
Physical contingencies
Price contingencies
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                       5
IBRD                             0
IDA                              25
Total Project Cost               30
6. Implementation
A Network Committee on the Implementation of the World Bank Project
(UNI-Credit 2191) (NETCOM) was established in 1998. This was meant to
enhance coordination amongst the various sectors of the projects, strengthen
and make more effective project implementation through more robust networking
among those involved in the project. NETCOM reports to the Executive
Secretary who is the overall project coordinator. The State Primary
Education Boards and the Local Government Education Authorities are also
represented in the enlarged Committee in order to include the major
stakeholders in the decision-making process. NETCOM will function actively
for effective implementation of the proposed project. It will meet once a
month to assess progress made, identify weaknesses, prepare and apply
remedial strategies as well as make short-term action plans and progress
reports. The enlarged NETCOM will also meet with the World Bank supervision
missions to report progress and agree on further actions.
Specifically, for Self-help Projects, the Implementation Committee at
the community level will execute the projects. The LGEAs and SPEBs will
provide supervisory control of the projects and assist NPEC, consultants and
- 5 -



World Bank officials in the monitoring and evaluation of project execution.
The Monitoring and Evaluation Department of NPEC includes ten zonal offices
located across the country. It will be used to carry out monitoring and
evaluation activities of the project. The Financial Management Team within
NPEC is responsible for facilitating the execution of decision/financial
implication on the project. It will monitor and coordinate all the
activities of the loan implementation and facilitate disbursement of the
project. The procurement section of NPEC will oversee procurement
activities. A sub-committee of NPEC Network Committee on Project
Implementation assists the bid opening and evaluation exercises. With regard
to the publicity component, the project will develop and pursue its
mobilization, sensitization and harmonization campaign.
7. Sustainability
(a) Institutional sustainability. NPEC has been instrumental in translating
the government's policy objectives into implementation plans, and in managing
the implementation satisfactorily. Its roles will gradually evolve from
direct management to more of support (training of education staff at state
and school levels) and monitoring and evaluation while increased roles will
be played by SPEBs and LGEAs. These transitional roles will need to be
understood by all players and areas of necessary support to enable this
gradual transition will be identified. The new mode of community
participation in school improvement efforts will be supported by matching
fund from the government.
(b) Financial sustainability: In face of the insufficient statutory budget
allocation to primary education, various measures will be implemented to
complement the national funding capacity. Primary Education Fund which
currently depends on central funding will start resource mobilization from
states toward eventual decentralization. Textbook revolving fund will be
maintained to enable continuous provision of instructional materials. Other
cost-sharing methods through self-help projects and other ongoing community
contributions will be continued.
(c) Project impact sustainability. Ownership is an important sign to ensure
sustainability of project impact. NPEC has demonstrated strong commitment
during the early stage of project preparation, with minimal support from
outside and through increasing consultation with a wide range of
stakeholders.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The lessons the Bank has learned and reflected in this project design
include:
- Project preparation should actively involve all the beneficiaries.
Beneficiaries should be aware of the project components and linkages to the
project outcome to ensure active involvement.
- Project objectives should not only promote cost-efficiency and
effective resource allocation, but also the parallel need for quality
assurance.
- The Borrower should rigorously follow the Bank procurement guidelines
all times.
- Attention to the implementing agency's accounting capacity is
essential for good financial management and regular disbursements.
- Frequent visits to the project sites and joint supervision missions
with all implementing agencies involved in the project is essential.
- 6 -



- Project counterpart funds should be budgeted along with the
Ministry's annual overall budgetary requirements.
The lessons the Borrower has summarized are:
- Network committee on project implementation facilitates the
effectiveness of project implementation.
- Increased managerial capacity of implementors affected positively the
ability of decision making.
- Monitoring and supervision corrects and advises implementors on
suitable ways of doing things.
- Implementation of the primary education project has opened up
implementing agency to a broader relationship with supervising ministries on
pursuance of documents, policy issues and funds for counterpart support.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Yes
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues:
11. Contact Points:
Team Leader
Eileen B. Nkwanga
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 2, 1999.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
-7 -



