                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32304

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-33460)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$55 MILLION
                                          (SDR40.1 MILLION)

                                                 TO THE

                                  FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                                                 FOR A

                              SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT




                                              June 21, 2005




Human Development - AFTH3
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective April 2005)

                           Currency Unit = Nigerian Naira (NGN)
                                NGN 1.00 = US$ 0.0075
                                  US$ 1.00 = NGN 130

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 -      December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AEP       AIDS Education Plan
FGN       Federal Government of Nigeria
FLHE      Family Life HIV Education
FME       Federal Ministry of Education
HT        Head Teacher
IDA       International Development Association
IRI       Interactive Radio Instruction
JCCE      Joint Consultative Council on Education
LAN       Local Area Network
LGA       Local Government Authority
LGEAs     Local Government Education Authorities
MIS       Management Information System
NACA      National Action Commission on AIDS
NAEC      Nomadic and Adult Education Commission
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NCCE      National Council of Colleges of Education
NCE       National Certificate in Education
NETCOM    Network Committee
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NPCU      National Project Coordinating Unit
NPEC      National Primary Education Commission
NPEF      National Primary Education Fund
PCU       Project Coordinating Unit
PEPI      Primary Education Project (Credit 2191-UNI)
PEP II    Second Primary Education Project
PTTP      Pivotal Teacher Training Program
SA        Special Account
SBMC      School Based Management Committee
SPEBs     State Primary Education Boards
SPU       Special Project Unit
SUBEP     State Universal Basic Education Program
UBE       Universal Basic Education
UBEC      Universal Basic Education Commission
WAN       Wide Area Network


                          Vice President:        Gobind Nankani
                      Country Director:          Hafez Ghanem
                        Sector Manager:          Laura Frigenti
                     Task Team Leader:           Jacob Bregman
                       Principal Author:         Nguyan Shaku Feese

                                           NIGERIA
                              Second Primary Education Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's Report                                            28

Project ID: P066571                                                  Project Name: Second Primary Education Project
Team Leader: Olatunde Adetoyese Adekola                              TL Unit: AFTH3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 21, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Second Primary Education Project                         L/C/TF Number: IDA-33460
   Country/Department: NIGERIA                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (75%); Tertiary education (19%); Sub-national
                            government administration (2%); Central government
                            administration (2%); Health (2%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Participation and civic engagement (P);
                            HIV/AIDS (S); Social analysis and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/21/1999                                     Effective: 08/21/2000                08/21/2000
     Appraisal: 09/22/1999                                         MTR: 12/20/2002                  12/20/2002
      Approval: 05/11/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIA/FEDERAL MINISTRY OF
                                           EDUCATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Hafez M. H. Ghanem                             Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager:                 Laura Frigenti                                 Rosemary Bellew
Team Leader at ICR:             Jacob H. Bregman                               Eileen Nkwanga
ICR Primary Author:             Nguyan Shaku Feese


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of PEPII were to assist the Borrower in:

     (i) strengthening the human resource capacity in its primary schools;
     (ii) creating an environment conducive to effective teaching and learning in its primary schools;
     (iii) improving the quality and availability of curriculum and other instructional materials in the
     primary schools;
     (iv) developing an enhanced information base to facilitate decision making;
     (v) increase national awareness about AIDS.

Back ground: The Second Primary Education Project (PEPII) was approved in May 2000 and became
effective in August 2000, one year into democratic governance. The project was designed after the closure
of the First Primary Education Project (PEPI). The PEPI was designed and implemented by the National
Primary Education Commission (NPEC) in a centralized manner under a military government, while PEPII
was essentially designed to be implemented under a decentralized environment with fiscal federalism, which
gives greater responsibility of basic education to federating states. During the implementation of PEPI, the
Bank was the only major development partner that was providing assistance and support to the education
sector in Nigeria. The democratic process that started at the closure of PEPI, therefore, provided a unique
opportunity for the Bank to continue to support primary education before the coming on board of other
international development partners. There was the need to scale up what worked in PEPI and put into use
the lessons learned during the implementation of PEPI. The PEPII project was a "bridgeing" project, which
was implemented during a difficult time of political transition. Its implementation under these conditions
was difficult. Despite these external bottlenecks the PEPII project performance, after its restructuring,
improved and in the end it was fully disbursed. However, along the way, it was found that some of the
more complex capacity-building activities could not be fully achieved. During the preparation of PEPII,
the assumption was that NPEC would also be the implementing agency for PEPII, but this did not happen
as NPEC was abolished and the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) was established with a
mandate to promote the delivery of free and compulsory basic education of nine years. The first two years
of PEPII implementation were difficult, since the transition from military to democratic rule initiated a lot
of changes. Turnover at both the political and senior technical staff level in the Federal Ministry of
Education was high. Within the first two years of project implementation, there were three ministers for the
Ministry of Education, two permanent secretaries and two project coordinators. In addition, the
procurement and financial management officials who participated in PEPI were replaced with officers with
little or no experience on Bank procurement procedures. These frequent changes in leadership within the
Federal Ministry of Education and at the level of the implementing agency significantly hindered the
decision-making process and contributed to the slow project implementation and disbursement in the first
two years. Furthermore, with the abrogation of the NPEC Act, there was no legal status for the
implementation of the UBE program until May 2004 when the UBE Bill was passed into Law. This also
affected the implementation of PEPII.

In addition, the lack of capacity within UBEC in procurement and financial management also led to slow
implementation and disbursement, particularly in the first 2 years. During the supervision mission in
October 2001, the PEPII project was placed in unsatisfactory status and was proposed to be restructured.
After the restructuring the government was more successful, since the project now focused principally on
the school level. Some of the project benefits were scaled-up by the government to cover all Nigeria's
primary school districts. However, the PEPII project objectives were probably too ambitious and its design
too complex for the political environment in which is was to be implemented. But despite its slow start, the
PEPII still made a significant contribution to improving the effectiveness of Nigeria's primary school
system, mainly through three major innovations introduced at the school and community levels: (a) the
proposal-based grant financing of community self help projects for school improvement; (b) the
development of a school based model of teacher professional support; and (c) provision of large numbers of
supplementary reading materials, selected by teachers, for classroom library sets in the 1,110 focus schools


                                                      - 2 -

across the country. These approaches represented a major change from the top-down administrative style
inherited from the military era. PEPII was also able to support the collection, analysis and reporting of
education data, which makes more reliable data available to the current planners. Innovative approaches in
the use of interactive radio instruction were developed for nomadic education programs and these would
ultimately be of value to all primary schools, especially those in rural areas. During the restructuring it
was therefore agreed that resources should be reallocated to faster moving activities which would help to
achieve the project's objectives. In November 2002, more resources were allocated to the self help
component and the other well performing activities. The IP rating was changed from unsatisfactory to
satisfactory in September 2003 following substantial improvement in project implementation. After the
reallocation of resources, the project progressed steadily leading to increased community interest in school
activities. This led to increased enrolment and teachers' attendance among other things. The project closed
on schedule on December 31, 2004 with 97% disbursement and all physical targets were exceeded in the
last two years of implementation. External conditions before and during project implementation make it
difficult to rate the overall project outcome. On the one hand this project achieved its physical targets and
more, fully disbursing, and was implemented during the first years of a difficult political transition period
in Nigeria, on the other hand these political changes and the nature of the transition period hindered the
project in achieving its more complex objectives of capacity building and enhancement. The PEP2 project
was followed by the Universal Basic education project, which is also financed by an IDA credit. It was
clear from the beginning that PEPII would be a "bridge" project during the first years of a post-military
government. PEPII was intended to support the new government's objectives of improving primary
education. In hindsight it did that.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives did not change throughout the life of the project. But the project restructuring
represented a major change in the way the project was implemented (focus on self-help community
sub-projects).

3.3 Original Components:
The project had five components:

Component A: Strengthen Human Resource Capacity (US$ 10.20 million)

     Sub-component 1: Training of primary school teachers in essential aspects of primary education
     delivery, in pedagogy, continuous assessment, record keeping and school level accounting, use of
     school level curriculum modules, teacher support for school managers, use of local resources for
     instructional purposes, furniture, maintenance, library use and care of books.
    Sub-component 2: training of education personnel in: (a) procurement matters; and (b) appropriate
     development and use of education management information systems.

Component B: Create a more conducive Physical Environment for Teaching and learning
(US$25.50m)

     Sub-component 1: Providing secure storage for text books and supplementary readers in about 740
     rehabilitated primary schools, including the acquisition and provision to the said primary schools of
     furniture and steel cabinets.
     Sub-component 2: (a) The carrying out of participating communities of small scale self-help projects;
     (b) the provision to the participating communities of matching grants for about 900 self-help projects.
    Sub-component 3: The monitoring and evaluation of; (i) the self-help projects; (ii) inputs provided
     under the project; and (iii) the result of the First Primary Education Project.



                                                        - 3 -

Component C: Improving the Quality and Availability of Curriculum Materials (US$13.00 million)

    Sub-component 1: Acquisition and provision of : (i) teachers' guides for all primary 1 core subjects;
    and (ii) laminated teaching aids, supplementary readers, library and reference books and other
    instructional materials for 740 refurbished schools.
    Sub-component 2: (a) Acquisition of equipment required to enhance the production of educational
    video programs and documentaries for pre-school children; and (b) production and dissemination of the
    said programs and documentaries in the country through appropriate channels including inter alia, the
    Nigerian Television Authority.

Component D: Develop an Enhanced Information Base for decision-making for UBE (US$5.10
million)

    Sub-component 1: (a) Collection, collation and processing of information gathered under the First
    Primary Education project; (b) development of a comprehensive information base for decision-making
    and for planning and monitoring of the UBE program; (c) carrying out of studies to: (i) examine issues
    relating to the production of quality teaching for the UBE program; (ii) explore the modalities of
    distance education for teachers; (iii) explore the modalities of improving educational delivery through
    the analysis of actual teaching and learning sessions; (iv) analyze, ascertain and make
    recommendations regarding the relevancy of the present primary school curriculum; (v) identify, assess
    and improve the effectiveness of multi-grade teaching in primary schools.
    Sub-component 2: Preparation of plans for the training of teachers under the Nigerian Distance
    Education Scheme.

Component E: Increase HIV/AIDS awareness among Education Staff, Children and Communities
(US$1.20 million).

    Sub-component 1: Design of an appropriate AIDS Education Plan (AEP), aimed at increasing
    awareness about AIDS-related issues, to be targeted primarily at children and young adolescents.
    Sub-component 2: Carrying out of the said AEP within Nigeria, particularly in all primary schools as
    well as through appropriate mass media campaigns including, inter alia,radio and television
    programming, and relevant theatrical and musical activities.

3.4 Revised Components:
To address the problem of slow implementation, the project was restructured in November 2001 at the
recommendations of the October SPN mission. It was agreed to substantially increase the self-help grant
disbursement category, which would provide small grants to primary schools to be used to rehabilitate and
renovate their schools and purchase school furniture and supplies, under local shopping procurement
procedures. Credit Funds were transferred from the Equipment, Furniture, Materials and Supplies category
into the Self Help Project Grant category. Following a request from the Borrower, the ceiling for items
under local shopping was raised from US$3,432 million to US$21,75 million. The components were not
restructured but several original activities were dropped and/or replaced. For example, the Early Chidhood
activity was replaced with activity for nomadic children, given that the government was already supporting
the early childhood activity.

Component:                                                                           Cost;
         Rating
Strengthening Human Resource Capacity;                                               $10,210,000.00;


                                                      - 4 -

         S
Create Conducive Physical School Environment;                                         $30,830,000.00;
         S
Provide Curriculum Materials;                                                 $13,610,000.00;
S
Provide Management Information System; Research and Development;              $5,200,000.00;
S
Enhance HIV/AIDS Awareness;                                                           $1,260,000.00;
         S

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality at Entry of this project is rated marginally unsatisfactory.

Design: The project had a complex original design with five components and each component had several
subcomponents. Although the project objectives were consistent with the Bank's Interim Country Strategy
which was to reduce poverty through support to the improvement and expansion of basic social services, as
a bridge project, PEPII's expected outcomes were ambitious as they sought to measure long-term impact
rather than medium term. For example, a bridge project can measure enrolment increases, but would not
be suitable to measure retention because the implementation period was too short to show any effect and
would need to take wider issues of poverty reduction, including cultural values into consideration.
Although the outcome/impact indicators were not exclusively related to inputs and outcomes, there was
some inconsistency between the inputs and the expected outcomes. In some cases, outputs were stated like
outcomes and there was no baseline data for most of the activities and, where available, these were
inaccurate or insufficient to define reasonable monitoring and evaluation indicators.

The project design concentrated on meeting the direct needs at the primary school level in Nigeria.
However there were other factors determining school attendance, which the project could not address
sufficiently. For instance, studies of primary education (1989 and 2002 Social Assessment) in Nigeria
identified demand side problems in many areas, heavily dependent upon parental economic status and
choices. It was also observed that children were not attending school partly because the quality of education
provided was not up to expectation, facilities were dilapidated, teachers' motivation was low, there was a
lack of instructional materials, and the hidden cost to education were too high for many parents. All this
resulted in increased absenteeism. The situation for girls in the North was worse as their parents would not
let them go to school due to the distance of school from home, lack of separate toilet facilities and other
cultural necessities. For the boys in the South-East, the opportunity cost of schooling was too high in many
cases. Many parents withdrew their children from school to become apprentices. These issues were
discussed during project identification and it was agreed that an effort should be made to concentrate on
demand-side factors to improve equity and access. The final project design was not fully successful in
addressing all these issues, and in the end failed to push for further decentralization reforms, which could
have led to wider participation of civil society (including NGOs) and promoted more accountability and
good governance. Although the project design was weak in setting out appropriate outcomes on what to
measure achievements, the quality at entry can be said to have been satisfactory in the following areas:

Relevance: the project objectives were consistent with the Bank's Interim Country Strategy which was to
reduce poverty through support for the improvement and expansion of basic social services. PEPII
contributed to this objective by improving the quality and coverage of primary education to poor
communities by piloting focus-schools, self-help approaches for school improvement, and by preparing the
ground for the UBE project. PEPII served as a bridging project to the Universal Basic Education (UBE)
project and built on the achievements of PEPI which provided support to the Federal Government of
Nigeria's program of primary education improvement through: (i) upgrading the quality of primary



                                                      - 5 -

education; (ii) improving resource allocation; (iii) increasing enrolment; (iv) strengthening institutions; and
(v) facilitating planning capacity. PEPII was prepared while the country was moving from a military
regime to a democratic government. In spite of these difficult conditions, the project was able to focus on
the community level where the needs were greatest.

Knowledge: in seeking to maintain the momentum of primary education improvement, the PEPII fast track
Special Investment Loan was prepared to fulfill the urgent need to salvage primary education in Nigeria.
Although no analytic work and studies carried out prior to project design, lessons learned from PEPI were
taken into account. These included: a) the insufficient human resource capacity within the country to
effectively manage and deliver the education system; b) the inadequate and inequitable access; c) the poor
quality of education; d) the insufficient funding; and e) the inadequate data for informed planning. Choices
for intervention under PEPII were therefore based on the weak capacity and the need to make an early
impact.

Commitment: the Federal Government demonstrated commitment in announcing the Universal Basic
Education Program in 1999 as a priority area and also established the Universal Basic Education
Commission (UBEC) as the vehicle through which free and compulsory basic education would be delivered
to the Nigerian children. The UBE Bill was passed in May 2004, giving further impetus to education
delivery in Nigeria.

Sustainability: as a bridge project, it was expected that the Bank's UBE project would further strengthen
the foundation on which government's program would be delivered in a sustainable manner. The UBE
project is currently built on the results of the PEPII project, although it has also encountered complex
implementation problems. The UBE project is focusing on the models piloted by the PEPII project (mainly
the self-help approache).

Participation: project preparation involved widespread consultation with federal and state agencies and it
was expected that through the focus-school and self-help models, communities would participate in project
implementation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall rating assigned to the development outcome is moderately satisfactory. This project had a
successful implementation under very difficult political and governance conditions, and it fully disbursed
after its restructuring. The project achieved its physical targets. However, this did not fully achieve all
desired outcomes.

Context: The objectives of the Second Primary Education Project (PEPII) need to be assessed based on the
context that it was a bridge project, and that in spite of a difficult changing political environment, design
and weak capacity to implement, notably in the first two years, there was significant success in the last two
implementation years. The current UBE project is building on the achievements of PEPII and still faces a
complex and difficult implementation environment. PEPII met, and in most cases, exceeded physical
targets by project closing. This led to increased school enrollment, increased teachers attendance,
availability of school statistics and increased awareness about HIV and AIDS within the school
communities. Although the outcomes related to retention and learning achievements are rated as not
achieved, it can be argued that a bridge project with its limitations occurring during a period of significant
political change could not be solely responsible for substantial changes to these longer term outcomes. The
project essentially built on achievements of the First Primary Education Project (PEPI) and prepared the



                                                       - 6 -

ground work for the implementation of the UBE. This was done by continued piloting of strategies for
focus-school and self-help approaches to school development. It is expected that activities of the UBE
program will support the achievement of retention and learning outcomes.

Improved teacher attendance rate: This outcome was achieved. The project supported the
establishment of an enabling culture of teacher professional and administrative support and created a
critical mass of teacher trainers within the primary school through school-based support and teacher
up-grading programs. This training, built on PEPI under which National and State level trainers were
familiarized with curriculum materials and State level trainers, received a course on continuous assessment,
record keeping and accounting. In addition, teachers salaries were being paid following the National
Primary Education Fund (NPEF) mechanisms, which was set during PEPI and created a "culture" of timely
teacher salary payments. This eliminated teachers' strikes and led to more regular school attendance.
Training, improved teaching environment and improved teachers' pay led to increased motivation to teach.
According to the end of project review, teachers' attendance rose from 70% in 2000 to 100% in 2004 in the
1,110 focus (targeted) schools.

Enrolment increased at focus and self-help schools: This outcome was achieved. As a result of
interventions carried out under PEPI and consolidated under this project, primary school enrolment
increased in the 740 focus schools from 830,580 in 2000 to 995,100 students in 2002 (Baseline 2000). By
project completion, enrolment had increased to 1.1 million students (34%), exceeding the initial target of
15%. This may have been due to the fact that parents and pupils were more likely to be attracted to a
child-friendly and equipped school environment than to one that is dilapidated.

School statistics available: This outcome was achieved. Data collection and national education statistics
reports for years 1996 to 2001 (Baseline data) and 2003 (School census) were produced and distributed.
These are being used in Education for All (EFA) and UBE state planning exercises and for wider policy
discussion. EMIS equipment and staff capacities were upgraded to manage national data collection,
analysis, reporting and dissemination of data. The project created capacity within the Federal and State
education ministries to translate and analyze raw school data, collected under PEPI, into useable form. The
Federal Government has institutionalized data collection and processing for all schools and this is to be
carried out in February of every year. The production and distribution of these statistics re-established a
credible education data system. It is expected that this will provide the basis for continued informed
planning at the State and National levels. In addition, the project supported the Education for All Unit of
the Federal Ministry of Education to collect data in order to produce the EFA plans for Nigeria. It is
expected that findings from the nine studies carried out on how to improve teachers' training will also be
used for strategic planning.

Retention rate at focus and self-help schools: This outcome was not achieved. This is a long term
outcome and would have been difficult to achieve within the lifetime of this project. The result of an
assessment carried out at project completion gave an increase in retention from 70% in 2000 to 78% in
2004 for the focus schools. Given the paucity of data, any excessive variation between enrolment and
retention rate might be due to the fact that there are other intervening variables beyond the scope of a
bridge project that worked to prevent pupils from completing primary school. Findings from the Social
Assessment carried out in some States by the Bank in 2003 revealed that Poverty level is strongly related to
school retention. The additional family costs of education, (PTA levies, uniforms, transportation, books,
materials art and craft, and school lunches) are still considerable even though in 1999 the government
declared free and compulsory education for all primary schools. These costs can add up to about 450 Naira
per school term in rural areas to over 1,000 Naira in urban areas. Parents (especially those with more than
one child) withdraw their children from school if these costs can not be met. There are also opportunity


                                                       - 7 -

costs for primary schooling. Parents may decide that children are needed to help at home, send boys for
apprenticeship and marry off the girls, instead of paying fees to attend school. Infrastructure is also related
to school retention. Poor roads and long distances mean that it can be difficult for children to get to school,
and that parents may be worried for the safety of their children (especially girls). Water and sanitation are
also factors influencing school retention because girls can be withdrawn to help their family look for water,
or for lack of proper toilet facilities. Finally, the poor quality of education can be a reason for withdrawal
of children from school. To ensure that children enrol and stay in school broader poverty related issues,
lack of infrastructure and cultural bias need to be taken into consideration and not just teacher training and
improvement in the teaching and learning environment. The PEPII project, as a bridging project, was not
able to achieve all these.

Average score of standardized test improved: This outcome was not achieved. Although PEPII
continued to build on the groundwork of PEPI, assessment at the end of project revealed that average
standard scores increased from 35% in 2000 to 38% in 2004 in the focus schools. It can be argued that
there are additional required factors for the improvement of learning achievement, which the project could
not address. For example, studying and doing homework after school hours is difficult for many children
due to the problems at home (lack of electricity and lights, chores to be done, impact of HIV and lack of
space and facilities at home). Girls are especially vulnerable to these conditions and may be more
frequently absent than boys. However, these conditions have impact on learning outcomes across the
board. In addition, when parents are poor and illiterate, they may be unable to help their children with
school work. Most of these factors are beyond the scope of a bridge project.

Capacity for the implementation of UBE: This outcome was not achieved. It was expected that UBEC
would be the implementing agency for the UBE project, however, the UBE project is being implemented
through the National Coordinating Unit (NPCU) in the Federal Ministry of Education and the Project
Coordinating Units (PCU) at the State levels. As a result, staff trained under PEPII are not directly
implementing the project so their experience is not felt. A lot of learning had to take place, not only for
individuals assigned to carry out tasks but also institutionally as new practices were put in place to improve
project implementation.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The overall rating of outputs by components is satisfactory as the project exceeded all its physical
targets and closed on schedule and fully disbursed the IDA Credit.

Component A: Strengthening Human Resources Capacity

The outputs of this component are rated satisfactory.

This component had two sub-components, which are rated satisfactory. PEPII initiated a school-based,
teacher-led approach to Teacher Training and Professional Support. The intensive three-year program was
organized around three themes: (a) use of Mother Tongue in Primary 1-3; (b) use of English across the
Curriculum, and (c) multi-grade teaching in small rural schools. The aim was to develop sustainable
school based training for teachers that would help improve their performance and lead to improved quality
of learning. PEPII also provided support to the National Commission for Colleges of Education (NCCE)
for the review of National Certificate of Education (NCE) curriculum that took place in Minna, Niger State
in May 2002 where findings of studies carried out were shared. UBEC designated a desk officer to
continue to build links between teachers' development activities and the work of Colleges of Education.
Below is the summary of outputs for component A.




                                                        - 8 -

 Input                              Expected output                     Actual output
 Human Resource Capacity
 Sub-comp.1                          l 1,000 head teachers trained in    l 2,273 teacher librarians trained
                                        school administration,           l 2,040 teachers were trained in
                                        budgeting, accounting,              19 states using teacher-led
                                        furniture care and teacher          professional support
                                        support                          l 210 teachers, head teachers
                                     l 4,000 teachers trained in new        from six states were trained on
                                        methods of curriculum delivery      school development
                                        in core subjects and in learning l 1,924 primary school
                                        assessment and reporting.           supervisors were trained
                                                                         l 5,165 participated in
                                                                            workshops for the preparation
                                                                            of UBE plans
                                                                         l 32 master trainers in the
                                                                            selection and use of classroom
                                                                            materials
 Sub-comp. 2                         l Procurement matters,             37 staff trained in fund planning,
                                        appropriate development and     management and disbursement,
                                        use of education management 97 staff received management
                                        information system              training



Component B: Create a more Conducive Teaching and Learning Environment

The outputs of this component are rated satisfactory.

PEPII supported the improvement of primary schools across the country using the focus school (FS) and
the school self -help (SH) approaches. In the focus school approach the government was responsible for
renovation of classrooms as a precondition for receiving support from the Bank, while in the self-help
approach schools received grants from the Bank to carry out projects identified by the community. It was
estimated that about 740 FS and 900 communities would benefit directly from the project. The
understanding was that these beneficiaries would play the role of model schools in the future. As a result
of the reallocation of funds from goods category to the self-help expenditure category, those targets were
exceeded to 1,110 for focus schools and 9,650 for self-help but not without trade offs. For example, the
assumption that if a portion of the system was targeted with a variety of quality enhancing inputs, the
impact would be greater than if resources were spread over a whole system and the benefiting schools
would become models and resource centers was not followed through due to the need to maximize
geographical distribution of infrastructure and sub-projects. Below is the summary of outputs for
component B.

 Physical environment               Expected                            Actual
  Sub-comp 1: Focus School           l Steel cabinets to 740 FS           l 38 steel boxes were provided
                                                                             to each of the 1,110 FS
  Sub-comp. 2: Self-help             l Small scale projects               l Completion and rehabilitation
                                     l Matching grants to 900 SH             of 10,354 classrooms in 5,177
                                        projects                             schools.
                                                                          l provision of 878 VIP latrines
                                                                             in 878 schools
                                                                          l 599 schools benefited from
                                                                             borehole or deep well for



                                                      - 9 -

                                                                            water supply
                                                                          l 229 school fence renovated or
                                                                            built
                                                                          l 393,600 unites of pupils' dual
                                                                            seat desks
                                                                          l 8,880 teachers' tables and
                                                                            chairs provided
                                                                          l 1,000 HT's tables and chairs
                                                                            provided
                                                                          l 9,650 community schools
                                                                            provided matching grants
                                                                          l Printed and distributed tripple
                                                                            fold files for self-help projects
                                                                          l 30,000 self-help manuals
                                                                            printed and distributed
                                                                          l Mobilized and sensitized
                                                                            communities on self-help
                                                                            approach




Component C: Improving quality and availability of instructional materials

The outputs of this component are rated moderately satisfactory.

Following the restructuring of November 2001, the Borrower and the Bank agreed to support Interactive
Radio Instruction (IRI) in order to address the educational needs of primary school age children in nomadic
and migrant fishing communities. This activity replaced the proposed activity for Early Childhood
Education that the Borrower was already funding. The IRI was designed to proceed in phases: internship,
survey of listening habits, train the trainer, material development and acquisition of studio and equipment,
and classroom teaching. Although implementation did not reach the classroom level, some gains were
made as two studios were constructed and equipped, listeners' survey was carrried out and teaching
materials were developed. In additon, supplementary readers were supplied to all 1,110 focus schools,
grants were given to SPEBs for equiping their libraries and some library books were supplied libraries.
Below is the summary of outputs for compoment C.

 Sub-comp. 1                           l Provision of teacher's guides    l Not provided because resources
                                          for all primary 1 core subjects   were reallocated during
                                                                            restructuring to procure
                                                                            supplementary readers
                                                                          l Not provided because resources
                                       l Laminated teaching aids            were reallocated to self-help
                                       l Supplementary readers            l 2,238,870 supplementary
                                                                            readers supplied to 1,110 FS
                                       l Library and reference books      l 120 libraries established, 2,000
                                                                            books supplied to 6 central
                                                                            libraries
                                                                          l 20 SPEBs received grant of
                                                                            $20,000 each for library
                                                                            development
                                                                          l 3,000 books procured for UBE




                                                        - 10 -

                                                                          library
 Sub-component 2                    l Acquisition of required          l Procurement of computer
                                       equipment to enhance the            accessories for the Kaduna HQ
                                       production of education video       and Port-Harcourt zonal
                                       programs                            offices of NCNE
                                                                       l Construction of two studios,
                                                                           one each for Kaduna and
                                                                           Port-Harcourt
                                                                       l Procurement and installation
                                                                           of studio equipment
                                                                       l Materials for IRI were
                                                                           designed and produced.
                                                                       l 10 staff of NCNE were trained
                                                                           on the development of
                                                                           instructional materials
                                                                       l Carried out survey of listening
                                                                          habits



Component D: Information base for decision-making

The outputs of this component are rated satisfactory.

The project supported the processing of data and the production of statistics on primary education from
date collected from 1996 through 1999. Education data collection, processing and publishing has
improved. Studies, on teaching and learning and participatory/action research and development activities
involving education institutes and teachers from a cluster of five schools in one LGEA, were carried out
and nine reports were produced. Computers and computer accessories were procured for use. Below is the
sumarry of outputs for component D

 Enhanced Information base          Expected                          Actual
 Sub-comp. 1                        l Collection, collation and        l Baseline 2001 report produced
                                       processing information             (provides data on private and
                                                                          public primary and secondary
                                                                          schools).
 Sub-comp. 2                        l Development of a                 l School census report for 2003
                                       comprehensive information          produced (2004 due to be out)
                                       base for decision-making for    l EFA supported to prepare
                                       planning and monitoring of the     National and State EFA Plans
                                       UBE program                     l Supplied computers and
                                                                          accessories to 36 EFA state
                                                                          offices
                                                                       l Supplied computers notebooks
                                                                          and procured IT equipment
                                                                       l Procured and installed WAN
                                                                          and LAN
 Sub-comp. 3                        Carry out studies:                Nine research reports produced on:
                                    l Examine issues relating to
                                       teachers                        l Multi-grade management and
                                    l Explore modalities for distance     teaching;
                                       learning                        l Initial literacy development in
                                    l Explore modalities for              Nigeria Languages (class 1-3);


                                                     - 11 -

                                        improving educational delivery l English Language accross the
                                     l Analyze, ascertain relevancy of      curriculum (classes 4-6);
                                        primary curriculum               l School Based Teacher
                                     l Explore the use of local             Develpment Action Research;
                                        communities as supervisory       l National Sample Survey of the
                                        and teacher mentoring units         impact of Nigeria Certificate in
                                     l Identify, assess and improve         Education (NCE);
                                        the effectiveness of multi-grade l Cost of training of NCCE
                                        teaching in primary schools.        Programmes;
                                                                         l Tracer Study of NCCE;
                                                                         l Tracer Study of the Pivotal
                                                                            Teacher Training Programme
                                                                            (PTTP);
                                                                         l Study of Pre-Service Teacher
                                                                            Education Curriculum



Component E: Enhancing HIV and AIDS awareness

The outputs of this component are rated moderately satisfactory

It utilized a multi-faceted approach to ensure that information reached many pupils leading to increased
awareness in schools on HIV and AIDS. The Family Life Health Education FLHE Curriculum was
produced in coordination with National Action Committee on AIDS (NACA), National Education Research
and Development Center (NERDC) and State Ministries of Education.           However, the curriculum has not
yet been put to use partly because of issues of cultural sensitivities within some States. That prompted the
government through NACA to appoint a committee to advice it on how to implement the curriculum. The
committee appointed seven consultants (one each for the six zones with a team leader) to conduct mapping
of the implementation of the curriculum. Below is the summary of outputs for component E.



 Increasing national awareness on   Expected                            Actual
 AIDS
 Sub-comp. 1                       Design AEP                            l Plan produced
 Sub-comp 2                        Carry out AEP                         l 943,500 copies of HIV and
                                                                            AIDS posters produced and
                                                                            distributed
                                                                         l Produced and aired radio and
                                                                            television jingle
                                                                         l Produced and distributed 1,000
                                                                            copies of the FLHE Curriculum

                                                                         l Produced and distributed
                                                                            450,000 copies of Yes to Life
                                                                            and No to AIDS booklets
                                                                         l 111 people were trained as
                                                                            Master Trainers and in turn
                                                                            they trained 79,000 school
                                                                            teachers, head teachers,
                                                                            supervisors and LGA personnel
                                                                            in all 36 states and FCT.




                                                     - 12 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not calculated for the project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not calculated for the project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
This is rated as moderate.

The oversight function for the management of the project was vested in the Federal Ministry of Education,
while the UBEC was the executing agency. During the life of the project, 97 management and Senior Staff
of UBEC and the Federal Ministry of Education were trained in Bank procurement and financial
management procedure, project management and monitoring and evaluation. Although these trainings did
not translate into capacity to implement the UBE project, it is expected that experience gained in
implementing PEPII and additional training under the UBE project will equip UBEC to deliver its mandate.
In addition, the policy studies, undertaken, involved a number of national institutions charged with teacher
education. This contributed to enhancing the capacity of these institutions to conduct research by providing
their staff with knowledge and hands-on experiences. Local government authorities, school supervisors and
head teachers were equipped to better manage teaching and learning process through training in school
management. An external factor in hindering the build-up of sustainable capacity is the high staff turnover
rate, which, given the transition period in which the PEPII was implemented, is not surprising.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Court Ruling: The Government inaugurated the UBE program in September 1999, when a month earlier, a
Senate decision following a Supreme Court ruling was taken to abolish the National Primary Education
Fund (NPEF) for which NPEC had administrative responsibility and NPEC was absorbed into UBEC. A
Special Project Unit (SPU) was established under UBEC to implement PEPII along with other donor
activities in primary education. Unfortunately, UBEC was not a legal entity and this had implications for
getting approval and this slowed down implementation until the project was restructured and funds were
given to schools/communities for self-help projects.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Factors that affected implementation and outcomes from the government side include the following:

l Administrative: At the beginning of the project, management staff of UBEC were changed and those
    redeployed were not conversant with Bank procurement procedures and this slowed down the project to
    allow time for learning. The UBEC also had to go through the Federal Ministry of Education to get
    clearance since at the time of project implementation, UBEC was not a legal entity. The process of
    obtaining approvals affected the speed of implementation. Overall there was a significant staff turnover
    during the project life.

l Counterpart funds: One of the covenants signed by the government was to contribute the sum of US$
    6.1 Million to be provided as counterpart contribution over the life of the project. However, the
    Federal Government was only able to release US$ 1 Million prior to effectiveness and another US$



                                                     - 13 -

    916,000. The project closed without the release of all counterpart funds. The slow release of
    counterpart funding significantly slowed implementation at the initial stage until the project was
    restructured. The government was not required to contribute to the self-help project since it was
    funded 80% through the IDA and 20% in cash or kind by the communities.

l Excise Duty: It was difficult to obtain waiver certificate for the clearing of educational goods from the
    sea port. This caused a lot of delay in the collection and distribution of the supplementary readers and
    other instructional materials.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

l Implementation capacity: More than a year into implementation, UBEC did not establish its
    procurement unit as provided for in the PAD and DCA. This made procurement difficult and where
    goods were procured, records were not kept properly, which led to little or no information and
    documentation on the procurement activities undertaken in the project since it became effective. The
    mission on 6/10/2002 decided that no further procurement activities would be entertained until a unit
    was established. Before the supervision ended, procurement unit was established.

l Distribution of reading materials: The project experienced delay in the distribution of materials as
    these were left at the State Primary Education Board's stores for prolonged periods before distribution.
    It is not clear why materials were left in the stores.

l Counterpart funding from communities: Some communities found it difficult to pay counterpart
    funds for the self-help projects and this has led to some uncompleted projects.

l Decision-making: The implementing agency had to seek clearance from the Federal Ministry of
    Education before activities could be undertaken. There were bureaucratic bottlenecks in the process of
    seeking approval and this led to delay in project implementation.

l Monitoring and evaluation: There was insufficient baseline information on the initial 740 focus
    schools and this was further compounded when the focus schools were increased to 1,110 after the
    restructuring. The lack of adequate and accurate baseline information on the focus and self-help
    schools made it difficult to measure the impact of the intervention throughout the project. This
    contributed to the projects inability to measure outcomes effectively.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total project cost was estimated at US$61.11 million. The IDA credit was to finance US$55 million
and the balance of US$6.1 million equivalent was to be financed by the government. At the end of the
project, disbursed funds stood at US$56.2 million (96.93%) with available resources in the sum of
US$1,86 million. The increase in available resource was due to the gain in the exchange rate on the US
dollar.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability was rated as likely for the following reasons:

Governments commitment: The Second Primary Education Project was a bridge project that assisted the



                                                     - 14 -

Federal Government of Nigeria in preparing the ground work for its Universal Basic Education Program.
The overlap between PEPII and the UBE project served to strengthen the transition and make for continuity
in education delivery. More importantly, the government demonstrated political commitment in basic
education by enacting the UBE Law and establishing the Universal Basic Education Commission with
oversight functions for the delivery of UBE. The commission was allocated N 26 billion for the year 2005.
In addition, the Federal Ministry of Education, in partnership with UNICEF and other development
partners, have developed a framework for the establishment of School Based Management Committees
(SBMC). To this effect, a memo was sent to the Joint Consultative Committee on Education (JCCE) at its
meeting in Yola, Adamawa State. It is expected that, when approved, SBMC will be established in
schools. This is likely to facilitate greater community involvement, a more democratic management style,
increased efficiency and transparency underpinned by good record keeping and utilization of effective
management tools, as well as by greater teacher and pupil participation in school administration.
Communities through the SBMC will have a voice and would therefore be in a position to demand for
supply of better quality education.

School based teacher support: This activity began with a small number of schools, teachers and mentors
and later expanded to include school clusters. This approach to teacher support assisted a number of local
governments to build a critical mass of supervisors, school principals and teachers who share
understanding and experiences on how to support teachers in their classrooms to improve teaching and
learning. In Ilesha Local Government Area of Osun State, for instance, all schools were covered and the
local government has institutionalized school based teacher support and mentoring because it is a more cost
effective way of getting more teachers trained. The UBE project is supporting scaling up of this activity.
Though school based training is cost effective, it would still require resources for execution. However,
there has been no influencing of policy to allow for government recognition of school based development
and budgeting for this activity in order to ensure sustainability.

EMIS: The 2002 and 2003 school census have been conducted and reports were produced. The Federal
Ministry of Education is currently coordinating data collection for 2004 school census. This activity would
support the planning process. Data collection has been institutionalized to be carried out in the second
week of February every year at the school level. The UBE project is also supporting data collection and
further trainings of ministry staff on education information management sustem. Government needs to
commit more resources in order to ensure longer-term sustainability.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
At the commencement of PEPII, UBEC was not a legal entity since it had no act of parliament backing its
establishment. However, the UBE Bill has been passed into law thereby officially establishing the
Universal Basic Education Commission. The UBE Act provides for compulsory, free universal basic
education for all children of primary and junior secondary school age children in Nigeria. Since education
is on the concurrent legislative list, states established State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB)
which would be used within the states to deliver UBE. It is expected that staff of SPEB who were trained
under PEPII will continue to support the work of SUBEBs in the delivery of basic education in the States.
The UBE project has inherited structures set up by PEPII in carrying out activities, especially the self-help
activities.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Rated satisfactory



                                                       - 15 -

Project preparation documents were comprehensive and the specialists who comprised the design team were
experienced. The preparation team recognized the need for substantial institutional capacity building at all
levels of the educational system. Emphasis was on improving teaching and learning environment through
the continued piloting of the focus and self-help approaches initiated under PEPI. Mechanisms were also
put in place to ensure that Federal level (through the UBEC) linked up with the SUBEBs and the State
Ministries of Education to carry out activities at the state, local government and community levels
specifically using the focus school and self-help approaches to school improvement.

7.2 Supervision:
Rated satisfactory

The supervision missions were fairly consistent over the life of the project with an average of three
missions a year. An education specialist and a TTL were located in the Country Office to provide
day-to-day support and this led to improvement in project implementation. Supervision teams were quick
to wage in when they noticed that the project take-off and implementation were slow. This led to a revisit
to earlier agreed activities and the reallocation of funds to activities more likely to contribute to project
objectives. Progressively, the team showed more faith in the ability of the Borrower to carry out project
activities. This led to more open and direct communication between Borrower and the Bank. Special
Account allocation was increased as a result of identified need during supervision from US$0.5 to US$ 4
million. As project progressed interaction between the Borrower and the Bank, more support was being
provided leading to innovative approaches to addressing challenges. However, the PSRs were not up-dated
regularly enough leading to gaps in information.

Transition: The project had two TTLs. The transition from one TTL to the other was smooth bringing the
experiences of both TTLs to bear on the project implementation. The TTL during the last half of project
implementation was Nigerian and based in Abuja. The skills and "professional knowledge of local
governance" of this TTL were major factors in supporting the implementaing agency UBEC to make
project implementation and performance more successful.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall performance of the Bank is moderately satisfactory, given the participatory manner in which
the project was prepared, the rapid response to challenges and the innovative ways in which intrenal and
external challenges were addressed, and the way in which the Bank accomodated the transition problems of
the democratic government. However, the more complex conditions surrounding some of the project
outcomes were not sufficiently recognized and accomodated.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Rated satisfactory

Project identification took place in Nigeria from May 11 to 13, 1999. Under the guidance of the task team
leader, NPEC's NETCOM together with a representative from FME identified the project, delineated the
policies to be addressed, prepared ways to address them, and outlined the project components and rough
cost estimates. They also drafted the project design summary and discussed and agreed the conditions for
project to be processed and approved.


7.5 Government implementation performance:




                                                      - 16 -

Rated satisfactory

The overall performance of the Government was rated satisfactory. The government had the benefit of the
implementation of an earlier education project. Early in the project, management staff of the implementing
agency were redeployed but efforts were made to train and retain staff who were later assigned to manage
the project. Capacity in financial management and procurement were weak, leading to slow disbursement
at the beginning but a more skilled team was appointed for the procurement unit, project was restructured
which led to faster implementation and project closed on schedule. Except for the non-payment of
counterpart funds, nearly all key conditions of the loan were met and output exceeded targets. The
implementing agency worked under difficult conditions, and in a complex political environment. In spite of
these factors, the project exceeded its physical targets during the last two years of implementation, closed
on time, and disbursed fully.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Rated moderately satisfactory

All agencies in the Federal Ministry of Education, with direct responsibility in the delivery of education,
were brought in to participate in PEPII. Although the capacity to implement varied making coordination of
activities problematic, the UBEC facilitated the participation of the following federal agencies: the
National Commission for Nomadic Education (NCNE), Education for All Unit (EFA), National
Commission for Colleges of Education (NCCE), National Teachers' Institute (NTI), and National
Commission for Adult Education (NMEC), National Education Research and Development Council
(NERDC), National Mathematical Center (NMC) and Teachers' Registration Council (TRC). The essence
of ensuring that all stakeholders were involved was to create synergy and allow for representation and
scaling up of activities.

EFA was supported to produce the National EFA Plan. The EFA unit established National and State EFA
Forums in order to allow for participation in the EFA planning process. The plan is at its final stage.
NCCE and NTI were supported to carry out tracer studies on the National Certificate of Education (NCE)
and PTTP graduates in other to determine their effectiveness. NERDC, NMC, NMEC and TRC received
grants to execute projects related to their mandate. The NCNE was brought in late, however, it was able to
train staff on IRI and also supported the establishment of some radio stations in readiness for the take off of
IRI for nomadic schools. The participations of all these agencies set the stage for scaling -up of activities
in UBE.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Rated satisfactory

All agencies involved in the delivery of education at the federal level participated in the project. To avoid
political back lash, activities in PEPII were spread to cover all 774 local government areas in the country.
However, the government was unable to provide all its counterpart funds for the project.

8. Lessons Learned

Bridging project. PEPII was designed during aftermath of the military government and implemented
during a transition time by the democratically elected government. This placed restructions on what the
project could realistically achieve. PEPII was intended to "bridge" the period beytween the two different
governments. With hindsight for a "bridging project" the objectives were probably optimistic and the
design was complex. The project was implemented during a quickly changing and shifting political period.



                                                     - 17 -

The restructuring of the project took that into account and shifted the project focus primarily to the
community and school level. This responded to where the needs were greatest. It is important to assess
project objectives and desired outcomes in the context of the political situation if the country is goingt
through an important political change.

Scale-up: The sub-projects were scaled-up from 740 Focus Schools (FS) and 900 community projects to
1,110 and 9,650 respectively in recognition of the need to make an impact while also acknowledging that
achievement of impact in education required continuous investment. This scale-up helped to build
momentum within the community and also led to increased interest by the local communities. Due to
increased community interest in school management, the government, working in partnership with other
donors, developed a framework for the establishment of School Based Management Committees (SBMC)
which would be made up of community representatives. The Bank-assisted UBE project apllies the lessons
from the PEPII project and supports the establishment of SBMC (also supported by technical assistance
from DfID). Building the capacity of these committees will contribute to the planning process at the local
level. However, the UBE is a project with a Federal (25%) and a State component (75%) and is still
encountering major implementation problems due to the lack of management and technical capacity at the
States level.

Schools grants: PEPII supported community schools with funds for non-personnel expenditure to be used
directly by the head teachers to carryout projects identified by the communities. The release of funds to
head teachers helped to boost their morale and increased community interests in school activities. It also
proved that head teachers can be accountable when given adequate responsibilities. It is important to
support projects that will push for funds to be given to schools to be expended on non-personnel items. This
should help school head teachers meet immediate needs of the schools.

Self-help approach: The self-help approach seemed to be potent in improving retention of pupils as well as
parents and community involvement in school activities. This may be due to the comparative advantage of
civil society and NGOs in community mobilization and sensitization. It is important to involve civil society
in the planning process so that they can represent the voices of their communities. In addition, the self-help
projects tended to realize a greater proportion of the approved budget than the focus school projects. The
implication is that, where there is popular participation, there could be more transparency and
accountability. However, there are risks associated with self-help projects and these could include reduced
community participation in school activities and abandonment of projects due to inability of communities to
raise additional resources to complete such projects. The concept of communities contributing in cash or
kind must be made clear. The role of civil society in school development should be more of identification
of needs and participation through SBMC in planning and supervision of projects, rather than direct
implementation of the project and fund raising.

Quality: Improving quality of instruction in the classroom requires concerted and long term efforts.
Lessons learned from the evaluation of students' learning outcomes has shown that provision of books,
rehabilitation of school building and improving teachers attendance and work hours are only first steps
towards improving education quality. Unless broader issues of poverty and infrastructure are taken care of
it may be difficult to achieve learning outcomes.

Equity: While having the right political environment is necessary, it is not sufficient to transform the
structures, attitudes and values that are at the root of social inequalities and injustices. In other words,
improved infrastructure and capacity strengthening may lead to increased school enrolment but not
retention, especially for girls since there are other factors like the cost of education, lack of infrastructure



                                                       - 18 -

and cultural beliefs which need to be addressed. It is important to use innovative approaches to cultural
issues to create demand, since social norms operate behind the scenes to define power relations and access.
The capacity of NGOs should be strengthened so that they can use knowledge of local community to
advocate for retention of pupils (especially girls) in schools.

Capacity building: Implementation skills were identified as an issue in PEPI and efforts were supposed to
have been put in place to redress that. However, lack of capacity to implement, especially in procurement
and financial management, slowed down the project. It is important to have the appropriate capacity
building activities before project is declared effective. This should forestall delays in implementation.

Design: There were five components for the project and each component had at least two sub-components,
which meant that there were too many activities to be carried out with $55 million. This amount is small
for a large country with a large population like Nigeria. For example, many communities were given the
equivalent of US$3,000 for their community project and this was not a sufficient amount to carry out
sizeable refurbishment/renovation. It is important to allocate resources in sufficient quantity to be able to
achieve the desired impact.

Implementation: The responsibility for different activities was assigned to different desk officers and these
were spread across each of the departmental units of UBEC. This often led to competition (for resources)
and a lack of shared vision of the expected results (or outcomes) of the whole set of project interventions on
schools. Individual activities were implemented and supervised separately. This made it difficult to
measure the impact of interventions on focus schools and self help schools or on local and state education
systems. Setting goals and working to a shared vision is an important element in effective institutions,
whether the institution is a school, a local government or a state government. The UBE project, which
follows in the wake of the PEPII project is trying to apply the lessons from PEPII. However it has a large
State component (while PEPII was centrally managed from the Federal level), and UBE has encountered
serious implementation problems due to the weak capacity in the States. The current disbursement of the
UBE project takes place mainly through self-help projects with the communities and local governments
(districts). Meanwhile UBE is trying to establish effective implementation capacity in planning,
management and monitoring in the States.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Borrower's comments have been summarized in annex 8. Generally, the Borrower appreciated the Bank's
support to education, especially at the time when the government announced free and compulsory education
for all Nigerian children. The main challenge for the project was the lack of provision of counterpart funds
by the government and the Banks procurement procedures. The Borrower concluded that project inputs
had impact on enrollment and learning outcomes, and rated Bank's performance as satisfactory.


(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None received.

10. Additional Information




                                                      - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of target schools having prepared      1,110 focus schools                          500 focus schools
School Development Plans
Improved teacher attendance rate in target    Not calculated                               Not calculated
schools
Nominal enrollment in target schools          995,100                                      1,114,500 (34% increase)
increased by 15% by end of the project
Retention rate at target schools improved     78%                                          78%
Average (mean) scores of standardized tests 38%                                            38%
in target schools improved
Each student in target schools has access to 50%                                           50%
a textbook in 4 core subjects and to
supplementary readers
Study reports incorporated into policy by the Seven studies carried out and reports        Seven studies carried out and reports
end of the project                            produced                                     produced
School statistics available                   School census and baseline reports           School census and baseline reports
                                              produced                                     produced
HIV/AIDS action plan submitted by August      HIV and AIDS curriculum produced, posters HIV and AIDS currriculum produced, posters
31, 2000                                      distributed and radio and television jingles distributed and radio and television jingles
                                              aired                                        aired
UBE plans ready                               UBE plans for 16 states approved             UBE plans for 16 states approved


Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of Head Teachers trained               1000                                         1,100 head-teachers from the focus schools
Number of classroom Teachers trained          4000                                         2,273 from focus schools, 2,040 teachers
                                                                                           were trained using Teacher-led Profesionnal
                                                                                           Support, 210 teachers, headteachers,
                                                                                           assistants and supervisors were trained on
                                                                                           school development
Number of schools refurbished                 740                                          10,354 classrooms refurbished in 5,177
                                                                                           schools
Number of community self-help projects        900                                          9,650 self-help projects
completed
Percent of 740 focus schools receiving        100%                                         100% received supplementary readers
supplementary readers and instructional
materials.
Study reports produced                        Seven                                        Nine reports produced
EMIS data collected in all schools            100%                                         100%
Awareness program for HIV/AIDS developed. 100%                                             100%
Posters distributed to all schools; radio
jingles aired
HIV/AIDS curriculum developed and             100%                                         100%
approved
Number of supplementary readers and steel     740 focus schools supplied with              2,238,868 supplementary readers were
boxes                                         supplementary readers and steel boxes        supplied to focus schools. 1,110 focus
                                                                                           schools were supplied 38 steel boxes each

1 End of project




                                                                - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Component A: Strengthening Capacity through training         8.16           10.21
Component B: Creating a more conducive learning             25.68           30.83
environment
Component C: Improving quality of curriculum delivery       11.44           13.61
Component D: Providing enhanced information base             4.31             5.20
Component E: Enhancing HIV/AIDS awareness                    1.01             1.26

Total Baseline Cost                                         50.60           61.11
 Physical Contingencies                                      7.59
 Price Contingencies                                         2.92
                        Total Project Costs                 61.11           61.11
                  Total Financing Required                  61.11           61.11


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          4.20          4.20
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          37.98             0.00         1.00          0.00         38.98
                                 (37.37)           (0.00)      (0.95)          (0.00)       (38.32)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         3.19          0.00          3.19
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.82)          (0.00)       (2.82)
4. Self Help Project              0.00              0.00         4.62          0.00          4.62
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (3.74)          (0.00)       (3.74)
5. Training                       0.00              0.00        10.12          0.00         10.12
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (10.12)         (0.00)       (10.12)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          37.98             0.00        18.93          4.20         61.11
                                 (37.37)           (0.00)      (17.63)         (0.00)       (55.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          17.22            0.07         1.10           0.00        18.39
                                 (16.36)          (0.00)       (1.04)         (0.00)       (17.40)


                                                - 21 -

   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              3.36             0.00              3.36
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.19)            (0.00)           (3.19)
   4. Self Help Project                    0.00               0.00             27.98             0.00             27.98
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (26.58)            (0.00)           (26.58)
   5. Training                             0.00               0.00             11.12             0.00             11.12
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (11.12)            (0.00)           (11.12)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               17.22              0.07             43.56             0.00             60.85
                                          (16.36)            (0.00)           (41.93)            (0.00)           (58.29)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Component A:                  10.29         0.00                    11.35         0.00                  110.3     0.0
Strengthening Capacity
through training
Component B:                  25.82         5.59                    25.14         4.66                  97.4      83.4
Creating a more conducive
learning environment
Component C:                  13.17         0.55                    21.67         0.02                  164.5     3.6
Improving quality of
curriculum delivery
Component D:                   5.14         0.11                     4.51         0.06                  87.7      54.5
providing enhanced
information base
Component E:                   1.21         0.06                     2.88         0.02                  238.0     33.3
Enhancing HIV/AIDS
awareness




                                                          - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)      Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                     Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              07/06/1999                5    TEAM LEADER (1);                   S               S
                                             EDUCATION ECONOMIST (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (3)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              09/22/1999                6    TEAM LEADER (1);                   S               S
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (3); FIANANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)


 Supervision
              10/27/2000                7    TEAM LEADER (1);                   S               S
                                             EDUCATION ECONOMIST
                                             (1); EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST (3); MIS
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PUBLISHING SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              06/15/2001                1    TEAM LEADER (1)                    U               S
              10/26/2001                9    TEAM LEADER (1);                   U               U
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (3);
                                             EDUCATION ECONOMIST (1);
                                             TEXTBOOK SPECIALIST (1);
                                             SCHOOL CONS.SPEC. (1); FIN.
                                             MGMT. SPECIALIST (2)
              05/17/2002                6    HEAD OF MISSION (1); TASK          U               U
                                             TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (2);
                                             FIANANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              12/20/2002                7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR           U               S
                                             EDUC. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (2);
                                             PROC. SPEC. (1); SR. FIN.
                                             MGT. SPEC. (1); FIN. MGT.
                                             SPEC. (1)
              06/20/2003                7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             LEAD EDUC. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             EDUCATION CONSULTANT
                                             (1); SR. PROC. SPEC. (1); SR.
                                             FIN. MGT. SPEC. (1); FIN.



                                              - 24 -

                                           MGT. SPEC. (1); SR. EDUC.
                                           SPEC. (1)
               02/13/2004              5   TTL (1); EDUCATION                 S    S
                                           CLUSTER LEAD (1); SR.
                                           FINANCIAL SPEC. (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPEC (1);
                                           EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1)
               07/30/2004              4   TTL (1); EDUCATION                 S    S
                                           CLUSTER LEAD (1);
                                           SR.FINAN. SPECIALIST (1);
                                           SR. PROCUREMENT SPEC (1)
               11/15/2004              5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           LEAD FINMAN SPECIALIS
                                           (1); SNR. PROCU. SPECIALIST
                                           (1); EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                           (2)


 ICR
               02/10/2005             8     TASK TEAM LEADER                  S    S
                                            AND LEAD EDUCATION
                                            SPECIALIST (1); SR
                                            EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                            (1); EDUCATION
                                            SPECIALISTS (2);
                                            FIN-MAN SPECIALIST
                                            (1); SR. PROCU.
                                            SPECIALIST (1); TEAM
                                            ASSISTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                       261,000
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                      520,000
  ICR
  Total




                                            - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                           Rating
   Macro policies                        H       SU    M       N     NA
   Sector Policies                       H       SU    M       N     NA
   Physical                              H       SU    M       N     NA
   Financial                             H       SU    M       N     NA
   Institutional Development             H       SU    M       N     NA
   Environmental                         H       SU    M       N     NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction            H       SU    M       N     NA
            Gender                       H       SU    M       N     NA
            Other (Please specify)       H       SU    M       N     NA
   Private sector development            H       SU    M       N     NA
   Public sector management              H       SU    M       N     NA
   Other (Please specify)                H       SU    M       N     NA
This project achieved its development objectives and was implemented with success, exceeding the physical
ouputs. However, the scope of this project was modest, and it was conceived in a difficult political period.
This project was meant to be a bridging project, and it achieved its outcomes within that context (highly
complex political and technical implementation situation, with weak capacity to manage and implement).
In terms of capacity building, the project was moderately successful, due to the limited implementation
period, and the fast developing sector strategies due to the changing political landscape. The project was
fully successful in building a bridge to the preparation and implementation of the UBE project. However,
given the complexities of Nigeria and the differences between the States, the project did not build sufficient
institutional capacity. The UBE applied the lessons from PEPII, but is still encountering serious
implementation problems due to the weak capacity in the 16 States with which it works.




                                                     - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


IDA Prepared Documents:

      Development Credit Agreement - May 22, 2000
      Project Appraisal Document - February 3, 2000
      Office Memorandum from Brigitte Duces, Lead Education Specialist, AFTH3 to Mark Tomlinson,

       Country Director AFC12 - Reallocation of Funds - dated October 17, 2002
      Project Status Report sequence # 01 to 13

UBEC Prepared Documents:

      Sensitization Workshop on: School Based Teacher Professional support and Development Action
Research
      Studies on physical infrastructure/social mobilization (focus and self help schools): evaluation
      Implementation Completion studies Project Management Review
      Final & Mid term monitoring and evaluation of phase 2 (Batch one & two) project in Gombe
      Final and Mid term Monitoring and evaluation of phase 2 (Batch one and two) project
      Final and Mid term Monitoring and evaluation of phase 2 (Batch one and two) project Anambra
State
      Final and Mid term Monitoring and evaluation of phase 2 (Batch one and two) project Ekiti State
      Final and Mid term Monitoring and evaluation of phase 2 (Batch one and two) project Bayelsa
State
      Tracer study on Pivotal Teacher Training Program (PTTP) Graduates
      Implementation Completion Report (PEP II) Institutional Capacity Building through Training
      Report on:
       o       HIV/AIDS Campaign
       o       Teacher Professional Support Program (TPSP)
       o       Supplementary Reading Materials and Interactive Radio Instruction for pupils in nomadic
education schools
      Monitoring and Evaluation final report (Osun State)
      Final Monitoring and Evaluation of phase I and Mid term monitoring of phase II project in Ebonyi
State
      Mid term and Final Monitoring and evaluation of phase 2 (Batch two) project in Bayelsa State
      Final Monitoring Self Help Projects Cross River State
      Final Report on UBE Workshop on project performance indicators
      Report on National Parliamentary forum on Universal Basic Education, August, 2002
      Mid term review studies procurement Report
      Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Feb 2005
      Summary of Mid term and final monitoring & evaluation reports and recommendation of Bayelsa




                                                  - 28 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's Report

Factors Affecting Implementation

l Administrative bottlenecks: The project experienced change in leadership at the beginning of the
   project. The new managers did not understand the project and this led to delay in implementation.

l Transfer of experienced project staff: The project took off without adequate experienced project staff,
   especially in procurement and financial management. Transfer of experienced and trained staff greatly
   affected project implementation.

l Project negotiation and signing: The borrower was not involved early in the preparation of PEPII. It is
   imperative to have experienced personnel from the borrower's side on the team involved in project
   design and signing so as to ensure that certain issues that may be obstacles in the successful
   implementation of projects are addressed promptly.

l Special Account (SA): The initial allocation of US$ 0.5 million was too small to accommodate the
   demand for disbursement to self-help projects, workshops, seminars and teacher training activities.
   This slowed the project implementation until the account was raised to US$ 4 million. It is important
   for the Bank to have faith in the project team enough to allow a realistic amount for SA.

l Counter part fund: The Federal Government did not fully meet its obligation of providing its
   counterpart fund. The equivalent of US$ 1 million was released prior to effectiveness and US$
   916,000 was later released.

l Absence of Draw Down Account: The project became effective without a Draw Down Account and
   this led to a lot of confusion on the part of the Bank because it could not determine payment made from
   counterpart funds account or the SA. This affected disbursements and cash flow to the extent that
   withdrawal application was returned with quarries.

l Lack of capacity at agencies involved in project implementation: Some of the participating agencies
   lacked capacity in procurement which led to late retirement of advances. This slowed down
   implementation.

l Waivers of Excise Duty Certificates: The project encountered a lot of difficulties in obtaining waiver
   certificates for the clearing of educational goods at the sea ports.

l Better relationship between project and Bank staff: The relationship between project and Bank staff in
   the first two years was perceived to be tight and rigid for any project staff to contact the Bank for
   clarification and guidance. Project staff therefore had no reference points when in doubt.

Sustainability plans

The success of the Second Primary Education Project made it possible for the following sustainability plans
and arrangements to be put in place:

  l UBEC Project staff will continue to give support to UBE project in the areas of procurement,
        financial management, self-help and project implementation.



                                                     - 29 -

  l School library services have been included in the PAD for the UBE project.
  l UBEC will scale-up programs for supplementary readers and instructional materials to reach out to
      more schools.
  l Action research activities will be integrated into the UBE project and the benefiting states are
      expected to continue with the activities with assistance from UBEC. UBEC will also continue these
      activities as part of its routine work.
  l A development plan on teachers support and curriculum delivery has been put in place in UBEC to
      continue the sensitization and interaction with stakeholders in the states.
  l Teachers' support and curriculum delivery will be integrated into the UBE project in states.
  l Several training programs sponsored by the project have gingered the UBEC to make capacity
      building one of its main activities and support to states.
  l School census has been institutionalized by the Federal Ministry of Education and will be carried
      out on continuous basis.
  l More campaign to create awareness on the effect of HIV and AIDS is being carried out.
  l Trained staff of NCNE will continue to train and re-train the nomadic and migrant fishing
      communities in the country on IRI and has planed to include IRI program in its rolling plan.
  l States and LGAs have adopted self-help approaches to school improvement as a strategy in
      ensuring community participation in education management and service delivery.
  l UBEC has adopted the self-help and information technology as model and incorporated them into
      their program.

Assessment of Bank performance

The Bank's performance during project preparation is satisfactory.

  l Project preparation documents were comprehensive. The preparation team recognized the need for
      substantial institutional capacity building at all levels of educational system.

  l The counterpart fund was reduced from 60% for PEPI to 5% for PEPII.


  l The Bank's supervision and implementation support were overall symbolic and satisfactory. The
      delay in getting the Special Account increased beyond the initial US$0.5m affected the rate of
      project implementation, however, the increase of the threshold of the account to US$ 4 million in
      the last 18 months led to a lot of success in carrying the project. The selective re-allocation of
      project funds to more progressive components also contributed to the success recorded after the
      MTR.

  l In terms of continuity, the project had two team leaders during project implementation, both of
      whom were very knowledgeable in project implementation. For the most part, the project was
      managed from the country office.

  l The establishment of the procurement unit with the assistance of the Bank was highly
      commendable. However, the procurement unit of the Bank is observed to be under staffed leading
      to slow response to the client's requests.

  l The Bank approved the hiring of three consultants to assist in the disbursement process of the
      community self-help projects.

Lessons learned


                                                   - 30 -

  l Strengthening human capacity: The various workshops led to improved school management,
      teacher productivity and professionalism, community awareness and participation for sustainable
      quality primary education.
  l Creating a more conducive physical environment: The self-help approach to school development
      was better at enabling retention than the focus school approach.
  l Improving quality and availability of teaching materials: The provision of supplementary readers
      and storage boxes were found to be effective in    increasing children's interest in reading.
  l Development of an enhanced information base for decision-making: The action research carried out
      revealed that teachers can change and make sacrifices if given the right motivation.
  l Increased HIV and AIDS awareness: HIV and AIDS curriculum still needs to negotiate cultural
      barriers in some communities to be accepted.

Observations:
  l The World Bank's commitment and interest in managing the project, timely supervision and the
      provision of inputs contributed immensely to the successful completion of the project.
  l The adoption of the self-help model increased community participation and the sense of ownership.
  l The capacity built at the federal, state and local government levels made all tiers conscious of their
      responsibilities.
  l Support provided to the EFA unit made it more proactive in preparing the state EFA plans.
  l Capacity building of project implementation staff will be more beneficial when provided at the
      beginning of project rather than at the end of project.
  l The success achieved can be attributed the openness, transparency, accountability and networking
      among project desk officers and other implementing agencies.

Recommendation:
  l To ensure speedy realization of project objectives, all benefiting states and agencies should have
      their capacity built around project financial management, procurement and monitoring and
      evaluation.
  l Effective capacity build and the installation of VSAT equipment in the states, especially the UBE
      project states in order to enhance communication.
  l Bureaucratic procedures will need to be reduced through direct contact with policy makers.
  l The self-help approach should be sustained as it clearly provides a more effective interface in
      relating development goals to the specific communities and provides decentralization process in
      project implementation.
  l Constant follow-up with the Ministry of Finance should be used as a strategy to ensure prompt
      release of government counterpart funds for projects.




                                                  - 31 -

- 32 -

