Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20073 UNI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR40. 1 MILLION
(US$55 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FORA
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
April 12, 2000
Human Development m Unit
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 11, 2000)
Currency Unit = Naira
Naira l US$ 0.00987167
US$ 1 = Naira 101.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31 (Nigeria)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL           Adaptable Program Loan
FGN           Federal Government of Nigeria
FME           Federal Ministry of Education
FMF           Federal Ministry of Finance
FOS           Federal Office of Statistics
GPN           General Procurement Notice
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
LACI          Loan Administration Change Initiative
LGA           Local Government Authority
LGEAs         Local Government Education Authorities
MIS           Management Infonnation System
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NCE           National Certificate in Education
NETCOM        Network Committee
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
NPEC          National Primary Education Commission
NPEF          National Primary Education Fund
PAS           Project Accounts System
PEPI          Primary Education Project (Credit 2191-IUNI)
PEPII         Second Primary Education Project
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
PMR           Project Management Reports
PTA           Parent Teachers Association
PTF           Petroleum Trust Fund
RFP           Request for Proposals
SA            Special Account
SOE           Statement of Expenses
SPEBs         State Primary Education Boards
SPU           Special Projects Unit
QCBS          Quality and Cost Based Selection
UBE           Universal Basic Education
UBEC          Universal Basic Education Commission
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager/Director:    Rosemary Bellew
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Eileen Nkwanga



NIGERIA
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       8
3. Benefits and target population                                                      9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        15
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                           16
2. Financial                                                                          16
3. Technical                                                                          18
4. Institutional                                                                      18
5. Environment                                                                        20
6. Social                                                                             20
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 20
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     21
2. Critical risks                                                                     22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     23



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            23
2. Other                                                                              23
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summaiy                                                          26
Annex 2: Project Description                                                             29
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         35
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                             37
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               44
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       45
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     51
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   52
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  53
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            55
MAP(S)



NIGERIA
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH3
Date: April 14, 2000                              Team Leader: Eileen B. Nkwanga
Country Manager/Director: Yaw Ansu                Sector Manager/Director: Rosemary Bellew
Project ID: P066571                               Sector(s): EP - Primary Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
O Loan         N Credit        El Grant        Ol Guarantee    E Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$ 55.0 million
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.50%                                 Service charge: 0.75%
Is  cing lan:    -,,,-,;;--; .,, L,.,l    ,                                     Tota.l- ; ;, - -;:Tai
Government                                                     5.50           0.61          6.11
IBRD
IDA                                                           17.63          37.37         55.00
Total:                                                        23.13          37.98         61.11
Borrower: FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIA
Responsible agency: FEDERAL MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC)
Address: NPEC Building, IBB Close, Wuse Zone 4, P.O.Box 6802, Abuja
Contact Person: UBE Coordinator
Tel: 234-9-523-9742                Fax: 234-9-523-9742               Email: edsi@scannet.com
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY          2000: I      0120220                             2004:
Annual     0.0         24.5         29.0         1.3         0.2
Cumulative     0.0         24.5         53.5       54.8        55.0
Project implementation period: FY00 to FY04
Expected effectiveness date: 08/30/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OCS PAD F.n. R- MZdC1



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The first Primary Education Project (Credit 2191-UNI) (PEP I) provided support to the Federal
Government of Nigeria's (FGN) program of primary education improvement through (a) upgrading the
quality of primary education; (b) improving resource allocation; (c) increasing enrollments; (d)
strengthening institutions; and (e) facilitating future planning.
The proposed project assists the FGN to prepare the groundwork for universal basic education (UBE).
This will be done through continued piloting of the strategies for the focus schools, self-help schools and
overall system; as well as studies, capacity building and investigation of modalities for distance education
for teachers. In this way it builds upon the first primary education project and provides a bridge between
that project and a proposed more extensive sectorwide approach that will support the FGN's target of
providing high quality UBE.
The project's specific objectives are to: (a) strengthen human resource capacity in approximately 1000
primary schools throughout Nigeria; (b) create a primary school environment conducive to teaching and
learning; (c) improve the quality and availability of instructional materials and distance education; (d)
develop an enhanced information base to facilitate decision-making under Nigeria's UBE program; and (e)
create national awareness about AIDS.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key performance indicators to measure the achievement of each objective are as follows:
Input                        Output                           Outcome/Impact*
(a) strengthening    (i) 1000 headteachers trained in school    - School development plan prepared in
human resource       administration, budgeting, accounting,    targeted schools
capacity             furniture care and teacher support by  - Improved teacher attendance rate
(US$l0.20m/IDA:$l0.  December 31, 2003
20m)                 (ii) 4000 teachers trained in new methods
of curriculum delivery in core subjects and
in learning assessment and reporting by
December 31, 2003
(b) creating more    (i) 900 self-help school projects completed  - Nominal enrollment at focus schools
conducive teaching and  and assessed by June 30, 2003      (FS) and self-help schools (SH) increased
learning environment   (ii) 740 focus schools refurbished and  by 15% by December 31,2004
(US$                 provided with furniture and storage   - Retention rate at FS and SH improved
30.83m/IDA:$25.50m)  cabinets by December 31, 2002         from 64% to 80% by December 31, 2004
(c) improving the    (i) Primary One teachers' guides for four   - average scores of standardized tests in
quality and availability  core subjects provided to all schools  FS and SH schools improved from 43% to
of instructional     throughout Nigeria by August 31, 2001    50% by December 31,2004
materials and distance   (ii) instructional aids and supplementary    - each student in FS has access to a
education            readers/library books provided to 740  textbook in 4 core subjects and to
(US$13.62mllDA:$13.  focus schools by March 31, 2002       supplementary readers by December 31,
OOm)                                                       2002
-2-



(d) providing        (i) study reports on UBE produced   - Study reports incorporated into policy
infornation base for    (ii) study report on distance teacher  - School statistics available within 12
decision-making (US$   education produced                months of project effectiveness
5.20m/IDA: $5.1 Om)    (iii) develop EMIS format, collect and  - UBE plan ready
input information                   - capacity to start implementation
established
(e) enhancing        Education, information and          - AEP submitted to IDA for review by
HIV/AIDS awareness   communication program for HIV/AIDS    August 31, 2000
(US$1.26m/IDA:       (AEP) developed
$1.20m)             I_I
* These outcome/impact indicators are not exclusively related to inputs and outputs.
These indicators will be used for both monitoring and evaluation purposes during implementation and at the
end of the project. In addition, updated information on enrollment and expenditure (at all levels of
governments) for the whole nation will be collected and used to conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R93/45                       Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/13/93
An Interim Country Strategy Note was approved by the Africa Region Operations Committee on April 6,
2000 and is being presented to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors with this project on May 11, 2000.
The principal objective of the strategy is to reduce poverty through support for the improvement and
expansion of basic social services. This project contributes to this objective by improving the quality and
coverage of primary education to poor communities and by preparing the ground for UBE that will reach
remote and disadvantaged groups.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Issues:
Insufficient human resource capacity to effectively manage and deliver the system. Although sufficient
staff are generally allocated to primary education management and curriculum delivery, the quality varies.
Knowledge and skills are outdated and there are few opportunities for staff development. Some orientation
courses for school heads and deputies exist but are not very effective. In some instances the initial
academic qualifications of entrants into pre-service training colleges is low. Government has attempted to
raise the certification for teachers from Grade II (post-junior secondary) to National Certificate in
Education (NCE: post-school certificate). The NCE course is theoretically-based, includes little supervised
teaching practice, and lacks the flexibility necessary for teachers who will operate under difficult
conditions. There is no well-established enabling culture of teacher professional and administrative support
within the schools or from governments. The 'inspectorate'is a supervisory body - as opposed to advisory
and capacity building. A career structure for primary education personnel remains to be developed.
Inadequate and inequitable access. The total number of primary school age children in Nigeria is about
19.5 million. Of this number, 15.7 million or 81% are enrolled in 41,531 schools. The remaining 3.8
million are out of school. Enrollment rates are higher in the south than in the north. Female enrollment
rates are lower than male in the north; on a par with male in the south-west and higher than male in the
south-east. Generally, urban enrollment rates are higher than rural and, because of the scarcity of
infrastructure, classes tend to be overcrowded in urban areas. Under-population is common in remote rural
- 3 -



areas in all states. Some of those who enroll drop out of school early for various reasons. Average
primary school completion rates are estimated at 69% - girls 71% and boys 68%. Among the reasons for
an increasing tendency to drop out are: i) lack of financial resources on the part of parents; ii) the
resource-poor school environment; iii) the minimal relevance of existing school curricula; and iv) teacher
absenteeism. Existing infrastructure is in a state of decay. One government survey, estimates N8 1.2
billion is needed to replace school infrastructure, excluding school running costs, workers' salaries and
provision of basic instructional materials.
Poor quality. The standard of education in Nigeria has fallen. The internal effectiveness or technical
efficiency of the system is variable but generally low as evidenced in a study of achievement conducted by
UNICEF. This may be attributed to the cumbersome curriculum, the dearth of textbooks and other
instructional materials, low quality and motivation of primary education teaching staff and the comparative
absence of teacher professional support. Increased demands for access and equity in education have been
accompanied by demand for a better quality system.
Insufficient funding. The subsector is underfunded and this has had a serious impact on the availability of
instructional materials, provision and maintenance of infrastructure and on teacher remuneration.
Historically, primary education financing has been problematic because it is a concurrent constitutional
responsibility of all govermnent levels. Local and State governments rely heavily upon the federal
government's statutory allocations to cover their financial responsibilities such as primary education and
health care, local infrastructure including roads and markets, and administrative costs. Constitutionally,
they are responsible for the salaries of primary education and health care personnel. Revenue generation at
local government level is minimal - less than 10% of total needs - and they rely almost exclusively on their
statutory allocation. As a consequence when oil revenues are low and the statutory allocation is reduced
teachers' salaries were often unpaid. With the responsibility for primary education provision shared among
the different levels of government, parents and community, it is difficult to calculate the share of total
govermment resources allocated to primary education. The closest estimate is that currently about 1.0
percent of GDP is allocated to primary education annually as compared with 1.5 percent in 1990.
Generally uninformed planning National educational plans are developed in the context of the country's
National Development Plan. Federal and state planning units in conjunction with NPEC have been
responsible for data collection and planning for primary education. Their capacity is weak. Detailed raw
data on primary education for 1996 through 1999 are available and are being processed. Generally
education data collection, processing and publication by the federal level of government has deteriorated.
Several studies of issues within primary education exist, some of them completed recently. The older
studies require updating to be useful in the present context.
Government Strategy:
On assuming power in May 1999 the newly-elected govemment declared that one of its three topmost
priorities was to improve the education system. Within education, achievement of UBE is the first priority,
incorporating adult literacy and a nine-year basic education program. An announcement inaugurating the
UBE program was made on September 30, 1999. At the end of August a senate decision was taken to
abolish the National Primary Education Fund (NPEF) for which NPEC had administrative responsibility.
This is in recognition of the states' and local governments' constitutional responsibility for financing and
managing primary education. NPEC is to be absorbed into a Universal Basic Education Commission
(UBEC) together with the Nomadic and Adult Education Commissions. The primary education section
will, under its Special Projects Unit (SPU), have responsibility for externally financed projects as is the
case at present. This will be in addition to its role in setting, monitoring and evaluating standards and
-4 -



targets for UBE. The decision implies a more professional role for the SPU since it will no longer manage
the NPEF. Its overall integrity will be maintained as will its capacity for managing World Bank-assisted
projects. This restructuring will allow for the preparation of plans for UBE including increases in access -
particulary for girls, special and disadvantaged groups, raising quality, improving equity, and maximizing
the use of modalities for producing the necessary education personnel by, for example, distance education.
A bill on UBE is imminent.
Previous governments have recognized the importance of primary education and made provision for it. A
federal decree promulgated in August 1988 presented a revised strategy for the development of primary
education, with the following key elements: i) there was an urgent need to salvage primary education; ii)
the NPEF was established, into which the federal government contributed annually an amount equivalent to
65 percent of the calculated cost of primary school salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff; iii)
appropriate provisions would be made to ensure that each level of government makes its own contributions
and that fuinds be passed onto the local govermment and at that level be used specifically for the purpose of
primary education; iv) NPEC was established as a parastatal of the FME to coordinate and supervise the
development of primary education. NPEC supervised the administration and use of the fund for primary
education. The decree also outlined the structure and functions of primary school management institutions
to be established at state, local, district and village levels. It mandated the following institutions to be set
up: a) Primary School Management Boards in each State; b) Local Government Education Authorities in
each local government area, c) District Education Committees in each district of the local government area,
and d) Village Education Committees in each village in the district. In 1994, a revised formula for federal
government's contribution to primary education was set up and has been in force until recently. The
contribution was initially based on: states share (equally 50%), educationally disadvantaged states (25%),
pupil enrollment (15%), population of states (10%).
NPEC implemented government policies and initiatives on the accelerated development of primary
education nationwide. Throughout 1998, primary teachers' salaries and entitlements were promptly paid.
It is reported that enrollment in public schools, which had suffered a decline, is improving as a result of the
prompt and regular payment of teachers salaries since NPEC came into existence. The government strives
to maintain minimum standards in primary education. It has begun improving the curriculum and its
implementation through a national committee. The government is also reviewing complaints of
over-deduction from Local Governments' Accounts from source. Efforts were made to establish a pension
scheme for retired teaching and non-teaching staff.
A major program to support primary education improvement was adopted by the government in the early
1990s and to support this program the government accepted assistance from the World Bank in the form of
a Credit to finance PEP I. This project is currently being implemented by the Federal Ministry of
Education through NPEC. The program includes activities to upgrade and monitor quality, improve
planning and research, and improve resource allocation.
To improve the supply of instructional materials the Special Petroleum Trust Fund has provided textbooks
to some states. However, the texts are not in conformity with revisions required by FME. Renovations to
existing infrastructure are being effected through budgetary allocations from the federal and state
governments, the Education Tax Fund (a 2% tax levied on companies in Nigeria to support education), and
through community initiatives and parent-teacher associations.
The FME is responsible for the control of educational quality nationwide. It is required to inspect all
schools below the tertiary level to ensure: i) maintenance of minimum standards of educational practice; ii)
operation of a common system of education nationwide; iii) introduction of positive classroom innovations;
- 5 -



iv) achievement of quality in education in Nigeria. In 1998, the FME assisted States in developing their
inspectorate services and ensuring that they were properly equipped to carry out their specified functions
and responsibilities. It gathered, collated, published and disseminated relevant educational data to assist
effective supervision and management of schools. FME also provided national guidelines for effective and
efficient inspection of schools. In addition, it provided the blueprint of the organization and administration
of schools to Head Teachers and Principals. It ensured that appropriate physical facilities are provided for
effective and efficient management of schools. Training and orientation were conducted to remedy the
inadequacies observed in inspected schools.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Issues Addressed by the Project. The proposed project is a continuation and consolidation of the PEP I and
provides support for planning UBE. Responding to experiences gained during implementation of PEP I the
project is more focused concentrating on a limited number of schools throughout Nigeria. It addresses five
issues: human resource capacity, access and equity, quality, and information for decision-making. It
supports activities to: (a) strengthen the capacity of primary education personnel in the focus schools to
manage the system and deliver primary education through training in (i) school management, (ii)
accounting, (iii) curriculum delivery and (iv) teacher support; (b) create a physical learning and teaching
environment, through: (i) self-help projects, and (ii) furniture and book box provision to schools that have
been refurbished; (c) improve quality in the focus schools through making available (i) instructional
materials, (ii) library books, and (iii) teachers' guides (in all schools); and (d) provide an enhanced
information base for planning and decision-making in the subsector through the production and
dissemination of reports based on research and statistical data gathering and processing.
Strategic Choices. Strategic choices for dealing with each issue were based upon experience with PEP I, the
capacity within country, the cost of interventions, the need to make an early visible impact, and upon the
contribution that could be made by all levels of government and by local communities.
Target schools. Initially, PEP I targeted over 36,000 primary schools throughout Nigeria because (i) there
was a demonstrated need to improve quality throughout the system; and (ii) the NPEF was used to pay a
portion of teachers' salaries and to rehabilitate infrastructure but not to provide quality-enhancing inputs.
During project implementation, it became apparent that, although it was possible to provide
quality-enhancing inputs to all the schools in the form of textbooks, teachers' guides, and training,
measuring the impact of these inputs on teacher processes and student achievement was extremely difficult.
Furthermore, the inputs were minimal compared to the traditional provisions made for a good quality
primary system and they were distributed too broadly to have a major impact at any point in the system. In
addition, infrastructural costs were rising rapidly and few schools could be refurbished and expanded with
the available resources. When the project was restructured to include targeted provision of library books,
furniture, training and teaching aids for 370 schools (10 in each state), in exchange for schools'
refurbishing - in addition to general provision of textbooks for all schools - the key performance indicators
were redefined to include measurement of project impact on the 370 focus schools in addition to that on the
whole system. This was on the assumption that, if a portion of the system is targeted with a variety of
quality-enhancing inputs, the impact will be greater than if resources are spread over the whole system. For
the proposed project it was decided to focus on 20 schools in each of the 37 states and to provide these
schools with the following: refurbishment, fumiture, training, library books and other instructional
materials. Schools will be refurbished through funding from, among other sources, the Education Tax
Fund. Other inputs will be provided through the project. The schools will then become models and
resource centers for neighboring schools.
-6 -



Capacity-building. Although there is a general need to impart and/or upgrade the knowledge and skills of
all personnel responsible for primary education, experience and studies indicate that, to improve school
effectiveness, there is substantially more value added to training and upgrading some skills in preference to
others. Groups of skills that have been shown to be particularly important are managerial, administrative
and professional support to teachers, and classroom delivery and assessment. Recent stakeholder
consultations on primary education in Nigeria have shown that school leadership with links to the
community, administrative and professional support to teachers and teacher competence and commitment
are considered to be essential although, at times, missing ingredients for success. Bearing this in mind it
was agreed during identification that training would be concentrated on strengthening capacity for schools
administration, financial management, professional and administrative support to teachers, and curriculum
delivery. Since the structure of the subsector involves gradual decentralization and devolution of
responsibilities from the center to the periphery, the training will concentrate on staff in the focus schools
and on staff of the States and local education agencies where these schools are located.
Improving access and equity. Measures to increase access and equity revolve around the availability of
school places, the demand for those places and the type and quality of the facilities provided. If access is
perceived as merely a supply side problem the traditional ways of increasing access are by providing more
classrooms, using double and triple sessions, adopting a flexible school week, and making other buildings
available such as churches and mosques or meeting halls. An observation of a 1989 study of primary
education in Nigeria was that it was, in many areas, a demand side problem, heavily dependent upon
parental economic status and choice. Children were not attending school because, inter alia, the quality of
education provided was not up to expectations, the facilities were dilapidated; teachers' motivation was low
resulting in substantial absenteeism (time on task was adversely affected), there were no instructional
materials, and the 'hidden costs' of 'free' education were too high for parents to bear. This was further
complicated for girls, particularly in the north, when schools were not within reasonable walking distance
from home, there were no separate toilet facilities, or the curriculum was male-biased. For boys in the
south-east the opportunity costs of schooling were so great that parents withdrew their boys from school to
become apprenticed. These issues were discussed during project identification and it was agreed to
concentrate upon demand-side factors to improve equity and access in the focus schools by improving the
learning environment through rehabilitation of buildings, provision of fumiture and storage boxes for class
libraries, and supporting community self-help initiatives aimed at improving equity, increasing access and
upgrading quality.
Upgrading Quality. In the hands of effective teachers, instructional materials can be important in
enhancing the quality of teaching and learning. PEPI supports quality improvement through the input of
Primary 1 to 6 textbooks and teachers' guides and training of classroom teachers. No Primary 1 teachers'
guides were provided. Supplementary readers (library books) were provided for 370 schools. No wall
charts and other leaming aids were included. Some training was provided for teachers. In this project
Primary I teachers' guides will be provided to all schools, while quality-enhancing inputs of library books
and other instructional aids will be provided to the focus schools together with training for teachers in the
use and care of library books and instructional aids. This should assist pupils' concept formation and begin
to re-establish a reading culture in the focus schools.
Providing an information base. The government is anxious both to continue its efforts to improve primary
education and to move more vigorously towards achieving UBE. The information base available for
planning purposes is weak and not altogether appropriate. The project identification mission discussed with
NPEC the information requirements for planning the achievement of UBE and activities to improve the
effectiveness of primary education. It was recognized that three categories of information were needed: (i)
up-to-date statistics on the status of primary education, (ii) information on the curriculum and the efficacy
- 7 -



of teaching and learning processes, (iii) evaluations of the success of measures presently being used to
address priority issues in the subsector, and (iv) draft plans for achieving UBE. In this context it was
decided to continue collecting, processing and publishing primary education statistics - a task begun under
Credit 2191-UNI. To provide information for enhancing curriculum delivery it was decided to augment
studies of multigrade teaching and the use of mother tongue and local materials in the primary schools, with
an assessment of the relevance of the curriculum and to examine teaching and learning processes in the
classroom. Monitoring and evaluation of activities under PEP I were considered essential to
decision-making while the need was seen to complete studies on UBE and the use of distance education
begun under the Credit. A further priority was the training of State and local education agency personnel in
developing an Educational Management Information System (EMIS).
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1. Strengthening human resource   Institutional       10.21       16.7     10.20      18.5
capacity                           Development
2. Conducive physical environment    Institutional   30.83       50.5     25.50       46.4
Development
3. Curriculum materials.          Primary            13.61       22.3      13.00      23.6
Education
4. Management Information, Research  Primary           5.20       8.5       5.10       9.3
and Development                    Education
5. Enhancing HIV/AIDS awareness    AIDS, STDs          1.26        2.1      1.20       2.2
Total Project Costs                   61.11      100.0     55.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                    61.11     100.0      55.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Policies essential to the development and sustainability of a good quality UBE system will be identified,
explored, discussed and agreed early in the project. These policies will be based upon lessons learnt from
PEP I and on studies of UBE and the use of distance education inaugurated under PEP I and continued
under PEP II. They will include steps to (i) ensure the adequacy, sustainability and equity of school
resourcing based upon objective regular determination of primary school enrollment; (ii) use the focus and
community self-help schools supported under PEP I and II as model schools to demonstrate good practice
in institutional capacity building and resource utilization; (iii) introduce openness and transparency in the
allocation and use of resources at each government level and in the schools; (iv) sustain political and
popular commitment to primary education expansion and improvement; (v) employ distance education as a
means to increase the numbers and competencies of teachers; and (vi) ensure regular monitoring of
progress, immediate feedback and remedial action.
-8 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The project will provide inputs and services to about 740 focus primary schools and 900 community
self-help schools throughout Nigeria. In addition, education authorities at local, state and federal
government levels will be provided with training and support that will assist to ensure a sustainable impact
at the school level. The focus schools will be used to demonstrate more pupil-oriented teaching practices,
with and enhanced supply of instructional materials supported by an effective management culture. When
selecting beneficiary schools the governments will take into consideration geo-political spread,
socio-economic conditions of the communities and the status of access and school performance, so that the
most needy populations may benefit from the project. Not only will the focus schools and communities
benefit directly from this project, but arrangements will be made for these beneficiaries to play the role of
model schools in future, thus benefitting neighboring schools and communities. Beneficiaries of the
H[V/AIDS component will include a young generation of children, more knowledgeable about the
implications of this disease.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Oversight for the effective implementation of externally-funded projects is vested initially in the Directorate
of Multilateral Institutions within the Federal Ministry of Finance. Line ministries are responsible for
overseeing projects in their own sectors. The FME will oversee the proposed project. The implementation
period is estimated at 48 months. The FME is the implementing and supervisory agency. The SPU within
UBEC is the executing agency. The unit will work in close collaboration with the State and local education
agencies and with participating communities.
The UBEC is a free standing commission directly responsible to the Federal Minister of Education. It is
responsible for coordinating UBE and for managing externally funded projects. To ensure continuity and
efficient implementation (i) the SPU has been maintained and strengthened, (ii) capacity upgrading in
essential areas such as financial management, procurement, coordination, monitoring and evaluation are
included in this project, and (iii) units within UBEC that are closely associated with planning UBE are
being strengthened along lines discussed with the Bank.
Coordination of project components will be effected through a Network Committee (NETCOM) which was
established in 1998 and whose membership comprises each unit head including procurement and financial
management, representatives of FME, FMF and NPC. Since its inception NETCOM has enhanced
coordination amongst the various components of the PEP I project, strengthened and made more effective
project progress through more robust networking among those involved in implementation. It reports to the
Chief Executive of UBEC who has overall accountability for the project. The State and local education
agencies are represented in the enlarged Committee in order to include the major stakeholders in the
decision-making process. The core NETCOM will meet once a month to assess progress, identify
weaknesses, prepare and apply remedial strategies as well as make short-term action plans and progress
reports. The enlarged NETCOM will continue to meet on a quarterly basis with at least two of the
meetings planned to coincide with World Bank supervision missions.
Procurement will continue to be managed by the procurement consultant's unit which was contracted after
PEP I was restructured to expedite implementation. This it has successfully done. The selection of the
procurement consultant was carried out during the implementation of PEP I on a competitive basis
following Bank procedures. Procurement activities under the proposed project will continue to be overseen
by the same procurement consultant and 95% of its costs will be financed by IDA. There is a
sub-committee of the NETCOM that assists the consultant in the bid opening and evaluation exercises.
-9-



The reports are presented to the head of the institution who in turn briefs the Federal Minister of Education
prior to the reports being submitted to the World Bank. A detailed description of the procurement function
is provided in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). An additional responsibility will be introduced under
the proposed project - the training of UBEC staff in procurement. This will ensure that in-house capacity
is built up and remains on the completion of the project.
Financial management remains the responsibility of the Project Accounts Section (PAS) that has recently
been strengthened by the appointment of two accounts staff. The basic functions of the unit involve
accounting, auditing and budgeting of UBEC administrative and project funds. Until recently the unit also
managed the NPEF. With this function withdrawn management of project funds should be considerably
more efficient under the proposed project. Furthermore, the introduction of a computerized accounting
system should accelerate processing. A detailed description of the financial management function is in the
PIP. More efforts will be made to coordinate the financial and procurement functions in future for effective
contract management.
In any reform program, social mobilization is essential and under the proposed project this will be the
responsibility of the publicity unit. The unit will present to the public information on the current state of
primary education and will encourage individual and community support for UBE. It will disseminate
information on government programs to improve access, equity and quality and provide up to date
information on the status of these programs in the interests of transparency. An outline of the publicity
component is in the PIP.
Specifically, for Self-help Projects, the Implementation Committee at the community level will execute the
projects. The State and local education agencies will provide supervisory control of the projects and assist
UBEC, consultants and World Bank officials in the monitoring and evaluation of project execution. The
Monitoring and Evaluation Department of UBEC includes ten zonal offices located across the country. It
will be used to carry out monitoring and evaluation activities of the project.
- 10 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project modalities considered for this loan were an Adaptable Program Loan (APL), a broad subsector
development program (SWAp) and a specific investment loan (SIL). Since 1995 Nigeria has taken no new
loans and emphasis was upon maintaining the existing portfolio. No substantial sectoral analysis has been
undertaken upon which to base investment decisions and the preparation of an APL and a SWAp requires
substantial time for analysis, dialogue and planning among government and donors. It is recognized that
the achievement of an impact in the education sector requires continuous investment of a magnitude
consistent with the expected outcomes over a substantial period of time. Bearing this in mind and seeking
to maintain the momentum of primary education improvement it was decided to prepare a 'fast-track' SIL,
which would be a continuation and consolidation of PEP I; and temporarily to reject an APL and SWAp.
The proposed project is a bridge between PEP I and a more broad-based sectoral approach to be supported
by several committed donors. It was further considered that, within the extension of PEP I and in the
proposed project, preparation would be made for the UBE drive which would require substantial analytic
work, the establishment of an EMIS and an assessment of the effectiveness of activities included in PEP I.
Under PEP II a UBE strategy could be worked out that would provide the basis for support by the Bank
and other interested donors. This strategy would be based upon credible statistics, a sound financial
framework, and evidence of the effectiveness of a range of quality improvement interventions at the school
level. Considerable managerial and technical capacity will be developed and tested prior to the
implementation of the first phase of UBE.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                  (PSR) Ratings
.____________________________  ___________________      _ .   . (Bank-financed   projects  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
The credit has been assisting the  Primary Education Project       S             S
Government's program for: (a)    (Credit 2191-UNI, $120
upgrading the quality of primary  million) Ongoing
education; (b) improving resource
allocation; (c) increasing enrollments;
(d) strengthening institutions; and (e)
facilitating future planning.
- 11 -



The project is piloting a method to  Development Communication     S             S
support early childhood development.  Pilot Project (Credit 2481 -UNI,
The project would: (a) provide,  $8 million) Ongoing
disseminate and reinforce instructional
materials for preschool aged children;
(b) promote early childhood
development, (c) sensitize parents to
early childhood needs and care; (d)
enhance caregivers' knowledge and
competencies; (e) create the
institutional and infrastructural
framework for quality educational and
developmental television programming;
and (f) introduce replicable modalities
of educational and social program
development, monitoring and
evaluation.
The project assisted the Federal  Federal University Project       S             S
Government, through its parastatal    (Credit 2139-lUNI, $120
intermediary of the National     million) Completed
Universities Commission, to improve
the effectiveness and relevance of
university teaching and research while
encouraging the universities to become
more cost-effective.
The project assisted the Federal  Technical Education Project      S             S
Govermnenfs program of: (a)      (Loan 2926-UNI, $23.3
improving the quality and efficiency of million) Completed
middle-level technical institutions; and
(b) strengthening planning,
management and coordination of
technical and vocational education at
the National Board for Technical
Education, the Federal Ministiy of
Education and at the Project
Implementation Unit.
Other development agencies
The project commenced in 1995. It was Federal Ministry of
to develop instruments for monitoring   Education/UNICEF/UNESCO
the learning achievement of Primary IV  Monitoring the Learning
pupils in Nigeria. It is to find out  Achievement of Primary School
whether pupils who attend six years of Pupils Project
primary education master the skills and
competencies expected of them at the
end of the cycle.
- 12 -



The project aimed at the under-served  Federal Ministry of
rural communities in three States of the Education/DFID Community
country, namely: Abia, Bauchi and  Education Project
Akwa Ibom. It is to increase the quality
and access to primary education,
especially for women and girls in these
target communities.
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Several lessons learned by the Borrower and the Bank from earlier project experience have been applied in
the design of the present project.
Implementation Skills. During implementation of Credit 2191-UNI it was noted that progress was initially
slow because the implementing agencies either did not possess the requisite coordinating, procurement and
financial management skills or were hampered from using them effectively. NPEC discussed this with the
Bank and remedial measures were agreed upon. They included three measures to increase implementation
capacity. First, the hiring of a procurement proficient consultant and ancillary staff to form the core of a
procurement unit. Second, a Network Committee was established to review progress and decide on future
actions. This consisted of senior staff in each department involved in project implementation and was
chaired by the Executive Secretary of NPEC. As public awareness increased and the move to constitutional
government progressed representatives of the State Primary Education Boards and Local Government
Education Authorities were added to the committee. Third, budgeting, auditing and accounting capacity
were reviewed by the Bank and NPEC and the capacity was improved. In addition measures were taken to
improve working relationships between NPEC and the approving officers in the Ministry of Education
which resulted in deeper understanding of the project and expedited clearances. Based on the enhanced
capacity for implementation and the improved working relationships, the Special Projects Unit of UBEC
has been designated the implementing agency.
Monitoring and Feedback. NETCOM finds that constant monitoring of activities, inputs, distribution, use
and effectiveness accompanied by immediate feedback improves project success. NETCOM's monitoring
and evaluation function will be strengthened under PEP II.
Self-help projects. The consultations on primary education initiated during implementation of Credit
2191 -UNI elicited proposals for more community involvement in primary education. In response a series
of self-help projects were supported under the Credit. The demand for these and their success has led to
this initiative being included in the proposed project in an expanded form with clearer objectives as outlined
in Annex 2.
Ownership and Commitment. One of the features of PEP I has been the enlightenment campaign that has
informed and influenced public opinion on the importance of primary education. Coupled with
consultations among a broad range of stakeholders throughout Nigeria on their perceptions of primary
education and what could be done to improve it, this led to a renewed commitment to and ownership of
UBE. A publicity campaign will continue under PEP II and will carry over into the UBE drive.
Counterpart Contributions. There have been two problems with counterpart funding under previous
projects - their magnitude and their availability. PEP I required substantial counterpart funding since
-13 -



government's required contribution was 25% of the total project cost of about US$150 million. At PEP I
negotiations counterpart funding requirements appeared formidable at an exchange rate of N9:$ 1. Over
time with the devaluation of the naira to N95 :$ 1 the counterpart funding requirements became excessive.
There are indications that the naira remains over-valued and that further devaluation is likely. To guard
against the possibility that counterpart funding requirements will accelerate, in the proposed project
activities have been included for which counterpart contributions are being made through activities such as
rehabilitation of schools with funds provided by communities and individuals, or which can be costed in
kind, such as community labor. Incorporating counterpart fund requirements into the regular budgetary
procedures can help to ensure provision is made. Efforts will be made to avoid delays in receipt of
counterpart funds by requesting a direct deposit to the project's naira account.
Coordination and cooperation between institutions. NETCOM acknowledges that the implementation of
PEP I has enabled the implementing agency to establish broader relationships with its supervising and other
ministries in relation to pursuance of documents, policy issues and funds for counterpart support.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Commitment to primary education improvement. The borrower has demonstrated considerable and
continuing commitment to primary education improvement since 1988 when the NPEF was established and
the NPEC constituted to manage the fund. With only one break this arrangement continued until mid-1999.
Commitment to and ownership of the first primary education project. Project implementation was initially
slow. However, following a restructuring and extension mission in June 1997 notable progress has been
made and the impact of project inputs is beginning to be observed. During the restructuring mission NPEC
was challenged to develop its own objectives, activities and targets which were then costed. NPEC pledged
to reach certain commitment targets to demonstrate its commitment and capacity to primary education
improvement. The targets were substantially exceeded during the period June 1997 to June 1998 as
evidenced in a mid-extension review mission. This progress has continued as NPEC's implementation
capacity has been strengthened. The result has been an increase of US$51 million in disbursements (from
US$13 million to US$64 million) from September 1997 to January, 2000. Furthermore, Primary 1 to 3
textbooks, furniture, cars, motorcycles have been supplied and are in use. Primary 4, 5 and 6 textbooks are
under delivery.
Commitment to and ownership of the proposed project. Project identification took place in Nigeria from
May 11 to 13, 1999. Under the guidance of the task team leader, NPEC's NETCOM together with a
representative from the FME identified the project, delineated the policies to be addressed, proposed ways
to address them, outlined the project components and rough cost estimates, drafted the Project Design
Summary and discussed and agreed the conditions for the project to be processed and approved.
Subsequent to the mission NETCOM has taken a lead in preparing detailed descriptions of each project
component, the implementation arrangements for the project, substantive action plans for each component
and in processing the project in country.
Commitment to and ownership of UBE and primary education policy. National committment to UBE was
made public on September 30, when the President, Chief Obasanjo, announced a national UBE drive in
Sokoto State. A structure for UBE planning and monitoring has been set up and a bill is soon to be
approved creating a Universal Basic Education Commission responsible for planning and overseeing UBE.
Nigeria's commitment to primary education dates back several decades with many efforts to improve the
effectiveness and efficiency of the subsector. Most recently, using local consultants, NPEC engaged in a
series of stakeholder consultations for improved primary education. The objectives were to (i) assess
- 14 -



expectations and levels of satisfaction with primary education on the part of service users and providers;
(ii) investigate perceived constraints to the improvement of service provision and assess suggestions of the
various stakeholders for improvement; (iii) identify and describe existing innovative approaches to improve
delivery of social services through community participation, targeting, client involvement, fiscal
decentralization or other mechanisms; and (iv) develop recommendations for the development of pilot
initiatives to test or replicated these approaches within the framework of the ongoing primary education
project. The findings of these consultations have been published in World Bank Technical Paper No: 420
and Edition 130 of Findings. The recommendations have been used to develop a Policy Brief on Nigeria
Primary Education for the 21st Century. This policy development from the grassroots level upwards was
ratified in a series of stakeholder consultations culminating in a national policy workshop attended by the
personnel who have been instrumental in primary education policy formulation and implementation over the
years.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has been the only major development agency to continuously support the education sector in
Nigeria throughout the 1990s. The project will provide an opportunity for Nigeria to expand the benefits
that have been brought about, particularly through the ongoing PEP I, to a wider beneficiary population. A
strength of continuous major engagement in the sector is that it allows targeted interventions without
generating a sense of geographical bias. The proposed project serves as a bridging loan between the
ongoing education projects and potential future sector wide lending. It will provide valuable experiences
and lessons for future operations and many df its outputs will be used to inform UBE planning. The
HIV/AIDS component is strengthened by the overall cross-sectoral Bank HIV/AIDS program.
- 15 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit   NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The community's participation in education is making a positive impact on school performance in Nigeria,
where provision of primary education has largely been the constitutional responsibility of the state and local
governments with federal assistance. Financial constraints and weak resource allocation policy, however,
have left most schools severely underfuinded, leading to a deterioration in the quality of schooling. The
idea of community-based school improvement programs supported by the self-help projects component of
this project emerged (i) to provide an alternative school development strategy to the government-led
top-down approach, (ii) to mobilize supplementary resources for schools, and (iii) to enhance school
accountability with increased community interest in education and a sense of ownership of the school.
Cost-effectiveness of this strategy will be monitored and evaluated during and at the end of the project
taking into account that each community will identify its priorities and formulate a project itself producing
a wide variation in project activities ranging from physical improvement, provision of pedagogical inputs,
to motivating teachers, or any combination of these. The cost of each self-help project depends on the total
resources available: the credit will finance about $3000 per project, and the community/school will provide
a counterpart contribution of not less than 20 percent of the project cost. Actual contributions can differ
widely based on the community's ability to pay. Degree and manner of community participation will also
vary. Self-help project activities will be grouped by type of inputs: physical, pedagogical, and capacity
building. Impact will be measured in terms of increases in enrollment and retention, improvements in
gender equity, and better learning achievement. Size, socio-economic and socio-cultural characteristics of
schools will be taken into account. A baseline study will be conducted prior to credit effectiveness to
measure these parameters for the different community groups, and, among other measures, pupils
achievement tests for this purpose are being developed. The results of the analysis will provide useful
information to the government on the level of a community's willingness to participate in education and its
capacity to implement the school improvement project in collaboration with the school. The results will
highlight education issues that can be effectively addressed by involving the community.
For monitoring purposes, educational improvements (access, equity and learning achievement) will also be
monitored and measured in the focus schools and the control public schools which will not receive any new
direct support under the project. For this, baseline information and interim and final assessments of access,
equity and achievement will be made.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Primary Education Funding. A weak information base makes it very difficult to understand the present
situation of education financing in Nigeria. Available information shows that total public spending on
education is only 1.0 percent of GDP, much lower than Sub-Saharan Africa's average of 4.3 percent.
Total public spending on primary education has been declining in real terms. One study shows that total
public funds available to primary education halved between 1994 and 1996 from 33.7 billion naira to
- 16 -



15.2 billion naira (at 1996 naira). Per pupil public spending decreased from over 2000 naira ($26.6) in
1994 on national average to less than a half ($12.0) by 1996. State contributions significantly decreased
in the same period, while there was no allocation by the federal government in 1996. The funding role of
the local government authorities (LGAs) seems to be increasing, but many of them do not have sufficient
capacity to mobilize resources, leading to dependence on the central reallocative functions and a wide gap
in spending levels across LGAs.
Total Primary Education Finance by Source: 1994-1996
5       _      .. _      . ~           _Federal
=0 30                      lState
<9 25^                                 a oLocal
Govemment
20
'A
z ^ ,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,,,, .... . ....--,I
1994     1995       1996
Other non-budgetary sources of fmancing include a two percent levy on the pre-tax earnings of
companies with 100 employees or more. This is deposited into an Education Tax Fund, 40 percent of
which is allocated to primary education. The Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF) has provided additional funds
for the rehabilitation of physical structures, furniture and instructional materials for primary schools. An
allocation of 1.6 billion naira was made in 1997. Actual expenditure of these additional funds is not
available. The PTF has since been disbanded.
Parents spend between 1000 and 2400 naira per pupil per year. PTA and LGA levies, uniforms, books,
food and transportation constitute these costs. Although there is a large variation in spending among
parents, their contribution is estimated to account for at least half of the total costs of primary education.
For Nigeria to achieve its UBE objectives, an understanding of the current financing situation and
development of a viable financing policy is urgently needed. The Bank will provide technical assistance
for the government to develop its strategy for UBE.
Fiscal Impact:
Of the total estimated project costs of US$61.11 million, the IDA credit will finance US$55.0 million, and
the balance of US$6.11 million equivalent will be financed by the government. Measures have been taken
to ease the counterpart financing requirement. The largest portion of the governments contribution will be
directed to the refurbishment of focus schools at the level currently being spent by state and local
governments. Self-help projects will require that a minimum 20 percent of each project be supported by
community contributions. Contributions in kind will be accepted so that poor communities are not
discriminated against.
To sustain the impact of support for the focus schools, continued assistance by state and local
- 17 -



governments, along with contributions by the community will be required. The government's UBE strategy
will include measures to maintain the quality of focus schools and gradually expand the provision of
support to other schools.
3. Technical:
(a) Substantial work was done to build collaborative partnerships among key players at the central and
local levels during PEP I. A broad range of stakeholders at all levels of the system have been involved in
designing PEP II. This was managed through consultations and seminars and will continue during
implementation. States and local education agencies as well as communities will be more heavily involved
in implementation than in PEP I.
(b) Procurement-related capacity at the implementing agency is being developed under the ongoing primary
education project. This will require continued support for consolidation and institutionalization. A
procurement unit is being set up in UBEC under PEP II. Staff in this unit will be trained by the
procurement consultant and will have opportunities to attend procurement training courses.
(c) The Implementation Manual envisages the role of monitoring and evaluation to be centrally managed.
The role of other stakeholders has been introduced and is incorporated into the PIP.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The main executing agency will be UBEC through its Special Projects Unit that was the executing unit
under PEP I. The Chief Executive of UBEC will report directly to the Federal Minister of Education and
will be the chief accounting officer for the project. States, local education agencies and communities will
each play a role in executing, monitoring and evaluating the project.
4.2 Project management:
Project Coordination. A Network Committee (NETCOM) chaired by the Chief Executive of UBEC will
be responsible for project coordination, reviewing progress, making decisions and reporting to the Bank and
FME. The core NETCOM shall meet at least once a month and its membership shall include SPU
scheduled officers, project accountant, procurement consultant, a representatives of FME, the Federal
Ministry of Finance and the National Planning Commission. The enlarged NETCOM that will meet every
three months will include representatives of State and local education agencies, the teachers' union, parent
teachers' associations and participating communities. A NETCOM meeting will be planned to coincide
with Bank supervision missions.
Financial Management and Auditing. The Project Accounts Section (PAS) of the SPU within UBEC will
have responsibility for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures for PEP II are
acceptable to the World Bank and the Government of Nigeria. PAS's financial management system will
support project management in its deployment of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy,
efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes. To achieve this,
the PAS's financial management system will need to be strengthened in accordance with the agreed
Financial Management Action Plan. Specifically, the financial management system must be capable of
producing timely, understandable, relevant and reliable financial information that will enable management
to plan, implement, monitor and appraise PEP II's overall progress towards the achievement of its
objectives.
- 18 -



Prominent features of the Action Plan include the consolidation of NETCOM, staffing PAS with
adequately qualified accounting personnel, review and finalization of the Financial Procedures Manual,
maintenance of a fixed assets register for the capital expenditure component of the Credit as well as a
Contract Ledger, preparation of monthly, quarterly, and annual financial reports, and independent
monitoring by internal and external auditors.
From our assessment of the financial management system, the PAS of the SPU is not yet ready for PMR
based disbursements as outlined in the World Bank Loan Administration Change Initiative Handbook -
(LACI Handbook). Thus, at the initial stage, the existing disbursement procedures as contained in the
World Bank Disbursement Handbook will be followed i.e. direct payment, reimbursement, and special
commitment. However, the development of the Project Accounts Section's financial management system in
accordance with the agreed Financial Management Action Plan is expected to facilitate the introduction of
PMR-Based Disbursement not later than 18 months of Credit effectiveness. In this connection, a financial
management review of the PEP II will be undertaken to assess progress within 15 months of credit
effectiveness.
Procurement. Though the procurement activities of the SPU have continued to improve over the past
years, there is still the need for the unit to improve on its contract management capability. There is also the
need for the unit to improve on their filing system as of now, procurement files are not maintained in the
form of individual procurement files on per bid package basis or contract basis as it should be. The existing
procurement staff still require relevant procurement skills to handle the bidding process and contract
management in a timely and efficient manner. Due to a lack of adequate procurement capability that exists
in the agency procurement unit, it can be concluded that the agency still requires a Procurement Consultant
to assist the SPU to manage the project procurement processes. The Consultant should also assist the
project to prepare a comprehensive and coherent Procurement Manual as well as train and re-train the
agency's relevant staffs handling procurement on the Bank Procurement and Disbursement procedures. The
need to reduce on the current levels of approving authorities and to minimize political/executive
interference in procurement process to enhance efficiency, economy and transparency cannot be
overemphasized.
4.3 Procurement issues:
There are no major procurement issues.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The major concern is that fnancial management capacity is strengthened through the appointment of new
staff.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project will have no adverse environmental impact.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
- 19 -



5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
During the preceding primary education project (Cr. 2191-UNI), substantial efforts were made to involve
all stakeholders in primary education. This included a continuous enlightenment campaign on
developments in the subsector and the desirability of sending children to school. Key stakeholders were
consulted in 54 primary schools and communities in 6 zones in Nigeria. These stakeholders included
pupils, teachers, headteachers, parents and other community members, and local government education
staff. Through semistructured interviews, the consultation revealed important social issues such as gender
and regional imbalance in access, deteriorating school environment and changing community-school-
government relationships. It found that (a) the teaching and learning environment is unfavorable: staff
remuneration is so low as to erode their motivation; minimum teaching qualifications are not met, yet
adequate training has not been provided; serious shortages exist of female teachers in the north and male
teachers in the south; classrooms are insufficient, poorly maintained, and lack furniture; (b) textbooks and
other instructional materials are insufficient; (c) enrollment is low in the north, particularly among girls;
attendance varies significantly across schools and declines during the fanning season; and (d) the roles of
local governments are not fulfilled due to lack of resources and access to management information
(budgetary), and little practical participation in education management. Parents and communities, in the
face of declining reliability of govemnment's support for primary schools, are either switching to private
schools (when they can afford to), or taking on an increasing role in school maintenance (even when they
are poor). Findings and recommendations made available from the consultations have been incorporated
into the design of the proposed bridging project, have been used to define a policy statement on primary
education for the 21 st Century, and are being used by the government in formulating the medium to
long-term universal basic education development policy.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Stakeholders                 Types   Manner of participation
Primary school aged children  CON    Semi-structured interviews of both enrolled and non-enrolled
540 children conducted by researchers. Concerns over
learning conditions will be addressed. Demand-side measures
for non-attendants will still need to be considered.
Teachers and headteachers    CON    Key informant interview done by researchers on 162 teachers
and 54 heads. Needs identified for better school management,
community relationships, financial concerns and working
conditions will be addressed by the project.
-20-



Parents                       CON    Semi-structured interviews of both parents of enrolled and
non-enrolled children conducted by researchers. Costs of
education, perceptions of the education effectiveness and
family choice will be considered by the government in
devising measures to make policies more workable (during
and beyond the project period).
PTA members and leaders       CON    Focus group and individual interviews of 162 people
conducted. Influence of the consultation as in Parents.
Local govermment, state and    COL/CON  NPEC headquarters staff has prepared the project
federal education                     implementation manual in consultation with their local staff.
administrators
COL/IS  These stakeholders will participate in the monitoring and
evaluation of various components and the results will be
fed-back for the follow-up and improvements.
IS: information sharing; CON: consultation; COL: collaboration
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
For projects expected to receive authorization to appraise/negotiate (in principle) prior to April 30, 2000,
this section may be left blank.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
For projects expected to receive authorization to appraise/negotiate (in principle) prior to April 30, 2000,
this section may be left blank.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
For projects expected to receive authorization to appraise/negotiate (in principle) prior to April 30, 2000,
this section may be left blank.
7. Safeguard Policies
7.1 Do any of the followin safeguard policies apply to the project?
L Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01. GP 4.01)            []Yes I3 No
O Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    L Yes O No
El Forestry (OP 4.36.GP 4.36_                                     El Yes ZNo
El Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      El Yes Z No
El Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  O Yes Z No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   O Yes O No
O Involuntary Resettlement COD 4.30)                              O Yes Z No
O Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                         __ Yes Z No
l Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   El Yes N No
C: Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         E] Yes Z No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
-21 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
(a) Institutional sustainability. NPEC has been instrumental in translating the government's policy
objectives into implementation plans, and in managing the implementation satisfactorily. It has also
managed the National Primary Education Fund (NPEF). With the abolition of NPEF, NPEC's role will
change from direct implementation to that of planning for, monitoring and evaluating the first six years of
UBE. Its roles will gradually evolve from direct management to more of support (training of education staff
at state and school levels), monitoring and evaluation while increased implementation roles will be played
by State and local education agencies. These transitional roles will need to be understood by all players.
Areas of necessary support to enable this gradual transition will be identified. The new mode of
community participation in school improvement efforts will be supported by matching funds from the
government.
(b) Financial sustainability: In the event of insufficient statutory budgetary allocation to primary education
from the states, local governments and, as an interim measure, federal government, various measures will
be implemented to complement national funding capacity. The textbook revolving fund will be used to
provide additional instructional materials. Other cost-sharing methods through self-help projects and
ongoing community contributions will be enhanced.
(c) Project impact sustainability. Ownership is an important prerequisite for sustainable project impact.
NPEC demonstrated strong commitment during the early stage of project preparation, with minimal
support from outside and through increasing consultation with a wide range of stakeholders. These
stakeholders will participate in project implementation and through this develop a commitment to sustain
the project benefits and impact.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                      -  Risk< Rtntg   <     i'.;0    ^.Ris3k tMiniizaion .ea su
From Outputs to Objective
Uncertainty regarding the continuous       M        Arrangements for UBE implementation will
commitment by the Federal, State and                 include transparency in fund allocation and use,
Local Government level authorities to                measurement of progress and decision-making.
providing a good quality primary
education to all.
Chance of unreliable performance by        M        Contracts will be carefully managed and
contractors and consultants.                        monitored by UBEC procurement office.
Appropriate penalty clauses will be applied in
cases of default.
Policy makers do not refer to the data     M         Efforts are being made to update the informnation
base.                                                base for decision-making and to ensure that
sufficient copies are available to the policy and
technical committees for UBE.
From Components to Outputs
- 22 -



Possibility of weak implementation        M         The Ministry of Education is strengthening
capacity at UBEC with increasing                    SPU's capacity for project implementation
demands of UBE.                                     through assessment of financial management,
procurement and coordination skills' re-inforcing
staff complement in needed areas, and training.
During the project procurement capacity will be
built up to minimize reliance on outside
assistance.
Uncertainty that parents and pupils will   N        The Ministry of Education will mount an
recognize the value of improved primary             information and mobilization campaign for
education.                                          primary education.
Inadequate counterpart fund.              M         Counterpart funding requests will be
incorporated into the annual budgetary process.
Possibility the Nigerian Union of          N        Representatives of National Union of Teachers
Teachers and the National Parent                    and PTA will be members of the extended
Teachers' Association will not firmly               NETCOM. Bank missions will meet with office
support the improvement and expansion               bearers.
of primary education under UBE.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
In view of the pressure on scarce resources at State and local government levels there may be a
disagreement in country concerning the appropriate source and levels of funding for education.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
1. The Borrower has furnished to the Association the Project Implementation Plan as formally approved by
the Borrower, including a final procurement plan for the Project.
2. The Borrower has deposited into the Project Account the initial amount of $1,000,000 equivalent.
3. The SPU has been established in NPEC with an adequate number of qualified and experienced staff
employed on terms and conditions (including terms of reference) satisfactory to the Association.
4. The Borrower has appointed the auditors to the Project.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
1. (a) The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Project Implementation Plan in form
and substance satisfactory to the Association setting out details of all procedures, guidelines, timetables and
criteria required for the Project.
-23 -



(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan and,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the borrower shall not amend or waive any provision of the
Project Implementation Plan if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may
materially and adversely affect the canying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2. The Borrower shall:
(a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis,
in accordance with the indicators agreed during Negotiations, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)  prepare, under terns of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the Association,
on or about March 31 and September 30 of each year, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performned pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c) review with the Association by May 31 and November 30 of each year, or such later date as the
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on
the matter.
3. (a) The Borrower shall, no later than July 31, 2002, carry out with the Association, a mid-term review
of the progress made in carrying out the Project. The Mid-Term Review shall cover, among other things: (i)
the progress made in meeting the objectives of the Project; and (ii) the overall performance of the primary
education sector under the institutional framework developed for the phasing in of the UBE Program.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out, no later than three months after the completion of the Mid-Term
Review the recommendations of the Mid-Term Review as agreed with the Association and set out in an
action plan satisfactory to the Association.
4. (a) The Borrower shall maintain SPU in a form and with functions and resources satisfactory to the
Association.
(b) The Borrower shall maintain a Project Accounts Section in the Special Projects Unit in a form and
with functions and staff with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
5. (a) The Borrower shall maintain NETCOM in form and with functions, staffing and resources
satisfactory to the Association.
(b) NETCOM shall meet at least once every month and its member shall include the Chief Executive
of UBEC, as chairman, and representatives of FME, States and local government authorities, teachers'
unions, parent teachers' associations, and Participating Communities.
(c)  PAS shall: (i) prepare for the Project, monthly, quarterly and annual fnancial reports in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) promptly thereafter furnish said reports to the
Association.
-24-



(d) NETCOM shall have a Project Coordinator acceptable to the Association (the Project Coordinator)
who shall be responsible for overseeing: (i) the procurement of goods and services under the Project; (ii)
ensuring the prompt disbursement of proceeds of the Credit allocated to schools; and (iii) the preparation
and submission to the Association of the quarterly reports required for the Project.
6. (a) Each Participating Community shall establish in a form and with functions and resources
satisfactory to the Association a Project Implementation Committee to be responsible for the day to day
execution of Self Help Projects.
(b) Overall responsibility for the carrying out of the Self-Help Projects shall be assigned to the State
and local education agencies.
(c) The procedures to be applied in the processing of Self-Help Projects shall include the following:
(i) the calling for Self-Help Project proposals to enable schools and communities to present
time-frame assessable project proposals;
(ii) the collection, collation and appraisal of Self-Help Project proposals at the State and local
levels;
(iii) the forwarding of successful proposals through UBEC to the Association for approval;
(iv) training and familiarization of the Participating Communities on the procedures and other
contents of the implementation manual;
(v) the release of funds for approved Self-Help Projects in two installments, the second release
being subject to a favorable performance monitoring report for the Self-Help Project;
(vi) the carrying out of a midterm review and final monitoring and evaluation of the Self-Help
Project; and
(vii) the issuance of a completion certificate as evidence of the successful completion of the
Self-Help Project.
(d) The Borrower and a Participating Community shall enter into a financial agreement, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association, which shall require the Participating Community to carry out the
Self Help Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and
financial practices. The Financial Agreement shall include provisions requiring the Self-Help Project to be
carried out by direct labor under the day to day supervision, at the community level, of the Participating
Community's Project Implementation Committee.
7.     The Borrower shall (a) by July 31, 2000, design an AIDS education, information and
communication program (AEP), (b) by August 31, 2000, submit the draft AEP to the Association for its
review and comments, (c) finalize the AEP by taking into account the comments and recommendations
made by the Association, and (d) carry out the AEP in accordance with the modalities and timetable agreed
upon with the Association.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
-25 -



1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
CI 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Eileen B. Nkwanga                 Rosemary Bell                     Y      su
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director        - Count  Manager/Director
-26 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
NIGERIA: SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Key Pertfontanoo
HiNW* y pf N801c"                Indicatos          Monitoring & Evaluation    Crtal  ssumpjtons
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Reduce poverty by support for (a) Increase in the 9-year basic Economic and Sectoral  Substantial progress in human
improved and expanded basic education enrolment,     Reports                    development and employment
social services.          especially of poor children.                          will help alleviate poverty.
(b) Average years of schooling Household survey
increased.
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Improvements in the       In focus and self-help schools:                      Primary school completers
effectiveness of primary                                                       will continue education in the
education in schools      1. nominal enrollment      (for focus and self-help  junior secondary school.
throughout Nigeria.       increased.                 schools)
2. retention rates improved.   Baseline survey reports  Favorable policy environment
3. average scores on      Statistics from schools,   for investment in education,
standardized tests show   UBEC, FME and FOS          particularly of the poor,
moderate improvement      Report on standardized test   disadvantaged, girls and
4. each pupil has access to a   results              women.
textbook in 4 core subjects and Supervision, mid-term and
to supplementary readers, and final evaluation mission
willingly read more.      reports
5. Most teachers attend more
regularly and use improved
teaching methods based on the
instructional materials and
library books provided
In all schools:
1. teachers and pupils use  Monitoring and evaluation
books and instructional aids  report, supervision mission
supplied under PEP I and II.  report
For the system:           UBE policy and strategy
report
1. Plans for primary education
improvement produced
including ways and means of
attaining UBE using distance
education and improving the
demand for and quality of
primary education, based on
the more reliable up to date
information.
-27 -



Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Strengthened capacity for  1. 1110 headteachers trained  1. Consultant reports; regular Federal, State and Local
schools administration,   in school administration,  reports, supervision mission   Government level authorities
financial management,     budgeting, accounting,     reports, mid-term and final   remain committed to
professional and          furniture care and teacher    evaluation reports.      providing a good quality
administrative support to  support; 1110 senior subject                          primary education to all.
teachers, and curriculum   teachers trained in new
delivery:                 methods of curriculum                                  Reliable performance by
delivery and learning                                 contractors and consultants.
assessment and reporting.
2. A more conducive teaching 2. 740 focus schools     2. Quality assurance
and learning environment    refurbished, cabinets and  consultant reports; self-help
created                   furniture provided; 900     project monitoring reports;
community self-help projects  UBEC's and schools' assets
completed satisfactorily  registers.
3. Quality of curriculum  3. All primary I teachers   3. UBEC's and schools' assets
delivery improved.        received teachers guides for  registers to determine level of
four core subjects;        materials inputs; satisfaction
Supplementary readers,     surveys among teachers,
reference books and teaching  pupils, parents and
aids supplied to 740 focus  community leaders.
schools.
4. Information available and  4. Up to date statistics  4. Statistics digest by UBEC,
used for decision-making on  available for physical,  study reports, project
primnary education policy and  financial and human resource monitoring and evaluation
practice.                 planning purposes; research  reports
reports on teaching and
learning practices and on
curriculum relevance ready for
curriculum review and
revision; evaluation reports
accessible to determine
efficacy of distance education
for teacher development,
classroom interaction, and
teacher mentoring.
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                             Outputs)
1. Strengthening capacity  US$10.21m ($10.20m)       Project Implementation
through training in:                                  Reports
-28 -



(i) management                                     Disbursement summaries
(ii)accounting                                                               UBEC's implementation
(iii) curriculum delivery                                                    capacity continues to be
(iv) teacher support                                                         strengthened in response to
(v)capacity building at state                                               increasing demands.
and LGA level
(vi)develop state/LGA plans
for UBE
2. Creating a more conducive US$30.83m ($25.50m)                             Parents and pupils recognize
teaching and learning                                                        the value of improved primary
environment, increasing                                                      education.
access and improving equity
through:                                                                     Availability of counterpart
(i) US$4.63m ($3.74m)                               funding as planned.
(i) self-help projects   (ii) US$20.06m ($20.06m)
(ii) furniture provision  (iii) US$1.23m ($1.23m)
(iii) steel boxes for library
books                    (iv) US$O.96m ($0.46m)
(iv) monitoring and evaluation (v) US$4.20m ($0.0m)
(v) classroom rehabilitation
3. Improving quality of  US$13.61m ($13.00m)                                  The Nigerian Union of
curriculum delivery by                                                        Teachers and the National
inputs of:                                                                   Parent Teachers' Association
are solidly behind Primary
(i)supplementary books   (i) US$7.32m ($7.32m)                               Education Improvement.
(ii) teachers' guides and  (ii) US$O.59m ($0.59m)
training as in 1.
(iii) teaching aids      (iii) US$O.35m ($0.35m)
(iv) educ. program for   (iv) US$5.34m ($4.74)
pre-school children
4. Providing an enhanced  US$5.20m ($5.1Om)
information base for
decision-making and planning
through research and
statistical data gathering and
processing through:
(a) studies              (a) US$ 1.00m ($0.95m)
(b) data collection,      (b) US$1.OOrm ($0.95m)
processing and dissemination
(c) EMIS equipment       (c) US$3.20m ($3.20m)
5. Enhancing HIV/AIDS    US$1.26m ($1.20m)
awareness
TOTAL                    US$61.1 Im (IDA:$55.OOm)
-29 -



Annex 2: Project Description
NIGERIA: SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Introduction
With the expected termination of the Nigeria Primary Education Project (Credit 2191-UNI; PEPI) in
March 2000, the proposed project (PEPII) provides a bridging loan between PEPI and a more extensive
subsector-wide approach that will support UBE. To this end, the proposed project completes and
consolidates activities initiated under the first project and assists in preparing the ground for UBE by
facilitating information gathering and processing, planning, identification of targets and modalities for
monitoring, evaluating and rewarding progress. The duration of the proposed project is expected to be 48
months beginning from June 2000. An overlap between this and a subsequent sector-wide operation is
anticipated.
PEPI provided support to the first phase of FGN's program of primary education improvement through (a)
upgrading the quality of primary education; (b) improving resource allocation; (c) increasing enrollments;
(d) strengthening institutions; and (e) facilitating future planning. This was achieved through training,
provision of textbooks to all schools, supply of vehicles for materials distribution and supervision to
SPEBs, LGEAs, NPEC HQ and zonal offices, establishment of an education management information
system (EMIS), and research, monitoring and evaluation. Following restructuring inputs were concentrated
on focus schools refurbished by FGN and self-help projects.
PEPII will assist to prepare the groundwork for UBE by continuing to pilot strategies to improve focus
schools, assist self-help schools and support all schools with quality-enhancing inputs, and by carlying out
relevant studies and capacity building. Specific objectives will be to (i) strengthen human resource
capacity, (ii) create an environment condicive to effective teaching and learning, (iii) improve the
availability of quality instructional materials, (iv) develop an enhanced information base for
decision-making for UBE, and (v) increase national awareness about AIDS.
Both projects are assisting the FGN's preparation for UBE by (i) applying and comparing different
modalities to improve and expand primary education such as focus schools, self-help initiatives and overall
systemic improvement, (ii) setting up an EMIS, (iii) designing standardized achievement tests, (iv)
researching topical areas such as multigrade teaching, use of mother tongue and local instructional
materials, classroom interactions, curriculum relevance, opportunities for teacher development and
mentoring, and (v) policy development through nation-wide consultations. Two activities to be funded by
the Norwegian Trust Fund for Education in Africa that will prepare plans for achieving and monitoring
UBE and for using distance education for teacher development will overlap both PEPI and H.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$10.20 million
Strengthen Human Resource Capacity: The training builds on PEPI under which national and state-level
trainers were familiarized with the curriculum materials and state-level trainers underwent a course on
continuous assessment, record keeping and accounting. The specific objective is to train (i) focus school
teachers in the use of curriculum modules, continuous assessment, record keeping, use and care of
supplementary readers and local learning materials; (ii)focus school headteachers in school administration,
budgeting, accounting, furniture care and teacher support; (iii) State and local education agency personnel
in designing and developing an EMIS and in preparing plans for UBE, (iv) NBEC staff in procurement and
financial management, and (v) television production staff in on-the-job skills training and attachment.
- 30 -



Focus School Teachers' Training. Four thousand teachers from 1000 focus schools will receive training
aimed at improving their knowledge of the curriculum, pedagogical skills, student assessment and record
keeping. Training for continuous assessment, record keeping and use of curriculum modules is to be
conducted in three stages. The first stage is the train-the-trainers workshop at the national level. For this,
master trainers were trained under PEPI and they will in turn train others at other levels. The second stage
is the training at state level where trainers at the master trainers workshop will train state and local
education personnel who will be resource persons at the third stage. The third stage is the training at the
school level. Here teachers from the focus schools will be trained by trainees from the second stage. Due to
the large number of participants involved, the training at the second and third levels will be on a zonal basis
where the country will be divided into six geo-political zones. The training of teachers on the use of local
resources as instructional materials will be conducted on a regional basis as will teacher support
workshops. Training in the use and care of supplementary materials will be built into the proposal for
supplementary book procurement.
Headteachers' Training. One thousand headteachers will be trained to improve their management and
accountability skills and to provide their teaching staff with administrative and professional support.
Maintenance training will be included in furniture provision. Courses on school administration, budgeting
and teacher support will be in zonal level workshops.
State and Local Education Agencies' Staff Approximately 400 staff of State and local education agencies
will be trained in all the techniques required to design and develop an Education Management Information
System. This will include the identification, collection, collation and processing of education statistics, and
data on student achievement and education financing; the sourcing and summarizing of studies on
education; the use of simulations to project costs and educational outcomes under different scenario;
reporting on the results and commenting on the advantages and disadvantages of specified strategies. Prior
to the commencement of training the project will require each state to complete an assessment of training
needs based on the following areas (i) MIS and computer literacy training (ii) planning (iii) financial
management and (iv) project management and publicity.
NBEC Procurement and Financial Management Staff. The staff of UBEC's Project Accounts Section will
be trained in budgeting, auditing, accounting and in the use of computerized systems. The Procurement
Consultant will be responsible for providing hands-on training to UBEC's procurement staff who, if they
show promise, may participate in formal training procurement courses. It is anticipated that about 15
UBEC staff will be trained.
Television Production Staff. Two television production teams have received initial training in modem
production methods including computer graphics and puppetry. These teams will receive on the job
training as they produce, pilot, and modify program education series for young children and teachers; also
as they produce social messages, and information bulletins and documentaries on education.
Project Component 2 - US$25.50 million
Create a More Conducive Physical Environmentfor Teaching and Learning: Prior to the restructuring
of PEPI the responsibility for refurbishing and furnishing schools lay solely with the FGN. During
restructuring it was agreed that 370 focus schools (10 in each state) would be rehabilitated by FGN and
that furniture, cabinets for textbooks and boxes for classroom supplies of supplementary readers and
reference books would be provided under the Credit. In this way the quality and security of the learning
environment was improved. In many cases these improvements were augmented by community and PTA
initiatives. Similarly, as a result of the consultations among stakeholders it was decided that equity, access
- 31 -



and quality issues could be addressed through self-help projects and 132 projects local community projects
were approved, funded and are under execution. A midterm review attests to their success.
Focus Schools. Based upon the experience of PEPI there will be a two-pronged approach to improving the
school environment under PEPII. Seven hundred and fourty schools that have been rehabilitated by the
education agencies will be provided with furniture and steel book cabinets for secure storage of textbooks
and supplementary readers. This is aimed at strategically giving momentum to community participation in
providing and maintaining primary schools and setting up model schools that will benefit neighboring
schools and communities. School choice will be based upon community effort, geo-political spread, the
socio-economic conditions of the communities and considerations of access and school performance. Each
school will be provided with classroom and office furniture and steel storage cabinets for books.
Self-Help Projects. Approximately 900 self-help projects will be funded by grants accounting for up to
80% of each project's cost. The objective of this sub-component is to involve communities in carrying out
small-scale projects that would (i) increase school age children's access to basic education facilities, (ii)
ensure equity in provision of education opportunities and facilities, and (iii) ensure quality and
sustainability of existing and newly created basic education service delivery. At least the school-based
activities described below would be supported under the small scale self-help projects. These fall into three
categories.
Access-Directed Projects: These include (i) provision of toilet facilities - to improve sanitation; (ii)
provision of potable water - social amenity that will improve standard of living of community;
(iii)completion of Community Library Building close to the school - to increase reading culture and
enhance level of literacy; (iv) extension of electricity that would benefit the school - to imnprove the social
life of the pupils and community; (v) provision of access roads to school - to enable all season usage of
road to school in the community (including culverts, gutters etc.; (vi) provision of first-aid facilities in the
school - to improve health standards; (vii) renovation/rehabilitation/completion of school buildings - to
improve learning conditions; (viii) provision of furniture - to ensure comfort of pupils and teachers; (ix)
creating programs for the education of street children using existing school facilities - to ensure that
children of school age are educated; (x) creating programs for the education of persons who could not have
formal education - to increase the level of literacy within the community; and (xi) any other activity that
would give access to basic education of school aged children.
Equity-Driven Projects: These include (i) projects that would ensure even provision of basic education
facilities where they are lacking - to ensure equitable distribution of facilities; (ii) provision of equipment
for girl-child craft centers - to enhance poverty alleviation, future job creation, and self-employment; (iii)
creating programs for dropouts from the formal school system - to make for social adjustment and
usefulness in society; and (iv) any other projects /activities considered relevant in this category.
Quality-Effecting Projects: These include: (i) instituting teacher welfare-oriented projects e.g. provision of
a small grant (about N2000 each) through the school to the teachers to enable them to obtain
learning/teaching materials for their classes. The amount should be accounted for to the school, parents
and the community to ensure actual use of learning/teaching materials; (ii) provision of supplementary
readers, reference materials to the school or community library - to improve reading ability and increase
literacy; (iii) creating programs that would engender a competitive spirit in pupils such as debates and
quizzes - to make pupils strive for excellence; (iv) providing sports and games equipment, facilities and
trophies to institute inter and intra school competitions - to raise state of physical fitness and academic
excellence; and (v) any other projects/activities that would fit into this category.
- 32-



The self-help projects will be based on school-level oriented projects. Opportunities will be given to
communities that have not benefited from the PEPI pilot projects, for equity, in the spreading of the support
funds. Every benefiting community must have independently initiated proposals for projects that are of
priority to them and which fit into one or more of the three categories above. The procedures to be adopted
are similar to those applied in the pilot projects with due adjustments to take care of any peculiarities in the
proposed projects. The salient points on the implementation strategy which shall be carried out in three
phases include: (i) call for proposals - to let every school/community present within a specified time-frame
an assessable project proposal; (ii) collection and collation of proposals at local and State levels; (iii)
evaluation of proposals at state, zonal and national levels; (iv) forwarding of recommendations on
successful proposals to World Bank for approval and support; (v) review, updating and printing of
Implementation manual for the self-help projects; (vi) training on manual for benefiting communities. The
training would be carried out on regional (geo-political zones) basis to take care of a cluster of contiguous
states/LGAs; (vii) support funds shall be released in two installments, the second disbursement being
subject to a favorable performnance monitoring report; (viii) midterm and final monitoring and evaluation of
the project implementation will be carried out; and (ix) issuing of completion certificates as evidence of
successful completion of project.
All projects would be legally bound by a Financial Agreement and must be executed based on the
implementation guidelines contained in the Manual. The method of project execution is by direct labor to be
superintended by the Implementation Committees at the community level. The local and State education
agencies will provide supervisory control of the projects and join and assist UBEC, consultants and World
Bank officials in the monitoring and evaluation of project execution. The provisions of the pilot projects
implementation manual as it relates to methods and personnel are still relevant and would be adjusted as
needs arise considering the diversification of the type of activities that are likely to be supported under the
self-help project program.
Since these are the target schools, all project inputs, their use and impact will be monitored on a regular
basis. This will include all furniture, instructional materials and training provided under PEPI, PEPII and
the development communications pilot project.
Project Component 3 - US$ 13.00 million
Improve the Quality and Availability of Curriculum Materials: A major achievement of PEPI has been
the supply of Primary 1 - 6 textbooks in four subjects and of Primary 2 - 6 teachers guides to all schools;
also the supply of supplementary classroom readers to the 370 focus schools and concurrent training of
staff in the care and use of the readers. PEPI also supplied vehicles appropriate to the terrain to SPEBs,
LGEAs, NPEC headquarters and zonal offices. These were to facilitate the distribution of instructional
materials and advisory visits to schools by the local inspectorates which would raise the quality of
curriculum delivery by providing some professional support to teachers.
PEP II will continue to input instructional materials used to support the curriculum and co-curricular needs
of pupils and the professional needs of teachers. The objectives of the component are to: (i) improve
teachers' classroom practices; (ii) enable students to acquire good reading habits; (iii) promote self learning
by stimulating students towards the exploration of more knowledge; (iv) improve learners' vocabulary; and
(v) assist students' comprehension of subject matter through the use of teaching/learning aids including the
electronic media.
To achieve these objectives (i) teachers' guides to the Primary One textbooks supplied under PEPI will be
provided to all schools; (ii) supplementary readers, library and reference books will be provided for the 740
- 33 -



focus schools; and (iii) laminated teaching aids for the four basic subjects - mathematics, science, social
studies and English - will be provided to the focus schools. The teachers' guides will be supplied as
follows: (i) English, Primary Science, Primary Mathematics, and Social Studies - 83,653 copies each, (ii)
Social Studies (Hausa) and Primary Mathematics (Hausa) - 22,146 copies each, and (iii) Primary Science
(Yoruba) - 5,394. Supplementary reading material will be supplied to each class as follows: (i) sets of 30
books of each of 24 fiction titles, (ii) sets of 30 books of 15 non-fiction titles, and (iii) 160 reference books.
The books chosen have been selected by technically-competent panels from books submitted by a wide
selection of publishers who responded to an advertisement inviting submissions for review. These books
will be stored in the steel cabinets supplied under component 2. In addition, communication equipment and
consultancies will be provided to improve the production and distribution of education and training videos.
Project Component 4 - US$5.10 million
Develop an Enhanced Information Base for Decision-Making for UBE: The research and development
component of PEPI was intended to provide the basis for improving primary education provision and for
monitoring, evaluating and enhancing those improvements. To this end three major activities were included
under the component (i) construction, testing and standardization of achievement tests; (ii) establishment of
an MIS facility involving the provision of equipment and training for officers at central, zonal and state
levels and the collection, collation and processing of quantitative information on primary education; and
(iii) studies of (a) the use of local languages and local materials, (b) multigrade teaching, (c) school-based
expenditures, (d) costs, financing and management of primary education, and (e) nationwide perceptions of
primary education and how it can be improved. A policy brief on Nigerian Primary Education in the 21st
Century has been prepared and produced for dissemination. Also begun during the implementation period
are (i) preparation of an information base for UBE, and (ii) a study of distance education for teacher
development under UBE.
This component of PEPII will build on and continue the work under PEPI. The general objective of the
component will be based on three principles of providing access, equity and quality in primary education in
the interests of UBE. Specifically the objectives are (i) the provision of greater access such that all school
aged children would be in school; (ii) the elimination of equity hindrances in primary education such as
gender and rural biases; and (iii) the improvement of educational standards through training, retraining, and
improvement in quality of educational delivery. Following are the activities to be undertaken:
i)   Baseline information for UBE: This will continue the previous inforrnation collection,
collation and processing activities begun under PEPI and would provide a comprehensive
information base for decision-making, and for planning and monitoring UBE. Additional
MIS equipment will be provided.
ii)   Distance Education for Teacher Development : This study will be a continuation of the study
begun under PEPI that will examine the problem of producing quality teachers for UBE,
explore modalities of distance education for teachers, and prepare plans for preparing the
requisite number of teachers using distance education.
iii) Classroom interactive analysis: This is a study on the learning process intended to improve
educational delivery through the analysis of actual teaching leaming sessions.
iv)  Curriculum Relevance: The objective is to analyze and ascertain the relevance of the
present curriculum with a view to its improvement and updating.
v)   Try Out Teacher mentoring through District System of Supervision: The study is to
- 34 -



improve the quality of education delivery through the use of education districts as
supervisory units and teacher 'mentor'. The study will make supervision more alive.
vi)  Try out multigrade management and teaching techniques in renovated and rural schools:
The study will identify, assess and improve effectiveness of multigrade teaching in primary
school.
The major strategies of implementation are field work and workshops. The personnel to be involved would
be UBEC staff and Consultants that would be hired based on their training and experience in education or
other appropriate speciality.
Project Component 5 - US$1.20 million
Increase HIV/AIDS awareness among education staff, children and communities. Throughout Africa the
AIDS epidemic is creating extreme concern. Nigeria's Head of State has stressed the need to address the
problem in Nigeria. Under the project an appropriate AIDS Education Information and Communication
Plan will be developed to familiarize children and adolescents with AIDS-related issues. The plan will be
carried out using appropriate mass media including radio, television, newspapers, and relevant theatrical
and musical activities.
-35 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
NIGERIA: SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
1. Strengthening capacity through training in:              8.16          0.00          8.16
(i) management
(ii) accounting
(iii)curriculum delivery
(iv)teacher support
(v) capacity building at state/LGA level
(vi) develop state/LGA plans for UBE
2. Creating a more conducive teaching and learning environment,  7.63    18.05         25.68
and improving equity through:
(i) self-help projects
(ii) furniture provision
(iii) steel boxes
(iv) rehab. of classrooms
(v) monitoring and evaluation of:
(a) self-help projects
(b) PEPII project inputs and use
(c) PEPI impact
3. Providing adequate quality curriculum materials:         0.10         11.34         11.44
(i) supplementary books
(ii) teachers' guide
(iii) teachers' aid
(iv) education program for pre-school children
4. Developing an enhanced information base for decision-making  1.60      2.71          4.31
and planning through research and statistical data gathering and
processing through:
(a) studies of:
(i) attaining UBE
(ii) distance education for UBE teacher development
(iii) the learning process - classroom interactions
(iv) curriculum relevance
(b) data collection, processing and dissemination on:
(i) student enrollment retention & performance
(ii) teacher statistics
(iii) school infrastructure and learning materials
(iv) community involvement in schools
(c) communications equipment
5. Enhancing HIV/AIDS awareness                              1.01         0.00          1.01
Total Baseline Cost                                         18.50        32.10         50.60
Physical Contingencies                                     2.78          4.81          7.59
Price Contingencies                                         1.85         1.07          2.92
Total Project Costs              23.13         37.98         61.11
Total Financing Required               23.13         37.98         61.11
- 36 -



Local      Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Category               US $million   US $million   US $million
Goods                                                   1.00        37.98        38.98
Works                                                   4.20         0.00        4.20
Services                                                3.19         0.00        3.19
Self-help Project                                       4.63         0.00        4.63
Training                                                10.12        0.00        10.12
Total Project Costs    23.13        37.98       61.11
Total Financing Required     23.13        37.98       61.11
- 37 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
NIGERIA: SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
1. Financing Education in Nigeria
It is not easy to get a complete picture of education financing situation of Nigeria, given the absence of a
reliable data set. Available information suggests that public education expenditure is very low. Public
expenditure for the total education sector was estimated at 1.0% of GDP in 1996, much lower than
Sub-Saharan Africa's average of 4.3%. Per pupil public spending for primary education has also been
declining from $22 in 1990 to only $12 in 1996.
Table 1. Public Primary Education Recurrent Expenditure per Student (in 1996 Naira)
1985    1990      1994      1995      1996
Primary (1996 Naira)       1720    1720      2081      1096       933
(1996 US$)        22.01    22.01    26.63      14.03     11.95
Source: 1985 and 1990 data from World Bank report No. 11781. 1994,95 and 96 data by staff estimates.
Nigeria has three tiers of government, federal, state and local, that contribute to primary education
financing. Until September 1999, the federal government (FGN) through the National Primary Education
Commission (NPEC) distributed the National Primary Education Fund (NPEF). The fund was used for
instructional materials, construction of classrooms and renovations. FGN also funded NPEC 's
coordination and administrative functions. The state governnments are responsible for the running costs of
the State Primary Education Boards (SPEBs) while the local government councils through the Local
Government Education Authorities (LGEAs) are responsible for the running costs of primary schools
including salaries and allowances of teaching and non-teaching staff. These are all deducted from the
Federation Account and are channeled through NPEC for distribution. Expenditure by these different tiers
of govermments is not regularly monitored. Information is not available on expenditure by purpose for the
subsector as a whole.
In recent years, the federal government's direct budgetary contribution to primary education has been
declining, from 9 percent in 1994 to 4 percent and zero percent in 1995 and 1996 respectively (Figure 1).
Actual contribution may be bigger if the non-budgetary sources of funds, such as Education Tax Fund and
Petroleum Trust Fund, are included. Details of these funds, however, are not available'. Meantime, local
governments' responsibilities are increasing, funding nearly 90% of total primary education public
expenditure. As the supplementary financial roles of the federal government shrink, most of the public
expenditure is absorbed by salary payments. Aside from the IDA credit and extra budgetary allocations, a
small residual of state and local government funds are the only sources to pay for school maintenance and
other educational inputs. This leads to a wide gap in spending levels across LGAs and their continued
dependence on the central reallocative functions.
I .    The Education Tax Fund has been in effect since 1995. Companies registered in Nigeria contribute 2% of
their pre-tax earnings to the Fund. Of this, 40% is allocated to primary education, 50% to higher education and
10% to the secondary education. Details of the use and allocation of the fund are not available. The Petroleum
Trust Fund (PTF) was designed to provide additional funds for rehabilitation of physical structures, sanitation,
furniture and instructional materials for primary schools. Allocation of N 1617 million was made in 1997, but the
information on the actual disbursement is not available. PTF has since been disbanded.
- 38 -



Figure 1. Primary Education Finance by Source: 1994-1996
3 Federal
. 30                  m' _       ?'1      inState
s 25                                     a -  v"m  Local
20 t                        -> i A 19g1 Govemment
. 15                              -
0 1
z
1994      1995      1996
Source: Social Sector Public Expenditure Review. NPEC, 1998.
Parents, communities and private sector pay for uniforms, stationery, food, transportation, and in some
cases textbooks (especially in the south), and furniture. Fees that were imposed by the states were
abolished or reduced by 1987, but have been replaced by the regular LGA levies of 20 to 100 Naira per
pupil. Parents also pay for registration, examination, sports and the library, and contribute to a PTA levy
of up to 3 00 Naira. Overall, parents spend between 1000 and 2400 Naira per pupil per year.
Tuition is free for primary education in Nigeria. But there are cases reported where parents pay for
additional tuition for their children. Private primary institutions charge tuition and boarding fees (where
applicable). No public funding is extended to them.
2. Effectiveness, efficiency and the project strategy
Studies and existing information indicate that the primary education system in Nigeria is deteriorating. The
number of children enrolled in primary schools is increasing, but it is not fast enough to improve the
enrollment ratio which is stagnating at around 80 percent. Of those who have enrolled, repetition and
dropout are high, and the completion rate is low at only 69 percent. Parents who have lost confidence in
the system withdraw their children from school. School maintenance has been neglected in the majority of
schools for a long time, and costs of rehabilitation or replacement are currently estimated to be nearly
US$800 million.
The project will provide intensified support to focus schools that have been rehabilitated by governments or
communities. This will provide visible evidence that schools can produce results if necessary inputs are
provided and commitment of education staff and community support are in place. The project adopts this
strategy against the alternative of providing support spread thinly over all schools, because it can
demonstrate the effects of targeted inputs and will result in regaining parents' confidence in the education
system.
The other strategy that was initiated under Credit 2191 which will be continued is the community-based
self-help projects. Unlike the focus schools approach, where a combination of the mix of inputs are
- 39 -



decided by the government, the self-help schools will identify priorities, and design and implement school
improvement plans themselves.
3. Planned Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
Close monitoring and evaluation is planned, in particular for the self-help projects.
The community involvement is proving to be an effective means of school improvement in Nigeria. This is
true even in public schools for which the government is the largest funding agent. The self-help projects
that the credit will support are expected to create multiple benefits. They will nurture commitment to
education and a sense of ownership among the community, bring in additional resources, and make school
staff more accountable for the schooling outcome. These enhanced school environments are expected to
help improve retention, encourage new enrollment, improve equity and achieve better learning outcomes.
In the self-help schools, parents and community members together with school staff will identify problems,
priority areas, and draw up a plan of improvement. Local government and state education authority will
provide necessary technical support. The projects can support a variety of school improvement measures,
for instance:
o  Physical inputs: provision of toilet or water facility, renovation/rehabilitation of school facilities,
improving access road to school, extension of electricity, provision of furniture;
o  Pedagogical programs: provision of teaching instruments, instructional materials, supplementary
readers, equipment for girl craft centers, plastic cards, sports and game equipment; and
o  Teacher motivation: support for teacher clustering with neighboring schools, small grants for
teaching/learning materials, providing teachers a bicycle.
Other activities that will be considered to improve access, equity and education quality would be eligible
for the projects.
At least 20 percent of counterpart contribution is required from the community. From the PEP I
experience, it is known that some communities are willing to provide significantly more resources.
Accordingly the actual size of each self-help project can vary. In addition, total educational resources
available to the beneficiary schools will be different. Total financial resources the school has used will be
considered.
Against the various types of inputs and the total costs of each self-help project, impact will be analyzed in
terms of increase in enrollment and retention rates, improvement in equity and better pupil learning
outcomes. The nature and degree of community participation will be assessed. Size, socio-economic and
socio-cultural characteristics of schools will be taken into account. A baseline study will be conducted on
these parameters before the credit effectiveness, pupil's achievement tests for this purpose are being
developed. The impact will also be measured on the selected focus schools and control schools to enable
comparison.
The result of the impact analysis will inform the government about what types of school needs can be best
addressed by what types of community involvement. It can also give indications of the desirable level of
funding at the school level. Such infonnation will feed into the govemnment's strategy for achieving UBE
objectives that would be both cost-efficient and financially sustainable.
-40 -



4. Financial implications of the project
Of the total project estimated costs of US$61.1 million, an IDA credit will finance US$55 million, and the
balance will be financed by the government and local communities. About US$35 million will be allocated
to provide support for the 740 focus schools. The costs include training of school and local government
education staff, provision of school furniture, supplementary reading materials with steel boxes for their
storage, teaching aids and school rehabilitation. Taking into account the amortization period of some
capital goods and other costs of recurrent nature, the component costs are translated into an annual per
pupil spending of US$16 including the costs of activities that will support the system as a whole ($3.5).
The costs are in addition to the present public expenditure of about $12 per pupil. Details of the per pupil
project costs are presented in the attachment to this analysis. If successfully implemented, the focus
schools will demonstrate the importance of mutually supportive functions of good school management
practices, community involvement, and availability of necessary inputs to a conducive learning
environment.
In a context where such a large increase in financial load is likely to be a long-term challenge, the
expansion of self-help school development projects is expected to offer a more cost-effective approach in
achieving specific goals that have been set by themselves. The community will provide 20 percent
equivalent of the cost of the project, either in cash or in kind. Assuming that on average the inputs
provided under the self-help projects will be used for 3 years, the annual expenditure per pupil for this
strategy will be $ 9.4 (of which $3.5 is for overhead support). If improvement gains through this strategy
are significant relative to its costs, the government may wish to consider gradually expanding the
decision-making and resource management roles to local governments and schools, and build the support
system around them.
All primary schools in Nigeria have already benefited from the textbooks provided under the ongoing
Primary I project that are still in use. Under the Primary II project, primary schools in general will
indirectly benefit from the support for general and central services. These include capacity building for
state and local education authorities, technical assistance to project management, development of
management information system, studies for improved learning process, curriculum relevance, and
preparatory work for UBE. Per pupil annual costs of $3.5 are estimated for these activities. Control
schools for the monitoring purpose will be chosen from this group of schools.
The financial implications of this project suggest that the government will need to significantly increase the
resources for the primary education and to formulate policies on how to finance primary education toward
achieving UBE, obtaining support of key stakeholders and supporters. The Bank will assist the
government in the study for UBE.
5. Assistance for the preparation of UBE
The project will assist the government in preparation for UBE in several key areas.
(a) Building a reliable information base A feasible strategy for UBE can be prepared, implemented and
supervised only if informed by reliable education management information. At present, even the very basic
school-level information is not regularly collected and is made available at best years behind schedule.
Financing data is more problematic due to lack of concerted efforts to summarize information from
different sources. The project will support networking education authorities at the center and states to
-41 -



facilitate the timely collection and flow of more accurate information, such as enrollment, number of
teachers, conditions of school facilities, availability of necessary inputs, budgeted and actual expenditure
by purpose and by source, and to identify who benefit or not from public education. Training will be
provided for effective use of the information system. Improvement in the financial management system
remains a challenge. The ministry of education, states and local governments will need to establish better
working relationships. The ongoing financial system review under way will inform the government of the
choice for a more transparent federal financial management system.
(b) Capacity building of the education staff in federal, states and local governments It is increasingly
apparent that the preparation and implementation of UBE in the decentralized management system requires
that education authorities at states and local governments enhance their capacity in critical skill areas.
Under the project, education staff at states and local government will develop skills on budgeting,
accounting and procurement so that they can provide better support to schools. States will be asked to
prepare their capacity development plan. At the center, planning and coordinating functions will be
strengthened. In addition, the monitoring and evaluation of project activities will rely largely on the work
by states and local governments as a part of capacity building efforts. Prior to the start of the sector wide
UBE program, the government will assess the institutional capacity at national, state and local govermnent
levels.
(c) Studyfor planning the strategyfor UBE  The president of Nigeria formally re-stated government's
commitment to universal basic education in September 1999. Policy and Technical Committees on UBE
have been established at the Cabinet and Ministerial levels respectively. The immediate need for the
government is to develop a policy framework that clearly outlines objectives, priorities, and roles of key
players. This will be supported by a more detailed strategy clarifying the government's education policies
and norms on curriculum, staffing, curriculum, class size, school and classroom facilities, instructional
materials and on administrative and realistic financing roles. Targets should be set, costs estimated and
financing arrangements worked out. Attention will be paid to demand side factors that are known to affect
access and quality of education. Firm commitmnent of the government will be essential to substantially
increase the total funds available to primary education.
The strategy will be adjusted as a more reliable management information base is developed. Experiences,
lessons and analysis results from the two IDA supported primary education projects, the ongoing and new
ones, will guide decisions on the strategy and modalities of implementation. The Bank has been providing
policy advice on these matters and will provide technical support to enable the government to prepare the
UBE strategy in parallel to the project.
(d) Coordination for concerted efforts Inplementation of UBE is expected to require a significant
increase in the budgetary allocation for the subsector, and also support from external agencies and local
stakeholders. The government will continue its consultation and seek for collaboration with public, private
and external partners. Agreement has been reached among external agencies to regularly exchange
information so that duplication in support is avoided. The new office for coordinating UBE will soon be
established and will be staffed to include experienced project and education officers who will continue to be
trained under the project.
-42 -



Attachment to Annex 4
Annual Project Costs per Pupil
Components                  Project      Beneficiaries      Unit cost    Recurrent (R)
Costs 1                       (per pupil)     or Capital
(US$M)                           (US$)        (years for
amortization)
Focus schools (F)                         34.75
(i) management, accounting, curriculum,   1.25      1110 schools (F) 2     1.56            R
teacher support
(ii) financial management and procurement  0.13     1110 schools (F) 2     0.16            R
capacity building
(iii) school furniture provision          20.06      740 schools (F)       6.28            6
(iv) steel boxes for library books        1.18       740 schools (F)       0.37             6
(v) supplementary books                   7.32       740 schools (F)       2.29            6
(vi) teaching aids                        0.35       740 schools (F)       0.22             3
(vii) school rehabilitation               4.09       740 schools (F)       1.28            6
(viii) monitoring and evaluation          0.38             (F)             0.32            R
Self-Help schools (S)                     3.93
(i) Self-Help Community-Based Projects    3.57       900 schools (S)       5.56             3
(ii) monitoring and evaluation            0.36             (S)             0.32            R
General and central services (G)          11.07
(i) state/LGA capacity building for UBE   1.70        all schools (G)      0.10            R
(ii) develop state/LGA plans for UBE      6.49        all schools (G)      0.31            R
(iii) procurement training (NPEC)         0.06        all schools (G)     0.003            R
(iv) procurement consultant               0.09        all schools (G)     0.004            R
(v) teachers' guides for P1               0.59      all schools (G) P1     0.06            3
(vi) communication equipment              0.12        all schools (G)     0.001            5
(vii) information system development      0.95        all schools (G)      0.05            R
(viii) Research and Development            1.07       all schools (G)      0.05            R
Total project costs                       50.00
PI-P6 textbooks (supplied under Cr. 2191)  63.00      all schools (G)      2.92             3
Focus schools (F)              34.75          (F+G)             15.96
Self-help projects (S)           4.13           (S+G)             9.36
General and central services (G)      11.07            (G)             3.49
Notes
1. Project costs reflect estimated costs at the time of appraisal and include contingencies.
2. 370 focus schools that benefited under Cr.2191 will be included in addition to the new 740 focus schools.
-43 -



Summary of benefits and costs:
na
Main Assumptions:
na
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
na
-44 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
NIGERIA: SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Years Ending
June30
_  Yearl     Year2  r Year3      Year4  | Year5  | Year6  | Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
InvestmentCosts           26.4       31.2       1.4        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            1.4        0.3        0.2       0.1        0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs         27.8       31.5       1.6        0.1       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing             27.8       31.5       1.6        0.1        0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDAIDA                 24.5       29.0        1.3       0.1        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                3.0        2.2        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.3        0.3        0.3        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    27.8       31.5       1.6        0.1        0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
Project effectiveness: June 30, 2000.
-45 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
NIGERIA: SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Procurement
All goods and services financed under the IDA credit would be procured in accordance with the appropriate
IDA Guidelines (Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 and as
revised in January and August 1966, September 1997, and January 1999; and Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 and as revised in September 1997
and January 1999). A formnal assessment of the capacity of the Project Implementation Unit for this task
has been carried out according to Procurement Policy & Service Group guideline dated August 11, 1998
(see Documents in the Project File).
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory and would be published before Board presentation in
the UN Development Business and in a national newspaper as provided under the Guidelines. The GPN
would be updated on a yearly basis and would show all outstanding International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) for goods contracts and all international consulting services. In addition a Specific Procurement
Notice is required for all ICB and all consulting services with a value in excess of US$100,000 prior to the
preparation of the short list.
Procurement under the Project
A. Civil Works ($4.20 million) : All civil works contracts will be funded and managed by the Government.
The civil works, mo'stly to rehabilate primary schools, under this project would be scattered geographically,
spread over time and labor intensive. The works would be procured under lumpsum, fixed price contracts
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors in response
to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the
contract.
B. Goods ($38.98 million) : The project would finance furniture, steel boxes for library books,
supplementary books, teachers' guide, teachers' aid, and communication equipment valued at $38.98
million of which $37.98 is foreign exchange. All goods which have been grouped into six bid packages
would be procured under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) using IDA Standard Bidding Document
procedures.
C Consulting Services ($3.19 million): The total value for consulting services will be $3.19 million.
These services include conducting studies on learning processes, classroom interactions, and curriculum
relevance; data collections on student enrollment, teacher statistics, school infrastructure and learning
materials, and community involvement; and monitoring and evaluation. The recruitment of consulting
services under this project includes hiring research institutes and universities. Research institutes and
universities and individuals from these entities will also be contracted to carry out various studies, data
collection, and monitoring and evaluation. The procurement consultant under PEPI was selected on a
competitive basis and has been performing satisfactorily. It is proposed that this consultant would continue
its service under PEPII.
-46 -



Selection and appointment of consultants for studies and support of project execution will be carried out in
accordance with the Consultant Guidelines (Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999). As a rule, consultant services will
be procured though Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) methodology. All consultancy assignments
estimated to cost US$ 100,000 or more would be procured through QCBS and would be advertised in
Development Business and in at least one national newspaper. In addition, the scope of the service will be
advertised in an intemational newspaper or magazine seeking "expressions of interest." In the case of
assignments estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000, the assignment may be advertised nationally and the
shortlist may be made up entirely of national consultants, provided that at least three qualified national
fimns are available in the country and foreign consultants who wish to participate are not excluded from
consideration. Consultant services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$ 50,000 may be
contracted by comparing the qualifications of individual consultants who have expressed an interest in the
job or who have been identified. All consulting services of individual consultants will be procured under
individual contracts in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the Guidelines.
Procurement methods (Table A)
The summary of proposed procurement arrangements is presented in Table A. The draft procurement plan
has been prepared and a final procurement plan (to be included in the Project Implementation (PIP) is a
condition of project effectiveness. The Bank's standard bidding documents for goods, and the Standard
Request for Proposals (RFP) for selection of consultants (dated July 1999) as well as the Standard
Bid/RFP Evaluation Forms will be used.
Implementation Arrangements There will be approximately 7 packages for goods and around 10
consultancy contracts under this proposed Project. The major part of studies and data collection will be
carried out in the second and third quarter of the first year of the project. Goods procurement will be
completed during the fourth quarter of the first year and first and second quarters of the second year of the
project. To expedite implementation procurement will continue to be managed by the procurement
consultant who was contracted after PEPI was restructured. The selection of the procurement consultant
was carried out during the implementation of PEPI on a competitive basis following Bank procedures.
Procurement activities under the proposed project will continue to be overseen by the Procurement
Consultant. There is a sub-committee of the UBEC Network Committee on Project Implementation which
assists the Procurement Consultant in the procurement process. The reports are discussed with the Chief
Executive of the Commission who in tum briefs the Federal Minister of Education before onward
submission of recommendations to the World Bank.
-47 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                             0.00            0.00           0.00            4.20           4.20
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                             37.98           0.00            1.00           0.00           38.98
(37.37)         (0.00)         (0.95)          (0.00)        (38.32)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00           3.19            0.00           3.19
(0.00)         (0.00)          (2.82)         (0.00)         (2.82)
4. Self-help Project                 0.00            0.00           4.62            0.00           4.62
(0.00)         (0.00)          (3.74)         (0.00)         (3.74)
5. Training                          0.00            0.00           10.12           0.00           10.12
(0.00)         (0.00)         (10.12)         (0.00)         (10.12)
Total                             37.98           0.00           18.93           4.20          61.11
(37.37)         (0.00)         (17.63)         (0.00)        (55.00)
1' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
z Includes civil works to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, training, and
incremental operating costs related to managing the project. Specifically, consulting services under this
project includes the recruitment of research institutes and universities, as well as individuals in these
research institutes and universities to carry out various studies, data collection, and monitoring and
evaluation. The procedures to be used for recruitment of consulting services under this project will
follow the bank's guidelines on "hiring government-owned universities, research institute, government
officials and academic/research staff as consultants in bank-financed operations hiring of
government-owned universities and research institutes".
-48 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B provides the prior review thresholds. Each contract for goods estimated to cost US$100,000
equivalent or more (all the six ICB bid packages under this project) will be subject to IDA prior review as
per paragraph 2 of appendix I of the Guidelines. For consulting services, IDA will review Contracts to
firms when contract value is greater than $100,000 and individuals when contract value is greater than
$50,000. All single-source selection of consultants and all terms of reference for consulting services will be
subject to IDA prior review. Any exceptional extensions to non-prior review contracts raising their values
to levels equivalent or above the prior review threshold will be subject to IDA clearance.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Co-trat Va.u                                   Contracts Subjict to
;hre: .ld              Procurement               Pdior Review
Expenditur Category  J$$ millios)  Method(US$millions)
1. Works                         0.10                     n.a.            Contracts will be funded
and managed by
Government and procedures
used would be acceptable to
the Bank.
2. Goods                         0.10                     ICB                All ICB contracts.
All other contracts above
$100,000
3. Services                      0.05                  Individuals           All contracts above
(individuals)                                                               $50,000.
4. Services                  0.10 & above                QCBS                All contracts above
(firms)                  below 0.10                  CQ                    $100,000.
5. Shopping                      0.03                   Shopping
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    $37.5 millions
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-49 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement and withdrawal procedures are detailed in the World Bank Disbursement Handbook (1992
edition). All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the Credit Agreement and the procedures
defined in the Disbursement Letter. All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit account will be
fully documented, except for: (i) expenditures of contracts with an estimated value of US$ 100,000 each or
less for goods, (ii) US$50,000 or less for consulting firms and individuals, and (iii) incremental operating
costs and training which may be claimed on the basis of Certified Statements of Expenditures (SOE).
Documentation supporting expenditures claimed against SOEs would be retained at UBEC and will be
available for review as requested by IDA supervision missions and project auditors.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
E+DO tF lloll m Millio
(1) Equipment, furniture,     35,040,000     25,550,000      100% of foreign expenditures;
materials, and supplies                                        95% of local expenditures
(2) Consultant Services        2,610,000      1,900,000                100%
Studies
(3) Self-help Projects:                                       100% of amounts disbursed
(a) Matching Grants           3,220,000      2,350,000
(b) Monitoring and Evaluation  210,000        150,000     95% for monitoring and evaluation
(4)Training                    9,260,000      6,750,000                100%
(5) Unallocated                4,660,000      3,400,000
Total Project Costs           55,000,000     40,100,000 
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures, the Government of Nigeria will open a special
account (SA) in a commercial bank to cover local and foreign currencies of IDA's share of eligible
expenditures. The authorized allocation for the special account will be US$1,000,000, covering an
- 50 -



estimated four months of eligible expenditures financed by IDA. Upon Credit effectiveness or as needed,
an initial amount of US$500,000 will be deposited in the SA. When the aggregate amount of withdrawals
from the credit account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association reach or exceed the equivalent of SDR3,000,000 subsequent deposits may be requested
provided these do not exceed the total authorized amount of US$1,000,000. Replenishment applications
should be submitted regularly, preferably monthly, after monthly bank statements are received and
reconciled, with appropriate supporting documents for local and foreign expenditures as required. To the
extent possible, all of IDA's share of eligible expenditures should be paid through the SA.
Sources of Government counterpart contribution include funds by states and local governments for focus
schools refurbishment, community contribution in cash or in kind for the self-help projects, and the
federal budget allocation.
Eligibility of Project for PMR-Based Disbursement Assessment of the implementing agency's financial
management system, procurement/contract management system and capacity for monitoring physical
implementation progress were carried out during December 1999. It was concluded that the project has
sufficient capacity and experience to monitor physical implementation progress, including its monitorable
indicators. It was confirmed that the project currently satisfies the Bank's minimum financial
management and procurement management requirements. However, in the opinion of the assessors, the
project does not have in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide, with
reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project as required by the
Bank/IDA for PMR-Based Disbursements; nor does it have in place an adequate procurement/contract
management system that can provide the appropriate data on major procurement and contract
management as required by the Bank/IDA. At this time the project is considered ineligible for
PMR-based disbursements. However, following the implementation of action plans agreed with the
project, PMR-based disbursements could be introduced by December 31, 2001. (The assessments,
eligibility certificate and action plan may be found among the documents in the project file.)
- 51 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
NIGERIA: SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Mai _  _ 
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       8                            6
First Bank mission (identification)             05/12/99                      05/12/99
Appraisal mission departure                     09/20/99                      10/01/99
Negotiations                                     11/15/99                     01/10/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   03/17/2000                    08/30/2000
Prepared by:
The Network Committee (NETCOM) of the National Primary Education Commission and the Federal
Ministry of Education
Preparation assistance:
not applicable
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
NaEe                                             y
Eileen Nkwanga                    Education Consultant, Task Team Leader
Hong Chen                         Procurement Analyst
Kazuhiro Yoshida                  Human Resource Economist
Bayo Awosemusi                    Procurement Specialist
T. Mpoy-Kamulayi                  Sr. Counsel
Hovsep M. Melkonian               Sr. Disbursement Officer
Chris Blanchard                   Task Team Assistant
Anthony Hegarty                   Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt             Environmental Projects Analyst
Rogati Anael Kayani               Sr. Procurement Specialist
Maine Ely Dieng                   Social Screening Review Coordinator
Adriaan Verspoor                  Education Lead Specialist (Lead Advisor)
Gregory Hancock                   Sr. Partnership Specialist (Peer Reviewer)
James Keith Hinchliffe            Principal Economist (Peer Reviewer)
Hena Mukherjee                    Sr. General Educator (Peer Reviewer)
Daniel Viens                      Sr. Education Specialist (Peer Reviewer)
Kekelwa Nyaywa-Dall               Education consultant
Foluso Okunmadewa                 Poverty Program Coordinator
Muraino Ogunsanya                 Financial Management Specialist
Bemardo Kugler                    Sr. Human Resources Economist
- 52 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
NIGERIA: SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan. UBEC. (Draft dated October 1999).
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Hard Lessons - Primary Schools, Community, and Social Capital in Nigeria. Technical Paper No. 420.
1998.
Cost Effectiveness Analysis (unitcost.xls)
Fiscal Analysis (exreview.xls)
Nigeria Federal Public Expenditure Review. Report No. 14447-UNI. March 18, 1996.
Nigeria Social Sectors Strategy Review. Report No. 11781 -UNI. November 28, 1994.
Procurement Assessment
Financial Management Assessment
Report on the Assessment of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements. Nigeria: Primary Education II Project
(PEPII) (Project ID: NG-PE-66571)
C. Other
Press Briefing on the Activities of the Federal Ministry of Education. Federal Minister of Education.
February, 1999.
Pilot Project Implementation Manual. NPEC. 1998. (for use in Credit 2191-UJNI)
Final Report of the Study on Cost and Financing of Primary Education in Nigeria. Ajayi et. al. December,
1996.
Social Sector Public Expenditure Review - National Report. NPEC. 1998.
Nigerian Primary Education in the 21st Century - A Policy Brief. NPEC July 1999
Impact Assessment Report on the First Education Project (Cr. 72-UNI). Federal Ministry of Education,
1999.
Impact Assessment Report on the Second Education Project (Ln. 814-UJNI). Federal Ministry of Education,
1999.
Impact Assessment Report on the Third Education Project (Ln. 929-UNI). Federal Ministry of Education,
1999.
Impact Assessment Report on the Technical Education Project (Ln.2926-UNI). Federal Ministry of
Education, 1999.
*Including electronic files
- 53 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
NIGERIA: SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions         disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Borrower                     Purpose                              IBRD       IDA         Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Revd
NG-PE-2156     1993 FEDERAL GOVERNMENT         DEV. COMMUNICATION                       0.00       8.03        0.00       1.12      0.94      0.93
NG-PE-2176     1993 GOVTOF NIGERIA             STATE ROADSII                            0.00      85.00        0.00      21.09     21.67     11.95
NG-PE-2109     1992 FED GOVT OF NIGERIA        STATE WATER I                            0.00     101.00        0.00      18.14     12.75      9.94
NG-PE-2140     1992 GOVERNMENT                 AGRIC TECH                              42.50       0.00        0.00       8.63      7.33      2.13
NG-PE-2084   . 1991 FED. GOVT. OF NIGERIA      WATER REHAB                            256.00      0e00         0.00      56.58     56.57     54.47
NG-PE-2092    1991 FED GOVT OF tNIGERIA A      AG. RESEARCH                             0.00      78.00       0a00        0.3s     -3463     -3.63
NG-PE-2106    1991 GOVERNMENTOFNIGERIA    HEALTHFUND                                   70.00       0.00       16.00      11.14     27.16     11.16
NG-PE-2134     1991 FED.GOVTOF NIGERIA         PRIMARY EDUCATION                        0.00     120.00       30.00      19.90    120.00     61.50
Total:     368.50     392.03       46.00      136.95    122.79    86.95
-54 -



NIGERIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Aug-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1964/66/89         Arewa Textiles                 0.00    0.00    0.56    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.56    0.00
1981/85/88         Ikeja Hotel                    0.00    0.00     1.46    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.46    0.00
1991               AEF Stark                      0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992               AEF Canplas                    0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.04    0.00      0.00    0.00
1992               FSDH                           0.00    0.00    0.86    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.86    0.00
1993               Tourist Co Nir                11.00    6.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00
1994               Abuja Intl                     1.75    0.00    0.75    0.00    1.75    0.00    0.71    0.00
1994               AEF Eterna                     0.85    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.85    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               AEF Vinfesen                   1.10    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Courdeau                   0.46    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.46    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Mid-East                   0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00
1996/98            AEF Bailey Bridg               0.68    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Ekesons                    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Moorhouse                  1.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.35    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Radmed                     0.29    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.29    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Telipoint                  0.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.17    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Ansbby                     0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Minaj                      0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        18.62    6.62    3.63     0.00    6.34    2.62     3.59    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 55 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
NIGERIA: SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Saharan       Low-
?laersia   Africa   income        Development diamond*
1998                       7:0                          l     ;  i                :
Ponulaltion mid-vear fmillionsl                         1213        2       a 6515                Life expectancy
t4NP nar nanita (Atlas method. USSV                     300        48fl      520
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                        36 4       30a4      1844
Averaue annual nrowth. 1992-95
Ponolatinn t%t                                           29         26 77
Laborforce%l                                             2:9        2.5       1.9      GNP                               Gross
Most recent estimate (latest   r available. 1992-9)                                   p,er                              ,rimary
capita                        Pnrmllmpni
Povertv (% of oooulation below nation4l ooverfv line)    66
trban nontilation (% of total ooculafionl                42         3R3        31
l ifer exnertancv at hirth rvearsl                       54         51        R3
Infanlt mortalitv tDer 1.000 live births)                77         91        69
(.hild mailnutritinon % of children under 5l                                                    Access to sate water
Access to safe water /% of DOOulation)                   50        471        74
Illiterarv /% of oooulation ace 15+)                     40         42        37
Gross orimarv enrollment 1% of school-ace DODUlatioIl)   98         77        108                 Nigeria
Male                                                  109         84       113             -    Low-income group
Female                                                 87           Q      103
KEY ECONOMtC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GDP fUSS billions)                            36.0      234       39.9       41.4
Gro.sS domastic investmeantIG P               28 a3       b        is 13     20.0
Exoorts of ooods and services/GDP             24.9      28.8       40 9      23,5                     Trade
rross domestic savinns/GrFP                   30 7      199       2 9        t1 8
GrosS nationaltsavinns/GflP                   293       1 14       20n       R;7
Current Account halance/G0)P                  -2 8:1    -74         4 7       7.3
Interest navmentsqGOP                          0I1       25 A          4      3 6      Domestic                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 8.7    123,8        7240      69-6      Savings                      I
Total dhbt servireleinnrts                      1' 0    14A 1      124       134
Present value of debt/GDP                                  .      867.7
Present valueof deht/esnorts                                      172 7
Indebtedness
I  ;  1977-57. 198848S    1997  1998   1999-03
iavef4oe annualorowth)
~OryP;                               -13a  ;   33        3.6    .  1.6        21$:00:                __
CThP oer canita                      .  46 fi 0: n 9 i; 7: 2 S     . t 5 -1 8   ;0 i: 1 fi    Nigeria -    Low-income group
Exnortl, of ooods and servics        -5.4      5.5       1.2       -86.      14,2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Anricilltirre                                 296       3f67       32 7      31.7
Indtistrv                                     31 4      33.3      46 9       41 0      15
Manuifacltirina                               4 6      6R         4 8                 o
Servires                                      39 0      31)0       20.4      27.3     15      93                96 \I    98
Private consimnlinn                           55 9      6R 9      69 6       77 5     -30
General novernment consuimotion               13.4      11 1        8fl      107                      GDI    --*GDP
ImDorts of ooods and services                 22.5      24.7      34.3       31.7
favefaoe annualearowth)                    1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Aoriculture                                   -0.5       3.0        4.2       1.5    20
Indiustrv                                     -3 2       2 4        31        2 9
Manufacturina                                 5.6      2.5        1.3       2.8    10
Services                                       0 4       4 6       3 4        25        ,                       s       s
Private consumotion                            0.5       0.3      27.0        5.5      o' 6       f           \
Gene.ral novernment consnimntinn              -2 7       1.6       18 S       2 0
Gross domestic investment                    -13 7      11)8     -24.4       13 6     10
Imnorts of oods and services                  -9         4.9       84         78                    Exports    -OImports
GRross national nroduct                       -1 a       3 9        54        1 a
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv tin bold) comoared with its income-oroun averaae. If data are missina. the diamond will
he incomnlete
- 56 -



NiLeria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987      1997      1998     Inftatfon (9
Domestic pHices                           11a
(% change)                                                                       ro
Consumerprices                              13.8    11.3       8.3      10.3     so
Implicit GDP deflator                      10.7      0. 1     10.5      10.5    6r
404
Government finance                                                               20
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               c
Current revenue                             20.3    15.2      18.9      15.4            93   94  9s  9s   97  9D
Current budget balance                      12.3    -1.1       9.7      -6.0                  GoP deflator     CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                     -6.8    -7.6       1.1      -8.6
TRADE
1977    1987 1(997          19n8     Export and Import levels (USS milRlons)
(US$ mitllbns)
Total exports (fob)                       12,373    7,532    15,208    9,727    20,880
Fuel                                    11,564    6,994    14,850    9,519    16,000
Cocoa                                        .
Manufactures                                                   40       35    12,000
Total imports (ciD                        13,225    6,392    10,246   10,873     a     r0e{
Food                                     1,373     671      1,219    1,479
Fuel anclenergy                            240      27        143      130  ~490D~
Capital goods.                                        .         .        *         8
92  93  94  95  99  97  9r
Exoort oDre index (1995=1001                 94      100       112       82
Imoort orice index (1995=1r/01               45       75        92       84              a Exponts     Imports
Terms odtrade (1995=1001                    210      134       122       98
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977    1987      1997      1998     Currnt account balance to GOP ratio (A)
tUSS millions)
Exports of goods and services             12,955    7,757    15,330    9,845     1 5
Imports of goods and services             11,731    6,689    12,753   12,045      ,-
Resource balanre                           1,224    1,068    2,577   -2,200     1                        U
Net income                                -2,046   -2,770    -2,211   -2,661       J                     *
Netcurent transfers                                          1,512    1,833      o
Current account balance                   -1,007   -1,726    1,877   -3,027
Financing items (net)                       189    1,648     1,183    3,026     'i
Changes in net reserves                     817       78    -3,061        1
Memo.
Reserves indudino oold fUSS millions)     4.259    1.199     7222    7221
Conversion rate IDEC. locrJAiSSI             0.9     4.6       81.1     88.0
EXTERNAL DEST and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987      1997      1998
rUSS miTaons)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS milUons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       3,146   29,021    28,712   28,774
IBRD                                      410    2,939     2,373    2,278                       A: Z278
IDA                                        39       32       410      564             GA :57            8:584
Totaldebtservice                            138    1,106      1,934    1,352
IBRD                                       47      332       518      467
IDA                                         1        1         4        4
Composition of net resource flows
Offiacl grants                              6       14
Oftcal creditors                           38      378
Pnvate credItors                           18      425                             F:
Foreign direct investment                 439      603
Portfolio equity                            0        0         -
World Bank program
Commitments                                62       71         0        0      A- IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              84      385       260      222      8 - IDA    D-Other muutiateral   F - Prvate
Pnncipal repayments                        18      125       339      314      C -IMF                      G-Short-term
Net flows                                  46      260       -79       -93
Interest payments                          30      209       182      156
Net transfers                              16       52      -281     -249
Development Economics                                                                                            9/22J99
-57 -






14 0                    4                             6                           8                             10t                           12         .      .           14                           16               14,
!   .  . /                      s                            N      I    G      E      R                                                              C           This map was produced by the
.N                                                                                               i"""";kX                          Mop Design ,i  Unit of The World Bank
L         SOKbTG                                     .@ 0 Kb/r o                                                                                                    The boundaries, colors, denominations
|\K s 7   -                              >>  I   -                                                                        '    \....,,..        and any other information shown on
|/    < < '      ,h    8          4     :    "                        4                                       o,,,~.        /                    "'   ~               thin map do nuYtimply, an the part of
r- - - -S                                                                             The World Bank Group, any judgment
8/y  ta    ts'9                           7'1        K A IS/NA >         X...-'  '.             /       ~      <o,               "~  '~'KISIA                             on the legal status of any territory, or
Birnin'y endursement or acceptance of
Kebbi/                                   quuunGAA   '"                                         ~ >                                    ~sc boundaries.
P~     '~'AMFARA    c                                                                                                                                                                    2
/  ~ ~ ~             A      ~ ~           ,,/KANO. '>~~~~~~~Dutfe~~~~        /  ~~~  Darnaturux~&N-' - 
->                               SQ- Wv                                                                           ,/aA 2  
no                          uch '            BE
) E N2 I N
R....S       2O \.,r                                        C
BE  NI  N     Koinji   N/     I        R                                                JosNA          pauh    ~ e'~'                   
to                                                                                                                                 KtO ETR ,//                                                             C  M R ON     tRPB
r  GIGER, u I$JO> f-- o~-M f  G                                                                                                                       N iIGERAIA                              10
~~  ~~~  "'  ~~~~~   ~ ~ ~   ~~'    ~ ~ ~ ~       ~~LAPEAU                          '          '0'                                0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE CAPITALS
u, /v,  'i,                            \-W L A P'  ~~~~~~~~~Ylas 
--                                 FEf5EE~~~~~~~~~~~AL                                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
I   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 'oc                     '~~~~~~~~1 'i-alingo6
Sahi               '.                                                                                                                                    Gulfo OArITAL  /< '  I  /  J  o  OTHER SELECTED TOWNS
NASSAR                       WA'~~~~~~~~'    \    7~~ -1 z       /I                                           --    IRIVERS
OO           ofs                                               NaEXPRESSWAYS
81           Isye          ~                                                            ~                  ,,PRIMARY ROADS                                                                                                8
e                    --Io oi.       ~        4n              ~          /      /'~' "                 /--- STATE BOUNDARIES
kr                                                                                           V-                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ikirell                                                        7/~~~~~~~~)U~'1 
~~E UGU J4  J                                                                                            IA14                         160
LA            M_o-B                                                  ~b      1' f                                      ~>o  LIto
ts                                                                       6--                            N I G E RM4[I 
~~~~  I ..                                                                        'RL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KINA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   CHA D
0 TAU KOwe
'R VE  /                                         ~CAMEROON                                FO3
BAYbLSA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  ~ ~      ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~ ~ E)ENIN   NIGERIA
0I~~~~~~~
0     SD    100    150   200   250                GA!~"                                           "  ETA
KILOMETERS                                                              CAEON           AFRICAN
r-If    r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                             I      0                   REPUBLIC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I EPBI
c                                                                                                                                                                                             EQUATORIAL                           
Gulf of Gui neaGIE
o  40                                    8                             100                           120                          0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ SA&O TOMt  CONGO   1
001  4,   ~ ~ ~~~~~61                   S.                            1.0,                           1,2'                         0. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ & PR NCIPEtoGAN                     0



