Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3346-UNI
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Primary Education Project)
between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 22, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3346-UNI 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 22, 2000, between FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read: 
“If the Association shall at any time receive less than the full amount 
Page  2
then due and  payable to it under the Development Credit Agreement, the Association 
shall have the right 
to allocate and apply the amount so received in any manner 
and for such purposes under the 
Development Credit Agreement as the Association shall 
in its sole discretion determine.”; 
and
(b)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the word 
“radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new sentence at the end of the said 
Section to read: 
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:  
(a)
“AEP” means the AIDS Education/information/communication Program referred 
to under Part E of the Project; 
(b)
“AIDS” means a viral disease commonly referred to as the Acquired Immuno 
Deficiency Syndrome; 
(c)
“Financial Agreement” means the agreement referred to in paragraph 6 (d) 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(d)
“First Primary Education Project” means the project described in the 
Development Credit Agreement for Credit Number 2191-UNI, entered into between the 
Borrower and the Association and dated August 15, 1991; 
(e)
“FME” means the Borrower’s Federal Ministry of Education; 
(f)
“Mid-Term Review” means the mid-term review required under paragraph 3 
(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(g)
“Naira” means the currency of the Borrower; 
(h)
“NETCOM” means the Network Committee established under the First Primary 
Education Project and referred to in paragraph 5 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
as modified for the purposes of the Project;
(i)
“Participating Communities” means communities participating in the 
carrying out of Self-Help Projects as hereinafter defined; 
(j)
“PAS” means the Project Accounts Section of SPU referred to in paragraph 
4 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(k)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(l)
“Project Coordinator” means the coordinator referred to in paragraph 
5 (d) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(m)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan 
referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(n)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(o)
“Self–Help Project” means a project to be undertaken by a Participating 
Community as defined under paragraph (i) above; 
(p)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(q)
“SPU” means the Special Projects Unit of UBEC referred to in paragraph 4 
(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
Page  3
(r)
“UBEC” means the Borrower’s Universal Basic Education Commission 
established and operating pursuant to the UBE Act; and 
(s)
“UBE” means the universal basic education program adopted by the Borrower 
and enacted through the Borrower’s Universal Basic Education Act.  
ARTICLE II
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 40,100,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 2010 and ending February 1, 2035.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2020 shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
Page  4
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and education practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
open and thereafter maintain, until completion of the Project, an account 
in a commercial bank to be used exclusively to defray the costs of Project 
Page  5
expenditures not financed from the proceeds of the Credit; 
(b)
deposit into the Project Account for each calendar year, no later than 
the first day of the calendar year, the amount of the Borrower’s annual counterpart 
contribution to Project costs for such calendar year, as determined by agreement 
between the Borrower and the Association; 
(c)
deposit into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000; and (d) ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account are used 
solely for the purposes of carrying out the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
by July 31, 2000, design the AEP referred to under Part E of the Project; 
(b)
by August 31, 2000, submit the draft AEP to the Association for its 
review and comments; 
(c)
promptly thereafter, finalize the AEP by taking into account the comments 
and recommendations made by the Association; and 
(d)
carry out the AEP in accordance with the modalities and timetable agreed 
upon with the Association. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
Page  6
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 2001, or such later date 
as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and 
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association the Project Implementation 
Plan as formally approved by the Borrower, including a procurement plan for the 
Project; 
(b)
the Borrower has deposited into the Project Account the initial amount of 
$1,000,000 equivalent specified in Section 3.04 (c) of this Agreement;  
(c)
the SPU has been established in UBEC with an adequate number of qualified 
and experienced staff employed on terms and conditions (including terms of reference) 
satisfactory to the Association; and  
(d)
the Borrower has appointed the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) 
of this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Page  7
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Honourable Minister
Federal Ministry of Finance
Ahmadu Bello Way
Abuja, Nigeria
Cable address:
     FEDMINFIN
     Abuja
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
     INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
     Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Abuja, Federal Republic of Nigeria, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
By /s/ Jubril Martins-Kuye 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Page  8
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Equipment,
   25,550,000
100% of foreign
furniture, materials
expenditures and
and supplies
95% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’
    1,900,000
100%
Services
(3)
Self-Help Projects:
(a) Matching Grants
    2,350,000
100% of amounts
disbursed
(b) Monitoring and
      150,000
95%
      evaluation
(4)
Training
    6,750,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated
    3,400,000
TOTAL
   40,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure: (a) for goods under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent each; and (b) for consultants’ services under contracts not 
exceeding: (i) $100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms; and (ii) $50,000 
equivalent each for individual consultants; all, under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) strengthening 
the human resource capacity in its primary schools; (ii) creating an environment 
conducive to effective teaching and learning in its primary schools; (iii) improving 
the quality and availability of curriculum and other instructional materials in the 
primary schools; and (iv) developing an enhanced information base to facilitate 
decision making under the Borrower’s universal basic education program.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Strengthening Human Resource Capacity 
1.
Training of primary school teachers and education personnel in essential aspects 
of primary education delivery, in pedagogy, continuous assessment, record keeping and 
school level accounting, use of school level curriculum modules, teacher support for 
school managers, use of local resources for instructional purposes, furniture 
maintenance and library use and care of books.
2.
Training of education personnel in: (a) procurement matters; and (b) appropriate 
Page  9
development and use of education management information systems.
Part B:
Improving Physical Environment for Teaching and Learning 
1.
Providing secure storage for textbooks and supplementary readers in about 740 
rehabilitated primary schools, including the acquisition and provision to said primary 
schools of secure furniture and steel cabinets. 
2.
(a)
The carrying out by Participating Communities of small scale Self-Selp 
Projects. (b) The provision to the Participating Communities of matching grants for 
about 900 Self-Help Projects.
3.
The monitoring and evaluation of: (i) the Self-Help Projects; (ii) inputs 
provided under the Project; and (iii) the results of the First Primary Education 
Project.
Part C:
Improving the Quality and Availability of Curriculum Materials
1.
Acquisition and provision of: (i) teachers’ guides for all primary 1 core 
subjects; and (ii) laminated teaching aids, supplementary readers, library and 
reference books and other instructional materials for 740 rehabilitated schools. 
2.
(a) Acquisition of equipment required to enhance the production of educational 
video programs and documentaries for pre-school children; and (b) production and 
dissemination of the said programs and documentaries in the Borrower’s territory 
through appropriate channels including inter alia the Nigeria Television Authority 
network.
Part D:
Development of an Enhanced Information Base 
1.
(a)
Collection, collation and processing of information gathered under the 
First Primary Education Project. 
(b)
The development of a comprehensive information base for decision-making 
and for planning and monitoring of the UBE Program.
(c)
The carrying out of studies to: (i) examine issues relating to the 
production of quality teachers for the UBE Program; (ii) explore the modalities of 
distance education for teachers; (iii) explore the modalities of improving educational 
delivery through the analysis of actual teaching and learning sessions; (iv) analyze, 
ascertain and make recommendations regarding the relevancy of the present primary 
school curriculum; (v) explore the use of local communities as supervisory and teacher 
mentoring units, and (vi) identify, assess and improve the effectiveness of 
multi-grade teaching in primary schools. 
2.
The preparation of plans for the training of teachers under the Borrower’s 
distance education scheme.
Part E:
Increasing National Awareness about AIDS
1.
Design of an appropriate AEP, aimed at increasing awareness about AIDS-related 
issues, to be targeted primarily at children and young adolescents. 
2.
Carrying out of the said AEP within the Borrower’s territory, particularly in 
all primary schools as well as through appropriate mass media campaigns including, 
inter alia, radio and television programming, and relevant theatrical and musical 
activities. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Page  10
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II 
of this Schedule.
Page  11
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may, with 
the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more for the employment of consulting firms, and $50,000 for individual 
consultants; (ii) each contract for the employment of consultants under single-source 
selection procedures; and (iii) all terms of reference for consulting services, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  12
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program 
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Project 
Implementation Plan in form and substance satisfactory to the Association setting out 
details of all procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria required for the 
Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not amend or waive any provision of the Project Implementation Plan if, in the 
opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely 
affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31 and September 30 of each year, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association by May 31 and November 30 of each year, or 
such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter.
3.
(a)
The Borrower shall, no later than July 31, 2002, carry out with the 
Association, a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying out the Project.  The 
Mid-Term Review shall cover, among other things: (i) the progress made in meeting the 
objectives of the Project; and (ii) the overall performance of the primary education 
sector under the institutional framework developed for the phasing in of the UBE 
Program. 
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out, no later than three (3) months after the 
completion of the Mid-Term Review, the recommendations of the Mid-Term Review as 
agreed with the Association and set out in an action plan satisfactory to the 
Association. 
4.
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain SPU in a form and with functions and 
resources satisfactory to the Association. 
(b)
The Borrower shall maintain a Project Accounts Section in SPU in a form 
and with functions and staff with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association. 
5.
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain NETCOM in form and with functions, staffing 
and resources satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
NETCOM shall meet at least once every month and its membership shall 
include the Chief Executive of UBEC, as chairman, and representatives of FME, States 
and local government authorities, teachers’ unions, parents’ and teachers’ 
associations, and Participating Communities.
(c)
PAS shall: (i) prepare for the Project, monthly, quarterly and annual 
financial reports in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) 
Page  13
promptly thereafter furnish said reports to the Association.
(d)
NETCOM shall have a Project Coordinator acceptable to the Association who 
shall be responsible for overseeing: (i) the procurement of goods and services under 
the Project; (ii) ensuring the prompt disbursement of proceeds of the Credit allocated 
to schools; and (iii) the preparation and submission to the Association of the 
quarterly reports required for the Project.
6.
(a)
Each Participating Community shall establish, in a form and with 
functions and resources satisfactory to the Association, a Project Implementation 
Committee to be responsible for the day to day execution of Self Help Projects.
(b)
Overall responsibility for the carrying out of the Self-Help Projects 
shall be assigned to the State and local education agencies.
(c)
The procedures to be applied in the processing of Self-Help Projects 
shall include the following: 
(i)
the calling for Self-Help Project proposals to enable schools and 
communities 
to present within a specified time-frame assessable project 
proposals; 
(ii)
the collection, collation, and appraisal of Self-Help Project 
proposals at the 
State and local levels; 
(iii)
the forwarding of recommendations on successful proposals through 
UBEC to the 
Association for approval; 
(iv)
training and familiarization of the Participating Communities on 
the 
procedures and other contents of the implementation manual; 
(v)
the release of funds for approved Self-Help Projects in two 
installments, the 
second release being subject to a favorable 
performance monitoring report for 
the Self-Help Project; 
(vi)
the carrying out of a midterm review and final monitoring and 
evaluation of 
the Self-Help Project; and 
(vii)
the issuance of a completion certificate as evidence of the 
successful 
completion of the Self-Help Project. 
(d)
The Borrower and a Participating Community shall enter into a financial 
agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which shall require 
the Participating Community to carry out the Self Help Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices.  
The Financial Agreement shall include provisions requiring the Self-Help Project to be 
carried out by direct labor under the day to day supervision, at the community level, 
of the Participating Community’s Project Implementation Committee.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $1,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of $500,000 
Page  14
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of SDR 3,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
Page  15
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators 
1.
Focus Schools and Self Help Schools
(a)
Nominal enrollment increased by 15% by December 31, 2004.
(b)
Retention rates improved from 64% to 80% by December 31, 2004.
(c)
Average scores on standardized tests improved from 43% to 50% by December 
31, 2004.
(d)
Each student has access to a textbook in 4 core subjects and to 
supplementary readers by December 31, 2001; 
2.
Training completed by December 31, 2003 of: (i) 1000 head teachers in school 
administration, budgeting, accounting, furniture care and teacher support; and (ii) 
4000 teachers in new methods of curriculum delivery in core subjects and in learning 
assessment and reporting. 
3.
(a)
Refurbishing of 740 focus schools and provision of cabinets and furniture 
for the said schools completed by December 31, 2002.
(b)
900 community Self-Help Projects satisfactorily completed by June 30, 
2003. 
4.
All primary 1 teachers have received teacher’s guides for four core subjects by 
August 31, 2001, and supplementary readers, reference books and teaching aids supplied 
to 740 focus schools by March 31, 2002.
