Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 12733-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEEPENING AND INTERMEDIATION PROJECT
OCTOBER 25, 1994
Country Operations, Industry, Trade & Finance Division
Country Department III
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
FY94
Rs 29.5 = US$1.00
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB       Asian Development Bank
ADBP      Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
AU        Administrative Unit
BEL       Bankers Equity Limited
BT        Banking Tribunal
CDR       Credit/Deposit Ratio
Cl        Controller of Insurance
CIB       Credit Information Bureau
CLA       Corporate Law Authority
DFI       Development Finance Institution
EFF       Extended Funds Facility
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
EPA       Environment Protection Agencies
ESAF      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FED       Foreign Exchange Deposit
Fl        Finance Institution
FIB       Federal Investment Bond
FSAL      Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GOP       Govemment of Pakistan
HBFC      House Building Finance Corporation
IAP       Insurance Association of Pakistan
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICP       Investment Corporation of Pakistan
IDBP      Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
IP        Implementation Plan
ISSP      Information Systems Strategy Plan
KSE       Karachi Stock Exchange
LMM       Locally Manufactured Machinery
MOF       Ministry of Finance
NBFI      Non-Bank Financial Institution
NCB       Nationalized Commercial Bank
NDFC      National Development Finance Corporation
NIT       National Investment Trust
PEPA      Pakistan Environment Protection Agency
PFI       Participating Financial Institution
PFP       Policy Framework Paper
PIC       Pakistan Insurance Corporation
PICIC     Pakistan Industrial Credit & Investment Corporation
PSAL      Public Sector Adjustment Loan
SBC       Special Banking Court
SBP       State Bank of Pakistan
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEEPENING AND INTERMEDIATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  .....................................   i-iii
I. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR.                                                                                I
A. Background.                                                                                  I
B. Banking System.                                                                              I
C. Development Finance Institutions (DFIs).                                                     3
D. Other Non-Bank Financial Institutions (NBFIs).                                               4
E. Securities Markets.                                                                          4
F. Insurance Sector.                                                                            5
II.  FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES    .5
A. Macroeconomic Setting..                                                                      5
B. Fiscal Cost of Financial Operations..                                                        6
C. Monetary Management..                                                                        7
D. Performance of Financial Institutions and Debt Recovery            .        .                7
1. Financial Performance.                                                                   7
2. Framework for Debt Recovery                ..10
E. Taxation    ..11
F. Interest Rates and Term Finance                ..11
G. State Bank of Pakistan                 ..12
i. Introduction                ..12
2. Foreign Exchange Risk Cover  ..............................                             13
3. Prudential Regulation and Supervision .14
4. Payments Systems .15
5. Management and Staffing Arrangements .16
6. Automation of SBP Operations .................................    16
7. Library .16
H. Capital Markets Development                  ..17
1. The Insurance Market                                  ..                                    17
J. Privatization of Financial Institutions           ..18
III. THE BANK'S STRATEGY FOR THE FINANCIAL SECTOR .18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Pakistan in October-November 1993. The
mission members included Messrs./Mmes. K. K. Framji (Unit Chief-SA3CI), T. Hutcheson (Mission Lader. Senior
Economist-SA3CI), S. Ba-N'Daw (Senior Financial Specialist-SA3CI); A. Hamid (Legal Counsel-LEOSA); A. Hashim
(Senior Operations Officer-ITFIE); V. Bhagat (Investment Officer-CMECM); A. H. Qureshi (Project Advisor-RMP); B.
Perry (Deputy Chief Librarian-IL); R. Gemmill, J. Mallyon and L. Schwartz (Consultants). The peer reviewer team is
composed of Mr. K. Siraj (Division Chief-ASTTP) and Ms. Marilou Uy (Economist-FRSCR). Ms. Ba-N'Daw took over
the task management of the Project in mid-November 1993. Secretarial and administrative support was provided by Ms.
A. Evidente. Mr. Paul Isenman, Ms. Lorene Yap and Mr. K. K. Franji are the Departmnent Director, Division Chief and
Unit Chief, respectively.



Contents (cont'd)                                                                       Page No.
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT .20
A. Project Rationale             ..20
B. Project Objectives             ..21
C. Project Scope and Description          ..21
D. Project Cost and Financing Plan          ..22
E. Line of Credit Component             ..22
1. Eligibility Criteria and Conditions for Participation
of Financial Institutions .23
2. Scope and Terms .24
3. On-lending Rates, Repayment Terns and Security .25
F. Technical Assistance Component           ..25
1. State Bank of Pakistan .26
2. Capital Markets Development .27
3. Insurance Sector Development .28
4. Development Finance Institutions .28
5. Privatization Commission .29
6. Bankers Equity Limited .29
G. Administrative Arrangements           ..29
H. Environmental Assessments             ..30
V. LOAN ADMINISTRATION .31
A. Disbursement .31
B. Procurement .31
C. Monitoring, Reporting and Auditing .33
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS    ..34
A. Benefits .34
B. Risks .34
VIl. AGREEMENTS. CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION .35
ANNEXES
l. Comparative Financial Depth .37
11. Inflation in Pakistan .38
III. Debt Recovery: A Program of Judicial and
Legal Reforms, and Proposed Terms of Reference of Task Force .39
IV.  Letter of Financial Sector Development Policy .41
V. Matrix of Proposed Policy Actions .45
VI. Technical Assistance Component .47
VII. Projected Disbursements .66
VIII. Implementation Plan .67
IX. Supervision Plan .81
X. Documents Available in the Project File .84
Map: IBRD Number 16248R4



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEEPENING AND INTERMEDIATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Beneficiaries:        The participating financial institutions (PFIs) which will include all eligible
financial institutions (Fls) and through them private enterprises; the State
Bank of Pakistan (SBP), the Corporate Law Authority (CLA), Bankers
Equity Limited (BEL), the Controller of Insurance (CI) and the Privatization
Commission (PC).
Amount:               US$216.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                The proposed Loan will be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate and
repayment over 20 years, inclusive of 5 years of grace.
On-lending Terms:    The Government of Pakistan (GOP) will utilize the proceeds of the
US$216.0 million Loan to on-lend US$200.0 million to the PFIs through an
administrative unit (AU) to be established in BEL; advance US$1.0 million
to BEL as administration fees; and grant US$15.0 million to the SBP, BEL,
CLA, CI and the PC for institution building and technical assistance for the
preparation and implementation of various policy reforms. The GOP's on-
lending rate will be the Bank's prevailing component currency cost rate
determined for each currency of withdrawal, being US dollars, deutsche
mark or yen, plus an administration fee of 0.5% and a commitment fee of
0.25% per annum of the amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding.
Each private PFI will also provide to the GOP a guarantee from a suitable
third party. In the case of GOP-owned financial institutions, GOP will
charge a fee of 0.5% per annum. The PFIs will on-lend to enterprises at
prevailing market interest rates. The PFIs will repay their loans according to
a composite amortization schedule which will be the aggregate of the
repayment schedules of individual sub-loans. Sub-loans will have maturities
up to 12 years including 2 years grace. PFIs engaged in long-term lease
investment based on a pre-agreed profit and loss sharing ratio (leasing
modarabas) will repay the GOP a return on investment which will be equal
to the agreed installment of principal and profits to be repaid plus
commitment and administrator fees. They will return the initial investment
to the GOP in accordance with a fixed amortization schedule of 9 years,
inclusive of 3 years of grace. They will lease to enterprises at prevailing
mark-up rates in their leasing market. Sub-lease investments will have
maturity of up to 9 years including 2 years grace or the useful life of the
equipment financed, whichever is shorter.
Project Objectives:    The proposed Project will continue and expand the reform process started
under the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan and support the GOP's strategy
for macroeconomic and financial sector reforms, focusing on: assisting the
private sector to respond to the changing economic environment by
providing non-subsidized resources for investments and helping to deepen



- ii -
the financial system, promote new financial instruments and strengthen the
SBP and other Fls. The Project will promote the following policy and
institutional reforms: (i) strengthening of the regulatory framework for Fls
through improved procedures, monitoring and enforcement; (ii) improvement
of the legal framework for loan recovery; (iii) strengthening of banking and
non-bank financial institutions; (iv) reduction of concessional finance
extended by the SBP; (v) development of a private market in foreign
exchange cover; (vi) improvement of the management of monetary
instruments to eliminate inter-sectoral and inter-institutional distortions; (vii)
strengthening of the payment system; (viii) enhancement through capacity
and institutional building of regulatory functions of the securities and
insurance markets; and (ix) privatization, restructuring and institutional
development of banks, development finance institutions and insurance
companies.
Project Description:    The Project will consist of: (a) a line of credit through the AU to eligible
banking and non-bank financial institutions for on-lending to private
enterprises requiring term finance for all economic activities except real
estate, trading and certain consumer services; and (b) technical assistance to:
(i) the SBP for the enhancement of its regulatory functions and improvement
of its operational systems; (ii) the CLA and Cl for institutional building;
(iii) BEL for the establishment of an AU, implementation of various studies
and enforcement of environmental standards; and (iv) the PC for the
preparation of a number of Fls for privatization and/or restructuring and
valuation of State Life Insurance Corporation.
Benefits and Risks:     The proposed Project will support efforts of implementing an appropriate
policy, regulatory and institutional framework for the financial sector. The
Project will foster the use of new financial instruments and encourage FIs to
diversify their funding sources. At present, private sector investment in
Pakistan is increasing rapidly, yet because of inadequacies of life insurance
regulations and uncertainty about inflation and nominal interest rates, the
financial sector has not been successful in mobilizing a significant volume of
term resources. The Project will therefore reduce a financing gap and help
develop new financial instruments. The Project will be instrumental in
encouraging and complementing the GOP's efforts to improve financial
sector efficiency. It will also play a role in helping improve the
environmental protection measures for sub-projects.
The primary risks attached to this Project include: (i) a lack of fiscal
discipline, which could raise the budget deficit, put upward pressure on
inflation and nominal interest rates, crowd out private investment and lead to
reimposition of caps on Treasury-bill rates, discouraging Fls from mobilizing
resources for term financing; (ii) political opposition from defaulters to the
establishment of measures to improve loan recovery; (iii) a negative impact
on the pipeline of eligible sub-projects due to slowness of economic
improvements; and (iv) slippage in the technical assistance to strengthen
SBP's and other regulators' capacity to effectively oversee the operations of
Fls. However, experience indicates that most of the above risks would be
reduced because of the macroeconomic measures that the GOP has agreed to
implement under the Enhanced Stmictural Adjustment Facility and the
Extended FuLid Facility with the International Monetary Fund and the Bank



- iii -
under the Public Sector Adjustment Loan. All the needed measures are set
out in the Policy Framework Paper 1993/94-1995/96. Furthermore, technical
assistance will be provided to help ensure the effective implementation of
these critical measures. Therefore, prompt implementation actions will be
undertaken to ensure timely and efficient progress of the institution and
capacity building objectives.
Environmental Impact: The Project is rated "B." All sub-projects will be required to conform to the
Bank's environmental guidelines until such time that the GOP issues its own,
which is expected to be similar to the Bank's guidelines. During project
implementation, the PFIs will coordinate closely with the AU which will
provide technical expertise and support to enterprises undertaking
environmental investments.
Estimated Costs:                        Local        Foreign         Total
---------------(US$ million)-------------
Sub-projects                             400           600          1,000
Technical Assistance                       0            15            15
Administration Fee                                       I              I
Total                                  400           616          10 16
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                                   216           216
ADB                                                    100           100
PFIs                                     300                         300
Sub-project Sponsors                     100           300           400
Total Financing                        400           616          1.016
Estimated Disbursements:   FY95    FY96         FY97      FY98       FY99    FY2000
--------------------------------(US$  million)-----------------------------
Annual                       4.5      42.3       74.5      62.0       25.7        7.0
Cumulative                   4.5      46.8      121.3     183.3      209.0     216.0
Rate of Return:       Sub-projects will be required to have after tax financial rates of return
(FRRs) in constant prices of at least 15% after all forms of tax exemption,
concessions and holidays have been withdrawn.
Poverty Category:     Not applicable.
Map:                   IBRD Number 16248R4






ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEEPENING AND INTERMEDIATION PROJECT
I. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Background
1.01      The financial system has undergone rapid change in the past few years. The Bank
supported some of the reforns that enhanced competition and the efficiency of financial intermediation
through a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) in 1989-1990. The changes included the
privatization of two of the five government-owned commercial banks, establishment of new
commercial banks and other financial institutions as well as virtual elimination of exchange controls.
The Government of Pakistan (GOP) started moving toward more indirect means of controlling
monetary aggregates and has been strengthening prudential regulations. Rates of return on loans and
deposits were liberalized; the degree of credit concessionality to favored sectors was reduced; bank-by-
bank credit ceilings were abolished and an auction market for government securities was established.
TFhe State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) has turned over the provision of short- and medium-term foreign
exchange cover to the private sector.
1.02      The financial institutions (Fls) adjusted to policy reforms in the real sector--privatization
of many industrial and commercial firms, elimination of investment sanctioning and first steps toward
more comprehensive trade reform. In addition, the Fls have developed new instruments to share risk
and return in accordance with Islamic requirements. Notwithstanding this progress, years of relative
neglect have hampered financial deepening seen in many other rapidly developing countries (Annex I).
A Financial Sector Update took stock of the sector after completion of FSAL and concluded that
policy and institutional reforms need to build on the accomplishments of FSAL and to be extended
and made consistent if they are to meet their objective of increasing the efficiency of financial
intermediation.
B. Banking System
1.03      Financial institutions operation in Pakistan include: the SBP, 6 state-owned or partially
privatized commercial banks, 21 foreign commercial banks, 10 new private commercial banks, 2
provincial commercial banks, 11 investment banks, 12 development finance institutions, about 58
leasing companies and modarabas (para 1.12), 3 stock exchanges, 58 insurance companies and few
discount houses. Although non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs) have made important inroads over
the past few years, the commercial banks (Table 1) still dominate the system, accounting for over two-
thirds of total financing and holding over 90% of the public's deposits. Development Finance
Institutions (DFIs) are the only other significant deposit-takers in the economy.
1.04      The State Bank of Pakistan carries out traditional central banking functions and is also an
important source of finance for some government-owned DFIs. To a lesser extent, it has channeled
resources to other financial institutions for special purposes such as lending for exports, small-scale
enterprises and locally manufactured machinery (LMM). Credit lines for export finance were
discontinued during FY94. Advances to autonomous state bodies (WAPDA, OGDC, NFC, PTV and
PTC) recorded more than a five-fold increase of Rs 5.6 billion (US$193.1 million) due largely to use
of bank finance by Pakistan Telecommunications Corporation. Credit to the private sector increased
sharply by Rs 58.6 billion (US$2.3 billion) during FY93 compared with Rs 30.2 billion (US$1.2
billion) a year earlier. As of FY93, SBP lines of credit represented 9% of total private sector credit.
Finally, in addition to supervising the banking sector, SBP has recently been charged with supervision
of the NBFIs as well, a move supported by FSAL.



- 2 -
Table 1: FINANCIAL SECTOR OVERVIEW, 1991-1992
1991                                               1992
NO.         ASSETS             DEPOSITS           NO.          ASSETS                DEPOSITS
(Rs billions)    %   (Rs billions)   %            (Rs billions)   %        (Rs billions)    %
Commercial Banks        41        526.1    81.3        444.3     93.6       40        713.0     82.6         552.8    89.0
NC 13s                   5       439.2    67.9        378.0      79.6       6        535.5     62.0         454.4    73.2
Privatized              2         73.6    11.4        60.1      12.6       2         100.4     11.6         83.8    13.5
State-Owned             3        365.6    56.5        317.9     67.0       4         435.1     50.4        370.6    59.7
Otilicr State-Owned      2         0.9      **          0.8       0.2       1          4.6      0.5           0.1      0.0
Ioreign Banks           23        81.3    12.6         64.0      13.5      21        141.3     16.4          74.0    11,9
Nc'. Banks              9                                                  10         22.2      2.6          17.0      2.7
Provincial Banks        2          4.7      0.8         1.5       0.3       2          9.4      1.1           7.3      1.2
NBFIs                   65        121.0    18.7         31.6      6.4      71         150.1     17.4         67.6      11.0
D)FIs                    9        102.8    16.0         26.9      5.7        9        125.0     14.5         61.1      9.9
Industrial              7         60.4      9.4        24.7       5.2       7         80.1      9.3          57.5      9.3
Othcrs                   2        42.4      6.6         2.2       0.5       2         44.9      5.2           3.6      0.6
Leasing Companies       11          6.3     1.0          1.3      0.2       17         11.8      1.4           1.5     0.3
Modarabas               34          6.7     1.0                    **       34          6.7      0.8           **       **
InNestnicnt Banks      I1          5.2     0.7          3.4      0.5       11          6.6      0.7          5.0      0.8
l'otal                106       647.1   100.0        475.9    100.0      III        863.1    100.0         620.4   100.0
h* Insignificant amount.
Soiircc: SB13 Annual Reports of Fls.
1.05        The commercial banking sector remains dominated by the "Nationalized" Commercial
Banks (NCBs). In 1992, 5 NCBs accounted for 79% of commercial bank assets (down from 84% the
year before), received 82% of commercial bank deposits (down from 85%) and owned an
overwhelming 97% of commercial bank branches. The 23 foreign banks, limited to 4 branches each,
own most of the remaining assets, deposits and branches. Foreign banks specialize in large
intemational trade transactions and are also active in intermediating large branch to branch foreign
currency deposits. In 1991, the 2 smaller former NCBs were privatized; Muslim Commercial Bank
wvas sold to a diverse group of private investors and Allied Bank Limited to its employees and
maniagement. These 2 banks account for about one-seventh of the assets and deposits of the system
and one-quarter of the branches. The Government has attempted to privatize the Habib Bank and the
United Bank Limited, but has not yet been successful, in part because of their size and the lack of
suitable domestic investors. During 1992, 9 new private banks were licensed and several other
institutions were selected for licensure as well. Each bank is required to start with 5 branches,
including one in each province and Rs 300.0 million (US$12.0 million) in capital distributed widely
through the stock market.
1.06        Two new provincial banks were created in the past 3 years. The Government of Punjab
Province and North West Frontier Province established the Bank of Punjab and the Khyber Bank,
respectively. The 2 commercial banks have a provincial focus and depend heavily on Provincial
Govemment deposits. The banks have expanded their branches to 155 and 14, respectively, benefit
from substantial private participation and appear to be managed soundly. These 2 institutions may
represent a more potent competitive force for the NCBs than the new private banks. They are not,



however, legally deemed to be scheduled banks and therefore are not subject to the SBP's supervision
and/or regulation. They also cannot engage in foreign exchange transactions, which reduces their
competitiveness and are not subject to monetary constraints imposed on other banks, and are not
included in the national statistics. IFC is assisting with the privatization of the Bank of Khyber.
C. Development Finance Institutions (DFIs)
1.07      The seven development finance institutions were each created with a special mandate to
address the long-term financing needs of specific clients of the private and public sector. Due to
historical developments, different legal structures and changing government policies, the DFIs became
excessively compartmentalized and were constrained in the range of financial services they could
provide to industrial clients. During the 1980s, the Government took a number of measures to
increase competition among the DFIs and develop them into multi-product institutions. Although they
have diversified their operations to include various fee-based activities, their ability to survive has been
very much a concem of the GOP, which on the one hand promotes competition among them, and on
the other hand tries to protect them through preferential prudential and monetary regulations.
1.08      The main DFIs are the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP), the Pakistan
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation Limited (PICIC), the National Development Finance
Corporation (NDFC) and Bankers Equity Limited (BEL). The two oldest DFIs, IDBP and PICIC,
were established in 1961 and 1957, respectively. IDBP was to provide term finance to the small
industries, while PICIC was to provide term finance to medium and large industries and play a key
role in capital market development by direct purchase and underwriting of shares and debenture.
During the 1960s, IDBP and PICIC were well managed and became major sources of foreign
exchange term financing for private industrial investment in their respective markets. However,
difficulties started for both institutions in the 1970s. The separation of Bangladesh, the 1972
devaluation of the rupee by 131% and the nationalization of major private industries in the first half of
the decade contributed to a drastic reduction in private industrial investments and a general disruption
of the economy. Furthermore, worldwide recessions affected the Pakistan's textile export industries
which, in the 1970s accounted for more than 50% and 40% of IDBP's and PICIC's portfolio
respectively. By the beginning of the 1980s, the two institutions faced serious portfolio problems
coupled with institutional problems including loss of experienced staff.
1.09      The newest DFIs, NDFC and BEL, were established in 1973 and 1980, respectively.
NDFC was to be a bank for public sector enterprises while BEL was originally set up to promote
Islamic instruments, especially equity finance and to provide capital to private industry by
underwriting equity issues and arranging consortia finance participation from the NCBs. In addition,
the GOP established three joint venture companies, Pak-Kuwait Investment Company Limited, Pak-
Libya Holding Company and Pak-Saudi Industrial and Agricultural Investment Company, with other
Middle Eastem counterparts in 1982 to provide loans and venture capital to private and public-owned
industries. The GOP granted a special tax exemption to the three joint ventures.
1.10      There are two specialized DFIs, the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP)
and the House Building Finance Corporation (HBFC). The ADBP is a large publicly owned financial
institution specializing in lending to agriculture and agro-industries. Historically, the institution has
been used to distribute subsidies rather than as a financial intermediary. It relies almost exclusively on
extemal sources of funds including the Bank. However, under the Agricultural Credit Project, the
Bank suspended ADBP funding because of failure to meet agreed financial covenants. Under its
reform program for the financial sector, the Bank will make an in-depth study of ADBP's problems
and try to devise a plan of actions to remedy the current situation. The second specialized DFI, the
HBFC, provides loans to individuals for construction and purchase of houses, largely in urban areas.



- 4 -
HBFC has a virtual monopoly on housing finance because commercial banks lending for housing is
limited to their employees. HBFC has relied largely on the SBP for its funding, but this is being
phased out.
D. Other Non-Bank Financial Institutions (NBFIs)
I.11      Leasing companies, modarabas and investment banks have proliferated in recent years.
Leasing began with an IFC investment in 1981. Many leasing companies have recently been formed
as subsidiaries of banks or other financial institutions. Modarabas are also involved in leasing. Four
institutions represent about three-fourths of the leasing market. The market has grown at about 70 to
80% per annum over the last 5 years. The leasing industry provides about 3% of the capital funds in
the country and had total assets of about Rs 25.0 billion (US$1,004.0 million) with a net investment in
leases of about Rs 7.0 billion (US$281.1 million) in 1991.
1.12      A Modaraba is an Islamic form of limited partnership in which a managing firm agrees to
invest the funds of a fairly large number of passive investors. Shares of the management company as
well as those of their modaraba funds subscribed by the passive investors are traded on the stock
exchange. As long as the modarabas' activities are sanctioned by a religious board, it can engage in
almost any line of business. About 70% of modarabas' income comes from leasing. Modarabas have
grown rapidly from 8 in 1991 to 36 by the end of 1992. Their capital amounted to Rs 5.0 billion
(US$196.1 million) at the end of 1992. The Government has recently been restricting sanctioning of
general purpose modarabas.
1.13      Since the late 1980s, eleven investment banks have been established. These institutions
have remained marginal, accounting for less than 1% of financial system assets and deposits. Most of
their business seems to be devoted to quasi deposit taking and short-term finance directed to Pakistani
"blue chip" firms. Most of the larger investment banks are trying to build corporate finance,
brokerage and portfolio management expertise.
E. Securities Markets
1.14      Both equities and debt securities are traded on the three stock exchanges. Karachi has the
largest exchange with much smaller institutions in Lahore and Islamabad. IFC is a partner in a joint
venture to establish a central share depository that will improve the clearing and settlement process.
The boom in the equities markets has attracted international attention. Between 1987 and 1993, the
number of companies listed on the Karachi Stock Exchange (KSE) increased from 378 to 652, but
remains at about 2% of the total number of companies. Market valuation increased from Rs 38.1
billion (US$2.2 billion) in June 1987 to Rs 218.3 billion (US$8.8 billion) in June 1992, although by
January 1993 it had retreated to Rs 206.0 billion (US$7.9 billion).
1.15      Most financial institutions are involved in the securities business. In 1962, the GOP
established the National Investment Trust (NIT) with the mandate to mobilize savings for investment
in the private sector and participate in the securities markets as an underwriter. It also granted to the
NIT tax exemption and the right to subscribe up to 20% of all new issues, which regulators have
allowed to be sold normnally at par rather than at market price. NIT has attracted savings by managing
open-ended mutual funds. Brokerage business has been carried out by about 130 small firms. Since
June 1990, the KSE has allowed corporate members to join the exchange (only two have converted
themselves to corporations to date). As more investment banks and institutional investors enter the
brokerage market and as the expected gains from market manipulation diminishes, more of KSE's
members may transform themselves into specialized securities firms.



-5-
F. Insurance Sector
1.16      The insurance industry is dominated by the state-owned corporations with monopoly status
in their market. State Life and the much smaller Postal Life control virtually 100% of the life
insurance business in the country, although three privately-owned life insurance companies have been
authorized. The Pakistan Insurance Corporation (PIC) has a monopoly position in domestic and
international reinsurance. Insurance of public sector assets is the exclusive prerogative of the National
Insurance Company. In contrast, general insurance has been exclusively in private sector hands,
comprised of 55 insurance companies including ten foreign companies. General insurance companies
invest in both government debt instruments and the stock market, mainly through mutual funds and
modarabas. They are not subjected to restrictions on concentrations of investments, so speculative
investments cannot be detected and prevented. Under the Insurance Act, the Controller of Insurance
(Cl), who reports to the Ministry of Commerce, regulates the industry. However, the Office of the
Ministry can overturn the CI's decisions. In general, the regulatory capacity of the Cl is weak (para
2.47).
II. FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES
A. Macroeconomic Setting
2.01      Macroeconomic management impinges heavily on the efficient functioning of the financial
sector. In recent years, the GOP and public sector enterprises have taken a large proportion of the
domestic credit supply. In the last two years, the public sector absorbed about 70% of the increase in
domestic assets of the banking system, compared with an average 50% over recent years. The public
sector's excessive use of domestic credit can be traced to the public sector deficit which grew from
6.5% of GDP in FY90 to 9.5% in FY93. As the private sector expands its role in the real sector, it is
becoming increasingly important that the GOP does not crowd out private credit expansion.
Moreover, healthy increases in private sector credit are needed to facilitate privatization. If expansion
of domestic credit is financed through unwarranted growth in monetary aggregates, inflation results.
2.02      Traditionally, Pakistan had been a low inflation country, with inflation averaging 6.9%
during 1985-90 (Annex II). More recently, however, this trend has changed, with price level increases
hitting double digits over several sub-periods, averaging between 9 and 10% in 1991-93. Inflation has
also had an impact on the functioning of the financial system. First, the increased uncertainty
regarding economic conditions has resulted in more costly finance. Second, Fls developed most
existing financial instruments in a low inflation environment and they have not yet designed means for
sharing the risks of price level changes. Consequently, the term structure for lending and deposits has
shortened dramatically. Even the GOP borrows mostly short term.
2.03      Over the last few months, the GOP has put in place key elements of an expanded
economic reform program. This has included strong measures in fiscal, monetary and exchange rate
policy. The fiscal program contains measures to increase revenues and contain expenditures, including
a reduction of defense expenditures as a percent of GDP. The new Government has also introduced
legislation for increasing the autonomy of the Central Bank and initiating taxation of wealth and
income in the agriculture sector. A sharp reduction in the fiscal deficit is a cornerstone of this
broadened reform program. The new economic program has received strong support including the
IMF Stand-by Arrangement and the Bank's Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL). In addition, the
IMF Board recently approved the GOP's request for arrangements under the Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF) of SDR 606.6 million (80% quota) and the Extended Funds Facility
(EFF) of SDR 379.1 million (50% of quota), which will support Pakistan's adjustment program over



- 6 -
the next 3 years. The comprehensive program includes an agreed macroeconomic framework with a
substantial reduction in fiscal deficit (by about 5% of GDP over the program period) and move toward
indirect monetary control, further liberalization of the exchange and payments system, tax reform,
trade reform and financial sector reform, including strengthening prudential regulations and supervision
of the banking sector.
2.04      The GOP's medium-term macroeconomic framework, as agreed under the IMF
arrangements and the Bank's PSAL, and set out in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) 1993/94-
1995/96, has the following objectives and targets: a rebound in GDP growth to 6.5% p.a.; a reduction
in inflation to 5.5%; and a significant increase in the level of international reserves (from 2.3 weeks to
11.5 weeks). The key policy targets for 1993-94 are: a reduction in the overall budget deficit (i.e.,
public sector borrowing requirement) from 9.5% of GDP in 1992/93 to 6.7% in 1993/94; slowing
down of domestic liquidity growth to 14.7% (below the projected nominal GDP growth) in 1993/94;
and a reduction in the current account deficit from 6.4% of GDP in 1992/93 to 3.5% in 1993/94. The
GOP intensified implementation of its adjustment program in the second quarter of 1993/94. As a
result, all of the key macroeconomic targets of the program were met during the first half of 1993/94,
and the budget deficit for the first half of 1993/94 was broadly in line with the program.
B. Fiscal Cost of Financial Operations
2.05      An important way of reducing public sector demands on the financial system is by
reducing the fiscal costs of SBP's financial operations. These costs arise through the financial
transactions between the SBP and the private sector, usually through the intermediation of Fls. In
Pakistan, there are three main sources of these costs:
(a)   SBP lends funds to FIs at rates below the GOP's borrowing rate. These loans are
generally to allow the Fls to provide low cost finance for special purposes such as
LMM, exports or commodity financing. In 1991, these low rate loans cost the GOP
Rs 6.1 billion (US$272.3 million);
(b)   SBP used to provide foreign exchange cover to financial intermediaries for foreign
exchange deposits and to the private sector for trade credits, suppliers' credits and
loans from international institutions. The size of this component becomes apparent
only ex post as movements in the exchange rate create losses that are frequently
larger than the fees collected for the cover. Even if guarantee fees on average had
covered the losses on foreign cover to the private sector, the losses on foreign
exchange deposits for which no fee was charged in 1991 amounted to about Rs 5.0
billion (US$223.2 million); and
(c)   SBP makes various "special purpose" loans, of which some portion is not recovered.
Conservatively, this portion of the quasi-fiscal deficit is at least 30% of the total
outstanding from SBP to ADBP, HBFC and LMM representing Rs 2.3 billion
(US$102.7 million) in 1991.
2.06      Thus, these three components of cost totalled to about Rs 13.4 billion (US$598.2 million)
in 1991, equivalent to about 5.8% of government revenues and 1.3% of GDP. An increase in inflation
would increase the quasi-fiscal deficit by increasing the cost of borrowing for the GOP. In FY93, the
SBP reduced the special credits to 28% of outstanding private sector credit from 32% the year before.
Recently, the SBP's rate of interest on these credits has been increased and the SBP withdrew from
the provision of foreign exchange risk cover and shifted this responsibility to the private sector. These
measures reduce the fiscal cost of these financial operations and thereby reduce the cost on non-



- 7 -
preferential credit. Under the proposed Project, the GOP will: (i) link the lending rate for all SBP
loans to the yield on Treasury bills by margins that are reduced over time; and (ii) contain the growth
in the future flow of SBP's lending through FIs to the private sector to no more than the growth of
total lending to the private sector.
C. Monetary Management
2.07      The GOP has taken a number of important initial steps to reduce distortions in financial
markets and move towards a more effective management of monetary and credit aggregates. In 1991,
supported by FSAL, the GOP created an auction market for government securities. Rates on Treasury
bills (T-bills) rose from 7% to more than 13% (as much as 3 to 5 percentage points in real terms.)
The commercial banks have been the primary participants in the market, absorbing about 95% of
initial offerings. The auction for T-bills has helped deepen the financial system. Nonetheless, several
weaknesses in the current system limit its effectiveness in forming the nexus for a market-driven
interest rate structure and open-market operations. From time to time, the GOP has artificially held
down rates in the T-bill and Federal Investment Bond (FIB) markets, and on occasions, it rejected all
bids in order to discourage high rate bids, or accepted bids for several times the expected amount of
credit. The T-bill market would function more effectively if the fortnightly borrowing requirements of
the GOP were more predictable. Direct sales of the GOP's debt to SBP have also undermined the
market. Under the proposed Project, the GOP will begin to publicize its quarterly targets for sales of
T-bills and FIBs at auction. The GOP also intends to minimize its direct borrowing from the SBP,
except for occasional inter-auction liquidity needs.
2.08      In July 1992, the SBP replaced the system of bank-by-bank credit ceilings on non-priority
(private) credits with a new monetary control instrument, the credit/deposit ratio (CDR). This action
was taken to reduce the distorting effects of the bank-by-bank ceilings and help pave the way for the
use of open-market operations to control monetary and credit aggregates. Initially, the regulation
governing the ratio set a limit for a bank's outstanding credit to the private sector at 30% of its rupee
deposits and 40% of its foreign currency deposits in a specified base period. Subsequently, the same
percentage (30% until a recent increase to 32%) has been applied to both types of deposits. The CDR
has many of the limitations of the previous credit ceiling because lending to certain specified
borrowers remains uncovered by the CDR and applies to deposits with a lag as the bases are usually
deposits of previous periods. Under the proposed Project, the SBP will develop a program to shift
from CDR to indirect methods for control of monetary and credit aggregates. The distortionary effects
among institutions of these credit controls will be mitigated by moving towards applying liquidity
ratios to similar deposits regardless of the type of institution receiving the deposit. The Bank, in
collaboration with the IMF, has provided the GOP with some assistance for planning better monetary
management during project preparation. The IMF has an extensive program to assist the SBP and it
financed two experts to consolidate SBP's work on monetary analysis, and help with the research and
analytical work of the Research Department of SBP. The Bank and the IMF have coordinated their
monetary management assistance programs.
D. Performance of Financial Institutions and Debt Recovery
1. Financial Performance
2.09      Years of state ownership, over-regulation of economic activity and inadequate regulation
of financial activities have resulted in an ineffective financial system comprised of inefficient and
financially vulnerable institutions. Nonetheless, in recent years, a number of important reforms have
helped reduce some of these weaknesses. These include the privatization of two NCBs, the entry of
new commercial banks and other non-bank institutions, the issuing of stricter regulations and the



- 8 -
movement towards open-market operations. While the changes have resulted in substantial
improvements in the health and vigor of the financial system, they need to be consolidated and
deepened if the financial system is to be sufficiently strong and effective to underpin fully the needed
sound development of the economy. Critical supervision arrangements have been neglected such that
existing financial weaknesses as well as major emerging ones could well remain undetected for many
months. Action is required to upgrade the SBP's prudential regulation and supervision (paras 2.31-
2.37). Furthermore, under the proposed Project, the Government will adhere to its policy requiring all
wholly or partially Government-owned or controlled financial institutions to be operated in a
commercial manner, with managerial and operational autonomy.
2.10       The NCBs. Public ownership of NCBs has been an important factor in their poor
performance. Such institutions have had little incentive to be competitive, seek quality business and
manage their portfolios with appropriate caution. On the one hand, they have not seen the need to
protect their capital; on the other hand, their portfolio management has been extremely poor.
Generally, because of political pressure and their poor management practices, the NCBs have made
substantially less vigorous efforts than privately owned Fis to have borrowers comply with contractual
repayment arrangements. The situation has not only weakened the NCBs; it has also helped create an
environment in which it has been harder for all Fls to require customers to meet their obligations. In
contrast, management of the newly privatized NCBs have had considerable success in recovering
overdue loans.
2.11       Poor debt recovery represents the largest single problem for the banking system. Apart
from its significant impact on the financial condition of banks and other Fls, it reduces competition in
the financial system, raises the cost of finance and reduces the volume of finance available,
particularly to many rural and small business borrowers. In 1989, SBP estimated required provisions
(based on a mechanical aging formula) at 11.3% of the total portfolio of the privatized NCBs and
14.2% of the portfolios of the other NCBs. In 1990 provisions for the privatized banks had been
increased to 12.9% of portfolio whereas those for the other NCBs had declined to 12.3% despite their
less vigorous pursuit of overdue amounts.
2.12       The DFIs. The largest DFIs, BEL, IDBP, NDFC and PICIC, still provide the bulk of
long-term finance for industry and continue to play a vital role in industrial development.
Nonetheless, while there are substantial differences in management strength and financial performance
among these four institutions, the DFI sub-sector as a whole is under financial difficulty for a variety
of reasons: (i) a flat yield curve--short-term rates are at roughly the same levels as fixed long-term
rates and variable interest rates are not provided; (ii) increasing competition as commercial banks are
making more and more term loans to blue chip clients; (iii) substantial reductions in long-term funding
from international institutions and elimination of subsidized rates associated with that lending;
(iv) ready access to foreign exchange for purchasers of equipment who do not need credit; (v) a poor
credit disciplinary environment and inadequate legal infrastructure for dealing with willful defaulters;
(vi) inadequate sources of long-term local currency resources; (vii) unacceptably large numbers of
failing client-projects; (viii) inefficiencies and disadvantages associated with public sector control;
(ix) external/political pressures and unclear objectives which encourage non-commercially viable
lending; and (x) DFI management, policy and procedural weaknesses.
2.13       The DFIs' two most significant financial problems are the poor quality of their portfolios
and their shortage of term resources. The extent of the portfolio weakness is difficult to determine
because the DFIs, despite the intrinsically higher risk nature of their portfolios, pursue significantly
less rigorous accounting for bad debt than the NCBs. Presently, their accounting policies inter alia
include: (i) suspending interest only when a loan is under litigation, a business has closed, or there
are arrears of over one year for projects which have commenced production; (ii) providing 25% of



loans (net of eligible collateral) for projects (only those that have commenced production) which have
more than one year overdue, 50% for projects which have more than two years overdue and 50% on
projects that have closed down or are under litigation; and (iii) no requiring provisions on a loan if a
project is improving or has been rescheduled. These rules would seem to allow significant latitude for
DFIs to report almost any level of provisions they wish, thus rendering analysis of financial
performance and condition, based on financial statements, virtually meaningless. Almost certainly,
these time-bound rules substantially underestimate provision requirements for working capital loans.
Moreover, the policies provide incentives to minimize the number of legal cases, treat projects as
under implementation as long as possible, reschedule without adequate basis, and/or lend working
capital funds to facilitate repayment of term loans. Under the proposed Project, the SBP will review
the prudential regulations of DFIs and start to make them more stringent and consistent with those
applying to banks (para 2.26).
2.14      The reported portfolio performance for the four largest DFIs as of year-end 1992 indicate
potentially serious problems. These DFIs report that 21% of their portfolio was overdue of which
15% represented uncollected accrued interest and 13% was overdue by more than one year. Only
4.8% of all interest due was reported as suspended. Their combined lending portfolio consists of 33%
foreign currency based term loans, 27% domestic term loans, 16% LMM loans (which are being
phased out) and 24% working capital loans. The trend away from term lending (40% of assets) was
clear during 1992 when 77% of all DFI loan disbursements were for working-capital-related purposes,
while only 17% (7% foreign-origin funds) was for traditional term lending. The DFIs have essentially
used up all of their foreign-origin funds and, unless replenished, will have to phase out of this
business.
2.15      These four DFIs have far more characteristics in common with commercial banks than
with other NBFIs. All have mobilized substantial deposits from the public, and term and working
capital finance is their principal business. Unfortunately, their lending is less diversified and more
risky than that of commercial banks, and their cost of funds is much higher and margins lower than
for commercial banks. The DFIs' resources have come previously from foreign lines of credit and
SBP. However, the DFIs are now able to mobilize resources locally, with deposits equal to 43% of
total assets in 1992 (up from 40% the previous year). Most deposits are fixed-term deposits' but with
maturities much too short to support term lending at fixed interest rates. Cumulative sources of term
resources are long-term rupees, special SBP (mostly LMM) or GOP funds and foreign-origin funds.
The DFIs are relatively insulated from foreign exchange risk since little of their lending is foreign-
exchange denominated. In fact, they had net foreign exchange gains in 1992.
2.16      Although the DFIs have major problems, they have continued to grow over time because
they were the main providers of term resources. The four largest DFIs had Rs 74.0 billion (US$3.0
billion) in total assets in 1992, representing a growth of 15.7%, roughly 12% of the size of the
commercial banking system. As a group, they have diversified considerably beyond classical DFI
term lending. They now have only 68% of total assets invested in loans, while 10% is invested in
equity investments, 2% in leasing and other commercial activities, and 13% in highly liquid resources.
Combined 1992 DFI financial statements show the sub-sector with a financial position of net worth of
13% of total assets, after taking provisions amounting to 8% of gross loan portfolio. Reported
combined net profit of Rs 1.1 billion in 1992 representing a 1.6% return on average assets and 11%
on equity. However, during 1992, total accrued uncollected interest increased more than combined net
profit. If interest income were accounted for on a cash basis, even under the unduly optimistic
assumption that new provisioning was adequate, the DFIs would have had a combined loss of 4% on
total assets.
i' IDBP, which has a commercial banking license, is allowed to collect demand deposits.



- 10 -
2.17       Indeed, the four largest DFIs admit to losing money on their term lending functions if
appropriate accounting policies for suspension of interest and provisions for bad debt were followed.
If the DFIs' trend toward deterioration is not reversed, they will become increasingly troubled
institutions--as have most DFIs worldwide--and marginalized in their role as term lenders for industry.
If they do not pursue strategies to improve their performance now, it is unlikely that they could
continue to receive international funds on an ongoing basis. Moreover, if key reasons for their
inability to make profits on term lending are not addressed, it is likely that competing commercial
banks will also de-emphasize term lending as it will continue to be commercially unattractive.
Therefore, in the context of a proposed Project, the DFIs will undertake individual strategy studies,
including methods of privatization to enable them to flourish in an era of financial reform (para 4.26).
2. Framework for Debt Recovery
2.18       The Fls identify the inadequacy of the legal system as one of the major reasons for poor
recovery. Although it appears that the willingness as well as the capacity to collect in case of political
influence are sometimes lacking, it is certain that a rapid resolution of financial litigation would
promote integrity of borrowers and help strengthen the Fls. The legal system makes it cumbersome
and time consuming (up to 13 years) to take a defaulter to court, obtain a judgment and execute the
order. Supported by the FSAL, the GOP re-established 10 Banking Tribunals (BTs) in 1991 to
expedite loan recovery of loans based on "Islamic" mode of financing. While some marginal
improvements are evident, these tribunals are unlikely to be enough to have a major impact, given
their existing set-up. The authorities have not tackled the problem of loan recovery in a sufficiently
meaningful way because there are few tribunals and judges, inadequate office and clerical facilities,
and antiquated and cumbersome procedures. The GOP could address the problems by: (i) establishing
multiple tribunals in the larger cities and ensuring that judges in the smaller centers give priority to
collection cases; (ii) greater budgetary support of the Special Banking Courts (SBCs) and BTs which
would pay for itself many times over; and (iii) ensuring foreclosure through legal process on any
delinquent loan within 12 months of initiating legal action, based on sound documentation by any
bank or DFI.
2.19       Strengthening the framework for loan recovery, however, needs more than technical
solutions. Political pressures have forced institutions to make bad loans and stop collection efforts.
Even modest efforts at reforming the recovery framework have met vigorous political opposition.
Affected borrowers are also trying to delay SBP's application of more stringent standards on Fls'
exposure and client leverage. Since Fis cannot continue to accrue interest after 280 days from filing,
delays have prejudiced the financial position of FIs, limited the effectiveness of collateral and forced
the SBP to discount the value of guarantees in its mandatory provisioning formula. As a result, Fis
have been reluctant to engage in term lending. By publishing the names of defaulters on bank/DFI
loans and strengthening the use of the SBP's Credit Information Bureau, the GOP has sent a strong
signal that it is serious about loan recoveries and the health of Fls. In the context of the proposed
Project, the GOP will undertake a program of judicial and legal reforms to improve the environment
of loan recovery. Recently, the GOP has set up a Task Force chaired by the secretary of law who is a
judge. The Task Force, which consists of representatives of the Ministries of Justice and Finance, the
Fls, business, the bench (SBCs and BTs) and the bar will consider proposals for the required reforms
and prepare an action plan. The Task Force will be supported by a suitable staff and secretariat. The
Bank and the GOP reviewed and agreed on some of the measures that the Task Force could explore
and the draft Terms of Reference of the Task Force (Annex III).



- 11 -
E. Taxation
2.20       Differences in the taxation of distinct classes of institutions distort the comparative
advantage of Fls. Moreover, taxation has an important effect on the structure of interest rates.
Income is taxed at disparate rates, some institutions are tax exempt, and provisioning for tax purposes
is not treated the same in different institutions. The current tax structure favors some financial
instruments over others and entails a sacrifice of fiscal revenue. At the same time, other taxes, such as
the stamp duty on the issuance and transfer of securities, inhibit market development without raising
appreciable revenue. Recently the stamp duty, a provincial tax, has been reduced in two provinces and
the capital area. Under the proposed Project, the GOP will review the impact of this reduction and
detenmine methods to reduce it further. The phasing out of tax exemptions and special treatment of
certain financial instruments and institutions to promote greater tax neutrality will be monitored under
the proposed Project.
F. Interest Rates and Term Finance
2.21       Interest rates have been liberalized considerably in recent years. The cap on the lending
rate for working capital loans has been raised in stages to 22%. In the past, fixed investment loans
had been allowed without any cap, although the rates had been administratively controlled. Interest
rate controls remain on special credit programs in agriculture and small-scale enterprise. This is likely
to continue and will discourage the FIs from engaging in lending to these high-cost or perceived high-
risk sectors. Moreover, FIs remain limited in the frequency with which they can adjust offer rates on
deposits and cannot charge for certain financial services. Until recently, the market for long-term
bonds was inhibited by the GOP policy of refusing to accept bids on FIBs except virtually at par.
Given the uncertainty about the future course of inflation and short-term interest rates, the GOP needs
to issue a long-term instrument with a variable yield tied to the T-bill rate to help develop the long-
term corporate bond market. The GOP, however, prefers to follow the private sector in this regard.
Therefore, under the proposed Project, the SBP will review policies to encourage the private sector to
issue variable-rate debt instruments. Thereafter, the GOP will review the desirability of issuling such
debt itself.
2.22       FIs provide little medium- and long-term finance. Neither firms nor FIs can issue long-
term, fixed rate instruments in any appreciable quantity, although FIs have used deposits and deposit-
like instruments successfully. Commercial banks provide short-tenn loans almost exclusively, much of
it on an overdraft basis. Term lending consists largely of intermediation of SBP lines of credit for
LMM, suppliers' credits, and some lines from bilateral and multilateral institutions. Leasing
companies extend some leases up to five years, but two and three-year leases are much more common.
Even the DFIs, which were designed to specialize in long-term finance, have moved away from this
activity as their access to funds from multilateral financial institutions has been restricted due to their
poor performance and they have not been able to develop alternative sources of term funds (paras
2.12-2.16). Moreover, the DFIs perceived term lending as a risky and unprofitable line of business.
These perceptions came from: (i) the fact that tenm lending has been subject to political pressure; (ii)
lack of sound credit policies; (iii) GOP indirect control of prices; (iv) GOP subsidized lines of credit;
and (v) DFIs' inability to properly cost their sources of funds and price their products based on
customer risks. The DFIs do not appraise a project based on perfonmance and potential earnings.
There are no customer segmentation analysis, nor risk analysis systems. They have been deficient in
managing their interest rates, credit, earnings and payment risks. Even in the present environment,
term lending can be profitable provided that the DFIs cost and price credit correctly.
2.23       There is an unfulfilled demand for fixed industrial investments as shown in the table
below. The need for credit indicates that there is no oversupply of term lending and because many



- 12 -
projects are greenfield, institutions for term lending would continue to play a major role in providing
long-term credit to industries. At present, most of the excess demand for credit is partly financed by
the informal financial sector. However, demand is greater at the level of medium and small industries,
which usually have no access to commercial bank funds not to mention DFIs that only finance larger
projects. A vibrant, well structured and managed institution could attract an important part of the
market which formal financial institutions have deserted because of their limited knowledge of market
segmentation and the inadequate institutional and regulatory framework.
Table 2: FINANCING OF FIXED [NDUSTRIAL INVESTMENTS BY DFIs
APPROVALS AND DISBURSEMENTS, FY 1990-1993
(Rs Billions)
FY90                     FY91                      FY92                       FY93
Approvals  Disbursements  Approvals Disbursements  Approvals Disbursements  Approvals  Disbursements
NDFC              5,122.6      2,272.3      4,981.1      1,875.7      5,126.2      2,717.8      3,570.5        2,975.2
PICIC            8,590.9        1,230.8     1,640.9      1.606.7      4,285.1      2,014.6      2,457.3        2,051.4
BEL              4,151.9        1,461.6     6,022.9      1,499.8      5,220.2      3,061.7      1,296.6        2,519.6
IDBP              1,597.0       1,114.5     2,039.6      1,229.3      2,699.2      1,613.0      1,411.5        1,306.0
Pak-Libya           68.5          77.6        324.1        158.4       350.7         313.2        230.4         263.5
Pak-Kuwait         171.8          68.0        154.9        153.0       219.1         211.7        412.7         107.0
Pak-Saudi          298.2         182.3        201.8        138.8       786.5         291.3        704.0         299.4
Total                           =     6407651              661.7                  103          10.083.0        9.522J
Source: SBP, 1990-1993 Annual Reports.
2.24        At present most formal Fls, including banks and non-banks, fund themselves retail and
lend bulk or to blue chip clients. This behavior has not only dried up this part of the market and left
a significant unmet credit demand, but has also provided opportunities and challenge to newcomers
who could fund themselves retail and lend retail, bulk and lend retail, and/or bulk and lend bulk. The
capital market is still at an early stage of development and no matter how fast it develops, there still
will be a need for term  lending through intermediaries such as banks and DFIs, especially from the
lower end of the market that would never be able to directly finance itself through the securities
market. Therefore, under the proposed Project, the Bank will finance a sector study to address the
term lending problems (para 4.28). This study will also include issues and aspects of accounting and
auditing. Because term lending has mainly concerned the DFI sector, the study will be coordinated
with the DFI's study (para 4.26). The hiring of consultants for the study is a condition of Loan
Effectiveness.
G. State Bank of Pakistan
1. Introduction
2.25        The authority and capability of the SBP to fulfill its role has recently increased; in
particular its supervisory role and its ability to make regulations, including those relating to its staff.
It has also been strengthened in its controlling of NBFIs. The SBP has enhanced: (i) its ability to
implement monetary policy by market oriented means; (ii) its oversight of banks and non-banks,
having both issued more comprehensive regulations and undertaken more rigorous supervision; and



- 13 -
(iii) the availability of information to lenders by increasing material available on both borrowing and
defaults by individuals and business groups through the Credit Information Bureau (CIB).
2.26      While much has been achieved, the SBP is well aware that further substantial progress is
needed. For the financial system to be fully effective in fulfilling its role of supporting economic and
social development there is a need for considerable effort on behalf of the SBP to: (i) facilitate the
development of stronger financial markets; (ii) make further progress towards a market oriented
approach to monetary policy; and (iii) strengthen prudential requirements and their enforcement. To
achieve its objectives, the SBP will have to: (i) fund government debt and quasi debt by means of
auctions and other market mechanisms; (ii) manage Fls' liquidity rather than continue to create
distortions through caps on interest rates and credit deposit ratios; and (iii) bring all Fls into
compliance with present requirements and expand and make consistent the requirements themselves.
The SBP will also have to introduce new management and staffing policies and, in particular, enhance
the experience and management skills of its senior staff (para 2.41).
2. Foreign Exchange Risk Cover
2.27      The SBP used to provide foreign exchange risk cover under three separate programs.
Cover for short-term trade financing (6-12 months) was provided against the US dollar, while cover
for medium-term transactions (up to 5 years) and for foreign exchange deposits (FEDs) was provided
against a number of other currencies as well as against the dollar. The SBP has recently stopped
providing short-term forward cover for trade transactions and has allowed the authorized dealers to
"make" the market.
2.28      In the medium-term market, the SBP was providing cover for rupees against several major
currencies at the difference between 15% and interest rates in the respective currencies. The SBP
withdrew from the market a few months ago. Under the proposed Project, the SBP will promote the
development for provision of the foreign exchange risk cover by the private sector.
2.29      Since 1991, when the GOP permitted residents to hold FEDs, growth of FEDs has been
rapid. FEDs of residents, non-residents and Fls now total about US$4.5 billion, mainly remunerated
in foreign currency. About 20% of the FEDs have a maturity of I year or more. FEDs are covered
by an exchange rate guarantee by the SBP at a cost of 3.5% per annum for dollars and yen, and at no
cost for sterling and DM. These guarantee rates provide a substantial subsidy to the banks and an
even larger subsidy to NBFIs not subject to CDR, as well as opportunities for arbitrage between
foreign currencies.
2.30      Because these deposits exceed international reserves by a wide margin, stimulating further
increases in these deposits would not be prudent. Under the proposed Project, the SBP will limit its
cover to the US dollar only. So long as the SBP continues to provide cover for FEDs, it has the
difficult task of constantly adjusting the fee to ensure that it is not providing major opportunities for
arbitrage by the intermediary banks without making the scheme totally unattractive. Under present
arrangements, the cost of the FED scheme may be higher than direct borrowing, especially for deposits
intermediated by the NBFIs that have lower income tax than banks, no CDR and a lower liquidity
ratio. The GOP intends to replace the scheme gradually with direct borrowing of whatever short-term
foreign exchange it requires, so that eventually, only convertibility of foreign deposit would be
guaranteed, not the exchange risk. In the meantime, under the proposed Project, the SBP will
undertake a study and on the basis of recommendations, as agreed with the Bank, develop and
implement a plan to prescribe to NBFIs a CDR/liquidity ratio on FEDs similar to those applying to
banks.



- 14 -
3. Prudential Regulation and Supervision
2.31      The SBP has strengthened substantially its supervision oversight. Regulations applying to
banks have been expanded and substantial regulations relating to non-banks have been issued. The
CIB has developed an important data base on borrowings and defaulters by individual borrowers and
groups. Staff involved in supervision has been increased markedly and significant training has been
provided, although the coverage has not been as wide as desirable. All departments involved in this
area have been brought under one Executive Director. However, the SBP needs to do more,
particularly with regard to capital adequacy, other prudential requirements, off-site monitoring and on-
site inspection. Action in the latter area is the most urgent.
2.32      Capital Adequacy. The Banking Law permits the SBP to impose capital adequacy
requirements on a bank. These may be up to 10% of call and term liabilities. To date, full use has
riot been made of this provision. At present, the requirement is 3% of call and time liabilities for
NCBs, ADBP and IDBP, 7.5% for foreign banks and 8% for new banks. For non-banks, funded
liabilities must not exceed 7 times their equity for the first 2 years of operations and 10 times their
cquity; subsequently, contingent liabilities are subject to limitations of the same magnitude.
2.33      The SBP plans to require all Fis to move towards risk-based capital in line with the Basle
Accord. Foreign and private banks and leasing companies would have no difficulty in meeting an 8%
level immediately; NCBs or other Fls that fall short would have to meet an interim target of 4% and
achieve the 8% level on an agreed timetable prior to the implementation of the new rule. Under the
proposed Project, the SBP will develop a program to ensure that all Fls are in or are moving towards
cornipliance with risk-weighted capital standards.
2.34      Other Prudential Regulations. During the implementation of FSAL, the SBP issued a
number of prudential regulations to both banks and non-banks. These included rules covering
classification of loans, provisioning, concentration of lending, loans to directors and limits on
conitingency liabilities. Building on this sound progress during the implementation of the proposed
Project, the SBP will: (i) correct some omissions in present regulations, for example, failure to lhinit
bank lending to associated groups; and (ii) improve consistency of regulations applying to banks and
other Fls in regard to exposure, provisioning and interest suspension. It will also study ways to
reguIlate Fis in accordance to activities or functions rather than type of institution. Such an approach
would permit specialization while at the same time create a reasonably even basis for competition
between various Fls. In 1994, it started to develop a program for extending the regulation of NBFls
so that they will be fully consistent with the regulations for banks.
2.35      Provincial Banks. Provincial banks must be subject to the same prudential regulation and
oversight as other banks, which could be achieved either by Federal or Provincial legislation or by
working agreements. Under the proposed Project, the SBP will offer a package of privileges,
comparable to scheduled banks, commensurate with their charters to provincial banks that agree to be
regulated.
2.36      Off-Site Monitoring. The development of a sound off-site monitoring system would
guarantee adequate supervision of the financial system. At present, monitoring is confined essentially
to an examination of the weekly balance sheet along with information available from the banks'
accounts maintained at the SBP. Compliance with regulations such as classification of loans and
provisioning is only verified at inspections (and indeed only becomes known at that time) that occur
annually and with some delay for local banks, every two years for foreign banks, and substantial delay
for the Agricultural Credit Bank and the Credit Cooperative. The SBP should require quarterly returns
on loan quality and undertake special examinations of banks and NBFIs with weak or deteriorating



- 15 -
portfolios and other financial problems, as it did in the case of two new private banks. The challenges
facing the SBP in this area are daunting. The SBP's monitoring techniques must keep pace with the
rapidly increasing technical and financial sophistication of banks and NBFIs. Monitoring and
inspection must ensure that Fls' risks are kept within reasonable bounds; in addition, each institution's
internal controls and infornation systems must be effective. Under the proposed Project, the Bank
will provide technical assistance to help the SBP improve its off-site supervision techniques (para
4.19).
2.37      On-Site Inspection. Currently, on-site inspections consist of a thorough examination of
compliance with many regulations imposed on banks. Inspections have yet to commence for NBFIs.
At present, the institutions' external auditors are testing compliance against the regulations on behalf
of the SBP. SBP examinations of NBFIs will commence in 1994 when staff that have been recruited
are trained by bank examiners. The emphasis of the examination, however, needs to be changed;
greater weight must be given to critical prudential issues as well as financial and management strength
of individual institutions. Given the limited experienced staff, requirements such as charges actually
imposed may not be undertaken at every inspection while loan classification, securities held and
provisions may be reviewed more than once a year for some FIs. Under the proposed Project, the
Bank will assist the SBP to upgrade its on-site examination capabilities and procedures for the
commercial banking sector (para 4.19).
2.38      Financial Information. The financial information available to lenders to assess loan
applications has been inadequate. Under FSAL, the CIB was created to improve the financial
information available on borrowers. In the past, potential borrowers have frequently not presented,
nor been required to present, comprehensive and accurate information. The CIB can now provide
comprehensive information on borrowings (including defaults) of individuals and groups from all
financial institutions. Furthermore, the SBP regulations require FIs to cite balance sheets when
making all loans above Rs 0.5 million (US$20,000), with these to be verified for loans above Rs 2.0
million (US$80,300). Lending must also be contained within debt/equity ratios specified for
borrowers by the SBP. Under the proposed Project, the SBP will also take actions to ensure that the
accounting material used by FIs in assessing loan applications will be reliable. This may require SBP
to issue regulations supplementing current accounting practices. The CIB should expand its output by
increasing its computer capacity which will be financed under the proposed Project (para 4.22).
4. Payments Systems
2.39      The check clearing system is the center piece of the payments system, although other
payments arrangements such as telegraphic transfers, are available. At present, clearing occurs at 10
branches of the SBP and a number of branches of the National Bank of Pakistan. By most standards,
clearing times are reasonable. Clearing takes place daily with dishonored checks returned later that
day after funds are available to those lodging the check. It takes only 2 or 3 days for checks to be
cleared between the major clearing centers, not long by usual standards for check clearing. Reports of
delays in transferring value appear to refer to the time taken for checks to be sent, commonly by mail,
by the drawer to the payee. The present clearing process is a manually intensive and sizeable
operation. In 1992, 16 million checks were cleared. The process involves almost 50 clearing banks.
SBP began to investigate alternatives for automation, and during 1994, will identify suitable
equipment. The proposed Project will provide technical assistance to improve the payments systems
(para 4.20).
2.40      Beyond that, the SBP must monitor progress towards other payments and fund settlement
arrangements. In particular, it must ensure that it has control over the development of electronic
payment systems by FIs since it has responsibilities with regard to the stability of the payments



- 16 -
systems, its openness to competition and innovation, its operational efficiency and a number of other
consumer oriented aspects. The SBP might consider establishing a group representing such interests as
Fis, the telecommunications authority, and some potential users such as business people, to ensure the
development of any electronic payment system.
5. Management and Staffing Arrangements
2.41      To achieve and sustain the needed improvement in its supervision of the financial system,
the SBP will need to reassess its management and staffing practices. The organizational change which
brought all Departments involved in supervision under one Executive Director eliminated an important
weakness. However, the Departments have not yet been adequately staffed both in terms of numbers
and experience. Past salary, promotion, recruitment and training policies have not been conducive to
generating needed staff in terms of numbers and quality. The SBP has been constrained in the salaries
it can offer either by civil service pay scales or agreements with its unions; consequently it has been
difficult, if not impossible, for the SBP to attract and retain qualified staff to undertake its crucial
supervisory and monetary policy work. This situation was aggravated by restrictions on recruitment
and a promotion policy that in practice has given more importance to seniority and original
qualifications rather than performance. However, with SBP's new autonomy some of these constraints
are being relaxed. Training particularly with regard to supervision, monetary policy and
computerization needs to draw more heavily on experience outside the SBP. Present management
practice/culture in the SBP has not been conducive to change both because of the pressures on senior
officers and the limited management training of Heads of Departments and their deputies. It is
suggested that the SBP review its staff and general management policies early in the program to
ensure that progress achieved in supervision are both substantial and sustained. The proposed Project
will provide technical assistance to help SBP manage institutional change (para 4.21).
6. Automation of SBP Operations
2.42      The SBP requires up-to-date and accurate information on a variety of aspects related to the
financial and associated sectors in the performance of its duties as the central bank; it therefore should
make considerable use of computers. The SBP's current computer systems are being used to their
maximum capacities. An analysis of the data on existing application systems and technology shows
that the information processing methodologies and computer hardware and software are outmoded and
very inefficient when compared with the present technology. The actual application systems have
been developed in response to specific end users and not for overall organization-wide information
requirements. Consequently, they are inadequate and provide incomplete coverage particularly for
managerial and organizational information. The technology employed militates against provision of
timely information and the current information technology environment cannot support the SBP's
requirements. Because of the virtual absence of microcomputers, the SBP has not been able to
achieve the type of efficiencies available from the use of office technology and basic analytical tools
like spreadsheets, graphics packages, etc. Since staff experience has been largely limited to batch and
file based applications, the SBP would need to significantly upgrade the skills of its technical staff and
also recruit trained staff. The hardware and software should also be replaced. The proposed Project
will provide technical assistance to SBP to conduct an Information Systems Strategy Planning Study
(ISSP) and implement the recommendations of the study (para 4.22).
7. Library
2.43      The Library of the SBP provides information research services to the officers and general
staff at the Central Directorate in Karachi. The library provides general services, such as materials
purchase and processing, collection circulation and maintenance, journal indexing and research



- 17 -
assistance. In addition, the Library is responsible for the Documentation Unit which provides
microfilming services and can microfilm selected portions of the Library's holdings, most notably
newspapers. The Library's collection is comprised of approximately 64,000 books, more than 17,000
bound volumes of periodicals, gazettes and budgets, 755 annual reports, over 400 bound newspaper
volumes and nearly 2,000 rolls of microfilm.
2.44      While the Library enjoys a fine reputation for its extensive collection of materials, it has
not yet taken advantage of automated technologies. Through implementation of a computerized
system and usage of other electronic information services, the Library would be able to accomplish
two important goals. First, SBP researchers would more efficiently identify and access available
materials. Second, library staff would be able to provide more complete service to researchers and
have more effective control over the collection. The proposed Project will provide funds for needed
equipment (para 4.22).
H. Capital Markets Development
2.45      The rapid emergence of the stock market in recent years has been one of the tangible
results of success of the GOP's financial sector liberalization and privatization program. Between
1990 and 1992 the market valuation of listed companies increased six-fold and the number of listed
companies rose by 27%. The proper regulation of securities markets is crucial to this development,
yet the capacities of the Corporate Law Authority (CLA) have been severely constrained. Cl-A has
made considerable progress in eliminating obstacles to the market's growth. Continued progress calls
for adaptation of trading and oversight mechanisms as well as systems to ensure appropriate disclosure
of information. The Bank and IFC have collaborated closely to identify obstacles to capital market
development and to seek means to overcome them. Under the proposed Project, the Bank will help
the GOP improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the CLA as a regulator through the provision of
technical assistance (paras 4.23, 4.24).
I. The Insurance Market
2.46      The insurance market has not played an important role in the intermediation and allocation
of resources in the economy mainly because of the lack of priority placed on insurance by the GOP
and outdated regulation. General as well as life insurance companies are small in comparison to the
market potential. General insurance is provided by 55 companies of which 10 are foreign; however,
the 5 largest companies control 75% of the market. Gross premiums are less than US$200 million per
year. Most general insurance is compulsory: automobile, fire, mortgaged properties and workers
compensation. The general insurance, although subject to several restrictive rules and cartelization by
the Insurance Association of Pakistan (IAP), is not subject to any effective regulation of its financial
activities. Life insurance is also still in its infancy; only 1% of the population has life insurance.
State Life, which was created in 1972 after the nationalization of a number of life insurance
companies, dominates the life insurance market and holds a virtual monopoly. There has been few
product innovations and virtually no price competition. As a result, the size, growth and contribution
of the life insurance to the economy has not fulfilled its potential. State Life with its life funds of Rs
25.0 billion (US$1.0 billion) is a good-sized company by international standards. As part of its
privatization process the GOP licensed 3 new companies. These companies, however, lack expertise
and sufficient capital to acquire modern technology. Allowing foreign investments would stimulate
the development of the life insurance market.
2.47      The Cl is the regulatory body of the insurance industry. However, the Cl has neither the
capacity nor the means to properly regulate either general or life insurance. The institutional
framework has to be changed to give the Cl greater authority. Although the Cl has powers under the



- 18 -
law, the powers cannot be exercised due to lack of resources and legal constraints such as inability to
hire and retain professionals. In addition, Cl has neither actuaries nor auditors so it cannot test the
reserve adequacy level nor enforce prudent investment policies. Computer capacities are not sufficient
to handle even relatively simple tasks such as storing and analyzing data of the industry.
2.48      The insurance regulations are laid out in the Insurance Act of 1938 which has been
amended from time to time. The regulatory framework needs to be revised to deal with new products
and the Office of the Cl needs to be strengthened in order to safeguard and develop the sector. Under
the proposed Project, the Bank will provide funds to strengthen the Cl and implement regulatory
reforms (para 4.25).
J. Privatization of Financial Institutions
2.49      Privatization of FIs is at the heart of the GOP's reform program. The first two
commercial banks to be privatized were successful because: (i) the bank's management was
transferred to skilled and experienced bankers; (ii) ownership was not concentrated in a few families
or groups; and (iii) the GOP received what was perceived as a fair price. Replicating this experience
with the larger banks may be difficult, particularly because of concerns about concentration of
ownership.
2.50      The GOP intends to privatize the remaining NCBs. The Privatization Commission (PC)
has been given responsibility for privatizing Fls. Under the Public Sector Adjustment Loan, the
privatization of one bank and the portfolio valuation of the other are conditions of Disbursement of the
second tranche of the Loan. Pending privatization, full management autonomy would be vested in the
NCBs' boards of directors. Under the proposed Project, funds will be provided to the PC for
valuations/privatization of the Habib Bank and the United Bank Limited (para 4.27). The PC will also
be involved in the privatization/restructuring of the DFIs.
III. THE BANK'S STRATEGY FOR THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
3.01      The Bank's strategy for the financial sector is to assist the GOP's effort to make it
responsive to market signals and better able to support structural adjustment in the real sector.
Pakistan needs a financial system that can allocate credit efficiently to growth sectors, provide
restructuring services and finance the costs of adjustment. To achieve this financial system. the Bank
is assisting the GOP to establish and implement measures that will broaden and deepen the financial
markets and support an expansion of private investment and savings to be accomplished over two
overlapping phases. The first phase strengthens the foundation for the development of the capital and
money markets, focusing on the creation of a strong banking system and market-based credit
allocation, as well as market-oriented management of domestic debt and money supply. The proposed
Project is a continuation of the first phase (para 3.05). The second phase will focus on the non-bank
sector of the financial system and help its development.
3.02      In the context of the first phase of its financial strategy, the Bank has been assisting the
GOP to devise a major financial sector reform program through FSAL. The reforms supported by the
FSAL (Loan 3029-PAK) and ongoing financial intermediation operations were to:
(a)  Improve government debt management by introducing an auction system for
government debt and reducing taxation on the financial sector with a concomitant
reduction in the fiscal deficit as a macroeconomic condition;



- 19 -
(b)   Reduce segmentation by raising concessional interest rates and limiting directed
credit schemes;
(c)   Strengthen the banking system by enforcing new prudential regulations, improving
bank supervision, bank restructuring and institution building; and
(d)  Increase competition by allowing entry of private domestic banks through
privatization of the NCBs and development of the capital markets.
Thle aim is to arrive at a defined first phase of reforms. These reforms could then be pursued and
deepened by succeeding financial sector adjustment loans and financial intermediation operations, such
as the proposed Project which consists of policy and institutional reforms.
3.03      Since 1983, the Bank's objective has been to help the GOP coordinate its industrial and
financial sector policy reforms. The Bank Group has carried out extensive work in the areas of trade
policies, regulatory framework and financial sector policies. Based on these analyses, the Bank's
finanicial sector assistance strategy has been mapped into a sequence of structural reforms in the
medium-term, which is both consistent with and complements Pakistan's priority objective of
macroeconomic adjustment. An improved macroeconomic framework will help the country weather
immediate repercussions of structural reforms. In sequencing the structural policies, the GOP
deregulated many industrial companies, raising competition and contestability in the domestic markets
and started to liberalize the trade regime, bringing in competition from abroad. Moreover, industrial
producers' hands have been significantly freed from regulatory constraints to combat competition at
home and abroad. While pursuing the remaining agenda for deregulation, the next step would be to
deepen reform of trade policies. In view of the potentially negative implication on the balance of
payments in the short term, trade policy reform depends on close coordination of appropriate
macroeconomic and exchange rate policies. Both trade liberalization and domestic deregulation imply
substantial adjustments for firms and workers. The management of the economic and social
adjustment cost of this transition process will require close attention by GOP, with support of the Bank
and IMF.
3.04      Trade policy reforms, however, can also strain the economy's financial system, since the
intended shifts in relative prices and profitability of past investments mean business rationalization,
restructuring and even bankruptcies along with new investments. Therefore, an important ingredient in
the adjustment process is a healthy financial sector that can survive a substantial change in profitability
of its loan portfolio, quickly move investment funds according to new incentives in-the real sector and
provide credit to help firms adapt to the new environment. Thus, trade policy reforms must be
coupled with financial sector reforms that are designed to prevent temporary financial distress from
becoming a systemic problem and to improve the efficiency of financial intermediation. The GOP has
agreed to a comprehensive trade policy reform program under the ESAF and EFF with the IMF, and
the Bank under the PSAL. The current arrangement as spelled out in the PFP calls for a reduction of
all inclusive maximum tariff rate of 92% in FY94 to 35% in FY96.
3.05      The proposed Project will support the overall Bank's strategy in the financial sector. It
will promote broadening and deepening of financial markets by encouraging price competition and
term lending to every sector of the economy, easing access to credit at market prices, developing new
instruments and enhancing the regulatory framework for financial markets (paras 4.09-4.28). It will
therefore promote a strong, efficient and effective financial system ready to carry the economic
development of the country. A healthy banking system would reduce the likelihood of bank failures
and potential pressures on the GOP to eventually support a weak banking system through money
creation. Overall, a healthier, less restricted and less segmented financial system should improve



- 20 -
resource allocation, help integrate the informal economy--with consequent improvements in the
efficiency and equity of taxation as well as total tax collection--and reduce the scope for rent-seeking
activities.
3.06       Country Assistance Strategv. The Country Assistance Strategy, which the Executive
Directors discussed on March 31, 1994, highlights two closely linked development goals as the
primary focus of the Bank's program in Pakistan, namely poverty reduction and reducing constraints
to sustained growth. To address the poverty reduction objective, the Bank's approach focuses on
improving inadequate basic social services and so improving weak social indicators. To support the
growth objective, which will also help with the income-related aspects of poverty reduction, Bank
efforts concentrate on: structural reforms, with an emphasis on public finance issues and improving
the enabling environment for the private sector; strengthening inadequate basic infrastructure; reducing
constraints on agriculture productivity; and protecting Pakistan's natural resources base. The proposed
Project will directly support the GOP's on-going structural reform program, with particular emphasis
on further strengthening policy and institutional reform initiatives in the financial sector. It will also
provide term resources to help meet private sector financing needs to boost private investment in the
industry. trade and services sector which is essential to job creation and improving income generation.
It directly supports the private sector development, growth and poverty reduction objectives of the
Bank's program and is therefore fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy.
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Project Rationale
4.01       The proposed Project, which will combine sector policy adjustment issues as well as
project requirements, will be the first of its type for the Bank's assistance to the financial sector in
Pakistan. It is an integral part of the Bank's country and sector assistance strategy for the medium-
term and will deepen the GOP's current reforms of financial liberalization supported by the FSAL.
Although project loans have supported specific investment and institutional reforms, they have not
contained conditions requiring policy reforms and adjustments as is the case under this Project. The
Bank's assistance to the financial sector has helped improve credit allocation and economic growth,
increase resource allocation, reduce disintermediation, support capital market development, reduce
negotiation cost in financial markets, introduce a system to auction GOP's debt, strengthen banks'
supervision, enhance competition, increase autonomy and accountability for NCBs, bring about
necessary institutional reforms for Fis operating in term lending, especially diversification of DFIs'
operations and ensure a stable flow of long-term foreign exchange resources to private industry. The
proposed Project will build on the experience gained under previous loans and credits and focus on
maintaining the momentum for improving the legal framework for loan recovery, strengthening the
institutions that regulate the financial system and complete key reforms in privatization.
4.02       In all of the above, the Bank's involvement will help: (i) ensure the sustainable
development of new Fls and instruments and required institutional capacity of regulators of the
financial market; (ii) improve the efficiency and effectiveness of existing Fls; and (iii) provide
additional resources to industrial, commercial and service sectors. The Bank will help meet a shortage
of long-term funds which the financial system cannot generate at this time. While reforms have
strengthened the sector, the financial sector is still unable to mobilize a significant volume
of long-term resources because of inadequacies of life insurance regulations and lack of variable rate
finance. The need for genuine term finance will become more acute as LMM is phased out and
financing of investment through overdrafts is curtailed.



- 21 -
4.03       Lessons from Previous Bank/IDA Operations. The Project is designed to build on Bank
experience both in Pakistan and worldwide. The most important lesson being incorporated is to
embed the financial sector operation in the context of a sector strategy for reform, both those that have
already occurred under FSAL and those being supported by the Project. A second key lesson is to
ensure the financial soundness of the participating financial institutions (PFIs). This would be
accomplished by efforts to strengthen all institutions (through strengthening of regulatory institutions
and financial sector reform) and by restricting the use of Bank funds to institutions that meet
acceptable criteria of financial soundness. The third lesson is to design a project so that an effective
and successful implementation is ensured. Consequently, the principal elements incorporated in the
design of the proposed Project are to: (i) have each institution focus on key actions taking into
account the overall project conditionalities; (ii) break the major reforms into phases; (iii) have upfront
implementation actions before loan approval for several key areas; (iv) have clearly monitorable
targets and outcomes; and (v) assess the GOP's and implementing agencies' capacities to implement
new activities.
B. Project Objectives
4.04       The proposed Project, which supports the continuation and deepening of the financial
sector reform process and builds upon the process achieved under FSAL, will help the GOP
implement a set of long-term policy objectives for the financial sector. In particular, the GOP aims at
raising concessional rates to market levels, moving towards open-market operations and privatizing
FIs. In view of these considerations, specific objectives of this Project are as follows: (i)
strengthening of the regulatory framework through improved procedures, monitoring and enforcement;
(ii) improving the legal framnework for loan recovery; (iii) strengthening banking and non-bank
financial institutions; (iv) reducing in a phased manner the amount of concessional finance extended
by the SBP; (v) developing a private market in foreign exchange cover; (vi) improving management of
monetary instruments to eliminate inter-sectoral and inter-institutional distortions; (vii) strengthening
the payments system; (viii) improving the performance and regulatory framework of securities and
insurance markets; (ix) privatizing and/or restructuring banks, DFIs and insurance companies; and
(x) strengthening the capacity of PFIs in delivering financial services. Agreements on the
aforementioned areas are explained in the Letter of Financial Sector Development Policy sent to the
Bank, a copy of which is provided in Annex IV. A summary of the policy reform elements and their
proposed sequencing and timing is contained in Annex V. Progress against clearly monitorable targets
set out in these documents will be reviewed approximately one and two years (First and Second
Interim Reviews) after effectiveness and further commitments by PFIs under the line of credit
component will be contingent on agreement that the reform process remained on track.
C. Project Scope and Description
4.05       The Bank Loan of US$216.0 million to be provided under the Project will be utilized for:
(i) a line of credit (US$200.0 million) for long-term loans and lease investments to any private
enterprise that fits pre-determined criteria with exceptions such as real estate, trading and certain
consumer services; (ii) an administration fee (US$1.0 million) for BEL; and (iii) technical assistance
for consultancy services (US$15.0 million) for capacity and institution building of the beneficiary
agencies SBP, CLA, Cl, PC and BEL as described in paras 4.17-4.28. The GOP will on-lend the line
of credit to eligible PFIs (paras 4.10-4.11) on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (paras 4.12-
4.16), advance the administration fee to BEL to be repaid on equal installment over 6 years out of its
collected fees after receiving the first repayment by the PFIs (para 4.29), and grant the technical
assistance funds to several beneficiary agencies to implement the various components for the
deepening and broadening of the financial market (paras 4.18-4.28).



- 22 -
D. Project Cost and Financing Plan
4.06       The proposed Bank Loan of US$216.0 million will finance 21% of the total Project cost
of US$1,016.0 million. The ADB, PFIs and sponsors will cover the balance of 79%. The Project
costs and financing sources are summarized in Table 3 below.
Table 3: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
(US$ millions)
Bank         ADB            Private Sector      Total
Local      Foreign
EqUi
Enterprises                  0.0          0.0       100.0       300.0      400.0
lIine of Credit Component
PFis                       200.0        100.0       300.0         0.0      600.0
Technical Assistance and
Administration Fee           16.0          0.0        0.0          0.0       16.0
TOTAL                        216.0        100.0      400.0       300.0    1,016.0
Source: The World Bank.
4.07       Co-financing. Co-financing of the line of credit component will enable the Project to
benefit a larger number of firms as well as increase its policy impact. However, the success of the
Bank financing does not depend on availability of external funding from other co-financiers. The
ADB has indicated its willingness to provide co-financing of US$100.0 million. The Bank and ADB
have coordinated their credit line and technical assistance conditions. In addition, the Bank has
worked closely with the IFC in the design, structure and focus of their credit line to help address the
long-term finance needs of the private sector. The Bank and IFC agreed that IFC would handle
aspects of the Project related to leasing companies. In May 1994, IFC signed a line of credit to 6
major leasing companies of US$70.0 million, of which US$15.0 million was syndicated.
4.08       Private sector investment has been increasing rapidly as GDP growth has risen, and the
private sector now accounts for over half of gross domestic investment. For the next two years, total
private investment is estimated at about US$4.9 billion per year, of which imported machinery and
equipment accounts for US$3.0 billion. Suppliers' credits could provide US$400.0 million per year
and the Asian Development Bank (ADB), IFC and other agencies about US$100.0 million per year
each, leaving a substantial gap. Taking into consideration the existing available resources of the Fls,
suppliers' credits and current and future multilateral and bilateral loans and credits, the proposed
Project, which has an estimated total cost of about US$1,016.0 million, will cover part of the total
credit needs of the private sector. Therefore, it is expected that the entire Bank's line of credit would
be fully committed within 3 years of effectiveness.
E. Line of Credit Component
4.09       Under the proposed Project, funds will be channelled as follows. The GOP will provide
funds to the PFIs for projects eligible for financing on a first-come first-serve basis. During project



- 23 -
implementation, eligibility of other PFIs will be evaluated against agreed criteria for possible inclusion
in the proposed Project.
1. Eligibility Criteria and Conditions for Participation of Financial Institutions
4.10       Eligibility Criteria. Except for leasing companies, all Fls will be eligible to act as
intermediaries provided that they demonstrate fulfillment of the following selection criteria:
(a)   A profitable operation for at least two full years of operation attested by unqualified
audit reports;
(b)   Professional management;
(c)   Adequate technical, financial, commercial and administrative capacity to undertake
term lending or lease investment, including an appropriate institutional structure for
appraisal and supervision of such financing;
(d)   Full compliance with all prudential guidelines issued by the SBP; and
(e)   Not suspended under any Bank or ADB loan.
At present, six potential PFIs have been identified which include one commercial bank, one small DFI,
one investment bank and three foreign banks. PFIs doing long-term lease investment based on a pre-
agreed profit and loss sharing ratio or leasing modarabas will be considered selectively, provided that
the Islamic Board and GOP agreed upon a suitable mode of financing. In addition to complying with
the above selection criteria, leasing modarabas must have acceptable credit policy and lessee profiles.
Participation of provincial banks will depend on their inclusion under SBP's regulatory umbrella.
Participation of PICIC and NDFC will be subject to compliance with an agreed action program.
4.1 I      Conditions for Participation. To begin participation in the proposed Project, the PFIs will
be required to fulfill the following conditions:
(a)   Conduct portfolio audits to the extent necessary to properly classify and account for
problem loans or overdue rentals according to SBP guidelines for commercial
banks;
(b)   Book provisions for bad debt or overdue rentals and suspend interest or rental
income in accord with commercial banks prudential regulations in the 1993 accouits
and issue the annual audit report in appropriate format and in accord with all agreed
principles and policies, which will include disclosure notes providing a clear picture
of gross loan or rental portfolio, accrued interest and actual amounts of provisions,
etc., (except for commercial banks pending a change in the banking law);
(c)   Meet capital adequacy of at least 4% of risk adjusted assets after fully providing for
bad debt and suspending interest in accordance with the commercial bank
regulations, together with a time bound action plan agreed with SBP and the Bank
for increasing the ratio to 8% within three years (after taking all required
provisions) except leasing modarabas;
(d)   Have a minimum collection ratio on all term loans (excluding those pr- id<<! f-
100%) of 80% as of FY93 and rising to 85% by FY95;



- 24 -
(e)   Have a pre-tax profit of at least 1% of total assets using proper accounting required
under prudential regulations applying to commercial banks; and
(f)   Have arrears as percentage of total portfolio and percentage of portfolio affected by
arrears (total portfolio and also term loans) less than 10% or lower at year ending
1993 than in each of the two prior years.
Participants will be monitored during implementation and continuing compliance of the above criteria
and conditions must be maintained to ensure participation. Any Fl interested in participating will be
subject to the same assessment vis-a-vis these participation conditions. Leasing modarabas will have
the following additional conditions: current ratio of over 1.25, debt/equity ratio no greater than 10 to
I (equity will also include certificate holders) and minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.25.
2. Scope and Terms
4.12       Sub-borrower Eligibilitv. Under the proposed Project, any private enterprise requiring
terrn finance will be eligible, with exceptions such as real estate, trading and certain consumer
services. Sub-projects producing goods aimed primarily at the domestic market will not be financed if
importation of such goods is restricted by means other than import taxes. Sponsoring firms will not
have debt/equity ratios greater than 60/40 while a sub-loan is outstanding. The PFI will carry out a
financial analysis of the sub-project including the calculation of after-tax FRR (in constant prices)
which should be no less than 15% under the low-case scenario in which all forms of tax exemption,
concessions and holidays are withdrawn. The firm would have to maintain a current ratio above 1.2
and a minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.4.
4.13       Sub-loan or Lease Investment Terms and Conditions. PFIs may use Bank funds for
sub-loans with original maturity of up to 12 years and up to 9 years or the useful life of the equipment
financed whichever is shorter for sub-lease investments, including 2 years of grace for both types of
financing. Sub-loans and sub-lease investments will be denominated in US dollars, deutsche mark or
yen (or rupees, through an agreement between the sub-borrower and the PFI, that foreign exchange
cover could be obtained by or on behalf of the sub-borrower for a fee.) PFIs and sub-borrowers will
freely negotiate interest rates or rental incomes taking into account the cost of funds, the PFI's costs,
fees, profit margin or return on investment and perception of the credit risk for each sub-borrower.
The PFI will be responsible for paying the GOP's cost and the Bank's commitment charge. The PFIs
will on-lend to enterprises at the prevailing rate in their financial market which will cover the Bank's
lending rate, foreign exchange risks if needed, interest risks, commitment fee, guarantee cost,
administrator's fee and appropriate spread for the PFIs. The maximum sub-loan and sub-lease
investment size will be US$8.0 million. The PFIs will provide from their own resources or arrange
for at least 40% of total long-term financing, of which 20% could come from intermediated foreign
suppliers credits or credit lines from other international organizations; however, no SBP lines of credit
will be accepted. Investment enterprises will provide 40% of sub-project costs in the form of equity.
Bridge loans will not be accepted as equity but accounted for as debt. In the case of leasing
modarabas, they will lease to enterprises at the prevailing returns on investment in their leasing
market, which must cover all their costs plus an acceptable return on investment including the foreign
exchange risk if needed.
4.14       PFIs will appraise sub-projects in accordance with the Bank's standards, including an
environmental review, and submit them to the Bank for clearance. Appraisal will include a review of
the sponsors' eligibility. Sponsoring groups who are in default of repayments to any bank or DFI will
not be eligible. For this purpose, the PFIs should refer to the CIB in addition to information from



- 25 -
other sources. A free limit of up to US$3.0 million will be established for each PFI depending on its
size and capacity for appraisal and supervision.
3. On-lending Rates, Repayment Terms and Security
4.15      The Bank Loan to the GOP will be on the Bank's standard variable rate, and will have a
fixed amortization schedule of 20 years including a grace period of 5 years. The GOP will on-lend
the Bank's funds to the PFIs through BEL the administrator (para 4.29). The GOP's on-lending rate
will be the Bank's prevailing component currency cost rate determined for each currency of
withdrawal, being US dollars, deutsche mark or yen, plus a commitment charge of 0.25% per annum
of the amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding. This commitment fee will represent the
average annual charge to be paid by the GOP over the life of the Loan. Each PFI will also provide to
the GOP a guarantee from a suitable third party. The Administrator could provide the guarantee. In
the case of the GOP-owned financial institutions for which guarantees will not be required, the GOP
will still charge a fee of about 0.5% per annum to be collected by BEL. The on-lending rate to PFIs
including fees and charges would be about 9.25% for dollar denominated loans. The PFIs will repay
the GOP through the AU according to a composite amortization schedule which will be the aggregate
repayment schedules of individual sub-projects. The on-lending arrangements will be under terns and
conditions to be spelled out in the Participation Agreements to be entered into by PFIs. The signing
of the Participation Agreement with at least one PFI which has demonstrated compliance with
conditions of participation satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of Effectiveness.
4.16      The leasing modarabas will repay the GOP a return on the amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time at a provisional rate of return to be declared at the beginning of the
period as expected profits, which will be equal to the agreed installment of principal and profit to be
repaid plus commitment charge and administrator fees. They will return the GOP's initial investment
in accordance with a fixed amortization schedule of nine years, inclusive of a three years of grace.
The US dollar, deutsche mark or yen will be the denomination for the currencies to be returned to the
GOP. The use of the Bank resources will not be secured by a charge over any of the assets of leasing
modarabas. However, leasing modarabas will undertake, through a negative pledge, to hold assets up
to a predetermined value uncharged to any other creditor/investor. These assets will ensure that a
group of lease receivables, together with title to the underlying assets, valued at all times at more than
the outstanding balance on leasing modarabas fund originating from the Bank, will be unencumbered
by any lien or hypothecation except in cases when lien or hypothecation is required to secure a
guarantee for such amount. It follows that the GOP, the legal lender/investor of the Bank Loan to
leasing modarabas, will be one of leasing modarabas unsecured creditors/investors with appropriate
rights in the event of liquidation. All terms and conditions will be contained in the Administration
Agreement between the GOP and BEL, and a Participation Agreement between BEL representing the
GOP and the PFIs.
F. Technical Assistance Component
4.17      The technical assistance to be provided under the Project is summarized below and
explained in detail in Annex VI. The proposed Project will include US$15.0 million for consultancy
services, training and equipment to the SBP in order to carry out the financial reforms, and improve
the capacity and performance of key FIs as well as the environmental protection measures for sub-
projects. Most of the technical assistance (TA) will be for institutional development, capacity building
and related training. However, the technical assistance allocated to BEL will be mainly project
preparation and implementation, and that for the SBP, will include some policy support.



- 26 -
Table 4: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE UNDER THE PROJECT
(US$ 000)
FY95         FY96        FY97       FY98        FY99         TOTAL
Statc Bank'             225.0      1,926.0      2,027.0    1,050.0       125.0        5,353.0
Capital Markets
l)evelopment'          140.0       1,030.0      1,200.0       0.0         0.0        2,370.0
Insurance Sector
Development'             0.0        860.0       1,000.0     265.0         0.0        2,125.0
P(C I                     0.0        900.0        500.0        0.0         0.0        1,400.0
DEl'ss                    0.0       1,000.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        1,000.0
13FL'                   127.0        550.0        200.0      125.0        50.0        1,052.0
l Inallocated             0.0          0.0        600.0      600.0       500.0        1,700.0
TOTAL                   492.0      6.266.0      5.527.0    2,040.0       675.0       15,000.0
Institutional development.
Polic) support.
Project administration and implementation.
Source: TI'he World Bank.
1. State Bank of Pakistan
4.18        The State Bank needs to strengthen its supervision and regulation functions within an
increasingly complex financial sector, improve the national payment system, train its staff, upgrade its
informationl technology and modernize its library (paras 2.36-2.44). The amount of US$5.4 million
will assist the State Bank to improve the on-site inspections, off-site supervision, install an adequate
system for check clearance, train its staff, conduct and implement the recommendations of ISSP and
install an automated library information system. SBP will oversee the crucial studies dealing with
term lending (para 2.24) and DFIs' problems (paras 2.12-2.17, 4.26).
4.19        The technical assistance for the on-site inspection and off-site supervision will consist of
two long-term consultants. The Bank and the GOP have reviewed and agreed on the terms of
reference for the consultants, and hiring of the consultants is a condition of Disbursement for the
SBP's technical assistance component. A long-term resident adviser will be assigned to the Banking
Inspection Department to develop and improve the on-site examination capabilities and procedures for
the commercial banking sector. As for the off-site supervision, the long-term resident adviser will be
assigned to the Banking Regulation Department in order to develop and improve the SBP's capacity in
off-site supervision techniques.
4.20        To improve the national payments system the GOP will grant funds to purchase suitable
equipment for clearing checks. Individual banks might have the options of purchasing their own
equipment or using, for a fee, equipment supplied by the Clearing House. For successful automation
of the operation, the SBP must ensure that some basic standardization will be achieved in the size and
quality of checks and other documents being cleared, as well as that all participants will adhere to
standardized encoding of relevant information in a suitable form for machine processing. The SBP



- 27 -
will ensure that relevant standardization will be achieved through the Clearing House Committee,
which it chairs.
4.21       In order to manage its own institutional changes and sustain the substantial progress they
plan to achieve in the area of supervision, the SBP needs appropriate training for its personnel.
Therefore, the Bank will finance in-house and overseas training for SBP's staff and management. In
addition to regular courses, the overseas training will include visit/secondment of selected officers to
other central banks or supervising authorities. The training on computers will also be included to
respond to Fls advanced computerized financial statements.
4.22       The SBP will upgrade its computer technology, which will be a major component of its
overall technical assistance. The SBP will conduct an ISSP study, which will require close
involvement of top management. The study will: (i) identify all of SBP's work that will be facilitated
by automatization including the expansion requirement of CIB; (ii) indicate priority areas; and (iii) set
out an implementation program timetable consistent with SBP's capacity to absorb the technology and
organizational change. The proposed Project will finance the hardware, software, consulting services
and training requirements identified by the ISSP. The terms of reference of the ISSP study were
agreed on and hiring of consultants for the study is a condition of Disbursement for the technical
assistance component of SBP. As regard to its improvement of its library, the SBP will receive from
the Bank funding for equipment.
2. Capital Markets Development
4.23       The recent high growth of markets requires that trading and oversight mechanisms systems
are adapted to ensure the appropriate disclosure of corporate information and refocus the securities
regulatory activities of the CLA. The focus of securities regulation will be shifted to investor
protection and efficient markets. A technical assistance of about US$2.4 million will be provided to
implement the following reforms: (i) phasing out CLA control of new issue pricing; (ii) determining
methods to reduce the stamp duty; (iii) eliminating tax preferences for government and public sector
debt; (iv) reducing differences in taxation and investment rules among Fls conducting essentially
similar activities; (v) studying the desirability of establishing an over-the-counter equities market;
(vi) establishing an investor protection fund; (vii) taking necessary actions to develop market for
corporate debt, including consideration for introduction of convertible debt instruments; (viii) phasing
out the forced-issue requirement; (ix) ensuring that individual and corporate members of the stock
exchanges have adequate capital and promoting incorporation of individual members; (x) regulating
insider trading; (xi) studying the possibility of establishing of regulatory environment to facilitate
trading of commodities, foreign exchange and stock future; (xii) reducing NIT privileged access to
new issue in a phased manner; and (xiii) enhancing disclosure of information. Furthermore, the CLA
will implement an organizational change.
4.24       For reasons of organizational structure and mandate, budget, staffing and training, the
CLA cannot give securities markets the required attention and scrutiny. Therefore, a separate wing of
CLA would be established for securities law and regulation headed by a Member appointed for a
specific term with this sole responsibility. The wing will be provided with sufficient budget to
contract the required professional specialists. The technical assistance program will include
consultants to assist in the: (i) development of regulatory regimes for licensing of participants in the
securities markets, insider trading and investor protection funds; (ii) preparation of an information
technology strategy and hardware and software for the securities regulatory body; (iii) training for
CLA's staff in monitoring for insider trading and regulating new markets; and (iv) development of an
over-the-counter or small capitalization exchange. The Bank and the GOP reviewed and agreed on a
draft terms of reference for consultants and hiring of the consultants. Establishment of security



- 28 -
regulatory wing and hiring of long-term specialist are conditions of Disbursement for the CLA's
technical assistance component. Furthermore, under its parallel financing of the proposed Project,
ADB will restructure the CLA focusing on the corporate functions of CLA. The ADB's program will
include the following: (i) streamline of mutual funds regulations; (ii) restructuring possible
privatization of the NIT and Investment Corporation of Pakistan (ICP); (iii) enhancement of
regulations of insider trading; (iv) review of regulations to promote venture capital; (v) establishment
of regulations for credit rating agencies; and (vi) provision for CLA to become a revenue-based
institution.
3. Insurance Sector Development
4.25       There is an urgent need to strengthen the Office of the Cl, especially with the opening of
the life insurance business and restructuring of the stated-owned companies, so the insurance sector
would fully contribute to the economic development. The total cost of US$2.1 million has been
allocated to implement the following reforms: (i) effective operation of an adequately remunerated
professional Insurance Advisory Board, which will include specialists such as auditors, actuaries and
investment bankers; (ii) review and presentation to the GOP of reforms in the Insurance Act;
(iii) evaluation of State Life and PIC for restructuring; (iv) increase the minimum capital requirement
to Rs 40.0 million (US$1.5 million) for general and Rs 100.0 million (US$3.8 million) for life
insurance; (v) phasing out of the compulsory reinsurance of 20% to PIC and its first right refusal of
35% over a period of 3 to 5 years; (vi) review steps that can be taken to facilitate closing down of
companies so seizure can take place immediately under court order; (vii) prevent the exercise of rate-
setting by IAP upon full phase out of PlC's reinsurance privileges; (viii) review investment rules
governing the 60% of assets not invested in government securities to permit life insurance companies,
pension funds, gratuity funds and similar contractual savings schemes to increase their holding of
private sector debt and equities; (ix) provision of an adequate budget for the Cl; and (x) empower Cl
to regulate private as well as state-owned companies. The technical assistance will consist of
consultants as well as an automation strategy hardware and software equipment and training. The
Bank and the GOP have reviewed and agreed on draft terms of reference for consultants and hiring of
the consultants, excluding the ones for evaluation of State Life (para 4.27), effective functioning of the
Advisory Board and provision of adequate budget are conditions of Disbursement for the Cl's
technical assistance component.
4. Development Finance Institutions
4.26       DFIs were created at a time of rigid segmentation of financial markets and have evolved in
an environment of financial repression. Privatization of the DFIs, while desired for efficiency gains,
creates other problems. The viability of the DFIs is more fragile than that of the banks and depends
more on the financial policy environment. DFIs will benefit from decontrol of lending rates, removal
of subsidized SBP lines of credit, more appropriate regulation and improvement in the climate for loan
recoveries, but their reported financial situation will suffer from reformed regulation. Most DFIs need
to re-orient themselves to the changing financial environment before their long-term viability is
assured. The Bank will provide US$1.0 million to assist the GOP and SBP in putting together a
policy and technical assistance package to: (i) address issues facing each of the four DFIs individually
through institutionally specific strategy studies to help the privatization process and enable the DFIs to
flourish in an era of financial reform; and (ii) conduct a DFI sector-wide study of issues associated
with all aspects of the loan administration cycle and reasons for poor portfolio performance to address
the problem of term lending. A draft terms of reference of the two studies were discussed and agreed
on and the hiring of consultants is a condition of Loan Effectiveness.



- 29 -
5. Privatization Commission
4.27      The proposed Project will provide US$1.4 million for: (i) the valuation of the Habib Bank
and United Bank Limited; (ii) an actuarial valuation and study of options for privatizing and/or
restructuring State Life; and (iii) institutional capacity build up of PC. The technical assistance will
support PC in the following tasks: (i) the design of the program, i.e., preparation of an overall
operational plan/strategy paper with time-bound actions; and (ii) implementation of the various tasks
including: valuation of firms; sale procedures; preparation of information memorandums; marketing
strategy and road-shows; pre-privatization restructuring; employee retrenchment issues; broad-basing of
ownership; recruitment of financial advisors for larger transactions; post-privatization regulation; and
preparation of notes and position papers for the Cabinet. The PC will participate with the SBP in term
lending sector study and review the proposal for privatization under the DFIs study. The GOP
requested and the Bank agreed to assist in reviewing and selecting privatization procedures and
options. Appointing consultants to define the framework for privatization of the remaining NCBs and
evaluation of State Life and setting up a satisfactory timetable by the financial advisor for privatization
of one NCB and carrying out actions, which have fallen due under such timetable before the proposed
Project's Effectiveness Date, are conditions of Loan Effectiveness.
6. Bankers Equity Limited
4.28      BEL will receive US$2.0 million for consultants and training of its staff. The technical
assistance will be allocated as follows: US$0.6 million will be for hiring short-term foreign and local
environmental consultants (para 4.32), US$0.1 million will be for training staff and setting up the AU
(para 4.29), US$0.3 million and US$1.0 million will be allocated to the term lending and DFIs studies,
respectively (paras 2.24, 4.26).
G. Administrative Arrangements
4.29      Under the proposed Project, an AU will be created in BEL to ensure effective execution of
the programs and activities given the large number of potential beneficiaries. The AU will be a focal
point to: (i) ensure that sub-projects conform to agreed criteria; (ii) monitor PFI eligibility;
(iii) coordinate technical assistance (other than such assistance for SBP); (iv) maintain project
accounts; and (v) report on various activities. The GOP will make the proceeds of the line of credit
and technical assistance components available to the PFIs and recipients of technical assistance (other
than SBP) through the AU. The responsibilities of BEL will be defined in an Administration
Agreement between the GOP and BEL. The signing of the Administration Agreement is a condition
of Effectiveness. BEL will receive a fee of 0.5% per annum on the amount withdrawn and
outstanding until the Implementation Completion Reporting and 0.25% for the rest of the repayment
period of PFIs. Each PFI will pay BEL's fees accordingly to its own amount withdrawn and
outstanding. Furthermore, to help BEL cover its start-up costs at the beginning of the Loan, US$1.0
million will be provided out of the loan amount. BEL will reimburse this amount to the GOP on
semi-annual equal payments out of its collected fees over six years after receiving the first repayment
by the PFIs. The AU will monitor the eligibility status of each PFI and provide inforrnation on
interested FIs. However, the Bank will approve participation of potential PFIs. The AU will not be
responsible for judging the merits of sub-projects. The concerned PFI will bear the full responsibility
for appraisal of sub-projects and all credit risk. In order to carry out environmental assessments for
sub-projects, the AU will also have environmental staff (para 4.32) and its own operational policies
and procedures. AU staff will consist of two project officers, an accountant/disbursements officer, and
necessary support staff. A banking/credit manager financed under the proposed Project will head the
Unit and assist in: establishing the AU, developing its policies and procedures, training the AU staff,
promoting effective use of the Loan by PFIs and accounting for project expenditures. Hiring of the



- 30 -
manager, establishment of AU in BEL and development of its initial operational policies and
procedures are conditions of Loan Effectiveness. The SBP will administer its own technical
assistance. It will report directly to the Bank on implementation issues. It will also monitor and
report on the Project policy component. The technical assistance will be stated in the Subsidiary Grant
Agreement. The signing of the Subsidiary Grant Agreement between the GOP and SBP is a condition
of Loan Effectiveness.
H. Environmental Assessments
4.30      Under the Constitution both the Federal and Provincial Governments have a role in
managing and protecting natural resources and the environment. The Environmental Protection
Ordinance, which was enacted in 1983, provides for control of pollution and preservation of the
environment. The main objectives were to create rules and regulations for environment protection and
resources management and provide a formula for managing, monitoring and, where necessary,
enforcing environmental and health protection rules. The Ordinance gave also the framework for the
establishment of a Pakistan Environment Protection Agency (PEPA) and Provincial Environment
Protection Agencies. Under terms of this Ordinance polluters can be punished with imprisonment or
fees up to Rs 100,000.
4.31      Until 1990, no concrete action was taken to put these ordinances into effect. Since then,
PEPA has been established in the Ministry of Environment and Urban Affairs and has started
operating. PEPA's main role is to develop the Environment Assessment Guidelines which are
expected to be similar to those of the Bank. The preliminary guidelines were issued in 1991. PEPA
also expects to get more training and additional equipment which will be provided during the Bank's
Environment Project (Staff Appraisal Report - Environmental Protection and Resource Conservation
Project dated May 14, 1992). After appropriate environmental legislation has been accepted, ratified
and adopted by the GOP, the Federal and Provincial Environment Protection Agencies (EPAs) will
implement these regulations. The EPA will decide which industries require Environmental Impact
Assessments (EIAs), organize, supervise and evaluate the EIAs studies and monitor the implementation
of the recommendations of those studies in the projects. Most of the EPAs will need training and
equipment to fulfill their legal obligations. Various Bank projects will finance the required technical
assistance.
4.32      Procedures for Environmental Review and Compliance Requirements. It is expected that
some industrial sub-projects financed under the Loan would require an EIA. The AU will include
professionals backed up by specialized consultants to address the environment concern of sub-projects
during the period of expansion and institutional strengthening of EPAs. The AU will decide which
sub-projects need an EIA, supervise the procedures, monitor the implementation, verify that the plant
or equipment installed satisfies the environmental requirements of the EIA and advise sub-borrowers.
The EIA studies, which will be done by the Environmental Division of the GOP's Environmental
Protection Centers and/or private consultant firms, will be made in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. At the moment there are no official guidelines for EIA studies, but it is expected that the
GOP will issue guidelines during the period of the proposed Project. The proposed Project will
provide training to AU staff to build up their capacity to carry out environmental evaluations. It will
also provide funding for short-term (foreign or local) consultants to advise the unit on technical
matters related to ElAs and industrial environmental issues (para 4.29). The mechanisms for
environmental reviews and vetting of sub-projects will be assessed at the First Interim Review to
ensure that the ElAs are executed in accordance with the GOP's and Bank's guidelines.



- 31 -
V. LOAN ADMINISTRATION
A. Disbursement
5.01      The estimated disbursement period is about 5 full years, which is about I year shorter than
the latest regional sub-sector disbursement profile due to the large number of potential PFIs
(Annex VII). The last date for submission of the sub-loan applications to the Bank will be June 30,
1998. The proposed Project is expected to be fully disbursed 2 years after the last sub-loan
application so the Closing Date will be December 31, 1999. The proceed of the Loan will be
disbursed at the rate of 100% of the foreign exchange costs for machinery and equipment; 100% of
the CIF costs of imported equipment and supplies; 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally
manufactured equipment; and 75% of expenditures and other equipment procured locally
(corresponding to the estimated average foreign exchange content of these items). The PFIs will
submit to the Bank full documentation of expenditures because most contracts under sub-loans would
exceed the statement of expenditures limit (para 5.02). Because of the size of the sub-loans there will
not be a Special Account for the loan component. The Bank's payment will be limited to expenditure
made by a sub-borrower not more than 180 days prior to the receipt by the Bank of information
relating to a free limit sub-loan, and sub-loan investment as applicable, or before receipt of the request
to the Bank for approval of sub-projects above the free limit, would be eligible for reimbursement. In
view of the longer period required for transactions under a two-tier credit system, this extension of the
Bank's normal 90-day limit for intermediation projects is justified. BEL will ensure compliance with
this 180-day limit. For the administration fee, the Bank will disburse 100% of the amount allocated
for this purpose.
5.02      For the technical assistance, the Bank will reimburse: 100% of expenditures for foreign
and local consultants (excluding taxes) and training; 100% of foreign expenditures for equipment
imported directly and 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment; and 75% of
expenditures for other equipment procured locally. Requests for disbursement against contracts
exceeding Rs 6.0 million (US$200,000 equivalent) and consultants' services exceeding US$100,000
will be fully documented, while disbursements for contracts below that amount will be made against
certified statements of expenditures for which appropriate documentation will be retained and made
available for Bank supervision. Withdrawal applications will be channeled through the AU. To
facilitate disbursement of TA, the GOP will establish two Special Accounts in US dollars with an
initial deposit of US$3.0 million for BEL and US$0.5 million for the SBP. BEL and SBP will submit
applications for replenishment of Special Accounts to the Bank on a monthly basis, or earlier, if the
accounts fall below 20% of their respective allocation.
B. Procurement
5.03      Procurement of goods and services will be carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines.
For the Loan component, the PFIs will be responsible for ensuring that procurement is undertaken in
accordance with practices followed under past and on-going intermediary operations that were
satisfactory. The PFIs will ensure that individual contracts for equipment and civil works valued at
US$5.0 million equivalent or above will be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
in accordance with Bank guidelines, which will cover contracts in an aggregate estimated amount of
US$60.0 million. For procurement of goods valued at less than US$5.0 million equivalent, sub-
projects' sponsors will be required to seek bids from qualified suppliers or contractors broad enough to
assure competitive prices, which will cover contracts of up to an aggregate estimated amount of
US$70.0 million. The PFIs will be required to ascertain the price of the lowest evaluated bids and
ensure that the goods are purchased at reasonable and competitive prices, with due consideration of
other relevant factors, such as time of delivery, quality and reliability of goods and availability of



- 32 -
maintenance facilities and spare parts. For smaller contracts, the PFIs will employ their existing
procurement procedures which have been reviewed based on acceptable commercial practices. In most
cases, machinery and equipment will be procured by obtaining at least three competitive quotations
from established sources. The PFIs will be required to maintain details of the procurement methods
used by sub-borrowers and to monitor the utilization of sub-loans through regular site supervision
visits. BEL staff and Bank field supervision missions will continue to review implementation of these
procedures. Taking into account the past experience of the PFis, the Bank will review (prior to
approval) all ICB contracts and the first two contracts awarded through private sector practices and
LCB procedures. All other contracts will be subject to a selective post-award basis.
Table 5: PROCUREMIENT ARRANGEMENTS'
(US$ millions)
Procurement Method
Project Elements                          ICB              LCB2            Other3            Total
Credit Component
Goods, Works & Services                   90.0          700.0            210.0              1,000.0
(60.0)        (70.0)           (70.0)              (200.0)
TA Component
Consultancies & Training
Capacity Building                                                        (4.9)                (4.9)
Studies & Evaluations                                                    (1.7)                (1.7)
Training, Study Tours
& Visiting Experts                                                      (1.0)                (1.0)
Project Preparation &
Implementation Support                                                  (1.7)                (1.7)
Sub-total Consultancies & Others                                           (9.3)                 (9.3)
Equipment                                                (3.0)            (1.0)                (4.0)
Unallocated                                                               (1.7)                (1.7)
Total TA Component                                         (3.0)           (12.0)               (15.0)
Administration Fee                                                         (1.0)                (1.0)
GRAND TOTAL                                900            703.0           223.0               1.016 0
(60.0)         (73.0)          (83.0)              (216.0)
Amounts in brackets are the Bank-financed components.
2 Local competitive bidding and other private sector practices.
3 Includes consultants' services. local shoi,ing. and administration Drocedures.
Source: The World Bank.
5.04        The selection of consultants will follow the Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency." The terms of reference and



- 33 -
appointment of all consultants will be subject to Bank approval. However, the provisions of the
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports, and contracts shall not apply to contracts
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent each for consultancy firms and US$50,000 for
individuals. This exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such
contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments of a
critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the
contract value to US$100,000 equivalent or above for consultancy firms and US$50,000 for
individuals. Contracts for goods under the TA component in packages not exceeding US$200,000 up
to an aggregate total amount of US$3.0 million, consisting of small items such as computers for
training, and facsimiles, etc., will be procured following local competitive procedures that are
acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for some goods costing less than US$50,000 per contract and not
exceeding US$1.0 million in the aggregate may be procured through local shopping. The
administration fee is an expenditure for which procurement is inapplicable.
C. Monitoiring, Reporting and Auditing
5.05      Under the proposed Project, BEL and SBP will report on the Project's performance. The
SBP will submit semi-annual reports on the interest rate structure; and progress reports on its technical
assistance component, as well as on policy conditions of the Project with most compliances to be met
one year after Credit effectiveness (or after one-third of the Credit proceeds have been committed,
whichever occurs first). BEL will submit a semi-annual report on sub-projects, PFIs and the other
technical assistance components. The reports will be an aggregation of the PFIs' semi-annual reports
which will cover training, lending, supervision, collection and arrears performance and portfolio data.
TA reports will summarize implementation progress on aspects outlined in agreed action programs,
steps to be taken during the next quarter and estimates of the impact of activities on employment,
productivity and exports. In addition, the AU will submit a semi-annual report on its own expenses.
Reports will have a form and content satisfactory to the Bank and be accompanied by an overall
review of the private sector investment environment in Pakistan. Quarterly reports will be submitted
within 45 days of the end of each quarter.
5.06      Assurances were obtained at Negotiations that SBP and BEL will prepare semi-annual
reports and submit these to the Bank, covering physical progress, costs, disbursements, administrative
and financial aspects, training, technical assistance, monitoring indicators and other pertinent
information, identifying constraints and proposed remedies. Monitoring indicators are shown in Annex
VIII. The timetable for implementation of the Project's institutional and policy measures is contained
in an Implementation Plan which is in a form suitable for monitoring progress based upon project
management software. During Negotiations, the GOP confirmed that project implementation will be
carried out in accordance with an Implementation Plan satisfactory to the Bank, which will be
reviewed semi-annually and updated in consultation with the Bank. The objectives and timing of
actions in the Implementation Plan were discussed and agreed at Negotiations. Policy actions required
during the first two years subsequent to project effectiveness were set out in detail and are included in
the Loan Agreement.
5.07      As a condition of participation under the proposed Project, PFIs will be required to submit
audited financial statements prepared by auditors acceptable to the Bank, complying with SBP
guidelines, within six months of the end of their fiscal year. The AU will coordinate the submission
of audited financial statements to the Bank. Additionally, the PFIs will submit audited Project
Accounts in a form satisfactory to the Bank, not later than six months after the close of each fiscal
year. All statements of expenditures, together with supporting documentation as well as the Special
Accounts would also be audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. Within six



- 34 -
months of Project completion, the GOP, SBP and BEL shall prepare a draft Implementation
Completion Reporting conforming to the Bank's guidelines.
5.08      Project supervision coefficients are expected to be somewhat above the Regional average
of 12 staffweeks because of the combination of complex policy and project components. The Project
is expected to require about 24 staffweeks per year supervision initially, to assist a timely project start
up, which would be reduced to about 16 staffweeks per year by the third year of Project
implementation. These estimates are based on the important policy measures and institutional reforms,
diversed investments and different types of participating lending institutions. A detailed supervision
plan is shown in Annex IX.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.01      The proposed Project will assist the GOP to further deepen and broaden the financial
sector through policy regulation, institutional reforms and necessary capacity building initiatives. It
will support efforts undertaken under FSAL of implementing an appropriate policy framework for the
financial sector, trimming the quasi-deficit, helping maintain the growth of private investment,
strengthening financial institutions and enhancing regulatory framework of securities markets and
insurance sector. The proposed Project will foster the use of new instruments, encourage financial
institutions to diversify their funding sources and release the pressure on the banking system. At
present, private sector investment in Pakistan is increasing rapidly, yet because of inadequacies in the
life insurance sector and uncertainty about inflation and nominal interest rates, the financial sector has
not been successful in mobilizing a significant volume of term resources. The Project will therefore
reduce a financing gap and encourage development of new financial instruments. The Project will
complement the GOP's efforts to improve financial sector efficiency. It will also play a role in
helping improve the environmental protection measures for sub-projects.
B. Risks
6.02      The risks are in accordance with the nature of the proposed Project. The primary risks are
twofold: the risks related to the policy component, and those related to the lending component. The
risks of the policy component are: (i) a lack of fiscal discipline, which could put upward pressure on
inflation and nominal interest rates, crowd out private investment, raise the budget deficit and lead to
reimposition of caps on Treasury-bill rates discouraging financial institutions from mobilizing
resources for term financing; (ii) political opposition from defaulters to the establishment of measures
to improve loan recovery; and (iii) the slippage in the technical assistance to strengthen SBP's and
other regulators' capacity to oversee the safety of financial institutions. However, experience indicates
that most of the above risks will be reduced because of the macroeconomic measures that the
Government has agreed to implement under the ESAF and EFF with the IMF and the Bank under the
PSAL. All the needed measures are set out in the PFP FY93/94-95/96. Furthermore, technical
assistance will be provided to help ensure the timely implementation of these critical measures.
Therefore, prompt implementation actions will be undertaken to ensure timely and efficient progress of
the technical assistance and capacity building objectives. The risk of the line of credit component is
that an adequate number of eligible sub-projects might not materialize due to shortage of eligible PFIs
and/or uncertainties and absence of continued improvements needed to support a strong investment
climate including a sound macroeconomic framework. The GOP has taken a number of steps to
remove controls inhibiting private developments. Furthermore, projects on-hand and in the pipelines
of potential PFIs indicate credit demand substantially in excess of the amount proposed for the Project.
Technical assistance will also be provided for strengthening of Fls and help the GOP implement an



- 35 -
appropriate policy framework for the financial sector which is expected to alleviate demand side
problems of implementation.
VII. AGREEMENTS. CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During Negotiations, the GOP and the implementing agencies agreed on the following:
o  Conditions of PFIs participation, including compliance with provisioning requirement
on non-performing loans, collection ratios, profitability and capital adequacy, etc.,
(paras 4.10-4.11);
o  On-lending terms and conditions, sub-project eligibility criteria and financing
arrangements for the line of credit component (paras 4.12-4.16);
o  The form and content of the Participation Agreements between the GOP and the PFIs
(para 4.15) and Subsidiary Grant Agreement between SBP and the GOP, and
Administration Agreement between BEL and the GOP regarding its role as
Administrator (para 4.29);
o  Responsibilities and obligations of the AU, including compensation for its operations,
its reporting requirements vis-a-vis the Bank and the GOP (para 4.29);
o  Terms of reference of consultants and studies under the various technical assistance of
SBP, CLA, Cl, DFIs, PC and BEL (paras 4.18-4.29);
o  Procedures for procurement, disbursement, sub-project review, reporting, technical
assistance component (paras 5.01-5.08, 4.18-4.28); and
o  The Implementation Plan of the Project including actions to be taken during the first
and second review (para 5.06).
7.02      The following are conditions of Loan Effectiveness:
o Signing of the Participation Agreement and all conditions of Effectiveness thereof have
been satisfied between the GOP and at least one eligible PFI (para 4.15);
o  Hiring of consultants for the DFI sector and term lending studies (para 4.26);
o  Setting up a satisfactory timetable by the financial advisor for privatization of one
NCB and carrying out actions which have fallen due under such timetable before
Effectiveness Date (para 4.27);
o  Hiring of consultants for determination of framework for privatizing remaining NCBs
and evaluation of State Life (para 4.27);
o  Establishment of AU, development of its policies and procedures and hiring of its staff
including environment experts and the banking/credit manager (para 4.29); and
o  Signing of an Administration Agreement between the GOP and BEL and Subsidiary
Grant Agreement between the GOP and SBP (para 4.29).



- 36 -
7.03      Conditions of Disbursement under the Technical Assistance component are:
For SBP
o  Hiring of consultants for off-site supervision and on-site examination (para 4.19).
a  Hiring of consultants for the ISSP study (para 4.22).
For CLA
o  Hiring of consultants for the ISSP study (para 4.24).
O Implementation of the securities wing (para 4.24).
O  Hiring of long-term specialist for securities wing (para 4.24).
For CI
o Hiring of a long-term specialist (para 4.25).
o Effective functioning of Advisory Board (para 4.25).
O Allocation of an adequate budget for Cl (para 4.25).
7.04      There will be two interim reviews at which the GOP and the Bank would exchange views
on the progress towards policy and institutional reforms as described in para 4.04 and Annex V. New
commitments would be stopped if satisfactory progress on reforms is not made.
7.05      The proposed Project is a suitable basis for a Loan of US$216.0 million equivalent to the
Islamic Republic of Pakistan.



- 37 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEEPENING AND INTERMEDIATION PROJECT
COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL DEPTH
M2/ GNP
100%
90%
80%
20%
c
u       60%
50%
40%                                           ; 
50%
2096
196                      I 0 9 6    l
80         82         04         B6         89         90          92
Year
Ca  Pakistan   +  Indonesla   o  Philippines  A  Malaysia   x  Thai land
V  SinQapore
SA3CI
June 1994



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEEPENING AND INTERMEDIATION PROJECT
INFLATION IN PAKISTAN
Quarter   y   IQnfldtion
0 26
0 24 -
0: 22 -
0 2
0 18
0 16
D  14
0 12
N       0 1
0 08
a006
0 04-
0 02
0
- 0 02
- 0 04                                                        I      I
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   199 3
Year and CQuarter
El CPI  -    Tr endi
SA3CI
June 1994



- 39 -
ANNEX MI
Page 1 of 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEEPENING AND INTERMEDIATION PROJECT
DEBT RECOVERY: A PROGRAM OF JUDICIAL AND LEGAL REFORMS, AND
PROPOSED TERMS OF REFERENCE OF TASK FORCE
1.        The Government of Pakistan is of the view that, in order to improve the environment for
debt recovery and thereby boost the prospects of private sector development in the country, a program
of judicial and legal reforms should be undertaken. To that end, the GOP has decided to establish a
Task Force, consisting of senior officials of the Ministries of Finance and Justice, the State Bank of
Pakistan and the Pakistan Banking Council, representatives of the Special Banking Courts and the
Banking Tribunals and the representatives of the banking and business communities and the bar, to
consider relevant proposals and to make specific recommendations for such reforms, to prepare an
action plan (setting forth a time-frame, both long- and short-term) for canying them out; and to draft
the terms of reference for, and oversee the work of, the various committees (see paragraph below)
proposed to be established to prepare the necessary legislation, rules and regulations for submission to
Parliament or any other appropriate authority to implement the reforms. The Task Force is expected
to complete its work and to submit its report to the GOP by September 1994.
2.        In carrying out its work, the Task Force will be guided by the consideration that the
program of reforms to be considered, and the action plan to be proposed for this purpose by it, should
have for their objectives at least the following:
(a)   The adoption of legislation to open up the membership of the BTs, and possibly
also of the SBCs, to non-legal persons, including bankers and financial experts,
whose qualifications and experience are of relevance to the work of such courts and
tribunals;
(b)   The presentation of service with SBCs and BTs as an excellent career opportunity
for highly qualified and experienced mid-career professionals, and, to that end, the
establishment of an appointments committee in the Ministry of Justice, with
appropriate membership and staff and material support, to redefine the qualifications
and experience to be required of candidates for appointment to SBCs and BTs, and
to review the pay and privileges of SBC and BT members;
(c)   The adoption of a rule for the Ministry of Justice to fill vacancies in SBCs and BTs
within a specified time-limit, arid, to that end, the establishment in the Ministry of a
pre-approved panel of suitable candidates to choose from;
(d)  The recommendation of an adequate budget to enable the Ministry of Justice to
finance suitable premises, support staff and office and other equipment for SBCs
and BTs over the next three years;
(e)   The recommendation of a suitable training program for adoption by the Ministry of
Justice for SBC and BT members, which would provide the legal members an
appropriate degree of financial and banking training, the non-legal members some
legal training, and all of the opportunities to stay abreast of relevant developments
both within and outside the country;



- 40 -
ANNEX HI
Page 2 of 2
(f)   The establishment in the Ministry of Justice of a procedures committee, with
appropriate membership and staff and material support, to prepare legislation to
replace the Civil Procedure Code with a set of summary procedures especially
designed for SBCs and BTs, which would give them complete control over their
proceedings, from the filing of the application to the execution of the order, and
which incorporate rules making it mandatory for SBCs and BTs, in certain
circumstances, to refuse to entertain applications for adjournment and to punish
repeated attempts at delaying proceedings by awarding "heavy" costs against the
guilty party;
(g)   The establishment of an inter-ministerial committee, chaired by the Ministry of
Justice, to examine the feasibility of instituting an exclusive system of bailiffs and
special police for SBCs and BTs and, in addition thereto or as a substitute therefore,
a system of professional credit and collection agencies in the private sector, and to
draft the necessary legislation, rules and regulations in this connection;
(h)   The establishment in the Ministry of Justice of a standing legal reform committee,
with appropriate membership and staff and material support, to consider changes
that may be required to be made from time to time in the law relevant to the
banking and financial sectors and to draft the necessary legislation, rules and
regulations, beginning immediately with the reform of the transfer of property,
stamp duty and registration laws, with focus on: (i) reforming the Land
Registration Offices so that title to land can be checked quickly, reliably and
efficiently; (ii) making it mandatory for banks and other financial institutions to
carry out title checks and to prepare loan documentation to a minimum standard
before accepting any property as security for debt; (iii) establishing professional title
companies in the private sector to offer their services to banks and others to carry
out such title checks; (iv) reducing the registration fees and stamp duties on
mortgages; (v) making the registration of instruments, including mortgages, effective
from the date of registration; (vi) empowering courts to appoint independent
managers for properties whose preservation as collateral for debt is threatened; (vii)
enabling the rise of a class of professional managers in the private sector whose
services would be available for this last purpose; and (viii) promoting the use of
forns of collateral other than real estate; and
(i)   The preparation by the legal reform committee referred to in (h) above of specific
proposals: (a) to reconstitute SBCs and BTs into an unified system of banking
courts, with its own hierarchy of first instance and appellate courts; and (b) to
provide for alternative methods of dispute resolution.
SA3CI
June 1994



- 41 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4
w BX1 '. A. Jafaray,
Adviser to the Prime Minister
on Finance and Economic Affairs.
Phone:051 -210928
_- -          28 Septembr IS 94
No.F.7(I)-Inv.II/93-
Dear Mr. Preston,
For a number of years the Government of Pakistan has been
engaged in a systematic and wide-ranging policy reform program
involving improving macroeconomic performance, deregulation of the
economy, and privatization of state-owned firms. Portions of this
program have been supported by World Bank adjustment operations,
namely the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan and the Public Sector
Adjustment Loan.
2.        The Government of Pakistan is committed to promoting a
healthy, market-oriented   financIal  system that  can  allocate
investment resources and spread risk in the most efficient and
equitable manner. To that end a number of reforms have been carried
out such as, giving greater autonomy to the State Bank of Pakistan,
strengthening prudential regulation of commercial banks, extending
prudential regulations to'non-bank financial institutions, having
privatized two commercial banks and being in the process of
privatizing two more, eliminating credit ceilings, establishing an
auction of treasury bills, limiting the volume of subsidized and
directed credit, reducing the degree of concessionality in
subsidized -redit and eliminating foreign exchange cover, and
opening up the capital account. A program of monetary, fiscal and
trade policy reforms is being supported by the International
Monetary Fund under ESAF.
3.        Notwithstanding the strides made thus far in financial
sector reform, the Government of Pakistan plans to continue the
reform process in order to address a number of important remaining
issues. These would be as follows:
(a) S8P will carry out a program to contain the flows
of credit to the private sector through financial
intermediaries to a level corresponding to overall
increase in private sector credit. Furthermore, the
rate of return at which SBP lends these funds will
be linked to the returns on treasury bills. By
August 1997 the rate in general will be brought at
par with the treasury bill rate.



- 42 -                        ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4
(b)  SBP is moving towards indirect control of monetary
and credit aggregates principally through open
market operations. T7 facilitate this process, the
Government  of  Pakistan  will  begin  to  issue
quarterly   estimates   of   its   sales  of  debt
instruments to the public through auction. So long
as non-price mechanisms of monetary control, such
as credit deposit ratio, continue to be used, SBP
will  take  steps  'o  ensure  that  they  do  not
discriminate    among    classes   of    financial
intermediaries and among non-governmental users of
credit.
(c)  In order  to  promote  competition  and  the  most
efficient provision of financial services taxation,
prudential regulations, and other rules applying to
financial institutions and instruments will be
progressively adjusted to create a level playing
field. To that end S8P is carrying out a study to
apply prudential regulations by activity rather
than by type of institution. Covernment has decided
not. to issue any new debt instruments with tax
exemptions. Government intends to phase out the tax
exemptions  of all financial firms by July 1996,
except joint ventures in which tax exemption is
established by treaty and the dividend income of
mutual funds and modarabas acting as mutual funds.
The privileged access of NIT to now corporate
equity issues will also be reduced gradually and
compulsory reinsurance and right of first refusal
of PlC will be phased out over a period of 3 to 5
years.
(d)  Prudential  regulations of financial  institutions
will   continue  to  be  strengthened  and  their
appl'catlon is being made more effective. To this
end, maximum exposure of a financial institution to
a group of related airms will be defined and
applied in a phased manner. SBP has prepared a
program to require all NBFIs including DFIs, over
time, to provision for non-performing loans and to
suspend interest according to the same rules as
applying to commercial banks. At an appropriate
time, when financial institutions have been further
strengthened, all financial institutions will be
required to publish audited financial information
prepared according to internationally recognized
standards. SBP will prepare a program to require
all financial institutions over time to meot
capital adequacy standards defined according to
risk weighted assets.
(e)  Sa far the financial system had not been able to
provide significant amounts of long-term credit. To



- 43 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4
correct this deficiency the Government will carry
out a study to identify the major obstacles
discouraging financial institutions in providing
long-term credit, including interest rate controls,
loan recovery problems, and any legal or regulatory
deterrent to firms' and financial institutions'
issuing floating rate and fixed rate long-term debt
instruments. Bottlenecks so identified will be
removed.  Investment   rules  governing  insurance
companies will be reviewed to encourage these
institutions to invest in prudent levels of private
sector equity and debt instruments. Government will
review desirability of issuing long-term variable
rate debt instruments.
(f)  Securities markets, particularly equities markets
have developed markedly in Pakistan in recent
years. Nevertheless, several additional measures
will be undertaken to promote a deeper and more
competitive market. The Corporate Law Authority
will be reorganized to create an independent wing
to administer securities regulations. CLA will
review ways  of  promoting  issue  and  trading  of
corporate   debt,   including   convertible   bond
instruments and to create the environment for
trading in commodities futures contracts. CLA will
allow 'irms issuing securities full freedom to
price  those  securities  and  will  promote  the
development of an over-the-counter equities market.
(9)  The failure of financial  institutions to recover
their loans, especially long-term loans has been
due in part to shortcomings in the legal system.
The Government has already increased the number of
Banking Tribunals (and has decided to combine the
funct'on of the Special Banking Courts and the
Banking Tribunals in the same persons, wherever
necessary).   In  add-tion,   the  Government   has
established a Task Force to examine ways of
overcoming the shortcomings of the system of debt
recovery, and in particular, of improving the legal
environment for such recovery, and will carry out
its recommendations as considered appropriate.
(h)  The  Government  is  undertaking  a  comprehensive
program of technical assistance, including both
consultants' services, training and equipment, for
SBP, CLA and CI to strengthen their ability to
promote a more competitive and efficient financial
system.
4.        In the context of these developments, the Government of
Pakistan would like to request the World Bank to provide a credit



- 44 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4
'ine of US$ 216.0 million, including a component for technical
assistance, for long-term project financing. The line of credit
will be used to finance industrial projects through eligible
private and public sector financial intermediaries on the basis of
a counter guarantee from the approved financial institutions.
5.        Government of Pakistan will look forward for an early
response from the World Bank to the proposal.
With best regards,
Yours sincerely,
VIA. ~Jafarey~
Adviser to the Prime Minister
on Finance and Economic Affairs
Mr. Lewis Preston,
President,
The World Bank,
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEEPENING AND INTERMEDIATION PROJECT
MATRIX OF PROPOSED POLICY ACTIONS
POLICY AREA               ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                      FIRST INTERIM REVIEW                      SECOND INTERIM REVIEW
(lst Quarter 1996)                         (lst Quarter 1997)
MACROECONOMIC
Fiscal Cost of SBP Operations   o  Raised interest rates on LMM and   o  Minimum SBP lending rate to Fl of no     o  Minimum SBP lending rate to Fl at
export credits.                      more than 3 percentage points below           least equal to T-bill rate.
l  Eliminated SBP provision of           average T-bill rate.
short-term foreign exchange      o  Promote ability of private markets to
cover.                               provide foreign exchange risk coverage of
medium-term loans.
Monetary/Credit Management   .  Replaced bank-by-bank credit                                                      o  Complete shift from CDR to indirect
ceilings with CDRs.                                                                methods.
o  Established market for T-bills.
Foreign Exchange Deposits                                            o  Price foreign exchange cover to reduce
attractiveness of FED.
SECTOR
Level Playing Field                                                 .  Carry out a study and on the basis of the  o  Review the implementation of the
recommendations thereof, as agreed with      plan agreed during the first interim
the Bank, develop and implement a plan       and agree on taking further necessary
for regulating Fls by activity and, in       action to narrow down differences in
particular, prescribe liquidity ratios for   income taxation of financial and non-
NBFIs compatible with those applying to      financial firms.
bank in regards to foreign exchange and
other deposits.
Prudential Regulations            Brought NBFIs under prudential        Define minimum capitalization of banks in   o  Define minimum capitalization of
regulation.                          relation to risk-weighted assets and         NBFIs in relation to risk-weighted
develop a program to achieve compliance.     assets and develop a program to
achieve compliance.



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
POLICY AREA              ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                     FIRST INTERIM REVIEW                    SECOND INTERIM REVIEW
l_______________________                                                     (1st Quarter 1996)                       (1st Quarter 1997)
Insurance Sector                                                  .  Increase minimum capital for general and    .  Further reduce required reinsurance
life insurance companies.                  with PIC.
v  Empower Controller of Insurance to      o  Review the exercise of rate-setting by
regulate state-owned companies.            Insurance Association of Pakistan
with a view of phasing out the
_____________________                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~system.
Promote Long-Term Finance                                         .  Government to review desirability of     *  Initiate the Action Program.
issuing long-term variable rate debt
instruments.
.  Draw an action program in the light of the
review.
Securities Markets           o  Eliminate restrictions on non-    a  Reduce NIT privileged access to new        Complete a study of the possibility of
resident holding debt securities   issues in a phased manner.                  creating a regulatory environment to
and equities.                   .  Take measures to promote the                facilitate trading of commodities,
establishment of investor protection funds.  foreign exchange, stock futures.
o  Take measures to promote incorporation of  o  Regulate insider trading.
individual members and ensure that
individuals and corporate members have
adequate capital.
o  Enhance disclosure of information.
INSTITUTIONAL                                                     o  GOP/Bank review of options study,           Initiate program for restructuring of
Insurance Sector                                                     decision on modalities for restructuring of  State Life and PIC.
State Life/PlC.
Securities Markets                                                .  Study the desirability of establishing an
over-the-counter equities market.
o  Commencement of operations of securities
regulation wing.
NBFIs                                                             .  Complete study of long-term lending     .  Commence execution of DFI Action
problems.                                  Plans.
o  Complete study of DFIs.
Strengthening Loan Recovery      Established a task force on legal    o  Take measures to implement the first phase  o  Continue reform program (e.g., carry
framework for loan recovery.        of the reforms recommended by the task     out recommendations of Task Force
force (e.g., completion of work of         follow-up committees).
appointments and procedures committees).



- 47 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 19
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEEPENING AND INTERMEDIATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
1.        The technical assistance of the FSDIP aims at helping the GOP strengthen, broaden and
deepen the financial sector by improving the capacities of key Fls through appropriate institution
building and training programs and consolidating and making further progress on institutional
development programs initiated under FSAL. Therefore, technical assistance will be provided to the
following institutions or in the following areas: (i) SBP; (ii) CLA; (iii) DFls; (iv) Controller of
Insurance; (v) study for privatization of GOP-owned institutions; and (vi) BEL for establishment of an
administrative unit and monitoring of environment standards. A detailed report on each component of
the technical assistance could be found in the Project's file.
Table 1: SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE UNDER THE PROJECT
(US$ 000)
FY95        FY96         FY97        FY98        FY99       TOTAL
State Bank' 2           225.0      1,926.0      2,027.0     1,050.0       125.0      5,353.0
Capital Markets
Development' (CLA)      140.0      1,030.0      1,200.0        0.0         0.0      2,370.0
Insurance Sector
Development' (Cl)        0.0        860.0       1,000.0      265.0         0.0      2,125.0
PC'                       0.0        900.0        500.0         0.0         0.0      1,400.0
DFIs'                     0.0      1,000.0         0.0          0.0         0.0      1,000.0
BEL3                    127.0        550.0        200.0       125.0        50.0      1,052.0
Unallocated               0.0         0.0         600.0       600.0       500.0      1,700.0
TOTAL                   492.0      6,266.0      5,527.0     2.040.0       675.0     15,000.0
' Institutional development.
2 Policy support.
Project administration and implementation.
I. THE STATE BANK OF PAKISTAN
2.         There is an urgent need to strengthen the SBP function as regulator and supervisor within
an increasingly complex financial sector. In particular, the SBP faces challenges through: (i) a
rapidly growing financial sector in terms of volume and institutions involved; (ii) increasing technical
sophistication on the side of the institutions to be supervised; (iii) stronger mandate to monitor and
enforce complex monetary and credit control requirements; (iv) introduction of new prudential
regulations; and (v) development of a myriad of new lending mechanisms and deposit schemes. As
adequate regulations are largely in place (with the exception of limits on credit exposure to groups and
asset based capital requirement) the focus of this technical assistance component is on improving the
enforcement of regulations in a timely and effective way. In view of implementing the new prudential
regulations the technical assistance component for supervision of the commercial and NBFI sectors
will improve the capacities of: (i) on-site inspections; (ii) off-site supervision; (iii) a training program
for examination and supervision staff; and (iv) office automation and upgrading of the library.



- 48 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 19
3.         The current period of rapid change has increased the challenges facing the SBP in its role
as the regulator and supervisor of the banking sector. The SBP is mandated as the nation's central
bank to promulgate and enforce regulations regarding the financial sector. The SBP has the authority
and responsibility to supervise and examine for regulatory compliance and soundness the local and
intemational operations of listed banks as well as the NBFIs. Under the latest set of prudential
regulations virtually all Fls in Pakistan have now been "scheduled" and are subject to SBP regulations
with the major exception of 2 regional banks (Punjab Bank and Khyber Bank). The SBP must now
effectively supervise about 35 separate banks with over 7,500 branches spread throughout the country;
the NBFIs and modarabas, a growing number of international branches of the local banks and foreign
banks with branches in Pakistan.
4.         The task before the SBP is a daunting one as they must meet the challenge of performing
an increasingly difficult level of duties with minimal resources and inadequate staffing levels. It has
also become apparent that the level of technical sophistication among the private banks and the
specialized operations of modarabas is rapidly outpacing the abilities of the SBP's inspection staff.
This is particularly true in the areas of computerization of accounts and the creation of complicated
loan structures which can easily cover up actual credit quality problems. As the regulator, the SBP
must be able to enforce prudential regulations as well as monitor the performance of this mixture of
Fls and recommend disciplinary and preventative actions. Additionally, the SBP must also monitor
compliance of the GOP's requirement that 40% of a bank's non-contingent liabilities are held in cash
or govemment bonds as well as the CDR. There are currently about 55 monetary and credit control
requirements. Although the SBP does conduct a steady stream of on-site examinations (currently
scheduled on an annual basis), they have been unable to keep pace with the growth of the system and
the myriad of new lending mechanisms and deposit schemes which they must understand well enough
to adequately audit and supervise. As a result the SBP needs a technical assistance program to help
strengthen its capacity to perform its vital functions as banking regulator and supervisor within an
increasingly complex financial system. The table below provides a summary of technical assistance
cost.
Table 2: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR THE STATE BANK OF PAKISTAN
(US$ 000)
FY95        FY96         FY97        FY98        FY99     TOTAL
Banking Supervision and
Payment Systems
Long-term Advisors             0.0       400.0        400.0          0.0        0.0       800.0
Equipment                      0.0         0.0        500.0          0.0        0.0       500.0
Visiting Experts             100.0       180.0          0.0          0.0        0.0       280.0
Training                      25.0       100.0          0.0          0.0        0.0       125.0
Sub-total                       125.0       680.0        900.0          0.0        0.0      1,705.0
Automation
Equipment                      0.0       500.0        500.0        500.0        0.0      1,500.0
Consultants                  100.0       525.0        500.0        500.0      125.0      1,750.0
Training                       0.0       100.0        100.0         50.0        0.0       250.0
Sub-total                       100.0      1,125.0      1,100.0      1,050.0     125.0      3,500.0
Libnry Equipment                  0.0       121.5         26.5          0.0        0.0       148.0
TOTAL                           225.0      1.926.5      2.026.5      1050.0      125.0      53S3.0



- 49 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 19
A. On-site Examinations
5.        On-site examinations of the commercial banks and NBFIs are the responsibility of the
Banking Inspection Department. This department is the largest of the banking control groups in the
SBP but it is still woefully understaffed with only 66 employees. Plans are underway to increase the
staffing by an additional 35 people (mostly recently graduated); however the acute problem of fielding
a sufficient number of qualified examination teams to prudently cover the extensive financial system
remains. With the continued increase in the number of newly licensed commercial banks, NBFIs, and
particularly modarabas, the bank examiners will be hard pressed to meet the current mandated
inspection rate of once a year. It is feared that the already weak level of examination quality will
further deteriorate as examiners are pressed to meet production quotas rather than concentrate on
quality and meaningful examinations.
6.        The ability of the Bank Inspection Department has been impacted by the recent
promulgation of new regulations as they relate to such areas as classifications of assets, loan arrears,
concentrations of credit, provisioning and the shift from credit ceiling limitations towards a capital
adequacy based requirement. These developments test the skills of the examiners and require an
improved level of understanding of advanced examination techniques. It is apparent that overall
examination practices must be improved to better assess the asset quality and solvency of the Fls.
7.        The content of the examinations must also become more dynamic in nature instead of the
current "snapshot" program that merely notes a bank's financial position at a point in time. Too often
the examiners are only performing basic audit activities such as confirming transactions and
reconciling accounts to various ledgers. Greater emphasis on examination techniques that target such
causes of possible loss as the classification of loan assets, adequate provisions, procedures for the
suspension of interest on non-performing assets and capital adequacy must be introduced. Any
improvement in the style of the examinations performed will require an on-the-job training program
which provides examiners with the tools to better appraise an institution's ongoing systems measuring
credit exposures and risk management, and credit administration. Furthermore, the staff have
expressed their concern regarding their ability to properly perform their job in an environment in
which the Fls are becoming increasingly computerized. They find it difficult to understand and even
trust the accuracy of the data which is being presented to them on computerized printouts as they are
not trained in the software systems employed by the banks. This situation is complicated by the
introduction of new prudential regulations, which while proper in their own right, have caused
confusion in actual reporting formats. As many of the commercial banks are now utilizing
internationally designed computerized accounting systems, there is a strong need for the examiners to
receive in-house training in these systems in order to fully understand the operations of the banks they
audit.
8.        Given the current situation as well as the ongoing and future needs of the Banking
Inspection Department, the technical assistance program will consist of an advisor for a period of two
years. US$400,000 will be allocated to finance the advisor. The advisor will provide direct advice
and training for the staff. It will be an experienced bank examiner who will accompany SBP
inspectors on actual examinations and develop a working relationship with the examination teams in
order to achieve the effective implementation of his recommendations. The long-term advisor will
develop and improve the on-site examination capabilities and procedures for the commercial banking
sector. He will advise on methodology and techniques, as well as on updated analysis and
examination methodologies. He will coordinate his efforts with SBP's senior management and key
personnel in related SBP departments as well as with the other advisors. An important task will be the
revision of the existing examinations manual to include modem methodologies to be implemented.



- 50 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 19
B. Off-site Supervision
9.        The Banking Control Department is responsible for the off-site supervision of the entire
financial system. They perform their monitoring activities through the gathering of numerous
statistical reports which are supposed to be submitted by the various institutions on a regular basis.
This Department is also understaffed, in terms of the number of qualified professionals who have the
necessary levels of experience and ability to analyze the data received and prepare useful information
for management. In general, the off-site supervision functions have been inadequate. Reports from
banks are not checked for accuracy and some FIs submitted self-serving statistics without being
questioned. In many cases this may be a result of the burden imposed upon the banks and NBFIs by
the required reports themselves, which are considered by many to be overly detailed and non-
functional in nature.
10.       The off-site supervision has not been effective because the department has focused its
efforts in monitoring compliance with static ratio requirements in such areas as bank liquidity,
mandatory lending targets, capital adequacy and regulated credit ceilings. While these statistics are in
themselves important, they rapidly lose their usefulness as they are submitted; analyzed and
promulgated as long as six months after the fact; consequently, the Department has not fulfilled the
role of a proactive and efficient bank supervision agency. It needs to move away from analysis of
statistical inputs and statistics ratio and balance sheet calculations to an analysis that provides critical
financial data for early warning against bank failure. The systems will be based on regular reports
from banks and provide the critical financial data that concems the quality of a bank's loan portfolio
and includes a series of useful risk and performance measurements. Concentration should be
refocused on the ability to recognize financial and management problems early on, and the
development of an integrated system that allows regulators to take the proper intervention steps when
an institution does get into trouble.
H1.       An efficient and productive off-site supervision must be developed. Therefore, the
technical assistance would help the Bank Control Department strengthen its ability to conduct more
sophisticated "what-if' type of analyses, develop an early waming system to detect negative trends
among the various FIs, prepare meaningful reports on industry trends and integrate its findings through
the SBP system; and to a certain degree, the public. It is most important that the work of the CIB
becomes an integral part of the supervisory reports submitted to SBP management and inspectors. The
technical assistance would consist of a long-term advisor for a period of two years. US$400,000 will
be allocated to finance the cost of the advisor. The long-term resident advisor will develop and
improve the SBP's capacity in off-site supervision techniques in its own right and as an input into the
on-site examination program of all Fls. This advisor will work closely with the CIB to further
integrate this department's efforts into the SBP system and will be the principal author of an updated
operating manual for the supervision of the commercial banking sector, NBFIs and modarabas.
C. Training Program
12.       The establishment of a formal training program to advance the professional capabilities of
the SBP staff and complement the work of the two resident advisors is considered to be a key element
of the technical assistance program. There is a fundamental need for the creation of a broad-based
practical training program in virtually all of the skill areas which must be mastered by the examination
and supervision staff of the SBP. The training program will consist of local as well as overseas
training--including visit/secondment of senior staff to other central banks.
13.       Examiners and supervisors will be trained in financial analysis, credit risk, loan portfolio
quality assessment techniques, computerization and automated auditing procedures. The achievable



- 51 -
ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 19
targets for examiners completing a formalized training program will therefore emphasize the ability to
analyze the true financial condition of the institutions being studied and assess their future liquidity,
solvency and profitability.
14.       The basic goals for SBP staff participating in the training program will include:
(a)   Reach a thorough understanding of appropriate bank and FT examination objectives;
(b)   Perform technically correct and thorough financial examinations;
(c)   Produce sound and complete examination reports;
(d)   Gain an understanding of modem financial concepts in order to adequately analyze
the management and operations of the institutions they supervise; and
(e)   Analyze and report on the quality of an institution's loan portfolio, the adequacy of
loan provisions and the soundness of loan management systems.
Visiting experts will be financed to facilitate review of managerial and staffing arrangements. The
total cost would be US$390,000 of which US$280,000 for the visiting experts and US$110,000 for
overseas training. The initial task will be to work with the appropriate SBP staff, including the
management of the Bank's training institute, to properly design the most useful set of courses; taking
into consideration the training already received by certain staff members and the most pressing staff
training needs as perceived by the SBP management.
D. Payments System
15.       The check clearing system is the centerpiece of the payments system, although other
payments arrangements, such as telegraphic transfers are available. At present clearing occurs at 10
branches of the SBP and a number of branches of the National Bank of Pakistan. By most standards,
clearing times are reasonable. At each clearing point, clearing takes place daily with dishonored
checks to be retumed later that day after funds are available to those lodging the check. It takes only
2 or 3 days for checks to be cleared between the major clearing centers, not long by usual standards
for check clearing. Reports of delays in transferring value appear to refer to the time taken for checks
to be sent, commonly by mail, by the drawer to the payee. At present the clearing process is a
manually intensive and sizeable operation. It would be necessary to automize the operation. The
Bank will provide US$500,000 to finance the hardware and software required to improve the payments
system. US$15,000 will be allocated for overseas training for staff.
E. Automation
16.       The SBP requires up-to-date and accurate information on a variety of aspects related to the
financial and associated sectors for the performance of its duties as the central bank of the country and
therefore makes considerable use of computers for the provision of this information to management.
Computer based systems were first introduced in the SBP in 1968 with the installation of an ICL 1900
machine. ,In 1980 an ICL 2903-40 replaced the ICL 1900 and subsequently a ME 29 computer was
introduced as part of a partial upgrade carried out in 1989. The ME 29 computer is now being used
to its maximum capacity. The SBP ha, developed a large number of application systems. A majority
of these applications relate to compiling reports based on periodic returns received from the GOP, and
other related GOP agencies. In addition, several administrative functions have also been
computerized. A small Data Processing (DP) unit manages and operates the computer and application



- 52 -
ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 19
systems. It employs 14 higher level technical staff (including the managers). At present very limited
use is made of personal computers and office automation technology. There are no computer facilities
in the SBP regional offices.
17.       Furthermore, in 1989, the central DP unit set up a separate computer center for the CIB to
maintain information on FIs. The CIB operates a small IBM AS/400-20 computer and employs 4
professional and technical staff. It maintains a database on major creditors and responds to queries
from the GOP and the private sector. The hardware and software environment allows rapid
application development and query processing and is adequate for its specific and focused information
requirement. However, in view of the rapid growth in information requests, the CIB is now facing
capacity limitation and requires an upgrade in the hardware capacity.
18.       An analysis of existing application systems and technology shows that the information
processing methodologies and computer hardware and software environment are outmoded and
inefficient. The present application systems have been developed in response to specific end user
requests. As a result, the information systems are disparate and segmented, do not take into account
critical information interrelationships and have little or no capacity for sharing data. They may be
viewed as very useful for some specific and limited end user needs but are inadequate and provide
incomplete coverage particularly for managerial information requirements, that normally span several
functional areas, and also from the overall organizational information requirements point of view.
19.       The technology employed mitigates against provision of timely information and the current
information technology (IT) environment cannot support the information requirements of a large
organization like the SBP. All application systems are file based and have been programmed in third
generation languages such as COBOL, FORTRAN, ALGOL, etc., and mostly employ a batch mode of
processing. No use is made of Database Management Systems (DBMS) or modem application
development tools (4 GLs). As a result, application systems development productivity is low and
more importantly end users have no direct access to data contained in the databases. They have to
rely on the central DP unit to process specific information queries. Since the DP unit does not have
modem query processing facilities, tum around time for information requests is high. Because of the
virtual absence of microcomputers, SBP has not been able to achieve the type of efficiencies available
from the use of office technology and basic analytical tools like spreadsheets, graphics packages, etc.
20.       Since present staff experience is largely limited to batch and file based applications SBP
would need to undertake a significant upgradation exercise for its technical staff and also recruit
additional trained staff. Key skills required are: (i) technical skills in the use of modem application
development tools, such as DBMS' Fourth Generation Languages and other modem application
development tools, report writers, query languages, etc., and on-line systems; (ii) knowledge of OPEN
systems architectures and associated technologies; (iii) LAN and client server technologies; (iv) project
management skills for development of large organization-wide application systems; and (v) modem IT
strategy planning and IT resource management methodologies. Since very limited use is being made
of PCs and office automation software, the associated skills are also virtually non-existent and would
need to be introduced organization-wide. This would require a substantial training program for end
users in the use of microcomputers and associated technologies.
21.       The SBP requires its hardware and software to be replaced as part of a major upgrade
program to respond to the changes ahead. However, to ensure that investments envisaged will lead to
desired results, the upgrades in the technology and skills capacity would need to be defined and driven
by the information requirements of the fundamental business processes that SBP has to perform to
carry out its mission, achieve its objectives, and plan and organize its work programs. The pace of



- 53 -
ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 19
implementation of the technical assistance program would need to be closely monitored and matched
to the absorptive capacity for new technology and organizational change at SBP.
22.       To achieve the above objectives, SBP would first need to conduct an ISSP study to be
carried out over a period of about 4-6 months. In particular, the consultants will need to be fully
conversant with the working and functional processes associated with central banks. This study would
require intensive involvement from SBP management and their support and involvement will be the
critical success factor for the automatization. The ISSP would identify priority applications on the
basis of need and opportunity as determined by SBP management. It would estimate the cost and time
required for implementation of the systems and the specific items of hardware and software that would
need to be acquired. It would include an implementation plan and suggest a phasing of activities in
accordance with management priorities and the absorptive capacity of the organization. In particular,
it would identify areas of maximum opportunity and tasks which should be carried out to address
immediate needs and those for longer term requirements. It would identify the human resource
requirements in terms of the skills mix required for implementing the plan and derive a training plan
for existing staff and skill sets to be added by additional recruitment. It would therefore provide SBP
a road map for implementation purposes. Draft terms of reference for the ISSP are in the Project file
and were discussed and agreed upon during negotiations.
23.       The details of the various elements of the Informatics TA program and an accurate
estimate of the costs would only be available after the ISSP has been completed. However, the major
areas that will need to be covered and an approximate estimate of the costs for each, is given below:
(a)   Development of an ISSP.
(i)  Short-term consultancy                                US$250,000
(b)  Provision of the technical infrastructure for SBP headquarters and regional offices.
(i)  Hardware and software, computer hardware, systems software, DBMS and
communications facilities (including the requirements for the CIB). The actual
configuration of the hardware and software to be installed will be defined
during the ISSP and could include a decentralized component with some
hardware and software located in user departments; and
(ii) Microcomputers, LANs and computer based office automation and analytical
tools at Headquarters and major regional offices.
Estimated hardware costs                              US$1,500,000
(c)   Consultancy for implementation of the recommendations of ISSP:
(i)  Developing and upgrading data processing organization;
(ii) Designing and implementing a training plan for the informatics area;
(iii) Developing a detailed implementation plan and schedule of all activities
envisaged in the ISSP;
(iv) Assisting SBP in the procurement of hardware and software; and
(v) Managing the systems development program envisaged and subsequent
implementation of these systems.
High level consultancy                                US$500,000
Training costs                                        US$250,000



- 54 -
ANNEX VI
Page 8 of 19
(d)   Application Software Development--this will include designing, developing and
implementing specific information systems identified and prioritized:
(i) Recruiting a pool of computer experts to be set up under the Project to
supplement in-house staff; and
(ii) Contracting with local software houses.
Software Development Costs                                 US$ 1,000,000
Total Estimated Costs                                      US$3,500,000
F. Library
24.        The SBP Library provides information research services to the officers and general staff at
the Central Directorate in Karachi. The Library is managed by the General Economics Research
Department and officers in that department as well as the two new research departments (International
Economics Research and Monetary and Fiscal Research) are the most intensive users of the Library.
The Library's current staff is composed of 9 professionally trained librarians and 19 general staff.
Although the total authorized staff level is 39 positions, 11 (6 professional and 5 general) are currently
unfilled. General library services, such as materials purchase and processing, collection circulation and
maintenance, journal indexing and research assistance, are provided. In addition, the Library is
responsible for the Documentation Unit which provides microfilming services to the SBP as well as
microfilming selected portions of the Library's holdings, most notably newspapers. The Library's
collection is comprised of approximately 64,000 books, more than 17,000 bound periodical, gazette
and budget series volumes, 755 annual reports, over 400 bound newspaper volumes and 2,000 rolls of
microfilm. It also receives about 400 periodicals regularly. Each year, roughly 1,000 books, 500
bound periodical volumes, 400 newspaper bound volumes and 300 microfilm rolls are added to the
collection.
25.        The internal organization of the Library includes three sections and a unit. These are:
(i) the reference and circulation section responsible for public services, indexing and periodical receipt;
(ii) the technical section handling acquisitions, cataloging and classification; (iii) the administration and
general section which oversees normal administrative responsibilities, bill processing and binding; and
(iv) the documentation unit dealing with microfilming and photocopying. In addition, the Library has
limited responsibility for smaller collections maintained for the Legal Department and the training
facilities. The Library also provides technical assistance to small libraries housed in eight SBP offices
outside Karachi. The Library maintains an extensive set of monthly work load indicators.
26.        While the SBP Library enjoys a fine reputation for its extensive collection of materials, it
has not yet taken advantage of automated technologies currently available in the library information
arena. Consequently, researchers have not been able to more efficiently identify and access available
materials required for their work and there is no effective control over the Library's collection. There
is no library-specific computer system to access and control the collection nor other electronic tools,
such as on-line commercial database systems, compact disc index and full-text products, information
contained on diskettes or access to external information systems. Some of these services await general
developments in the telecommunications' infrastructure. Others, including compact disc and diskette
technologies, require proper stand-alone hardware/software but otherwise can be made available to
SBP researchers immediately.
27.        To assist the SBP Library toward modernization of its operations, the following technical
assistance components have been identified:



- 55 -
ANNEX VI
Page 9 of 19
(a)  Integrated library system purchased. Based on initial consultant's findings, the SBP
will purchase software for new library system as well as any associated hardware
not already available at the SBP. As mentioned above, it is to be highly
recommended that this system be compatible with other hardware/software
configurations identified for the SBP. US$50,000 has been provided for the
purchase of the new system;
(b)   Migration to new system. Technical assistance to properly install, operate, maintain
and use new hardware and software will be provided by a consultant. Detailed
training for SBP staff designated as systems experts will be provided. Terms of
reference for this consultant are included in the Project File. US$25,000 (one-
month consultant) has been allocated for this expense while US$10,000 would be
for record conversion and associated costs; and
(c)   Additional automated library information tools. Additional tools will assist to
modernize library services at the SBP. First among these is the purchase and
installation of a computer with CD drive followed by additional photocopy
machines and a facsimile machine. US$88,000 would be allocated for
equipment/software/related requirements.
28.       Total estimated costs for technical assistance to the SBP Library will be US$148,000. It is
important to note that provision of compatible hardware, standard proposed SBP software and
accommodation for local area network configurations for the Library are submitted under the
informatics component of the SBP technical assistance program.
1I. THE CORPORATE LAW AUTHORITY
A. Background
29.       The Corporate Law Authority is the agency responsible for regulating the capital market.
It also has a number of other responsibilities that affects its capacity to conduct this mission. In
addition, it appears to play a role in economic and social policy. It requires additional staffing and a
different structure when compared to similar securities regulatory organizations in other markets.
30.       The CLA is an "attached department" of the Finance Division and has been given
responsibility to administer the following legislation:
(a)   The Securities and Exchange Ordinance, 1969 and the Securities and Exchange
Rule, 1971 which provide statutory authorities for the regulation of stock exchanges,
of public issuance of securities by local companies, and of brokers and dealers;
(b)   The Investment Companies and Investment Advisers Rules, 1971;
(c)   The Companies Ordinance, 1984 and Companies Rules framed thereunder;
(d)   The Capital Issues (Continuance of Control) Act, 1947;
(e)   Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices (Control and Prevention) Ordinance,
1970;
(f)   Modaraba Companies and Modaraba (Floatation and Control) Ordinance, 1980;



- 56 -
ANNEX VI
Page 10 of 19
(g)   The Institute of Chartered Accountants Ordinance, 1961; and
(h)   Companies (Appointment of Legal Advisers) Act, 1974.
Although no detailed study has been made of these statutes, they appear to impose both regulatory and
administrative responsibilities on the CLA. Accordingly, the corporate and securities laws and
regulations are enforced by the same organization.
31.       In developed capital markets, corporate and securities laws are enforced by separate arms
of government, reflecting the specialized nature of the former. The securities regulatory body will
usually administer several statutes, all of which are directly related to securities markets, trading and
licensing of market participants. Although securities and corporate law will overlap, the securities law
will usually provide limits or exemptions for small and/or closely-held companies, which need not
comply with securities rules. Accordingly, the securities regulatory body will not be concerned with
the incorporation of companies, the required filings thereunder, and the protection afforded to
shareholders under corporate law. It will not review annual financial statements of companies
generally, will not determine whether dividends have, or ought to have, been paid, nor undertake to
protect shareholders and investors in companies that generally operate outside of the capital markets.
The legal system handles the abuses of investors and these disputes and resolution will often occur
only over prolonged periods of time. Securities regulation typically deals with more specialized
problems.
Members: Appointment and Responsibilities
32.       The CLA has two distinct Wings and three Members. The two Wings are: (i) the
Monopoly Control Wing which administers Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Ordinance; and
(ii) the Corporate Regulation Wing, which administers the remaining laws. The Monopoly Control
Wing constitutes Monopoly Control Authority, which is an autonomous body. The CLA consists of
three Members, all of whom are civil servants, the Chainnan, one Member responsible for the
Monopoly Control Wing and the other Member for the Corporate Regulation Wing who acts as
Controller of Capital Issues. The formal legal structure is not clearly defined. For example, the
Monopoly Control Wing is independent of the GOP, yet is headed by a career civil servant serving at
the request of the GOP. Legally, the Corporate Regulation Wing is not independent; the responsible
Member, previously a senior civil servant in the customs area, may be moved to another position at
any time.
Staffing for Securities
33.       The CLA has 71 budgeted staff positions, most of whom appear to be involved with
corporate registration and related matters that are basically unconnected to securities regulation. The
Corporate Regulation Wing, including assistant chiefs and research officers, has 14 staff members who
appear to be directly involved with securities regulation on a full-time basis, including matters relating
to "capital control" and leasing companies. (The Chief, Legal and 2 deputy chiefs serve both the
corporate and securities areas and are not included in this reckoning.) Apart from the size issue, the
CLA does not possess the full staff complement required for a modern securities market. Securities
regulation is essentially a job of law interpretation and enforcement. However, the existing senior and
middle managers do not have the required educational or professional training in law or financial
accouiting, or experience in investigations. Civil service backgrounds predominate.



- 57 -
ANNEX VI
Page 11 of 19
B. Constraints, Issues and Recommendations
34.       The mission of the securities regulatory body is to administer laws that seek to provide
protection for investors. The purpose of these laws is to ensure that securities markets are fair and
honest and to provide the means to enforce the securities laws through sanctions where necessary.
The staff of the regulatory agency ensure that publicly-held entities, brokers and dealers in securities,
investment companies and advisors and other market participants comply with the securities law. In
countries with developed capital markets, these laws are designed to facilitate informed investment
analyses and decisions by the investing public, primarily to ensure adequate disclosure of relevant
material. Conformance with securities laws and regulations does not imply merit. If information
essential to informed investment analysis is properly disclosed, the regulatory body cannot prevent the
sale of securities which analysis may show to be of questionable value.
35.       Judged against these standards, the activity of the CLA in the securities area is lacking in a
number of respects. Managing forced issue, price setting, allocation of new issues, etc., are
undertaken by the CLA in an attempt to encourage participation, ensure broad distribution and prevent
the undue accumulation of wealth and power. There is also an attempt to scrutinize new issues on
their merits i.e., to allocate capital and to ensure that profitable companies pay dividends. Although
they are desirable, these goals are mainly aspects of economic development and social policy, rather
than securities regulations issues. Because securities law and regulation are, in large measure,
concerned with preventing the concentration of wealth and economic power, measures that are
commonplace in other jurisdictions, where the concern is for efficient markets and investor protection,
are either not emphasized or are absent. The result is that large segments of the country's capital
market are highly distorted and inefficient. The GOP appears to accept the economic costs of these
distortions as the price to be paid for achieving social policy goals. However, it is not clear that social
goals are being achieved by these distortions.
36.       The CLA should be more active in promulgating disclosure rules and accounting policies
for public companies and should have the technical capacity to deal with complex situations. In
addition, it should have an enforcement capability that enables it to conduct investigations, hold
hearings, impose certain penalties (e.g., removal of license, "cease trade" powers) within its
competence, and should actively oversee the stock exchanges and off-exchange trading in securities
generally. It also needs a capability for monitoring markets for insider trading abuses.
37.       It was therefore recommended that the securities regulatory function and personnel be a
separate wing under the chairman of the CLA. The Wing would be headed by an independent
Member. Creating such a body should shed unrelated functions, provide a much greater degree of
independence, distinguish regulatory from economic and social goals, allow for budgetary self-
sufficiency and promote a more highly trained and professional staff.
38.       Strengthening the CLA's securities regulatory capabilities is essential in light of the growth
in the value and volume of exchange-listed securities and in the number of new issues in recent years.
The CLA is handicapped by limited resources and by a mandate to administer all aspects of corporate
law, control capital issues and enforce competition law. As a result, the regulation of securities
markets activity and participants is only one of several important activities which the CLA must
conduct with a limited staff. The CLA has recognized the need to improve the level of staff training
in the area of securities. In addition to beginning an internal program of lectures conducted by senior
management, the CLA has received training assistance from the Asian Development Bank and from
USAID. The CLA also seeks to increase the application of computer technology in its record handling
and monitoring activities. The International Finance Corporation has been advising the CLA with
respect to the introduction of mutual funds and the establishment of credit rating agencies;



- 58 -
ANNEX VI
Page 12 of 19
additionally, it has provided financial support for the Karachi Stock Exchange to improve its clearing
and settlement activities in light of current and expected increases in trading volume and has entered
into a joint venture with an American securities dealer and a KSE member to create a well-capitalized
and managed dealer.
39.       Technical assistance of US$3.07 million will be provided to strengthen the CLA and to
securities markets regulation generally:
(a)   Licensing of brokers and dealers is done by the stock exchanges. The CLA should
have its own requirements, particularly as there is considerable securities activity
outside of the organized exchanges. The Project will finance a consultant to
develop a broker-dealer licensing regime;
(b)   The CLA does not have rules regarding the qualification and training of sales
representatives who deal with the public. There should be initial and continuing
licensing requirements. A consultant would be retained to develop licensing
requirements for salesmen and advisers;
(c)   The CLA needs a much greater capability to deal with financial reporting problems,
auditing standards, and brokers-dealers capital adequacy and to develop policies and
ensure compliance in these areas. The Accountant Advisor is proposed and funding
of this position for one year will be provided;
(d)   There is no facility for the rapid and full restoration of customer cash and securities
in the event of failure of a stock exchange member. The Project will finance a
consultant to develop a proposal for an investor protection fund;
(e)   The Karachi Stock Exchange is moving toward automated trading. The Project
would finance a consultant to assist the CLA in reviewing the problems and
regulatory responses to automate trading and establish a computer line to the
system;
(f)   Regulatory restrictions on investment activities of insurance companies, pension
funds, provident and gratuity funds are overly-restrictive. Funds would be provided
to retain a specialist on institutional investment rules to develop a more liberal
regime that promotes investment opportunities while maintaining a high degree of
solvency;
(g)   The CLA should develop the required legislation and regulation for the listing and
trading of options and futures contracts. The Project will provide the necessary
legal advisers and training for CLA staff;
(h)   The Securities Ordinance contains no provisions for defining or penalizing insider
trading, and it is widely believed that such trading is widespread on the Karachi
Stock Exchange. The Project will finance a consultant to develop proposals in this
area; support for CLA staff training in stock monitoring techniques is also
recommended;
(i)   The securities regulatory function requires a different structure within the GOP. It
is proposed that technical assistance fund a senior consultant in securities law and
regulation to make recommendations: (i) regarding the creation of an independent



- 59 -
ANNEX VI
Page 13 of 19
securities wing, including policies and procedures to enhance independence and
effectiveness of the Securities Wing and Member; and (ii) the responsibilities and
appropriate staffing of the proposed Securities Law Wing;
(j)    On-going training and upgrading are general requirements in the securities area.
Technical assistance is recommended to support training and development of
operational staff through: (i) programs of visiting lecturers; (ii) financial assistance
to individuals engaging in educational and professional development; and (iii)
specific topical training in off-shore markets; and
(k)   A highly trained staff composed mainly of lawyers, accountants and investigators,
whose activities would be wholly in the area of securities regulation; the staff would
not be responsible for the enforcement of corporate laws.
Table 3: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR THE CORPORATE LAW AUTHORITY
(US$ 000)
FY95            FY96            FY97            TOTAL
Computerization
Hardware/Software                         0.0            0.0           1,000.0           1,000.0
Consultancy                              50.0          400.0              50.0            500.0
Sub-total                                    50.0          400.0           1,050.0          1,500.0
Long-Term  Advisor                           30.0          100.0             70.0             200.0
Consultants
Agency Restructuring                      0.0           130.0              0.0            130.0
Dealer Licensing                          0.0           40.0               0.0             40.0
Salesman Licensing                        0.0           40.0               0.0             40.0
Investor Protection Fund                  0.0           40.0               0.0             40.0
Institutional Investing Review            0.0           40.0               0.0             40.0
Options and Futures                       0.0           80.0               0.0             80.0
Insider Trading                           0.0           40.0               0.0             40.0
Quasi-Equity                              0.0           40.0               0.0             40.0
Sub-total                                     0.0          450.0              0.0             450.0
CLA Staff Training
Stockwatch Trip                           0.0           20.0               0.0             20.0
Options and Futures Trip                  0.0            0.0              20.0             20.0
Visiting Lecturers                       60.0           60.0              60.0            180.0
Sub-total                                    60.0           80.0             80.0             220.0
TOTAL                                       140.0        1,030.0           1.200.0          2370.0



- 60 -
ANNEX VI
Page 14 of 19
C. Automation
Present Status of Computerization
40.       The CLA has made a beginning in the area of computer based systems. It has several
(about 30) Macintosh microcomputers and is currently using them to develop several applications to
assist it in its basic business functions, including: company registration, monitoring listed companies
compliance with company law, conducting research and analyzing corporate data and publishing
sectoral reports, monopoly control functions and responding to inquiries on specific companies.
41.       CLA has developed a system to maintain a database of the 32,000 companies in the
country. This system assigns a unique registration number to each company and contains data on
company name, address and year formed. This database is currently being extended to include data on
company directors (name, identity card number, etc.), audit and legal advisors, etc. This application
enables CLA to process applications from new companies for registration. With the completion of the
data on company directorships, CLA would also be able to obtain information on the shareholding
patterns and relationships between companies. At present the system contains data on about half of
the total number of companies. This system is maintain on the 4D database. CLA has also a related
system intended to maintain more detailed data for the 700 or so listed companies and includes, in
addition to the basic data above, financial reports of the listed companies for 4-5 years. At present
data is available on companies in the textiles and financial sector. This data is maintained on an Excel
spreadsheet. CLA has communications links to enable it to get data on trading from the Karachi Stock
Exchange. It uses these links rather sparingly in view of the telecommunication line charges. CLA
has developed these applications with the help of the local hardware vendor for Macintosh computers.
It has very few full-time technical staff in the information systems area on its payroll and supplements
these by offering short-term internships to recent graduates from the Islamabad University. CLA, like
other government entities, is experiencing the perennial problem of being able to attract technical staff
in the information systems area at GOP's salaries.
42.       The proposed securities wing within CLA, charged with monitoring trading activities,
would also require a computer based stockwatch and related systems linking it to the major stock
exchanges within the country. As mentioned above, CLA has made a beginning in the area of
computer based systems, but has a long way to go before its computer systems can effectively assist
management in their day to day functioning. The present initiatives can at best be regarded as ad hoc
and of limited use.
43.       CLA would require a more planned approach to introducing computer based information
systems to support the securities wing information requirements. It is recommended that CLA
undertake an overall information systems requirements analysis for the securities wing business
functions. The hardware, software, application systems, staffing requirements and a phased
implementation strategy should be derived from this study. The Project could finance the hardware
and software identified by this study for the securities wing. In view of CLA's difficulties in retaining
technical staff, the Project may, in addition to financing hardware and software, also need to finance a
small technical unit within the securities wing, which could assist the wing in setting up and
maintaining the basic systems it needs for its use, including the stockwatch system. An estimate of the
costs associated with the automation study, hardware and software and application systems
development and setting up the project unit would be about US$1.5 million.



- 61 -
ANNEX VI
Page 15 of 19
Component Elements of the Informatics TA Program for the Securities Wing
44.       The details of the various elements of the Informatics TA program and an accurate
estimate of the costs would only be available after the Information Systems Requirements analysis
mentioned above has been completed. However, the major areas that will need to be covered and an
approximate estimate of the costs for each is given below:
(a)   Development of an information requirements analysis and an overall information
systems plan to be pursued by CLA for the securities wing, as described above.
Short-term local consultancy                                 US$50,000
(b)   Two inter-related elements:
(i) Computer Hardware, Systems Software, DBMS and Communications facilities
required by the securities wing for implementing the information systems
identified by the study mentioned above.
(ii) Microcomputers, LANS and computer based office automation and analytical
tools for the securities wing. This equipment would be used to increase the
productivity of professional and administrative staff. The PCs would be linked
to the computers specified under (i) on an as required basis to access the
information systems and databases maintained there.
Estimated hardware costs                                     US$700,000
(c)   Application Software Development and Training--this will include designing,
developing and implementing specific information systems identified and prioritized
as part of the overall information systems requirements study for the securities wing,
as mentioned above. The application software development may be done by setting
up a small technical project unit within the securities wing to develop and
implement the information systems identified by the study mentioned above. Some
of the software development could be contracted out locally. This component
would also include some training costs for securities wing staff.
Estimated costs                                              US$750,000
Total estimated costs                                        US$1 .500.000
III. THE INSURANCE SECTOR
A. Issues and Recommendations
45.       The insurance sector has not played its role in intermediation and allocation of resources in
the economy mainly because of lack of priority placed on insurance by the GOP and outdated
legislation. Insurance involves not only greater intermediation with all its benefits but also, in the case
of life insurance, long-term savings which dampens inflation, a useful tool in macroeconomic policy.
General as well as life insurance companies are small in comparison to the market potential. General
insurance is provided by 55 companies of which 10 are foreign; however, the 5 largest companies
control 75% of the market. Gross premiums are less than US$200.0 million per year. Most general



- 62 -
ANNEX VI
Page 16 of 19
insurance is compulsory: automobile, fire, mortgaged properties and workers' compensation. The
General insurance industry, although subject to several restrictive rules and cartelization by the
Insurance Association of Pakistan (IAP), is not subject to any effective regulation of its financial
activities. The life insurance industry is also still in its infancy; only 1% of the population has life
insurance. State Life, which was created in 1972 after the nationalization of a number of life
insurance companies, dominates the life insurance market and holds a virtual monopoly. There has
been few product innovations and virtually no price competition. As a result, the size, growth and
contribution of the life insurance industry to the economy has not fulfilled its potential. State Life
with its life funds of Rs 25.0 billion (US$1.0 billion) is a good sized company by international
standards. As part of its privatization process the Government licensed 3 new companies. These
companies, however, lack expertise and sufficient capital to acquire modern technology . Allowing
foreign investments would stimulate the development of the life insurance industry.
46.        The CI is the regulatory body of the insurance industry. However, the Controller has
neither the capacity nor the means to properly regulate either general or life insurance. The
institutional setup has to be changed to give the office greater authority. The CI has powers under the
law, however, the powers cannot be exercised due to lack of resources and legal constraints such as
inability to hire and retain professionals. The Office has neither actuaries nor auditors so they cannot
test the reserve adequacy level nor enforce prudent investment policies. The office suffers from
budgetary constraints and do not have sufficient computer capacities to handle even relatively simple
tasks such as storing and analyzing data of the industry.
47.        Technical assistance of US$2.1 million will be provided to help strengthen the regulatory
framework and the institutional capacities of the insurance sector, generally:
(a)   The Office of the CI needs to function effectively and efficiently. Therefore, a
professional Insurance Advisory Board needs to be strengthened and adequately
remunerated. The Board would include specialists such as auditors, actuaries and
investment bankers. The Project will provide funds to help define the
responsibilities and appropriate staffing of the Board, review CI's organizational
structure, staff and budget and recommend changes;
(b)   The Insurance Act created in 1938, which was amended from time to time, needs to
be revised to deal with new products and methods of valuation. The Project will
provide funds to hire a consultant to work with the various interested parties to
review the Act and propose revisions which would be presented to the GOP for
approval and reform of the Insurance Act;
(c)   State Life needs to be restructured/privatized in order to foster competition in the
life insurance industry and to ensure that the company will continue as a strong
force in the nation's economy and as provider of essential services. PIC is facing
financial difficulties and should be restructured/privatized to make it work more
efficiently in performing its role as a reinsurance. US$200,000 has been allocated
to hire consultants for in-depth studies including action plans. The PC would be
responsible for the study, it would therefore receive the funds;
(d)   Minimum capital requirements are too small. Capital requirements must reflect the
size of the risks, the total risks, the fluctuation in particular risks, the quality of
assets and the relation of the assets and the risks insured. Minimum capital
requirement would be increased in phases to Rs 40.0 million for general and Rs
100.0 million for life;



- 63 -
ANNEX VI
Page 17 of 19
(e)   PIC compulsory reinsurance of 20% and first right refusal of 35% have allowed
weak companies to continue to operate and cartelization by IAP. Therefore, the
Project will assist in the phasing out over 3 to 5 years for compulsory reinsurance
and first right refusal of PIC as well as prevention of rate setting by IAP;
(f)   The ability of the CI to seize a company that is in danger of insolvency or insolvent
is greatly restricted because an insolvent company's assets are not under the control
of the CI in case the company decides to challenge the seizure. Due to large
accumulation of assets in the insurance sector, it is important that seizure takes place
immediately under a court order and the CI is in charge of the assets even in the
event of a court challenge. Therefore, the Project would assist in reviewing steps
that can be taken to facilitate closing down of companies so seizure can take place
under the court order immediately; and
(g)   It is common for govemments to set the investment rules so that funds flow from
insurance companies into areas they have determined as priorities. In the case of
Pakistan, the GOP has, particularly with the life insurance industry, reserved the
internediation process for itself by requiring that 60% of assets be invested in
govemment or govemment approved securities. This investment rule has distorted
the market process and played havoc with the development of new market-related
insurance products, for instance, unit-linked products which depend for their value
on the performance of an underlying investment portfolio. The Project would
therefore provide consultancy to review investment rules goveming the 60% of
assets invested in govemment securities to permit life insurance companies, pension
funds, gratuity funds and similar contractual savings schemes to increase their
holding of private sector debts and equities.
Table 4: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR THE OFFICE OF THE
CONTROLLER OF INSURANCE
(US$ 000)
FY95        FY96        FY97    TOTAL
Long-term Advisers                 240.0       240.0       120.0    600.0
Computerization (HW/SW and
system implementation            250.0       250.0         0.0    500.0
Training of Staff                   60.0       100.0        85.0    245.0
Short-term Consultants              60.0        60.0        60.0    180.0
Review and Amendment
of Insurance Act                  50.0        50.0         0.0    100.0
Mortality Tables                   200.0       300.0         0.0    500.0
TOTAL                              860.0     1.000.0       265.0     2



- 64 -
ANNEX VI
Page 18 of 19
B. Automation
48.        The Cl is responsible for overseeing the insurance sector in the country from the point of
view of monitoring compliance with the relevant laws. In this regard, it periodically receives
information from about 57 insurance companies to enable it to perform  its functions. Among these
are: determining the financial position of the various companies; determining whether insurance
companies are operating with an adequate solvency margin and adequate re-insurance arrangements;
monitoring the investment patterns for insurance premiums and ensuring compliance with relevant
regulations, setting premium rates, etc. In addition, this office also licenses insurance agents and
maintains a record for the 80,000 agents currently registered.
49.        At present, the Cl does not make any use of computer based systems to assist it in its
business functions. However, in view of the information intensive nature of its business, such systems
do offer some promise to assist the Cl to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of its operations.
However, the office has no prior experience in the use of computer based systems so any introductions
of new technology and systems should be very gradual. As a start the CI could make use of some
microcomputers connected via local area networks to assist in office automation functions such as
word processing, etc.; analysis functions using spreadsheet software and some elementary database
maintenance functions. The Project could fund a study to determine the organization's specific
technological requirements and the microcomputers, local area networks and associated software,
identified by this study for the CI headquarters and regional offices. The CI will also require training
for its staff in the use of the technology and systems acquired. It will, in addition, require setting up a
2-3 staff technical cell for operating the systems and developing relevant information systems using
this technology. It is estimated that the total cost for this component will be about US$500,000.
IV. DFIS, PC AND BEL
50.        A summary of the technical assistance components for DFIs, PC and BEL is provided in
the table below.
Table 5: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR DFIs, PC AND BEL
(USS 000)
FY95        FY96          FY97          FY98          FY99          TOTAL
DFIs
Short-term Consultants  0.0      1,000.0          0.0           0.0           0.0          1,000.0
PC
Short-term Consultants  0.0       900.0         500.0           0.0           0.0         1,400.00
BEL
Short-term Consultants    27.0     550.0        200.0          125.0         50.0            952.0
Equipment              50.0         0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0             50.0
Training               50.0         0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0             50.0
Sub-total              127.0        550.0         200.0         125.0          50.0          1,052.0
TOTAL                  127.0      2   !5.         700.0         125.0          50.0         3.452.0



- 65 -
ANNEX VI
Page 19 of 19
A. Development Finance Institutions
51.        DFIs were created at a time of rigid segmentation of financial markets and have evolved in
an environment of financial repression. Privatization of the DFIs, while desired for efficiency gains,
creates other problems. The viability of the DFIs is more fragile than that of the banks and depends
more on the financial policy environment. DFIs will benefit from decontrol of lending rates, removal
of subsidized SBP lines of credit, more appropriate regulation and improvement in the climate for loan
recoveries, but their reported financial situation will suffer from reformed regulation. Most DFIs need
to re-orient themselves to the changing financial environment before their long-term viability is
assured. The Bank will provide US$1.0 million to assist the GOP and SBP in putting together a
policy and technical assistance package to: (i) address issues facing each of the four DFIs individually
through institutionally specific strategy studies to help the privatization process and enable the DFIs to
flourish in an era of financial reform; and (ii) conduct a DFI sector-wide study of issues associated
with all aspects of the loan administration cycle and reasons for poor portfolio performance to address
the problem of term lending. A draft terms of reference of the two studies were discussed and agreed
on and the hiring of consultants is a condition of Loan Effectiveness.
B. Privatization Commission
52.        The proposed Project will provide US$1.4 million for: (i) the valuation of the Habib Bank
and United Bank Limited; (ii) an actuarial valuation and study of options for privatizing and/or
restructuring State Life; and (iii) institutional capacity build up of PC. The technical assistance will
support PC in the following tasks: (i) the design of the program, i.e., preparation of an overall
operational plan/strategy paper with time-bound actions; and (ii) implementation of the various tasks
including: valuation of firms; sale procedures; preparation of information memorandums; marketing
strategy and road-shows; pre-privatization restructuring; employee retrenchment issues; broad-basing of
ownership; recruitment of financial advisors for larger transactions; post-privatization regulation; and
preparation of notes and position papers for the Cabinet. The PC will participate with the SBP in term
lending sector study and review the proposal for privatization under the DFIs study. The GOP
requested and the Bank agreed to assist in reviewing and selecting privatization procedures and
options. Appointing consultants to define the framework for privatization of the remaining NCBs and
evaluation of State Life and setting up a satisfactory timetable by the financial advisor for privatization
of one NCB and carrying out actions, which have fallen due under such timetable before Effectiveness
Date, are conditions of Loan Effectiveness.
C. Bankers Equity Limited
53.        BEL will receive US$2.0 million for consultants and training of its staff. The technical
assistance will be allocated as follows: US$0.6 million will be for hiring short-term foreign and local
environmental consultants, US$0.1 million will be for training of staff and setting up the AU, US$0.3
million and US$1.0 million will be allocated to the term lending and DFIs studies, respectively. The
hiring of acceptable Environmental Assessment personnel and establishing operating procedures for
that component is a condition of Disbursement.
SA3CI
September 1994



- 66 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEEPENING AND INTERMEDIATION PROJECT
PROJECTED DISBURSEMENTS'
(US$ millions)
Administration
Loan             Technical Assistance      Fee Advance      Cumulative
Year      Annual  Cumulative Annual  Cumulative    Annual & Cum. Amount                 %
FY1995        3.0         3.0         0.5          0.5             1.0          4.5       2.1
FY1996       36.0        39.0         6.3          6.8             1.0         46.8      21.7
FY1997       69.0       108.0         5.5         12.3             1.0        121.3      56.2
FY1998       60.0       168.0         2.0         14.3             1.0        183.3      84.5
FY1999       25.0       193.0         0.7         15.0             1.0        209.0     96.7
FY2000         7.0      200.0         0.0         15.0             1.0        216.0    100.0
Based on previous disbursement profile of industrial loans to Pakistan and Regional Sub-sector
Disbursement Profile.
SA3CI
June 1994



- 67 -
ANNEX VIII
Page I of 14
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FINANCLIL SECTOR DEEPENING AND INTERMEDIATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
I. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
1.        The proposed Project will continue and expand the reform process started under the FSAL
and support the Government's strategy for macroeconomic and financial sector reforms, focusing on
improving regulations, restructuring, privatization and supervision of FIs; assisting the private sector to
respond to the changing economic environment by providing non-subsidized resources for investments;
and helping to deepen the financial system, promote new financial instruments and strengthen the key
players. The Project will promote a set of policy reforms: (i) continued development of regulations
for financial institutions through improved procedures, monitoring and enforcement; (ii) improvement
of the legal framework for loan recovery; (iii) strengthening banking and non-bank financial
institutions; (iv) reduction of concessional finance extended by the SBP; (v) development of a private
market in foreign exchange cover; (vi) improvement of the management of monetary instruments to
eliminate inter-sectoral and inter-institutional distortions; (vii) strengthening of the payment system;
(viii) enhancement through capacity and institutional building of regulatory functions of the securities
and insurance markets; and (ix) privatization, restructuring and institutional development of banks
(DFIs) and insurance companies.
B. Description and Scope
2.        The Bank Loan of US$216.0 million would be utilized for: (i) a line of credit (US$200.0
million) for long-term loans to any legitimized private enterprise with exceptions such as real estate,
trading and certain consumer services; (ii) an administration fee (US$1.0 million) for BEL; and (iii)
technical assistance (US$15.0 million) for consultancy services, training and equipment to the SBP
(US$5.4 million), CLA (US$2.4 million), Cl (US$2.1 million), PC (US$1.4 million), BEL (US$2.0
million of which US$1.0 million is for the DFIs' study and US$0.3 million for term lending) in order
to carry out the financial reforms, and improve the capacity and performance of key FIs as well as the
environmental protection measures for sub-projects of which US$1.7 million would be unallocated for
unspecified future technical assistance for the financial sector. The GOP will on-lend the line of credit
to eligible PFIs on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, advance the administration fee to BEL
and grant the technical assistance funds to several beneficiaries to implement the various components
for the deepening and broadening of the financial market.
C. Cost and Financing Plan
3.        The Bank Loan of US$216.0 million (US$200.0 million line of credit, US$1.0 million
administration fee and US$15.0 million technical assistance) will finance 21% of the total Project cost
of US$1,016.0 million. The PFIs, sponsors and co-financiers will cover the balance of 79%. The
ADB is expected to co-finance the Project by US$100.0 million. The Project costs and financing
sources are summarized in Table I below.



- 68 -
ANNEX VHI
Page 2 of 14
Table 1: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING SOURCES
(USs millions)
BANK         ADB         PRIVATE SECTOR         TOTAL
Local     Foreign
Equity
Enterprises                 0.0         0.0        100.0       300.0        400.0
Line of Credit Component
PFIs                      200.0       100.0        300.0         0.0        600.0
Technical Assistance
and Administration Fee      16.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         16.0
TOTAL                      216.0       100.0        400.0        300.0      1
Private sector investment has been increasing rapidly as GDP growth has risen, and the private sector
now accounts for over half of gross domestic investment. For the next two years total private
investment was estimated at around US$4.9 billion per year, of which imported machinery and
equipment accounted for US$3.0 billion. Suppliers' credits could provide US$400.0 million per year
and the ADB, IFC and other agencies about US$100.0 million per year each, leaving a substantial gap.
Taking into consideration the existing available resources of the FIs, suppliers' credits and current and
future multinational and bilateral loans and credits, the proposed Project, which has an estimated total
cost of about US$1,016.0 million, will cover a part of the total credit needs of the private sector. It is
expected therefore, that the Bank's entire line of credit would be fully committed within 3 years of
Effectiveness.
II. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENT
A. Overall Responsibility
4.        The GOP, specifically the Ministry of Finance, and the SBP, will be implementing
agencies with Economic Affairs and Statistics Division acting as the administrative coordinator.
Although the Economic Affairs and Statistics Division is the Bank's counterpart, the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) will be the effective counterpart for implementation of the proposed Project.
B. Responsibility of Implementing Agency and Other Stakeholders
5.        For the credit line component and technical assistance component excluding the technical
assistance for the SBP, MOF will delegate to BEL implementation functions. BEL will coordinate and
monitor the various entities directly involved in the proposed Project (e.g., PFIs, CLA and CI). The
SBP will have sole responsibility to implement its own technical assistance component and will relate
to MOF to coordinate actions to be taken on macroeconomic policies.
6.        Before the start of the program, each PFI will be assessed on its capacity to implement
efficiently the proposed Project. The beneficiaries of the technical assistance will also follow on the
implementation schedule of the various activities related to their own program. The Bank, MOF and
BEL will closely follow the specific actions agreed to be taken during project implementation.



- 69 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 14
C. Implementation Agreement between GOP and the Implementation Agencies
7.        The GOP will not sign an implementation plan as such with BEL or SBP. However, it
will sign subsidiary grant agreements which will include an implementation plan and specific time-
bound actions required to achieve the project development impact objectives. The implementation
plan will have two review dates for assessment and monitoring, and new commitments will be
suspended in case agreed reforms have not been implemented.
D. Administrative Arrangements
8.        An AU will be created in BEL to ensure effective execution of the programs and activities
given the large number of potential beneficiaries. The AU will be a focal point to ensure that sub-
projects conform to agreed criteria, monitor PFI eligibility, coordinate technical assistance (other than
such assistance for SBP), maintain project accounts and report on various activities. Establishment of
the AU was confirmed during Negotiations. The GOP will make the proceeds of the line of credit and
technical assistance components available to the PFIs and recipients of technical assistance (other than
SBP) through the AU. The responsibilities of BEL will be defined in an Administration Agreement
between the GOP and BEL. BEL will receive a fee of 0.5% per annum on the amount withdrawn and
outstanding until the Project Completion Report and 0.25% for the rest of the repayment period of
PFIs. Furthermore, to help BEL cover its start-up costs at the beginning of the Loan, US$1.0 million
will be provided out of the loan amount. The signing of the Administration Agreement is a condition
of disbursement for the fee. BEL will reimburse this amount to the GOP on semi-annual equal
payments out of its collected fees over six years after receiving the first repayment by the PFIs. The
AU will monitor the eligibility status of each PFI and provide information on interested FIs.
However, the Bank will approve participation of potential PFIs. The AU will not be responsible for
judging the merits of sub-projects. The concerned PFI will bear the full responsibility for appraisal of
sub-projects and all credit risk. In order to carry out environmental assessments for sub-projects, the
AU will also have environmental staff. The AU will also have its own operational policies and
procedures. It will consist of two projects officers, an accountant/disbursements officer, and support
staff. A banking/credit manager financed under the proposed Project will head the Unit and assist in:
establishing the AU, developing its policies and procedures, training its staff, promoting effective use
of the loan by PFIs and accounting for project expenditures. Hiring of the manager, establishment of
AU and development of its initial operational policies and procedures are conditions of Loan
Effectiveness. The SBP will administer its own technical assistance. It will report directly to the
Bank on implementation issues. It will also monitor and report on the Project policy component.
E. Role of the Bank
9.        The Bank will intensively supervise the proposed Project especially during the first three
years of the project implementation because of the important policy measures and institutional reforms,
diverse investments and different types of participating banking institutions. Nonetheless, the resource
requirement is less than it would otherwise have been for this kind of task because of the
administrative and supervisory role of BEL and SBP, respectively, and also the synergy gained from
combined supervision efforts with ADB which will co-finance the Project.
10.       In addition to its regular supervision every six months, the Bank will conduct two interim
reviews and one mid-term review. The first interim review will be in January 1996 about nine months
after expected Effectiveness of the proposed Project and the second one around January 1997. The
Bank and the GOP will jointly conduct the mid-term review planned for March 1998. The outcome
and recommendations of this review will help to revise/modify the Implementation Plan, if needed.



- 70 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 4 of 14
III. IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
A. Schedule of Technical Assistance
Disbursement schedule of the technical assistance is described in Table 2.
Table 2: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(US$ Thousands)
FY95         FY96          FY97         FY98        FY99      TOTAL
STATE BANK
Banking Supervision and
Payment Systems
Long-term Advisors                0.0        400.0         400.0          0.0         0.0        800.0
Equipment                                      0.0         500.0           0.0        0.0        500.0
Visiting Expert                 100.0        180.0           0.0           0.0        0.0        280.0
Training                         25.0        100.0           0.0           0.0        0.0         125.0
Sub-total                         125.0        680.0         900.0          0.0         0.0       1,705.0
Automation
Equipment                         0.0        500.0         500.0        500.0         0.0       1,500.0
Consultants                     100.0        525.0         500.0         500.0      125.0       1,750.0
Training                          0.0        100.0          100.0         50.0        0.0        250.0
Sub-total                         100.0       1,125.0       1,100.0      1,050.0      125.0       3,500.0
Library
Equipment                         0.0        121.5          26.5          0.0         0.0         148.0
SUB-TOTAL                         225.0       1,926.5       2,026.5      1,050.0      125.0       5,353.0
CORPORATE LAW AUTHORITY
Computerization
Hardware/Software                 0.0          0.0        1,000.0          0.0        0.0       1,000.0
Consultancy                      50.0        400.0           50.0          0.0        0.0        500.0
Sub-total                          50.0        400.0        1,050.0         0.0         0.0       1,500.0
Long-Term Advisor                  30.0        100.0          70.0          0.0         0.0        200.0
Consultants
Agency Restructuring              0.0        130.0           0.0           0.0        0.0         130.0
Dealer Licensing                  0.0         40.0           0.0           0.0        0.0         40.0
Salesman Licensing                0.0         40.0           0.0           0.0        0.0         40.0
Investor Protection Fund          0.0         40.0           0.0           0.0        0.0         40.0
Institutional Investing Review    0.0         40.0           0.0          0.0         0.0         40.0
Options and Futures               0.0         80.0           0.0          0.0         0.0         80.0
Insider Trading                   0.0         40.0           0.0          0.0         0.0         40.0
Quasi-Equity                      0.0         40.0           0.0          0.0         0.0         40.0
Sub-total                           0.0        450.0           0.0          0.0         0.0        450.0
CLA Staff Training
Stockwatch Trip                   0.0         20.0           0.0          0.0         0.0         20.0
Options and Futures Trip          0.0          0.0          20.0           0.0        0.0         20.0
Visiting Lecturers               60.0         60.0          60.0           0.0        0.0         180.0
Sub-total                          60.0         80.0          80.0          0.0         0.0        220.0
SUB-TOTAL                         140.0       1,030.0       1,200.0         0.0         0.0       2,370.0



- 71 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 5 of 14
FY95         FY96           FY97         FY98        FY99       TOTAL
CONTROLLER OF INSURANCE
Long-term Advisors                   0.0        240.0          240.0         120.0         0.0        600.0
Computerization (HW/SW  and
system implementation)              0.0        250.0          250.0          0.0         0.0         500.0
Training of Staff                    0.0          60.0         100.0          85.0         0.0        245.0
Short-term Consultants               0.0         60.0           60.0          60.0         0.0        180.0
Review and Amendment
of Insurance Act                    0.0         50.0           50.0          0.0         0.0         100.0
Mortality Tables                     0.0         200.0         300.0           0.0         0.0        500.0
SUB-TOTAL                            0.0        860.0         1,000.0        265.0         0.0       2,125.0
PRIVATIZATION COMMISSION
Consultants                          0.0        900.0          500.0           0.0         0.0       1,400.0
DFIs
Consultants                          0.0       1,000.0           0.0           0.0         0.0       1,000.0
BEL
Consultants                         27.0         500.0         200.0         125.0        50.0        902.0
Training                            50.0          50.0           0.0           0.0         0.0        100.0
Equipment                           50.0           0.0           0.0           0.0         0.0         50.0
Subtotal                           127.0        550.0          200.0         125.0         0.0       1,052.0
UNALLOCATED                          0.0          0.0          600.0        600.0        500.0       1,700.0
TOTAL                              492.0       6,266.2        5.527.5      2,040.0       675.0      15000.0
B. Schedule of Loan Disbursement
Disbursement schedule of the Loan is described in Table 3.
Table 3: LOAN DISBURSEMENT'
(US$ Millions)
Annual                            Cumulative
Year          Amount              %              Amount               %
FY 1995          3.0              1.5                3.0               1.5
FY1996          36.0             18.0               39.0              19.5
FY1997          69.0             34.5              108.0              54.0
FY1998          60.0             30.0              168.0              84.0
FY1999          25.0             12.5              193.0              96.5
FY2000           7.0              3.5              200.0             100.0
Based on previous disbursement profile of industrial loans to Pakistan and Regional Sub-
sector Disbursement Profile.
Disbursement arrangements under FSDIP are covered in para 5.01 and 5.02 of the Staff Appraisal
Report. Statements of expenditures are not expected to be vastly used. Most of the disbursement will
be by direct payment to suppliers.



- 72 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 6 of 14
C. Procurement
Table 4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS'
(US$ millions)
Procurement Method
Project Elements              ICB       LCB2      Other3         Total
Credit Component
Goods, Works & Services      90.0    700.0       210.0         1,000.0
(60.0)    (70.0)    (70.0)        (200.0)
TA Component
Consultancies & Training
Capacity Building                              (4.9)           (4.9)
Studies & Evaluations                           (1.7)          (1.7)
Training, Study Tours
& Visiting Experts                             (1.0)           (1.0)
Project Preparation &
Implementation Support                         (1.7)          (1.7)
Sub-total Consultancies and Others                (9.3)           (9.3)
Equipment                             (3.0)      (1.0)          (4.0)
Unallocated                                      (1.0)          (1.0)
Total TA Component                      (3.0)     (12.0)         (15.0)
Administration Fee Advance                        (1.0)           (1.0)
GRAND TOTAL                   90.0    703.0       223.0         1016.0
(60.0)    (73.0)    (83.0)        (216.0)
Amounts in brackets are the Bank-financed components.
2 Local competitive bidding and other private sector procedures.
Includes consultants' services, local shopping and administration procedures.
The procurement arrangements are covered in paras 5.03-5.04 of the Staff Appraisal Report. The
main two procurement methods will be ICB and LCB.
D. Risks
II.        The risks are in accordance with the nature of the proposed Project. The primary risks are
twofold: the risks related to the policy component and those related to the lending component. The
risks of the policy component are: (i) a lack of fiscal discipline, which could put upward pressure on
inflation and nominal interest rates, crowd out private investment, raise the budget deficit and lead to
reimposition of caps on Treasury-bill rates discouraging financial institutions from mobilizing
resources for term financing; (ii) political opposition from defaulters to establishment of measures to
improve loan recovery; and (iii) the possible slippage in the technical assistance to strengthen SBP's
and other regulators' capacity to oversee the safety of financial institutions. However, experience
indicates that most of the above risks would be reduced because of the macroeconomic measures that
the Govemment has agreed to implement under the ESAF and EFF with the IMF and the Bank under
the PSAL. All the needed measures were set out in the PFP FY93/94-FY95/96. Furthermore,
technical assistance will be provided to help ensure the timely implementation of these critical
measures, and upfront implementation actions would be required to ensure timely and efficient
progress of the technical assistance and capacity building objectives. The risk of the line of credit
component is that an adequate number of eligible sub-projects might not materialize due to shortage of



- 73 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 7 of 14
eligible PFIs and/or uncertainties and absence of continued improvements needed to support a strong
investment climate including a sound macroeconomic framework. The GOP has taken a number of
stops to remove controls inhibiting private developments. Furthermore, projects on-hand and in the
pipelines of potential PFIs indicate credit demand substantially in excess of the amount proposed for
the Project. Technical assistance will also be provided for strengthening of FIs and help GOP
implement an appropriate policy framework for the financial sector which is expected to alleviate
demand-side problems of implementation.
E. Specific Actions
1ST QUARTER 1995 - EFFECTIVENESS
1. MACROECONOMIC
Fiscal Cost of SBP Operations (SBP)
o    Initiate program to contain SBP credit to private sector.
Monetary/Credit Management (SBP)
o    Begin announcing quarterly target for sale of T-bills and FIBs.
2. SECTOR
Level Playing Field (MOF)
o    No issuance of any new debt instruments with tax exemption.
Prudential Regulations (SBP)
o    Offer provincial banks that agree to be regulated by SBP a package of privileges
comparable to scheduled banks commensurate with their charters.
Promote Long-Term Finance (Ministry of Commerce)
o    Undertake the review of investment rules for life insurance companies to permit
increased holding of private sector debt and equities.
Securities Markets (CLA and MOF)
o    Review impact of reduction in stamp duty; examine the possibility to reduce further.
o    Take necessary actions to develop the market for corporate debt, including
consideration for convertible debt instruments.
3. INSTITUTIONAL
State Bank of Pakistan
o    Identify consultants for ISSP and long-term advisors for on/off-site supervision.
Insurance Sector (Ministry of Commerce)
o    Strengthening of the Insurance Advisory Board.
o    Appointment of consultant for valuation/restructuring of State Life and PIC.
Securities Markets (MOF and CLA)
o    Reorganization of securities regulation as separate wing of CLA headed by a
Member.



- 74 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 8 of 14
Privatization (PC)
o    Appointment of consultant for determination of framework for privatizing remaining
NCBs.
o    Setting up a satisfactory timetable for privatization of one NCB by the financial
advisor and carry out actions which have fallen due under such timetable before
effectiveness date.
Strengthening Loan Recovery (MOF and Ministry of Justice)
o    Complete examination of proposed reforms by the Task Force.
NBFIs (BEL)
o    Appoint consultants for DFI re-orientation studies.
o    Appoint consultants for study of long-terrn lending problems.
3RD QUARTER 1995
1. MACROECONOMIC
Fiscal Cost of SBP Operations (SBP)
o    Define SBP lending rate to PFIs in relation to T-bill rates.
Monetary/Credit Management (SBP)
o    Continue execution of shift from CDR to indirect methods.
2. SECTOR
Level Playing Field (SBP)
o    Begin applying NBFI provisioning and interest suspension rules to DFIs (with
transition period).
Promote Long-Term Finance (SBP and CLA)
o    SBP and CLA to review policies to encourage private sector to issue variable rate
long-term debt instruments.
Insurance Sector (Ministry of Commerce, MOF and CI)
o    Presentation to the GOP of amendments to the Insurance Act after review with the
Bank.
o    Review steps to permit Cl to seize assets of insolvent insurance companies.
o    Commence phase out of compulsory reinsurance of 20% to PIC and its first right
refusal of 35% over a period of 3 to 5 years and declare the consequent termination
of rate setting by IAP.
o    Provision of an adequate budget for the Cl.
Securities Markets (MOF and CLA)
o    Initiate implementation of program to phase out forced issue rules.
o    Initiate implementation of program to phase out CLA control of new issue pricing.
3. INSTITUTIONAL
SBP
o    Hire advisors for on-site and off-site supervisions.



- 75 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 9 of 14
Insurance Sector (PC)
o    Appoint consultants for valuation of State Life and PIC, study of restructuring under
Terms of References agreed with the Bank.
1ST QUARTER 1996 - FIRST INTERIM REVIEW
1. MACROECONOMIC
Fiscal Cost of SBP Operations (SBP)
o    Minimum SBP lending rate to FI of no more than 3 percentage points below
average T-bill rate.
o    Promote ability of private markets to provide foreign exchange risk coverage of
medium-term loans.
o    Carry out program of limiting SBP credit to the private sector.
2. SECTOR
Level Playing Field (SBP)
o    Carry out a study and on the basis of the recommendations thereof, develop and
implement a plan to regulate FIs by activity, in particular, prescribe liquidity ratios
for NBFIs that are compatible with those applying to banks.
o    Carry out planned phase out of PIC's reinsurance privileges.
Prudential Regulations (SBP)
o    Define minimum capitalization of banks in relation to risk-weighted assets and
develop a program to achieve compliance.
Promote Long-Term Finance (SBP)
o    GOP to review desirability of issuing long-term variable rate debt and draw up an
action plan on the basis of the review.
Insurance Sector (Ministry of Commerce)
o    Increase minimum capital for general and life insurance companies.
o    Empower Controller of Insurance to regulate state-owned companies.
Securities Markets (MOF and CLA)
o    Reduce NIT privileged access to new issues in a phased manner.
o    Establish investor protection fund.
O    Promote incorporation of individual members and ensure that individuals and
corporate members have adequate capital.
O    Enhance disclosure of information.
3. INSTITUTIONAL
State Bank of Pakistan
o    Have carried out appropriate recommendations of ISSP study including Phase I
equipment purchases.
o    Appoint consultants to assist with purchase, training and systems implementation.
c    Purchase of affiliated electronic library resources.



- 76 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 10 of 14
Insurance Sector (CI)
o    Complete at least 50% of short-term consultancy.
o    GOP/Bank review of restructuring options study, decision on modalities for
restructuring of State Life/PIC.
Securities Markets (CLA)
o    Promote establishment of over-the-counter equities market.
o    Commencement of operations of securities regulation wing.
NBFIs (BEL)
o    Complete study of long-term lending problems.
o    Complete DFI re-orientation studies and draw-up an action plan.
Privatization (PC)
o    Commence steps to transfer management of at least one NCB.
Strengthening Loan Recovery (Ministry of Justice)
o    Implementation of reforrns (e.g., completion of work of appointments and
procedures committees).
IST QUARTER 1997 - SECOND INTERIM REVIEW
1. MACROECONOMIC
Fiscal Cost of SBP Operations (SBP)
o    Minimum SBP lending rate to FI at least equal to T-bill rate.
Monetary Credit Management (SBP)
o    Complete shift from CDR to indirect methods.
2. SECTOR
Level Playing Field
(MOF)
o    Review the implementation plan (see first interim review) and agree on and take
further necessary actions to reduce the differences in income taxation of financial
and non-financial firms.
(Ministry of Commerce)
o    Carry out announced phase out of compulsory reinsurance with PIC.
Prudential Regulations (SBP)
o    Promote long-term finance.
o    Initiate Action Program for DFIs and term lending.
o    Define minimum capitalization of NBFIs in relation to risk-weighted assets and
develop a program to achieve compliance.
Securities Markets (CLA)
o    Analyze the desirability and steps needed to create regulatory environment to
facilitate trading of commodities, foreign exchange and stock futures.
o    Regulate insider trading.



- 77 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 11 of 14
3. INSTITUTIONAL
State Bank of Pakistan
o    Complete major equipment purchases under TA program.
O    Begin formal training program for supervisors.
o    Complete system installation, conversion of records, staff training.
Insurance Sector (PC)
o    Initiate program for restructuring of State Life and PIC.
o    Complete equipment purchases and systems implementation.
Securities Markets (CLA)
o    Complete equipment purchase and systems implementation.
o    Complete training of agency personnel.
NBFIs (MOF and PC)
o    Continue execution of DFI Action Plans.
Privatization (PC)
o    Complete transfer of management of at least one NCB.
Strengthening Loan Recovery (Ministry of Justice)
o    Continue reform program (e.g., carry out recommendations of Task Force follow-up
committees).
F. Monitoring, Reporting and Auditing
12.      Under the proposed Project, BEL and SBP will report on the project performance. The
SBP will submit quarterly reports on the interest rate structure; and progress reports on its technical
assistance component, as well as on policy conditions of the Project at the time of the first and second
interim reviews. BEL will submit a quarterly report on sub-projects, PFIs and the other technical
assistance components. The reports of BEL will be an aggregation of the PFIs' quarterly reports
which will cover training, lending, supervision, collection and arrears performance and portfolio data.
TA reports will summarize implementation progress on aspects outlined in agreed action programs,
steps to be taken during the next quarter and estimates of the impact of activities on employment,
productivity and exports. In addition, the AU will submit a semi-annual report on its own expenses.
Reports will have a form and content satisfactory to the Bank and be accompanied by an overall
review of the private sector investment environment in Pakistan. Quarterly reports will be submitted
within 45 days of the end of each quarter.
13.       As a condition of participation under the proposed Project, PFIs will be required to submit
audited financial statements prepared by auditors acceptable to the Bank, complying with SBP
guidelines, within four months of the end of their fiscal year. The AU will coordinate the submission
of audited financial statements to the Bank. Additionally, the PFIs will submit audited Project
Accounts in a form satisfactory to the Bank, not later than four months after the close of each fiscal
year. All statements of expenditures, together with supporting documentation as well as the Special
Accounts will also be audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. Within six
months of Project completion, the GOP, SBP and BEL shall prepare a draft Project Completion Report
conforming to the Bank's guidelines.



- 78 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 12 of 14
14.       To assess the result of the technical assistance, the Bank will survey the end-users of the
TA beneficiaries as follows:
TA                      End-Users
SBP (on-site and off-   o Fls.
site supervisions.
SBP Library             o SBP's researchers mainly, and other staff.
CLA                     o Stock exchanges, brokerage firms and listed
companies.
Cl                      o Insurance companies, agents, some Fls and clients.
PC                      o Numbers of enterprises which were privatized, private
sector views/comments about the privatization
process.
Term Lending            o Fls and review of report.
DFIs                    o Review of report and quality of recommendations.
BEL                     o Sub-borrowers, PFIs, ElAs, quality of progress
reports.
G. Evaluation
15.       There will be two interim reviews, the first one will take place one year after the
Effectiveness of the Loan or when sub-loans and lease investments approved or withdrawn have
reached an aggregate amount of US$65,000,000, and the second review will be 2 years after
Effectiveness. During the reviews, the GOP and the Bank will exchange views on the program and
assess implementation of the specific actions as stated below. Prior to each review, the GOP will
provide for the Bank's review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
overall program and the specific actions. If after each review, the Bank is not satisfied with the
progress achieved by the GOP in carrying out the program or the specific actions have not been
implemented, the Bank may refuse to approve new commitments of sub-loans/lease investments. New
commitments would be approved thereafter, if the GOP can demonstrate that progress were achieved
and actions were taken to the satisfaction of the Bank. By further notice, the Bank would cancel 90
days after the first notice uncommitted, unwithdrawn amounts of the Loan should the GOP not have
achieved satisfactory progress.



- 79 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 13 of 14
16.        The timetable for technical assistance is described below.
Table 5: TIMETABLE FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
ELEMENTS                         ACTIVITIES                                 TIME (QUARTER)
SBP
Banking supervision              Appointment of consultants.                1st '95
Completion of work.                        I st '97
Payment system                   Purchase of equipment.                     2nd '96
Training (visiting expert)      Start of instruction.                      Ist '95
Completion                                 1 st '97
Local & overseas training for    Start of training.                         2nd '94
staff
Completion of training.                    Ist '96
Automation
Consultants                      Appointment of consultants.                Ist '95
Completion of consultant's work.           2nd '95
Start implementation of recommendations.   2nd '95
Finish implementation of recommendations.  2nd '98
Purchase of equipment           Start purchase of hardware.                2nd '96
Purchase and installment of software.      4th '96
Training                        Start training.                            3rd '95
Finish training.                           2nd '97
Library
Equipment                        Start purchase of equipment.               3rd '95
Completion of purchase.                    lst interim review
Installment.                               2nd interim review
CLA
Computerization
Consultants                     Appointment.                               Ist '95
Completion of work.                        I st '97
Hardware/software               Purchase and installment.                  1996
Long-term advisors              Appointment.                                1st '95



- 80
ANNEX VIII
Page 14 of 14
ELEMENTS                         ACTIVITIES                                 TIME (QUARTER)
Completion of work.                        Ist '97
Various consultancies           Appointment and completion of work.        1995
Training
Stockwatch                      Start of training.                         2nd '95
Options & futures               Start of training.                         2nd '97
Visiting experts                Start of training.                         2nd' 95
End of work.                               I st '97
CI
Long-term advisor                Appointment.                               Ist '95
Completion of work.                        2nd '95
Computerization                  Start purchase of equipment.               2nd '95
Completion and installment.                1 st '97
Mortality tables                 Commencement of work.                      2nd '95
Completion of work.                        Ist '97
Short-term consultant            Commencement of consultancies.             2nd '95
Completion of consultancies.               Ist '98
Term Lending                     Appointment of consultants.                Ist '95
First draft.                               3rd '95
Start of action plan.                      Ist '97
DFI Study                        Appointment of consultants.                Ist '95
First draft.                               3rd '95
Start of action plan.                      Ist '97
BEL
Banking/credit manager           Appointment of consultants, hiring of staff and  Ist '95
Environment unit staff          start of work.
Establishment of AU
Completion of work.                        4th '99
SA3CI
September 1994



- 81 -
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEEPENING AND INTERMEDIATION PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Approximate                       Activities                            Expected Skills
Dates                                                                    (SW)
January 1995        o  Finalization of project implementation    o  Financial Sector Specialist (3)
arrangements, staffing and consultancy   o  Economist (3)
requests for SBP, CLA and CI.            o  Lawyer (3)
o  Review and follow-up of AU in BEL for    o  Operations Officer (3)
sub-project and environment component.
o  Follow-up on establishment of Debt
Recovery Task Force.
o  Follow-up on conditions of effectiveness
on disbursements.
July 1995           o  Follow-up on conditions of effectiveness  o  Financial Sector Specialist (3)
and disbursements.                       o  Economist (3)
o  Review of progress in regulatory reforms:   o  Lawyer (2)
fiscal cost, monetary/credit management,    o  Operations Officer (3)
foreign deposits, level playing field,   o  Consultant (3)
prudential regulations, long-term finance,
insurance sector and securities markets.
o  Appointment of consultants for valuation
of State Life.
o  Study of privatization options.
O  Review progress of DFIs and term-lending
studies.
o  Appointment of consultant for debt
recovery.



- 82 -
ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 3
Approximate                          Activities                          Expected Skills
Dates                                                                      (SW)
January 1996         o  First Interim Review of the Project.      o  Financial Sector Specialist (3)
Review of progress in regulatory reforms    o  Economist (3)
in: fiscal cost, monetary/credit         o  Lawyer (2)
management, foreign deposits, level      o  Operations Officer (3)
playing field, prudential regulations, long-   o  Consultant (3)
term finance, insurance sector and
securities markets.
o  Review of implementation of ISSP in
SBP, CLA and Cl.
o  Review implementation of reforms for
debt recovery.
o  Review starting of operation in securities
regulation wing.
March 1996           o  Review progress achieved in policy        o  Financial Sector Specialist (3)
component, institution building, regulatory   o  Economist (3)
framework and visit of sub-projects.     o  Operations Officer (3)
o  Consultant (3)
June 1996            o  Follow-up of issues conceming policy      o  Financial Sector Specialist (3)
component, regulatory framework and      o  Economist (3)
review of participating institutions,    o  Operations Officer (2)
and AU.                                  o  Consultant (2)
January 1997         o  Second Interim Review of progress of      o  Financial Sector Specialist (3)
project conditions in: fiscal cost of SBP,    o  Economist (3)
monetary/credit management, foreign      o  Operations Officer (3)
exchange deposit, level playing field,   o  Lawyer (2)
prudential regulations, long-term finance,    o  Consultant (3)
insurance and securities markets.
o  Follow-up of completion of automation of
SBP, CLA and Cl.
o  Complete restructuring of State Life.
o  Review implementation actions of DFIs'
study.
o  Review implementation of
recommendations of debt recovery.
June 1997            o  Review of issues, conclusions and         o  Financial Sector Specialist (2)
recommendations of Second Interim        o  Economist (2)
Review.                                  o  Operations Officer (2)
a  Lawyer (I)



- 83 -
ANNEX IX
Page 3 of 3
Approximate                         Activities                         Expected Skills
Dates                                                                    (SW)
December 1997       o  Preparation of detailed terms of reference,   o  Financial Sector Specialist (3)
staffing and schedule of execution of Mid-   o  Economist (2)
Term Review of project implementation.    o  Operations Officer (2)
o  Review of project implementation.        o  Lawyer (2)
March 1998          o  Joint Bank/GOP Mid-Term Review of        o  Financial Sector Specialist (3)
progress in project implementation.     o  Economist (3)
o  Operations Officer (3)
o  Lawyer (2)
o  Disbursement (1)
June 1998           o  Presentation and review of issues,       o  Financial Sector Specialist (3)
conclusions and recommendations of Mid-   o  Economist (3)
Term Review.                            o  Lawyer (2)
o  Preparation of follow-up action plan and  o  Consultant (3)
implementing calendar.
December 1998       o  Follow-up of Mid-Term Review action      o  Financial Sector Specialist (3)
plan and revised policy matrix.         o  Economist (3)
o Review of progress in project
implementation and other reforms and
studies.
June 1999           o  Review of progress in project            o  Financial Sector Specialist (2)
implementation and outstanding issues.  o  Economist (2)
October 1999        o  Review of progress in project            c  Financial Sector Specialist (2)
implementation.                         o  Economist (2)
o  Consultant (2)
January 2000        o  Review of progress in project            o  Financial Sector Specialist (2)
implementation.                         o  Economist (2)
June 2000           o  Review of progress in project            o  Financial Sector Specialist (2)
implementation.                         o  Economist (2)
December 2000       o  PCR preparation.                         o  Operations Officer (2)
o  Operations Officer (2)
SA3CI
September 1994



- 84 -
ANNEX X
Page 1 of 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEEPENING AND INTERMEDIATION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.     An Inquiry into the Insurance Industry.
2.     Informatics Related Technical Assistance to the SBP.
3.     The Regulation of Capital Market.
4.     Technical Assistance Program and Bank Supervision for the State Bank.
5.     Environmental Issues Conceming the Industrial Line of Credit of the Project.
6.     Legal Matters (Amplifying Securities Law--List of Issues).
7.     Recommendations Concerning Securities Markets.
8.     Project Completion Report of the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan.
SAe bI
September 1994



IBRD 16248R4
64-                                68'                               T A J I K I S T A N
\   j    CHINA
PAKISTAN                                                *',
0    NATIONAL CAPITAL
o    CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                -
NATIONAL ROADS
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ROADS
RAILWAYS                                          , '/  k
4    AIRPORTS                                                      osodo      \      Appo.,,o,. I,. rr Co,rro/
_   _   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                         N  he a
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                    CABA Des,bad   '
RIVERS                                       )p.  JAMMU and KASHMAR
32-                                                                                                   godh.                       322-
J   AF G HANISTAN                                                       PUNJA
\               _      v                      7<    /Jt             /<            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I N D A
- 28-             ( '                               +         / >U~  bobod ;V                   {                                 28-8
SLAMIC       j                ,                                            >
REPUBLIC OF 'J   t                            {       2     /horu 
IAN                                                                                      0 .00           200      300     400
_                             l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s lA   N  D  H                        KILOA ETE S
.J                                    Belo    \awobshof              ~                    50    100   iSo   200   250
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~i X                            Nowobsh.1,   j-MILES
/           H16   > 1yderobod
B3ue1, Pt    woch, 
~~'tOtto  )>\                                h. budr-  oos
Bodin   .  _27           o~~~~~~th., inf - - - t- .don
-24'                                                                tvfl-o  hb. moD  do not                                       ,4r
any j.dgn,.ot onP1. .l
boundorif.
64'                                68'                               72
FEBRUARY 1994



