Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25177
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-38080; SCL-3808A; TF-28833)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$216 MILLION
TO
PAKISTAN
FOR A
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEEPENING AND INTERMEDIATION PROJECT (FSDIP)
December 10, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 29.5 Rs at appraisal)
Currency Unit = Rupees
I Rs = US$ 0.016667
US$ I = 60 Rs
FISCAL YEAR
July June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        Asian Development Bank                 IAP          Insurance Association of Pakistan
ADBP       Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan  ICB      International Competitive Bidding
AU         Administrative Unit                    ICP          Investment Corporation of Pakistan
BEL        Bankers Equity Limited                  ICR         Implementation Completion Report
BT         Banking Tribunal                       IDA          International Development Association
CDR        Credit/Deposit Ratio                   IDBP         Industrial Development Bank of Paiistan
CI         Controller of Insurance                 ISSP        Information Systems Strategy Plan
CIB        Credit Information Bureau               KSE         Karachi Stock Exchange
CLA        Corporate Law Authority                 MOF         Ministry of Finance
DFI        Development Finance Institution         NBFI        Non-Bank Financial Institution
EIA        Environmental Impact Assessment         NCB         Nationalized Commercial Banlc
EPA        Environment Protection Agencies         NDFC        National Development Finance Corporation
ESAF       Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility  NIT        National Investment Trust
FI         Finance Institution                     PFI         Participating Financial Institution
FIB        Federal Investment Bond                 PFP         Policy Framework Paper
FSAL       Financial Sector Adjustment Loan        PIC         Pakistan Insurance Corporation
FSDIP      Financial Sector Deepening and Intermediation  PICIC  Pakistan Industrial Credit & Investment
Project                                              Corporation
GOP        Government of Paldstan                  PSAL        Public Sector Adjustment Loan
HBFC       House Building Finance Corporation      SBP         State Bank of Pakistan
Vice President:   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:   John Wall
Sector Manager/Director:   Joseph Pemia
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Mudassir Khan



PAKISTAN
Financial Sector Deepening and Intermediation Project (FSDIP)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                           4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                12
9. Partner Comments                                                               13
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             31






Project ID: P0 10470                                     Project Name: Financial Sector Deepening and
Intermediation Project (FSDIP)
Team Leader. Mudassir Khan                               TL Unit: SASFP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: January 10, 2003
1. Project Data
Name: Financial Sector Deepening and Intermediation  L/C/TFNumber: CPL-38080;
Project (FSDIP)                                             SCL-3808A; TF-28833
Country/Department: PAKISTAN                                           Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: Banking (98%); Law and justice (2%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/22/1993                            Effective: 04/30/1995         10/26/1995
Appraisal:  00/00/0000                               MTR: 12/01/1998
Approval:  11/15/1994                             Closing: 12/31/1999          06/30/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOP/MOF
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                          Paul Isenman
Country Manager:     John W. Wall                             Phillipe Nouvel
Sector Manager:      Joseph Del Mar Pernia                    K. Framji
Team Leader at ICR:  Mudassir Khan                            Safiato BaNdaw
ICR Primary Author:  Mudassir Khan; Ainul Hasan
Qureshi
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU-Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the project was to expand the reform process started under the Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (FSAL; Loan 3029-PAK approved in 1989) and support the Government of Pakistan's
(GOP) strategy for macroeconomic and financial sector reforrns, focusing on: assisting the private sector
to respond to the changing economic enviromnent by providing non-subsidized resources for investments
and helping to deepen the financial system, promote new financial instruments and strengthen the State
Bank of Pakistan (SBP) and other Financial Institutions (FIs). Specifically, the Project aimed at the
following policy and institutional reforms: (i) strengthening of the regulatory framework for FIs through
improved procedures, monitoring and enforcement; (ii) improvement of the legal framework for loan
recovery; (iii) strengthening of banking and non-bank financial institutions; (iv) reduction of concessional
finance extended by the SBP; (v) development of a private market in foreign exchange cover; (vi)
improvement of the management of monetary instruments to eliminate inter-sectoral and inter-institutional
distortions; (vii) strengthening of the payment system; (viii) enhancement through capacity and institutional
building of regulatory functions of the securities and insurance markets; and (ix) privatization,
restructuring and institutional development of banks, development finance institutions and insurance
companies.
The project objectives and its timing were right, in particular as it was a follow up of FSAL with focusing
on the main players in the financial sector and support of appropriate policy, regulatory, and institutional
reform agenda. The demand for the flmds for the productive investments by the private sector was
estimated based on the financing gap however without considering the effective cost to the sub-borrower.
The project was to be instrumental in improving the financial sector efficiency and strengthening the
environment within which the private enterprises function. However, the scope of the programs were too
ambitious for a hybrid type project and the cost of adjustment program and reform agenda introduced were
not adequately provided by the project.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Several problems impeded the implementation of the project and therefore remedial measures had to be
taken to improve the project design and its implementation. Despite all the corrective measures during the
first two years of the project life, the credit component was not utilized which cost the Government sizable
commitment charges on the loan. Therefore the credit component was cancelled in three stages with final
cancellation in December 1998. At the same time, the project was substantially restructured to a TA
project Based on the review and assessment of the scope and demand for the proposed capacity building
programs, and greater demand for fund to implement these programs, the allocation for TA was increased
from US$ 16 million to US$ 28 million to support the original objectives of the TA component. Specific
activities of the restructured project included:
(i) Strengthening the regulatory framework for banks and non-bank financial institutions to improve
procedures and enforcement, including foreign exchange operations.
(ii) Strengthening and improving the privatization process while supporting privatization of financial
institutions.
(iii) Improving performance of regulators of securities and insurance markets.
The revised objectives clearly and realistically addressed the govemment's capacity building programn for
the financial sector. However, the overall banking sector reform agenda was supported by a Banking
Sector Adjustment Loan which was prepared in 1997. The Central Bank was very weak in its supervisory
capacity due to its archaic procedures and poor staffing and, therefore, the Government's policy of
privatization and its financial sector reform agenda required a major overhaul of the SBP.
-2 -



3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of two components: (i) a credit line of US$ 200 million to eligible bank and non-bank
financial institutions for on-lending to private enterprises for long term investment projects; and (ii) a
Technical Assistance (TA) component of US$ 16 million for: (a) the SBP for the enhancement of its
regulatory functions and improvement of its operational systems; (b) the Corporate Law Authority (CLA)
and Controllers of Insurance (CI) for institutional building; (c) Bankers' Equity Limited (BEL) for the
establishment of an Administrative Unit (AU) and implementation of various studies and enforcement of
environmental standards; and (d) the Privatization Commission (PC) for the preparation of a number of FIs
tfor privatization and/or restructuring and valuation of State Life Insurance Corporation.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project focused on the main players in the financial sector and opened the door for further
modernization and strengthening of the SBP. Development objectives for assisting the SBP were the same
as the original project and included: (i) Strengthening of the regulatory framework for banks and non-bank
financial institutions with improved procedures, monitoring and enforcement; (ii) Improving and
modernizing SBP's institutional structure and systems including foreign exchange operations and
automation of its offices and functions
Privatization programs were proceeding slowly with many impediments. Therefore, PC needed assistance
for improving its in-house capacity, methodology, procedures and expertise and also obtaining advisory
assistance from intemational consultants. Assistance provided under the restructured TA project focused
on meeting these requirements and improving the privatization process while supporting privatization of
financial institutions.
The regulatory performance of the Corporate Law Authority (now Securities and Exchange Commission)
needed to be strengthened to develop Pakistan's equity market for speeding up industrial development
Also, the Controller of Insurance's (CI) was perceived to be very weak to effectively regulate the insurance
market and it suffered from neglect by the government. To address these problems the restructured TA
considered some assistance to these institution. It should be mentioned that, at that time, ADB had
provided over US$ 125 million for the Capital Markets Development in Pakistan with a comprehensive
Program for capacity building and restructuring of CI and CLA. Therefore, FSDIP's assistance in this
area was limited and the allocated fund was considered as a small supplement to the ADB fund.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was not reviewed by QAG for quality at entry, as there was no QAG at that time. The
quality at entry of the original project is considered unsatisfactory. The credit component was not designed
properly and on-lending terms and conditions could not be met by the beneficiaries. There were various
problems with the design of the credit component. The project required that the foreign exchange risk of
the credit component for on-lending to be transferred to the sub-borrower rather than to be bome by the
Government. This increased the cost of fund for long term investment and created uncertainties among
the banking community with regards to the high cost associated with short term risk cover that was
available through National Bank of Pakistan. In addition, public banks were not found eligible to
participate in FSDIP and the private sector banks, including investment banks were too small to engage in
any significant long term finance. Thus, it was apparent even during Appraisal that there will be serious
problems in finding eligible FIs to participate. There were only few viable leasing companies found eligible
for participation and they could only utilize a small portion of the loan amount. These leasing companies
were not considered for participation in the beginning due to the availability of another credit line from
IFC.
-3 -



Furthermore, the banking environment at project appraisal was highly fluid. Banks, which were almost
entirely in the public sector at the time were being mandated to follow new prudential regulations
introduced under FSAL. They found that their equity was not only wiped out, but had become negative due
to their large non-performing loans. The DFIs, who were the major channel for long term investment in the
country, were also similarly affected. The GOP's policy and privatization agenda at that time resulted in
further uncertainty regarding the future management and operations of the public banks and DFIs, in
particular in the minds of staff. Therefore, these banks were unable to participate in the credit component
and meet the eligibility criteria designed at appraisal. In view of the issues outlined above, appraisal of the
project took over one year to complete. The project did not address upfront likely future practical problems
in implementation of the investmnent fund component.
Due to heavy agenda of reforms proposed under the project, there were over a dozen effectiveness
conditions to be met by the beneficiaries. The GOP took one year to meet these conditions. To
summarize, quality at entry was substandard due to the ambitious nature of the project both for policy
reform and institutional development, as well as the hybrid nature of the project. The heavy agenda
proposed by FSDIP, and limited capacity of the concemed institutions resulted in very slow implementation
during the first three years of the project.
In addition, although the GOP was initially hesitant for a hybrid type project realizing that there was an
extensive agenda for policy and sector reform and institutional development, it agreed to the project scope
and design due to its weak balance of payments position at the time of appraisal.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The credit component of the original project was not implemented satisfactorily due to the factors
mentioned in section 3.5, weak investment climate at the time, and difficulties of sub-borrowers in meeting
the Bank procurement guidelines. The TA component was however moving, though with a slow pace.
Therefore, out of US$ 216 million original loan, about US$ 188 million was cancelled. At the same time
allocation for the TA component was increased by US$ 12 million based on the request by the SBP to
finance the implementation cost of the Information Systems Strategy Plan (ISSP), which was prepared by
consultants under the project, to cover the cost of procurement of the required hardware/software,
establishment of SWIFT, and automation of the dealing room.
The revised project was implemented satisfactorily and its development objectives, have generally, been
achieved. In the case of SBP, the main consultancy assignment for strengthening supervisory/inspection
capacity was completed and the recommendations were implemented. SBP's capacity as a regulator and
supervisor of the banks have significantly improved. The minimum capital requirements were raised and
branching policy in case of commercial banks was liberalized. SBP's capacity for monitoring and
enforcement of regulations has been significantly strengthened. This has been demonstrated by several
actions that SBP has taken against weak financial institutions. One private commercial bank was
liquidated, another was taken over by SBP and subsequently sold to a strong financial institution. In case
of a partially privatized bank, the President and Directors were removed for mismanagement and financial
irregularities and change in its management through a strategic sale is planned.
Measures for strengthening SBP's capacity have been implemented, including: (i) human resource reforms,
(ii) strengthening training programs and revamping of the training institute, (iii) strengthening of research
and foreign exchange operations, (iv) enhancing IT capacity and undertaking automation of SBP's
functions and offices, and (v) separating SBP's core and none core functions, with the latter being
-4 -



transferred to a newly established subsidiary, Banking Services Corporation (BSC).
The study for restructuring the public sector DFIs was completed and its recommendations have largely
been implemented involving amalgamation and mergers.
For improving the regulatory framework for NBFIs, a study was undertaken based on which NBFIs'
regulation and monitoring are to be transferred to Security and Exchange Commission of Pakistan (SECP).
The Privatization Commission (PC) has also undertaken some operational restructuring and has
strengthened its in-house capacity by providing training to its consultants/staff and recruiting more
privatization experts. A new Privatization Law was promulgated and the status of the Chairman was
raised to that of a Federal Minister. These positive developments helped in moving the privatization agenda
forward. The PC managed to complete preparation for privatization transactions that led to the sale of
UBL, most of MCB's remaining govermment shares, IPO of NBP, and start of the sale process for HBL.
4.2 Outputs by components:
SBP has successfully implemented its project components.
(i) Human Resource Development (HRD) - With the assistance of its HR Adviser and consultants, far
reaching reforms have been carried out which included analyzing and developing job descriptions, skills
assessment, and development of best personnel policies and practices to move from Operational-based to
Developmental-based structure. A new Performance Management System (PMS) was developed which has
become the focal point of HR processes and procedures, including recruitment, career development,
training, staff evaluation, and promotion policy. Number of the staff was reduced from 12,000 to 7,000
over a period of 10 years mainly due to separation and retirement schemes, despite new recruits of young
professionals on yearly basis. The SBP has achieved these results through changing the culture and mind
set of the staff from top to bottom. Implementation of HR management system (HRMS) is also near
completion.
(ii) Staff Development and Training - Training was one of the main instruments used extensively by SBP
for institution strengthening. A Training Policies and Program Paper was prepared which is the guiding
tool for providing systematic and continuos training to the staff. Over a thousand staff were trained in
various technical and professional areas.
(iii) Automation Project - SBP has launched a major automation program based on the ISSP study. They
have automated their banking operations with the introduction of Globus software in the Karachi head
office. Sixteen Modules out of thirty was successfully implemented which was the Phase I of the plan.
Implementation of remaining modules (Phase II) has ahready been commenced and will be funded under the
Bank funded Technical Assistance for Banking Sector (TABS) which was approved in July 2002. After
completion of Phase II in Karachi office, Globus will be rolled out to SBP's regional branches. SBP has
also successfully automated its back office functions including pay roll, HR management system, and
procurement by introduction of Oracle Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) software package. Some
progress has been made in Datawarehouse development and substantive work will be carried out under the
TABS to complete the project. The Local Area Network (LAN) in Karachi office has been established and
950 users have access to e-mail system. With the help of automation project SBP's efficiency has
improved substantially. Furthermore, the IT project has changed the business processes and overall
working environment of the SBP.
(iv) Physical Upgradation - To improve working environment, the building interior is being remodeled and
renovated and modernized based on the business needs of user departments.
- 5-



(v) Organizational Restructuring - SBP has separated core and none core functions and establish an
autonomous subsidiary - Banking Services Corporation - for managing the none-core functions. The law
for BCS's establishment has been enacted, ensuring its sustainability. Thus, SBP is now responsible for the
core activities and all none core retail banking functions that are being performed by Karachi head office
and 16 regional offices have been transferred to the BSC. In addition to this major change, SBP has
reorganized its other departments in order to increase their efficiency and effectiveness. In addition, SBP
has made a twining arrangement with the Central Bank of Malaysia to learn and apply successful
modernization experiences.
(vi) Based on the recommendations of a consultant, DFIs restructuring has largely been completed. There
have been some positive developments in this area, including: closure of the largest DFI - National
Development Finance Corporation (NDFC) and take over of its assets by the National Bank of Pakistan
(NBP). The Regional Development Finance Corporation (RDFC) and Small Business Finance
Corporation (SBFC) were merged and a new Medium and Small Enterprise (SME) Bank has been created.
Federal Bank for Cooperatives was liquidated, Agriculture Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP) is being
restructured, Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) is in the process of liquidation or
privatization, options for restructuring/privatization of National Investment Trust (NIT) and Investment
Cooperation of Pakistan (ICP) are being evaluated.
(vii) Responsibility for NBFIs's regulations and monitoring is being transferred to Securities and Exchange
Commission of Pakistan (SECP) and will be effective as soon as the legislation is passed.
(viii) The SBP's library was automated under FSDIP. A consultancy assigmnent for introduction of a
suitable software was completed in 1997 and hardware was acquired. Records of all books, periodicals,
articles were automated and staff officers were trained on the use of computer and managing the automated
system.
Privatization Commission implemented some operational restructuring and managed to strengthen its
in-house capacity through training of its consultants/staff and recruitment of a few additional experts.
Recently, a Privatization Law was promulgated providing legal cover to the privatization process and the
status of the Chairman was raised to that of a Federal Minister. These steps are indicative of the
importance the Government attaches to the privatization program and are likely to help in moving the
program forward. Based on advice from the World Bank, PC prepared a standard/general sale terms and
conditions for privatization of public banks.
PC's progress in privatization, however, has been slow due to weak investment climate, initially inadequate
staffing, and difficulty in hiring financial advisors under the Bank's procurement guidelines. Nevertheless,
PC's overall performance was satisfactory as it recently successfully sold the UBL to a qualified bidder.
Other achievements/actions included: (i) ten percent shares of NBP were divested and divestment of
additional 10 percent shares is under process; (ii) with fifty one percent shares of Allied Bank Limited
already privatized, the remaining 49 percent shares are in the process of divestment to a strategic investor
to achieve change in governance due to problems occurring post privatization; (iii) divestment of remaining
(6 percent) government shares in MCB is under way; (iv) short list of qualified bidders for minimum sale of
26 percent shares in HBL have been prepared and follow up actions are on schedule.
Although, the Bank made significant efforts for implementation of components for SEC and COI, they did
not use any funding (except for a nominal amount utilized by SEC for training) under FSDIP due to
assistance provided by ADB under a comprehensive program for development of capital markets.
- 6 -



After restructuring the project and in light of increased scope of TA for SBP, the project closing was
extended by two years up to December 2001. Due to September 11, 2001 events and its direst impact on
Pakistan, project implementation was further delayed and therefore, SBP formally requested another six
months extension to allow completion of activities planned under FSDIP. The Bank selectively extended
the project for 6 months up to June 30, 2002 for the SBP component only.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate ofreturn:
N.A.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development imnpact of the project is substantial. Over the past several years, a
complete change has been brought about in the institutional setup of the Bank and mindset of its staff.
Although FSDIP cannot take credit for the whole transformation, it has been instrumental in supporting
SBP managment by providing timely advice and continuity of funding. SBP used to operate as a mere
department of the Ministry of Finance sharing its regulatory responsibilities. As part of the reform process,
the Central Bank was made autonomous and responsible to the Parliment. In addition, SBP was split into
two - a core central bank responsible for monetary policy, foreign exchange and bank regulation and a
non-core subsidary to deal with retail banking functions. SBP also took the route of gradually changing its
skill through early retirement schemes and direct induction from the private sector. The Central Bank also
made twinning arrangements with the renowned Bank Negara (Central Bank of Malaysia) to make use of
its expertise. More specifically, under the restructured project, SBP has upgraded itself from an old
fashioned, stagnant and archaic institution into a modem organization with far reaching improvements in
human resource policy and practice, technology, workplace layout, and staffing. Human resource
development is now a priority for SBP. The changes in HR policy and procedures brought about a change
in institution's culture, the mindset of the staff and management, and substantial effectiveness of its
operations. SBP's approach for its regulatory functions has changed from statutory to risk based. Its
capacity for bank regulation and supervision has been substantially strengthened through modem
information system and extensive staff training. Bank supervisors are trained and possess analytical skills
to deliver quality work. The average age of the professional staff was reduced from 46 years to 29 years
and there was new recruitment from the best qualified young professionals in all related fields which has
achieved the required skill mix. Significant improvements have been made in senior middle management
and the new team is better qualified. SBP is now equipped to handle problem banks along with a system in
place for early warning. With these changes, SBP has earned respect of the financial community and is on
its way to playing its role as an effective central bank. Another major impact has been separation of the
SBP's core functions from its routine banking functions, thus providing greater focus on central banking
functions of monetary policy and banking regulation and supervision. Also, its foreign exchange operations
have been significantly improved and a dealing room was established and automated. It subsequently
merged with the securities department to handle debt management. The SWIFT System has also been
established in 1999-2000 which has improved SBP's communications in the global markets.
A study was carried out for the establishment of Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) which will be
implemented under the newly approved TABS project. The financial sector as a whole was strengthened
through DFIs restructuring and changes in NBFIs regulations.
Another major impact of FSDIP was the implementation of the government's privatization agenda. One
-7 -



major bank was successfully privatized and several other financial institutions are in various stages of
restructuring/privatization (paras. 4.1-4.2). The PC was also made efforts for institution building through
staff training and of benefitting from international financial advisers. The expertise has been developed
substantially in PC to handle difficult privatization transactions.
Institution building of SEC and Controller of Insurance were carried out under the ADB project.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency.
*   Poor investrnent environment. Pakistan's economy stagnated during most of the nineties due to: low
growth in the manufacturing and agricultural sectors, frequent change of governnents, law and order
problems, and tensions with neighboring countries. This resulted in weak investment environment for
industrial development. Furthermore, lack of any breakthrough in improving exports and steady
devaluation of the Rupee worked against the potential investors taking foreign currency risk as required
under the project's on-lending terms. Thus, the investment lending component of the project could not
be utilized and was cancelled.
*   Non availability of long-term foreign exchange cover to the private sector for term investment. This
factor created uncertainty about the resulting cost of borrowing by private enterprises.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
* The government fully supported the restructured TA project for strengthening of SBP by providing it
with greater autonomy and making necessary legislative changes to improve SBP's enforcement
capability for regulating the financial sector. Thus, SBP was free to design and implement its
modernization plan without governmental interference.
* The government enacted a new law for privatization to support of the overall privatization program.
*   The Government also passed a law for Securities and Exchange Commission to make it autonomous,
repealed the Insurance Act, and is finalizing the law to formalize transfer of insurance regulation to the
SEC.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
*   SBP's management was fully committed to improving its supervisory capacity and upgrading and
modernization of the institution. After an initial delay in hiring of international consultants, SBP
management implemented the project diligently. Qualified staff were recruited and necessary
organizational changes were made to ensure effective implementation of various components of the
project, particularly, the automation of the institution. SBP also hired consultants for restructuring of
DFIs and NBFIs' regulations.
*   The Privatization Commission implemented some of the actions required under the project However,
progress of privatization of the major financial institutions was initially slow due to inadequacies of its
expertise and also the market conditions prevailing in the country. Therefore, it did not effectively
utilize its allocated funds. PC could have done more for its institutional development at earlier stage of
the project. Notwithstanding, PC has recently managed to successfully advance the privatization
program.
* Both SBP and PC followed the Bank's requirement on financial management of the project. Therefore,
the project implementation was not affected by any financial management issues.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The original project loan was $ 216 mnillion, of which $ 200 million was for on-lending through
- 8-



financial institutions for industrial development loans. This component was cancelled in stages as efforts
for its utilization did not succeed. The project was restructured in December 1998, with cancellation of the
investment component and enhancement of the TA to accommodate increased project scope for SBP and
PC. In view of that, the TA allocation was increased from US$ 16 million to US$ 28 million.
Disbursement delay also occurred due to the increased scope of the TA. The project was extended by two
years initially and, thereafter, by six months selectively for SBP and finally closed on June 30, 2002.
Annex 2 shows appraisal estimates based on the restructured project and actual project costs.
Total disbursements amounted to US$ 18.9 million while US$ 9.1 million remained unutilized.
Non-utilization of the full amount was due to delay in project implementation caused mainly by adverse
domestic and intemational events (such as September 11). SBP has managed, nevertheless, to complete
phase one of the automation project as well as major restructuring of the organization. Phase two of the
SBP project is being implemented under TABS, the follow-on project.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project's achievements for the SBP component is highly likely. The reforms cannot
easily be reversed due to the important measures taken by SBP for changing the institution. SBP was
fundamentally reformed with change of staff/management mind set and behavior. Staff were provided
training by the consultants locally and also trained abroad to ensure that they have the necessary skills for
implementing the procedures laid down in the bank supervision manual. Qualified staff were recruited at
all levels to fill the gaps in staffing. HR reforms have been carried out which include strengthening training
programs and revamping of the training institute, strengthening research activities, developing job
descriptions, skills assessment and development, and recruitment and career development based on the best
practices. All these fundamental changes, ensure long-term sustainability of the reforms.
Quantum jump is being made by SBP in improving its infornation system. Automation has been
introduced and largely implemented in Karachi HQ office with firm plan for its roll out to other regional
offices which will be financed under the follow up project, TABS. Qualified staff has been recruited for
managing the new system.
Transfer of non-core functions to an independent subsidiary - BSC, is likely to provide an opportunity to
SBP management for undivided attention to the core functions, particularly monetary management and
banking regulation and supervision. The supervisory capacity has been strengthened by implementing
procedures based on the intemational practices and have been formalized and recorded in the supervision
manual.
The function of regulation for deposit and non-deposit taking institutions has been clearly defined and split
between SBP and SEC. A legislation has been prepared to formalize this change and is likely to be enacted
shortly.
With regard to PC, some of the reforms are likely to be sustainable including: promulgation of the
Privatization Law providing legal cover to the process and actions taken and the terms agreed for
privatization of banks. Measures taken for ensuring transparency of the privatization process and
resolution of issues prior to the sale are likely to make these transactions sustainable. As the privatization
program is likely to continue for some time, improvements in staff development and career planning will be
important for continuing credibility of the program. In addition, the assets purchased out of the project
funds will be used by PC for future programs of privatization. Adequate documentation on contracts and
-9-



other activities were maintained which will be useful references for future privatization activities.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project was implemented by SBP Banking Supervision staff with the assistance of the General
Accounts and Audit Departments. The team was trained in project management and was effective in
implementing FSDIP. As such, the Project Director was also given the responsibility for preparing and
managing the follow on project.
FSDIP strengthened the supervisory capacity of the Central Bank by investing in building its human
resource and improving its systems and processes. Consequently, overall efficiency and functioning of SBP
has improved considerably and the bank has been able to introduce and enforce international banking
standards. This has had a positive impact on the entire financial sector improving performance and
disclosure. In addition, increased autonomy and independence in regulation has allowed SBP to effectively
manage several bank failures/ mergers.
While SBP has come a long way, it is still in the process of improving and strengthening its human
resource base and information systems. These efforts are being supported by the Bank through a follow-on
project. Upon completion of the new project, SBP is expected to have fully institutionalized these reforms
and become a world class central bank.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The project was appraised in October 1993 as a hybrid. The agenda of reforms being very ambitious, more
than a dozen difficult conditions were listed by the appraisal mission as conditions for negotiations,
effectiveness, and disbursements. Due to delay in fulfilling these conditions, the post appraisal process
took almost a year. The project was eventually negotiated in October, 1994 and was approved by the
Board on November 15, 1994. It took GOP two and a half months to sign the Loan Agreement (January
31, 1995) and nearly a year for meeting conditions of effectiveness (October, 1995) after the Board
Approval. The unusual delay in the processing was due to over extended reforms agenda together with
difficult eligibility criteria for the PCIs and on-lending terms. In short, the project had little leverage and
weak ownership of the govermment in implementing the ambitious reform agenda. These reform programs
could not be all implemented under FSDIP and therefore were later covered under the Banking sector
Adjustment Loan (BSAL). The Bank's performance of the preparation and appraisal is regarded as
unsatisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance in supervising the project was somewhat slow imnmediately after the launch of the
project The Bank's performance, however, was satisfactory in restructuring the project after recognizing
GOP's inability to utilize the main component comprising the investment credit line. The entire credit line
component was cancelled in stages as the situation evolved, and the TA was increased to meet the needs of
SBP, PC, SEC and Controller of Insurance. Missions comprising adequately qualified staff/consultants
were fielded at regular intervals and problems were addressed on a timely manner. Despite appropriate and
timely measures introduced by the supervision teams, the investment component could not be utilized.
Technical advice was provided to the implementing agencies when needed, particularly after restructuring.
Most of the missions included specific technical expertise to assist the government. Task management of
the project was delegated to the Field Office in 1998, which improved close project supervision.
No significant deviations from the Bank's policies and procedures occurred during project implementation.
- 10 -



Also, the Bank's procurement procedures were followed without any deviations, which nevertheless, were
one of the factors leading to cancellation of the investment component. As for the financial management of
the project, Bank performance was satisfactory both at the time of appraisal and supervision. Expenditure
monitoring reports were submitted to the management on a regular basis and actions were taken promptly.
The Bank supervision provided timely assistance to the project's accounting staff in improving financial
management and reporting when need arose.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory with timely cancelations, restructuring and pro-active
implementation support. The Bank, however, could have designed the project more realistically without
being too ambitious. Following restructuring of the project, the Bank team worked closely with the
agencies for effective implementation of the their institutional development initiatives. Project restructuring
and the required extensions of closing dates were processed efficiently.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Although, the borrower was keen for a Bank project for assisting the private sector industrial investment, it
was unhappy about inclusion of policy changes within the scope of FSDIP. The Government was of the
view that the policy reforms should be funded through a quick disbursing adjustment loan for budgetary
support instead of an investment project. The borrower considered the eligibility criteria for participating
institutions too strict, which excluded all the public sector institutions. Nevertheless, they reluctantly
agreed to the project in view of the over all thrust of the financial sector reforms but the ownership to
implement was weak. Therefore, the borrower's performance during project preparation is considered
unsatisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performnance:
Project effectiveness was delayed due to too many conditions of effectiveness, while they could
have been met in a shorter time-frame. Although, the project design was not to the government's lildng, it
continued taking necessary actions for project implementation. The government along with SBP tried to
take necessary actions to respond to the corrective measures proposed by the Bank. Finally, the
government fully supported the project by granting autonomy to SBP, SECP and PC which was a major
factor in successful implementation after restructuring.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Bankers Equity Limited as Adrninistrator of the investmnent component of the project, was too slow
in preparation and implementation of the project. Initially the delay was due to reluctance to engage
foreign consultants to manage the project. Nevertheless, a foreign consultant was selected on Bank's advice
but adequate facilities were not provided for him to perforrn the job. The level of assistance provided to
potential participating institutions was also inadequate resulting in delay in meeting the conditions for
participation. Subsequently BEL was privatized and later liquidated due to mismanagement
SBP was slow initially in procurement of consultants for strengthening its supervision capacity and
institutional development However, when the consultants were appointed in the third year of the project,
their programs started. Due to political problems and security situation in the country, this consultancy
took longer than expected. However, as SBP was committed to the reform process, it had continuously and
consistently worked toward achieving the project objectives. The implementation picked up in year 2000
and, to a large extent, was completed satisfactorily. In general, SBP's performance was satisfactory.
PC's performance has been mixed, partly due to overall market conditions in the country. Although some
- 11 -



privatization transactions were accomplished (para 4.2), only one major privatization was achieved before
project closing. PC could manage to improve its in-house expertise during the project and made significant
progress in preparation for privatization through information memoranda and advertising general sales
terms and conditions for privatization of public banks. Their performance has improved at later stage of
the project which helped achieve recent privatization of UBL and short listing of potential bidders for HBL.
With respect to financial management of the project, the performance of the implementing agencies were
excellent. Financial statements were submitted as per Bank's format and policies. The implementing
agencies complied with financial covenants, expenditure accounts were well maintained, and audit reports
were all unqualified and were submitted with only slight delay.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower performance and participation in project preparation was only marginally
satisfactory at the beginning of the project. Delay in meeting conditions of effectiveness could have been to
some extent avoided even though they were numerous. After restructuring of the project, the overall
Borrower performance in project implementation is considered satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned from design and implementation experience are as follows:
*   The scope, objectives and coverage of a project should not be unrealistically ambitious. In
particular, investment projects that benefit the private sector should not be used as a vehicle for
requiring policy reforms of the government, except as prior Board conditions, since during project
implementation the Bank's leverage on the government is weak.
*   Demonstrated project ownership and commitment is a key factor for success. Project preparation
should be avoided where there is doubt on govemment ownership to implement.
*   Terns and conditions of project components must be adequately assessed. Projects risks should be
clearly identified with appropriate risk mitigation measures.
*   For a credit-line project, a realistic assessment of availability and eligibility of participating
institutions and competitiveness of Bank funds in view of inherent foreign exchange risks should be
made to avoid risk of project failure.
*   Project conditions should be discussed and resolved in the early stages of preparation cycle in order
to avoid unnecessary costs to the Bank and the borrower. To the extent possible, conditions for
project effectiveness and disbursements should be avoided.
*   Timely restructuring of the project by the government and the Bank reduces implementation delay
and costs.
*   Quality at entry assessment should be carried out prior to negotiations for complex projects - such
as FSDIP, to improve project design.
*   It is important that the borrower project team be fully aware of Bank's procurement guidelines and
their respective staff receive appropriate training to avoid delays in procurement. Time required
particularly for procurement of large contracts should be realistically built into project design.
- 12-



*   Experience under this project shows that regular supervision/monitoring of financial management
of the project and Bank guidance of project accounting staff proved to be important in ensuring
that weak areas in financial management be addressed and imnproved on a timely manner. It is
important to provide upfront training for the project accounting staff and cost them in the total
project costs.
*   Supply response to policy changes takes time and requires that reforms are completed - after doing
away with credit lines to public sector institutions and provision of foreign exchange risk cover, the
private sector did not automatically step in to fill the gap. In the process of changing existing
systems, govenrrnents and IFIs should promote development of alternative mechanisms by
facilitating the development of markets through better information, better contract dispute
resolution and similar market supportive infrastructuxe.
*   Institutions are not easy to reform - the process can take years and requires continuous
commitment and effort. Moreover, for reforms to be effective, it is essential to have an integrated
approach covering change in mind set, systems and processes.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
- 13 -



No.F.7 (I).lnrvJI/9.              ,*
Govenment of thkistan
FinanceDiviion                   'INr    f 
Itrvesflnt Wing)^ 
Iamabae the November 15, 2OD2
From: MwnrAhmd,
Seuedo Officer (Inv.II)
Phone No. 9209714.
To    Mr. Abed Hasan,
Acting Country Director.
The World Bank, ilamobad Offive.
Ran= 5, G Si, Ulaabad.
Subec:      ENANIL       SEaTR    DEEENING      AND JNTEMEDIATION        P
QLOAN NQ8OJSOPAK) - IMLEMENIATION COMPLITION REPORT (ICRI.
Dear Sir,
I am direcaed to refer lo Ibe World Bw*. ahnabmad Oflice letter dated Setember 30, 2002
on the su*Iwecz
2     The implekmentation Completion Repon (ICR) prepared by the World Baik is in order.
Comments on the tCR prpard in consuthaiosin with State Bank of Paksitan(SBP) SecUrlies and
Exchange Comimoon of Paidstin (SECP) and Prizvtion Connmison (PC) is ar* endosed for
perusgl a  ardesay acdon by tbe World Banw
Yors wnc.idly,
(Munir Abmad)
- 14-



Governnent of Pakistan
Finance DMsion
(Investient Wing)
IMLEENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
ON
WORLD BANK'S
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEPPENINO AND INTERMEDIATION PROJECT (FSDIP)
(LOAN NO.3808-PAK)
The objective of the project was to expard the reform procs saed under the Fincial
Scaor Adjustmet Loan (ESAL) and apport the GOP strategy for maco-eoomic ard
finrncial s"ctO rdetms, focusing on, asaaisng the privae sector to respond to the changng
eonomzc environment by providing non4subsidized resources for invetments and helping to
deepen the finanwx   system, promote new fnancial instruments and strengthen the State Bank of
Pakistan (SBP) wd otber Finamcial Institutions (FIs). In this bef the ICR of the project
prepared by the World Bank, is in order.
2.    The scope of the programme was too ambhious and the costs of the adust
programme and reform agenda introduced wte not, adequtely provided by the project. The
credit component of the progrumm was not designed properly and ihe beneficiaries could not
meet the lnding tms and condiios. Due to probiems in the inmpleenrdaton of the project,
remedial mesures had to be resorted to In order to improve the project desip. The credit
componem was not utilized and aicled in thre stages. The project was rmiured to a TA.
projecl
3,     World  Bank's performance was remsonable inidiay due so tinmey     caidladon,
reaiucturing and proctive implenent suppoft The Bank, however, could not design the prject
nrxe rmltically wiitout being too ambitiuo aN   ovefr-etled the reforms apnda. The
eligibility caiteia br putidpating institutions wem too stict, which excluded a1l the pubfic
sectr intutions. The Governmnem folly suppoitd the project by ematin  autoen y to SBP,
SECP and PC    which was a major fhmor in soconsfidly implernmeation after reatrucntrng
Overall borrower peribrmace in the preparation of the project was reasonable at the begminig
- 15-



of IEw projcz. [Dzay in miaO  cortitions of f0ivuess cowd 1ve bean to  mo went
svoided c     thouoh they wrtr nunirom After r           of 1, pT@IA, tDo GP
p3rToninna in proj= imp tentatinn haa bow qul1e satisfiWory.
4.    impienmeftion poion of ith peet com       w SlSP, PC and SECP is  v  bellow:
5.    S13P hns rlcXfly imp%melcnd the roowi   preo ccSll:
i)    Hummn  Ruw       Dvelopnsen (HRD). VM4b thX wwts o of Advisor
and ConeWhant. nfoms haw bg   an e ed = in the d 2  seft ofjob
descipion, sdills, aissess t and developmet of bug pmrsondn
poricis wd prisce3s How ,v; for wonrr=o   of recrd k  uray be
claifiad thbn 10 ymns erlicr Le. in thz yee 192, Ithe loal shfof i.e
State Bnok (incnsive of afl offcers) wns 10,000.
i)    Staff Davalopun nd Tmi& n. Rescmh Dapeni heve wifilized TA
mnora to the ena       of fimsatian its tw  ofoar  for NM  in
eveloppnam IEemonoics   m WiNimas Co[l%0   Masmhu     s USA
duri6 2001.02.
iii)   Automation Prokct
iv)  IP'hyec  Uprazion
v)    Ongn0   dGne RnsVnUchUiUa,
vi)  lUdar 2ti   ininm am   amnLt, 22 G=car of virioue D Q    s of SBP have
ctended cour= in BKP coverinI the foUovIng.
o  Fm.      ar Sgkets Ltd OCsron
o  Certn Bwfrng CoUFrnE, 20'P erd 2Q'
o     sa~ su#y
o  1Risk sanq   it in Tr%ury Opv4tons
o  Stxts Tt:   vlowaame    - A#icacon
o            ew  o RYGS tpaent Syssm
6.    SIP has b     az   in dh dv efnT of a Real Tiiu tsgo  Seatthen   (RTGSD loilisy
&iw lor-g vaue pymsaa En ft Banking Sator In Jnam 2002, the Bank prce d aes of a
f"5n conJAn1. rmam       MIs C=nutancy Am=iam Uimited of Hong Kong to at        in
devea'prng an propitlae RTiS solution foi the comy aed preae Bid dowmams for the
- 16-



RTGS project. 'he Consultams have asady submitted the Sysutm  Strategy Repott and Bid
documents fbr the RTGS sem and tbeir contract now stands completed, Jn April 2002, some
SBP olficials were also sent on educational visits to the Hong Kong Mometary Authrity, Bank
Negra MaLaysia anrd Bank of Thaibrd lo study their RTGS systems. However the draft
implemadon completion report does not indude menion of any these activities catied out by
SBP towards doveoplet of the RTGS systen
7.    The preparaion of System Strategy Report and the Bid documefts for the RTOS systm
have been completed which wee financed under the FSDIP progrmm  of the World Bank,
8.    Measures for strenghening SBP's capacity have been implmeted In the following
areas
(i)   H    n resource refoms,
(ii)   Strengheing taining pmgrams and revamping of the training institLte,
(idi)  Streng ing of research and foreign exchage oprations,
(iv)  Enhancing IT capacity an  undertaking automation of SBP's firotions and
offices% and
(v)   Separating SBP's ore end none core funtdions, with the latter being transferred to
a newly estaished subsidiary. Banking Sevices Corponrtion (BSC).
9.    The satdy   for reaturing    the public sector DFIs was competed      and its
recommendatbons have largely been implemented iavolving asnalganation and mergers. For
improving the regulatory framework for NBFls, a stud was undertken basedotn which NBFIe'
regulation and monitoring are to be tranferred to Securities and Exchange Cormnisson of
Pakistan (SECP).
10    A draft Anti Money Laundring Law is under prepamtion separately by a special task
fbrre set up by GlOP, but this has nothing to do whh the twhing arrangemeMs with BNM
(Central Bank of Malrysia
11.   Based on the recommendations of a consulta, DFl restructuring has largely been
completed. There have beeo sonm posive developmerns in this area, indudig& closue of the
lrgesl DPI - NDFC and take over of its sset4 by the NBP. The RDPC  nd SBFC were meged
- 17 -



and a new Medium and Small Emerprise (SME) Bank has been eraued. Federa Bank 6br
Cooperatives was liquidated, ADBP has been corpmratizd  ba is being resnructred, IDBP ii in
the process of liquidation or privatizaion, privaizaoi oCNIT and ICP is at an advannd stage.
12.   Responsibility for NBFIs regu]ations and monitoang is being trasfrred to SECP and will
be effcive as soon as dte leilaion is passed, Tle SBP's libraTy was Aomaed under FSDIP.
13.   Staff were povided training by dh consiltants locly an also tmined aroad to as= that
they have the nessary skls for inplcmenting the procedures laid down in the bank sumperviuion
manual. Qualified staff wre reited at all lvls to fill the gps in staffing HR reforms have been
camed out which inlude strentheg training progrann oad revamping of Ihe traiing institute,
strengthemng reserh activities, developing job desciptions, skls asessment and devdopment,
and recltment and career development based on the besn practices All these findamenal changes.
ensare long term susteinablity of the reflmis,
14.   Quantum jump is being made by SBP in improvig its infotmation stem  Automalion
has been introduced and argely implmented in Karachi HQ office with firm plan for its roll out
to other regional oMfices which will be fianced tunder the iboow up project. TABS. Qualfied staff
has been recruited for manging the nw systew"m
15.   Transfor of ron-cor funtions to an independen asbeldary - BSC. is lkely to provid, an
oppomun      to SBP manaigean t for undivided atntion to the core fiuidons. peticulay
mometaty manat nd banking regulaion and supervision. The aumvisory capaity has been
stretrised by implementing prooedus based on de inemadonal practices and have been
formurind and recorded in the supevision manual,
16.   The A fction of reulation for deposit and oon-deposit uing intudons has bow clearly
defined and splAh between SBP and SEC. A legislation has been p rd to fomalize this dchng
and Is ilkel to be wacted shrty.
- 18-



RIVATllQON COMM              ON
17    The Priva1izatbon Comnission has undaken some operational reuctrwing and has
strengthened its in-house apaity by providi  traiting to its consultantlssaff and recruiting
nore puivalization eqefns. A new Privatization Law was prmlgated and the italus of the
Chairman was rased to that of a Federal Ministet. These positive deveopments helped in
movlng the prvatizaLion aged   forward. The PC marnag     to complete prepamtion for
privatiadon traaction that led to the sale of UBL, most of MCD's remamig govemrnmem
shawes, IPO of NBP ad stat ofthe sale process for HBL.
I8    Implementation of the Bovenmenl's privatiizalon agenda was carried out successfilly
One major bank was succassfrlly privarized andt several otber financa institutions are in various
stas of regruduringprivatizaon. The PC also made efforts for institution building through
staff training and of benefit   from irnarnalonal finenciid advisern. The expetise has been
deeIoped subtatially in PC to handle diffiut privslizaaon trn ions.
19.   With regard to PC, the reonus awe of suitable nahoxe including. pronulgation of the
Ptivaization Law providing legal cova to the process and acdons taken and the ternm agreed for
puvatizatuon of bnk&s Measures taken fof ensuAing mrnparency of the privatization process and
rensoUion of issues prior to the sae halO make these tnact   sustainabe As the privatization
program w ill continue for some time, unprovnmns in saff developmest and career plannirg will
be impotat for contnuing credibility of the program.
20.   FBC is bein liquidated. Frst Iwo of the three ioa of Mutual Fwurs of ICP hoe been
sold. Privatizaion of remairing 13 Mutual Funds of [CP and NIT is also underway.
21.   PC lS made good PrOIreSS in hiring financial adviorn to completO  s prepatory work
for privaj  n of banks and DRs. A toWl of S 6.7 miiEon has so far been commitd for
peymaus to rhe advisors for pnvatization, divesiture of remaining shares and trairnt of PC's
staff
- 19 -



SECURMTIES AND gXCHANGE COMMISION OF PAKISTAN
22.   in the case of CLA, instiludona derIkpmen Wing ovrd under ADB's CMDPL ln
did not provide fiuds for computer hardware and trining. While FSDIP funds were aeilabe to
CLA ror thlse purposs it only utlized about S 0.08 million fur braini   CLA advised that their
reqirents, particularly, for hardware will be ckler afler completion of a study being
conducted by Ferguson's (consWtants) and ADB mnission's scheduled for ealy Deoember. Bused
on the continued uncertainty tho mission proposed cancelation of CLA's allocation. Howeve, Ibe
finds have been transfened under the unallocated category. When SECP took up the ntfer with
World Bank in 2000 for uzili [on of ftids for autonwion and capaciiy enhancement, WECP
wer Infonmed tha these funds had leady transferrd to the Privatization Commission. Ham
there appeared to have been a communication pp Othewie, a higher portion would have beo
producively utilized at the [ns sages,
23.   Out of total T.A. compoomt of US$ 16 millio  USS 2.370 million were allocated to the
then CLA for anilncneint in its reglatorsy fmctions thrg  capaity aW iniSttiwoI bufld&,
Appointment of a consutant was pre-rqduike for Starie disbursements from the TA. lbU
conscltait gave his report in October 1996 giving a coprnehensive tining plan for the offlcers
and staff responsible for the development an reglation of the secruinarket. Bow  on th
mid report, a the years training plan was devised by th CLA. Howevr, impmetation ithfe
plan remauined slow ad the  aning programmes were fded under the ADB's TA. Gnt.
Meanwhile the process for tmansfomfation of CLA in to an auionroum   Secuities and Eccra
Comnmission had aso eaned and ihe T A fur automin and other studies &Io rwie*rd un-
utlized.
24    The lssns hmmn  fmro the programme are:
a  The so   and objctiWves of any such project should nt be unealisticll amitios
b  Tems and conditions of projeot oomponents mwt be adequatly  ess   Precos
risks should be clearly identified with appropriate risk mitigaton mnoisrs.
c. Conditions for project effecrivess and di0twuents should be avoided.
4  Sudh proje  should be restr3tured early to avoid implementation delay ard costs
e. Quaity at entry  _emmt should be cawried out prior to negotiations fur cnplex
project - much as FSDIP, to improve projet design.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
-20 -



10. Additional Information
-21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
", .   dI.a. lndir*  ,.  -; I' e      K   ;~ict4n   GI~dSRIt   ,. *Ac ua lI stt;         tEstirnat|
State Bank of Pakistan:
1. Implement new off-site and on-site  Adopt new risk based approach using the  Supervision capacity improved significantly,.
supervision prooedures manualS.       new procedures developed for Inspecton of Approach changed from compliance based to
banks. Develop an earty waming system to  risk based. Advance waming procedures now
detect negative trends among the various Fls. In place. CIB Integrated with Banking
Integrate CIB workdng with the supervision  Supervision. Supervision/examination
eflorts.                              content methodology, procedures and
techniques Improved. The Improved SBP
being appreciated by the banking community.
2. Training of bank examiners.        Stepwlse dass room, on the job and     About 120 examiners and about 100
overseas training of bank examinem.   Inspectors trained for off-site surveillance of
above 80 staff trained.
3. Prepare new organiation structure based Implement new organization structure.  Functonal reorganizaton implemented. With
on consultant recommendation.                                                creation of BSC for banking operations, SBP
is now able to focus on the core funcions of
monetary policy, debt management and
baking regulation and supervision. SBP staff
competence Improved significantly through
HR reforms. Due to recruitment of
professional qualified staff and early
retirement scheme, overall staff reduced from
about 10,000 to 7,000, reducing the overall
strength and achieving the right skill mix.
4. Implementation of ISSP.            Hire intematinal firm for ISSP study and  Banking operations in Karachi HO
based on the outcome upgrade computer  Automated, various departments and ofices
tsdnmobgy.                            In Karachi linked through LAN and WAN.
Networking now being commissioned. Staff
over time now less needed.
5. Problem Bank management opertonal.  Prepare a problem Bank Management     The manual prepared and 12 SBP staff
Manual                                trained.
6. Ubrary-improve its effectveness In  Install automated tecdnologies.       All departments now have much improved
providing ribrary service.                                                   service. Ubrary staff strength reduced frm
40 to 14.
Privatkation Commissin:
1. Hiring of In4house experts to support  Hire adequate number of staff.     Staff were hired but they were inadequate
privatization acvites.                                                       given the work load/ no. of transactions under
preparation, parcularly for financial sector.
2. Training of Key personnel.         Spedalized trining of operatonal staff.  Selcted staff sent on specalized overseas
traing.
3. Completing preparatory work for    Prepare finandal instutions for pdvatzation. Most of the preparation completed. UBL
privatization of financial Institutions.                                     privatized. HBL aiso under process for a min.
sale of 26% shares to strategic investor.
NBP 10% IPO with listing on the stock
market and another 10% is being offered to
pubUc. MCBs 18% shares out of the
remaining 24% disinvested.
-22 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projded itn last  REstimat
State Bank of Pakistan:
1. Preparation of supervision procedures  Develop nfw supervision guidelines and  Supervision Manual prepared and
manuals.                             procedures.                          Implemented. About 220 inspectors trained.
of which 80 abroad. Also 12 trainers and 20
specialists on problem banks management
trained.
2. Automaton of Information System.  Carry out ISSP study and based on the  Globus system installed for banking
outcome instaD computer system.      operaton at HO. Oracle ERP Installed for
accounts. payroll and assets records. Data
Warehouse is under implementaton and will
be completed under follow up project.
Deafing Room established for forex
operatons. LAN Installed at Karachi HO.
WAN installed for connecting SBP HO and
other offices in Karachi. Oracle HRMS set up
for human resource management.
3. Re-organizaton.                   Prepare and implement new organization  Extensive reorganization implemented. All
plan. Appoint adviser for HRD and    banking operations separated and transferred
implement recommendations.           to BSC (subsidiary created for the purpose),
while the core functions of monetary policy.
banking regulabtion and supervision remain
under SBP. Banking inspection,supervision
and policy and also CIB now under one ED.
For effective implementaton of HR planning
and HR pracUces, HR organization
restructured. Job descripton and job
evaluation carded out along with HR audit.
New HR policies including PMS Introduced.
4. Automate library records and access of  Appoint consultant and based on the  Computer system installed and is operational,
informaUon.                          recommendations install computer system  comprlsing 9 terminals and 5 computers.
comprising hardware and software.    Staff has been trained.
Privatizafton Commission:
1. Prepare PC for privatizatlon of Fis.  Appoint financial advisors and privatize at  FAs appointed for financial sector
least one NCB.                       transacions Including for banks and DFIs.
UBL privatized and HBL already offered for
sale. NBP's 10% shares sold to general
public. MCB 18% of the remaining 24%
shares also sold.
2. Prepare revised strategy and puivatizaton Revised plan approves by the Cabinet.  Privatizaton Strategy/plan approved by
plan Fls.                                                                 CCOP. Policy Statement for financial sector
privatzaton issued. General sales terms and
conditions for banks privatization approved
and announced.
3. Review needs for required skills and  Staffing plan prepared.          More than 20 staff were terminated and new
staffing.                                                                 experts/ consultants were hired to support
privatizaton transacUons.
4. Identfy training needs.           Prepare training plan based on needs.  Selective training on need basis arranged on
specific training programs.
End of project
- 23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.SAppraisal  ActujaULatest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate.      Appraisal
Component                   _  US$ million   US$ rmillion
State Bank of Pakistan                               14.85          16.60            111
Privatization Commission                             10.53           1.10             10
Corporate Law Authority                               0.08           0.08            100
BEL                                                   1.12           1.12            100
Unallocated                                           1.42
Total Baseline Cost                                  28.00          18.90
Total Project Costs             28.00           18.90    _
Total Financing Required              28.00          18.90
Estimates provided are of the restructured project.
Note: Original appraisal estimates for procurement arrangements do not apply to the restructured project.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
.  ..  .     . ,.  . .      ~~Procurement Method  :    . 
Expenditure Category       ICB       P   Cue      M e      thod  -  N.B.F.   Total Cost
NCBOte
1. Works                      0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                      11.10         0.00         0.50         0.00         11.60
(11.00)       (0.00)       (0.50)        (0.00)      (11.50)
3. Services                   2.60          0.00         4.60         0.00         7.20
(2.60)       (0.00)        (4.60)       (0.00)       (7.20)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.10         0.00         0.10
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0. 10 )     (0.00)       (0. 1 0)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      13.70         0.00         5.20          0.00        18.90
(13.60)       (0.00)        (5.20)       (0.00)      (18.80)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
v Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
-24-



Project Financing by Component (in USS million equivalent)
A.praisa9 ]timat       [                             [..; - , I  ; .erceita e of Appraisal
Compbnoent            _               _: Actual/Latest Estiniate
.   ;.; . ; ..CB.ank . :B''. Gov  oF. - Bank:  Govt  F.-   _        ov    CoF.
SBP                      14.85      0.00      0.00     16.60      0.10              111.8   0.0    0.0
PC                       10.53      0.00      0.00      1.10                         10.4   0.0    0.0
SECP                      0.08      0.00      0.00      0.08                        100.0   0.0    0.0
BEL                       1.12      0.00      0.00      1.12                        100.0   0.0    0.0
Unallocated               1.42      0.00      0.00      0.00                         0.0    0.0    0.0
- 25 -



Annex 3. EconomEc Costs and IBeneflts
Not applicable
- 26 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty       Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count         Specialty                  Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation
01/22/93
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/01/93
Supervision
07/24/1995                2  SR. OPERATIONS                 HS          S
OFFICER (1); TASK
MANAGER (1)
08/30/1996                3  FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);         U           U
TASK MANAGER (1);
BANKING CONSULTANT (1)
05/15/1997                4  TASK MANAGER (1); SR.          U           U
OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
CONSULTANT (1); PROJ.
FIN/PRIV SPECIAL (1)
04/18/1998                3  TASK LEADER (1);               U           U
OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
PROJ FIN/PRIV SPEC (I)
12/08/1998               5   TASK LEADER, FINANCIAL         S           S
SECTOR SPECIALIST (1);
CONSULTANT (1);
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
(1); DISBURSEMENT
ANALYST (1);
DISBURSEMENT OFFICER (1)
05/04/1999                4  TASK LEADER (1);               S            S
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
(1); DISBURSEMENT
ANALYST (1); CONSULTANT
(1)
06/08/2000                5  TASK LEADER (1);                S           U
IT/FIN.SYSTEMS SPECIALIST
(1); CONSULTANT/INST.
DEV. (1); DISBURSEMENT
ANALYST (1); CAPITAL
MKTS SPEC. (1)
ICR
9/12/2002                5    TASK LEADER(1);IT              S           S
SPECIALIST (1);
OPERATIONS/PSD
SPECIALIST (1);
CONSULTANT(1);
DISBURSEMENT
SPECIALIST (1).
-27 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               N.A                        N.A.
Appraisal/Negotiation                   N.A.                       420.0
Supervision                             77.2                       550.0
ICR                                       8.0                       30.0
Total                                                             1000.0
Notes:
Staff Week is not available for the identification through negotiations.
The appraisal cost includes preparation activities.
In addition to the Bank Budget, there were expenditures under various TFs amounting to US$ 259,000.
-28 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
aII Macro policies                   O H OSUOM * N O NA
LI Sector Policies                   O H OSUOM * N O NA
L Physical                           O H *SUOM O N O NA
O Financial                          O H OSUOM O N O NA
LI Institutional Development         0 H 0 SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Environmental                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction            O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Gender                       OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)       O H OSUOM O N * NA
L Private sector development         0 H O SU 0 M 0 N 0 NA
L Public sector management           0 H 0 SU O M 0 N 0 NA
LIOther (Please specify)             O H OSUOM O N O NA
-29 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
LI Lending                                          OHS    OS    *U     OHU
OI Supervision                                      OHS OS       OU     OHU
OI Overall                                          OHS OS       O u    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
OI Preparation                                      OHS OS       * u    O HU
O Government implementation performance             O HS O s     0 U    0 HU
I Implementation agency performance                 O HS * s     O U    0 HU
LI Overall                                          OHS OS       O u    O HU
Ratings for lending preparation applies to the original project and supervision refers to the restructured
project.
- 30 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
*   SBP's details of the implementation programs.
*   Study on the NBFIs.
*   Study on DFIs restructuring.
*   Study on the SBP's Human Resource Development.
*   Study on the strengthening of supervisory capacity and institutional development of SBP.
*   Design of automation system for SBP.
-31 -






MAP SECTION






60'                        65'                       70        J    TAJIKISTAN 75    (
j   */  t~~~'  @ ~C H I N A
PAKISTAN
0   SELECTED CITIES
6   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                             F. P.
MAIN ROADS
RAILROADS
- - - PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
--- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                           AMMU
$>  >    ,  / t   ,     and ~~~KASHMIR
0      100    200     300 KILOMETERS
0      50    100    150    200NMIES
.  j        AFGHANISTAN                                                ha          a
,/'  /                                                       ,!>     i   }$ tSahgKh
0   <   <   =   >          C       b ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ogo          r~~~kao
^, &          ~~~~~~~BALOC iTAN              'D       /j'I N D I A
Bmhyor Kr 
{5SSS            Ra=,i,j,o h i5yar  KhaN /
ISLAMIC~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Ksadr REP                                 \ - . )  SS\55/
TU'-ENTA N ZEK.  70  aJKInOtJ
<   f   :            /    %} >            / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TE00Ot A  ) G  H   551K>1 
25'                                          Bela            Na   shahh              3                         e
(             ~~~~~AFGHANISTAN     V
5'         /S     Th' ~~~~~~~~PUNJAB
ARABIAN    SEA                                                         S A _  _OCHIS
This map mos produced by thn Mop Dssig, Uni of Th. Wodld BonE  -.  -    - =          .    
Z    Thn b-undor,s, colon. , deoemino-on and anyodher info-otio- shAow  7                              SINDH
n Ihis mop do net  on the - art of The World Benk G e.p  ny  Mouths of o          -- -<  -                              _
judgmen- on the Ingol s,tnus of -oy teriory, or -y endorsement orh   d
_ -capm-ce of su-h bormd-rir5. .                                                 - 7
0      _        I                          65'                            70.
11   - --I            .s                 I                         '- '-   I                 55'-15'75' J






R-port No.:       25177
Type:    {CR



