Report No. PID8410
Project Information Document
Project name:           Nigeria-Economic Management Capacity BuildingProject
Sector:                 Economic Management
Region:                 Africa
Project ID number:      NG-PE-65301
Borrower:               Federal Government of Nigeria
Implementing agency:    Multilateral Institutions Department
Mr. Akin S. Arikawe
Federal Ministry of Finance
Central Area
Abuja, Nigeria
Phone: 234-09-234-6940, fax: 234-9-234-0412
Date PID prepared:               June 1999
Project appraisal date:          July 1999
Projected Board date:            January 2000
1. Country background
After initial success in undertaking structural adjustment reforms starting in 1986,
abandonment of reform efforts in 1992 led to years of slow and stagnated growth, rising
inflation and increased poverty. These developments left the economy extremely weak and
highly vulnerable to the precipitous decline in oil prices that began in late 1997 and
which continued through the early part of 1999.
Though the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) has achieved initial success in stabilizing
the economy, economic activity continues to be undermined by a weak capacity for managing
the economy, misplaced budget priorities, inadequate financial management information,
weak institutions, long delays in the audited accounts of key government agencies,
inadequate accounting and monitoring of public expenditure, as well as outdated and
deficient procurement practices. In addition statistical information is weak and produced
with major lags, staff are insufficiently trained, there is insufficient focus on key
economic governance issues, and corruption still has to be rooted out. The enabling
environment for the integrity and performance of the public finances is very weak. The
resolution of these problems is key if Nigeria is to move to a path of rapid growth and
poverty alleviation. However, a quick fix is neither envisaged nor feasible since
addressing all of these issues will require time. The announced intentions and recent
actions of the democratically elected government of President Olusegun Obasanjo in the
areas of governance, economic management and poverty alleviation, give evidence of a new
beginning for Nigeria.
2. Sector background
EMCAP constitutes a first step in assisting the FGN to strengthen economic governance by:
(a) ensuring greater transparency, accountability and probity in fiscal operations, (b)
strengthening the systems designed to improve the efficiency of resource use, while
discouraging - via public transparency - those elements that have deterred such efforts in
the past, (c) improving the quality and timeliness of data for economic and social



analyses, as well as for wide dissemination, and (d) enhancing the capacity to carry out,
coordinate, and monitor macroeconomic and structural policies. While EMCAP itself will
focus on a relatively small number of priority areas of technical assistance and capacity
building in key institutions of good governance, it will also be used to help identify and
define the overall technical assistance and capacity building agenda. Strengthening
Nigeria's economic governance will drive the implementation of the project. While the
project on its own is not expected to lead to full achievement of this objective, it could
serve as a springboard for reforms in the civil service, legal, judicial, procurement and
tax policy areas, and in fiscal decentralization by supporting studies in these areas.
3. Program/Project objectives
The Economic Management Capacity Project (EMCAP) aims at assisting the democratically
elected FGN in strengthening key aspects of economic management. EMCAP is a part of a
broader, ambitious effort by the FGN to improve economic governance and the tools for
economic management. Nigeria's past economic record confirms that these goals are the key
initial, but not sole, requirements underpinning its longer-term strategy of reducing
poverty, reviving economic growth, and better allocating resources.
Within the broader efforts of the FGN that address economic governance issues, EMCAP will
concentrate on certain high priority areas which require rapid resolution. These areas
are: (a) improvement of the national accounts, price, social and poverty statistics in the
Federal Office of Statistics (FOS); (b) improvement and monitoring of public expenditure
in the National Planning Commission (NPC); (c) monitoring and accounting for fiscal
operations in the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF) of the Federal
Ministry of Finance (FMF), in the Office of the Auditor General of the Federation (OAuGF),
and in the National Assembly; (d) support for a comprehensive (financial, operational,
technical, legal and financial aspects) review of the petroleum sector as well as reform
of key sector institutions; (e) strengthening the procurement activities in the public
sector; (f) strengthening of the policy development capabilities of the government in
order for it to focus on key reform policies critical for economic management, including
the use of distance learning facilities; (g) supporting the design and implementation of
an Integrated Financial and Economic Management System (IFEMIS) which would
institutionalize and rationalize statistical management within the government; and (h)
support for a Project Unit, located in the Multilateral Institutions Department of the FMF
(MULT), to accelerate preparation as well as to evaluate and monitor activities in the
other agencies and departments involved in the program.
5.   Project description
The proposed IDA project will focus only on the following key institutions: (a) the FMF;
(b) NPC; (c) FOS; (d) OAuGF; and (e) National Assembly. Other donors, such as the
Department for International Development of the United Kingdom, the European Union, Japan
and the United States Agency for International Development, will co-finance, in parallel,
components of the program.
6. Project financing
Project costs are estimated at US$16.0 million to be implemented over a five-year period.
IDA's assistance will primarily focus on local and foreign training; on-the-job training;
twinning arrangements; workshops/conferences/seminars; consultancy for technical
assistance and studies; and equipment.
7. Project implementation
The project will initially concentrate on preparatory work in priority areas: development
of the IFEMIS in the FMF; support to strengthen the OAGF and the OAuGF; support for
greater transparency and a stronger anti-corruption stance; assistance to improve and
- 2-



disseminate economic, social and poverty statistics by the FOS; and preparatory work by
the Project Unit. It would also further advance the strengthening of economic management
and capacity building efforts and expand the focus to all project executing agencies.
This phased approach will permit the government to review and shape implementation
proposals well before they are executed.
8. Project sustainability
There are a number of critical factors that will be important for the project's
sustainability. First, and most important, will be the degree and continuity of FGN
commitment for greater transparency and probity. Second will be the level of the FGN's
continued financial and logistical support for the different sub-components of the project
beyond implementation. The necessary costs of these elements for capacity building and
strengthening economic management must be taken into consideration and integrated into the
FGN's budget. Finally, of crucial importance will be a participatory approach involving
all relevant stakeholders during and beyond the implementation of the capacity building
program. Comprehensive institutional and systemic changes that are part of the program's
agenda will only be effective if they are widely publicized, accepted and integrated into
day-to-day operations. At the institutional level, mechanisms for internal feedback and
opportunities for process innovation need to be established to increase motivation and to
provide upward feedback to management.
9. Lessons learned from past operations
It has been difficult to achieve concrete and measurable results with regard to more
efficient public services in Nigeria. The recent experience with the Economic Management
Technical Assistance Project (EMTAP) has shown that it is critical to have an enabling and
transparent economic and institutional environment conducive to capacity building and
technical assistance. It is also essential to have country ownership and commitment of
technical assistance in order to be successful. In addition, lessons learned from the
Bank's Operation and Evaluation Department experience, particularly with Ghana and Uganda,
as well as those derived from free-standing technical assistance for institutional
development in Sub-Saharan Africa, were incorporated. General borrower commitment must be
strengthened by the support of the respective Ministers and head of agencies who are
willing to become the project's advocates. Moreover, well defined project objectives
developed by involving all stakeholders in their design and owned by the project executing
agencies responsible for implementing them must be supplemented by a strong Project Unit,
and active and intensive Bank supervision by staff with substantial field and country
experience.
Other important lessons include:
? The need for a medium- to long-term strategic approach to capacity building and
technical assistance. EMCAP proposes a medium- and long-term process to address the
underlying systemic constraints and necessary institutional changes to improve governance
in support of and linked to the country's Vision 2010 strategy and economic program.
? A strong discipline in the implementation process needs to be established to ensure
progress towards long-term objectives and a periodic reassessment of all significant
project elements. The preparatory phase of EMCAP will establish a strong planning
process, clear monitorable performance targets for each project executing agency, and a
comprehensive project management system able to effectively evaluate and monitor
implementation progress. Project executing agencies that fail to perform will be excluded
from further funding.
? It is essential to ensure that there is timely reporting on project finances. To this
end, EMCAP will finance a full time accountant and require monthly reporting ex-post on
-3 -



project disbursements based on each year's agreed implementation program.
? Great care must be taken to ensure that training, particularly overseas training, fills
a real need. EMCAP will address the training issue by engaging special training advisory
services to help project executing agencies maximize its effectiveness of the training
allocation provided in the project and by bringing in the World Bank Institute to assist,
particularly in distance learning.
? Significant attention needs to be given to coordinating the support of various donors
for other key elements of the program. Close donor collaboration will be ensured in EMCAP
through the project launch workshop and subsequent project annual review workshops, as
well as through coordination by a Steering Committee, chaired by the Minister of Finance,
and by the Staff of the Project Unit.
10. Poverty category
The project will indirectly contribute to poverty alleviation in Nigeria. Corruption and
economic mismanagement have been key constraints to rapid economic growth and poverty
reduction, as well as to international assistance supporting these goals. EMCAP's aim to
improve the efficiency of resource use should also have an impact on the FGN's budget over
the medium term, freeing more resources for direct poverty alleviation activities.
11. Environmental aspects
The project will have no adverse environmental impact. It has been rated as an
environmental category C project and will require no further environmental analysis.
12. Program objective categories
EMCAP is consistent with the Bank's assessment of the areas of priority assistance of
capacity building and technical assistance in Nigeria and aims at strengthening economic
governance. Preparation of a CAS will be initiated during the second half of 1999.
13. Contact point:
The World Bank InfoShop
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
-4-



