Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 20150 UNI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR14.4 MILLION
(US$20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR AN
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
February 25, 2000
Macroeconomic 4 Division (AFTM4)
Nigeria Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 12, 1999)
Current Unit     =       Naira
Naira            =       US$0.01053
US$1             =       95.00 Naira
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABER        Africa and Bilateral Economic Relations Department of the FMF
AuGF        Auditor General of the Federation
ASC         Audit Service Commission
CBN         Central Bank of Nigeria
CPI         Consumer Price Index
DFID        Department for International Development of the United Kingdom
DMD         Debt Management Departmnent of the CBN
DRS         Debtor Reporting System of the World Bank
EFD         External Finance Department of the FMF
EMCAP       Economic Management Capacity Project
EMTAP       Economic Management Technical Assistance Project
FGN         Federal Govermment of Nigeria
FIRS        Federal Inland Revenue Service of the FMF
FMF         Federal Ministry of Finance
FOS         Federal Office of Statistics
GDDS        General Data Dissemination Standard
IFEMIS    Integrated Financial and Economic Management System
MULT        Multilateral Institutions Department of the FMF
NPC         National Planning Commission
NNPC        Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
OAGF        Office of the Accountant General of the Federation, FMF
OAuGF       Office of the Auditor General of the Federation
PAC         Public Accounts Committee
PBPD        Plan Budget and Policy Department of the NPC
PCU         Policy Coordinating Unit of the FGN
PEAs        Project Executing Agencies
PER         Public Expenditure Review
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
PRS         Planning, Research and Statistics Department of the FMF
PU          Project Unit
WBI         World Bank Institute
Vice President:     Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:    Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager:     Charles P. Humphreys
Task Team Leader:  Jose B. Sokol



NIGERIA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
FINANCING PLAN ......         ..............................................................I
A. PROGRAM PURPOSE AND PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE ................................................................. .I
1.   Program Purpose and Program Phasing: ......................................................................I
2.   Project Development Objective: ......................................................................I
3.    Key Performance Indicators: .....................................................................2
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT .....................................................................2
1.   Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Project: .............   ....................2
2.    Main Sector Issues and FGNStrategy: .....................................................................2
3.   Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices: .......................................................3
4.   Program Description .....................................................................4
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY ....................................................................   .5
1.   Project Components .....................................................................5
Total .....................................................................9
1.   Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project: ............................................................ 10
2.   Benefits and Target Population: ....................................................................      10
3.   Institutional and Implementation Arrangements: .        ..................................................................... 0
D. PROJECT RATIONALE .....................................................................                        13
1.  Project Alternatives Considered and Reasonsfor Rejection: .13
2.   Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies: .13
3.  Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design: .14
4.  Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership: .15
5. Value Added of Bank Support in this Project:.                                                               15
E: SUMMARY OF PROJECT ANALYSIS .......................... 16
1.  Economic:..16
2.  Financial:.16
3.  Technical:.16
4.  Institutional :.16
S. Social:.16
6. Environmental Assessment .16
7. Participatory Approach: .17
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS .......................... 17
1.  Sustainability: ..........................                                                                 17
2.  Critical Risks: .......................... 18
G. MAIN CREDIT CONDITIONS ........................... 19
1.  Effectiveness Conditions: ..........................                                                       19
2. Other: ..........................19
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION ............................                                                      19
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ........................... 20
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary
Annex 2.  Detailed Project Description by Components
Annex 3.  Project Phases, Performance Indicators and Exit Strategies
Annex 4.  Estimated Project Costs
Annex 5.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 6.  Project Processing Budget and Schedule



Annex 7. Documents in Project File
Annex 8. Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 9. Country at a Glance
Annex 10. Letter of Sector Policy from the Federal Government of Nigeria
Annex 11. List of Project Executing Agencies
Annex 12. Institutional Capacity Assessment of Participating Project Executing Agencies
Annex 13. First Year Work Program
Annex 14. Financial Management Action Plan
Map



NIGERIA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
AFRICA REGION
NIGERIA DEPARMENT
Date: February 25, 2000                          Task Team Leader: Jose B. Sokol
Country Director: Yaw Ansu                       Sector Manager: Charles P. Humphreys
Project ID: NG-PE-65301                          Sector: Public Sector Management
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment Project '  Theme: Improved Governance and Strengthening Key
Aspects of Economic Management
Project Financing Data         I Loan       [xl Credit    [ I Guarantee     I I Other (specify)
For Loans/Credits/Other:
Amount in (US$ million):          20.0          [] Multicurrency    [x] Single currency (US$)
Proposed terms:                                 [ Standard Variable  [x ] Fixed    [ ] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):            10
Years to maturity:               35
Commitment fee:               0.50%
Service charge:               0.75%
US$ million
FINANCING PLAN                      %               Local           Foreign              Total
Federal Government of Nigeria           10.0              4.83               --                 4.83
IDA                                     44.0             4.81              15.19               20.00
DFID                                     8.0              0.13              3.37                3.50
EU                                     22.0               2.64              7.36               10.00
USAID                                   15.0              4.15              2.65                6.80
Japan PHRD Grant/WBI                     1.0              0.02              0.55                0.57
Total Project Cost                     100.0             16.58             29.12               45.70
(IDA PPF, refinanced)                  (1.0)             (0.29)             (0.31)            (0.600)
Borrower:                         Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN)
Responsible agency(ies):          Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF)
Estimated disbursements                  FY        2000     2001     2002      2003     2004     2005
(Bank FY / US$ million)           Annual          0.7        2.2    4.6       5.7       4.6        2.2
Cumulative      0.7        2.9    7.5      13.2      17.8      20.0
Project Implementation Period     FYOO-FY05
Expected Effectiveness Date       FY00          Expected Closing Date:      FY05
Implementing Agency:            Multilateral Institutions Department of the FMF
Contact Person:                 Mr. Akin S. Arikawe
Address:                        Federal Ministry of Finance, Central Area, Abuja, Nigeria
Tel. 234-9-234-6940             Fax: 234-9-234-0412






A. PROGRAM PURPOSE AND PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
1. Program Purpose and Program Phasing:
The Economic Management Capacity Building Project (EMCAP) aims at assisting the
democratically elected Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) in strengthening key aspects of
economic management. EMCAP is a part of a broader, ambitious effort by the FGN to improve
economic governance and the tools for economic management. In this regard, the FGN's Letter
of Sector Policy describes its policy directions, detailing how the authorities expect to reach their
goals of better economic governance, as well as achieve improved economic and financial
management. Nigeria's past economic record confirms that these goals are the key initial, but not
sole, requirements for reducing poverty, reviving economic growth, and better allocating
resources.
Within the broader efforts of the FGN that address economic governance issues, EMCAP will
concentrate on certain high priority areas which require rapid resolution. These areas are: (a)
improvement of the national accounts, price, social and poverty statistics in the Federal Office of
Statistics (FOS); (b) improvement and monitoring of public expenditure in the National Planning
Commission (NPC); (c) monitoring and accounting for fiscal operations in the Office of the
Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF) of the Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF), in the
Office of the Auditor General of the Federation (OAuGF), and in the National and State
Assemblies; (d) support for a comprehensive (financial, operational, technical, and legal aspects)
review of the petroleum sector as well as reform of key sector institutions; (e) strengthening the
procurement activities in the public sector; (f) strengthening of the policy development
capabilities of the government in order for it to focus on key reform policies critical for economic
management, including legal/judicial reforms and the use of distance learning facilities; (g)
support in the design and implementation of the initial phases of an Integrated Financial and
Economic Management Information System (IFEMIS) which would institutionalize and
rationalize statistical management within core financial institutions of the FGN; (h) strengthening
of the legal and judicial systems; and (i) support for a Project Unit, located in the Multilateral
Institutions Department of the FMF (MULT) to coordinate and monitor project implementation.
2. Project Development Objective:
EMCAP constitutes a first step in assisting the FGN to strengthen economic governance by: (a)
fostering greater transparency and accountability in fiscal operations, (b) strengthening the
systems designed to improve the efficiency of resource use, while discouraging - via public
transparency - those elements that have deterred such efforts in the past, (c) improving the
quality and timeliness of data for economic and social analyses, as well as their wide
dissemination, and (d) enhancing the capacity to carry out, coordinate, and monitor
macroeconomic and structural policies. While EMCAP itself will focus on a relatively small
number of priority areas of technical assistance and capacity building in key institutions to
promote good governance, it will also be used to help identify and define the overall technical
assistance and capacity building agenda. Strengthening Nigeria's economic governance will
drive the implementation of the Project. While the Project on its own is not expected to lead to
full achievement of this objective, it would serve as a springboard for reforms in the civil service,
legal, judicial, procurement and tax policy areas, and in fiscal decentralization by supporting
studies in these areas.



2
3. Key Performance Indicators:
The detailed indicators of the Project and component goals are found in Annex 1. Detailed
indicators to measure the progress of project components are outlined in Annex 3. Annex 3 also
includes exit strategies for the different project components where performance expectations are
not met. Annex 12 includes the capacity assessments of project executing agencies (PEAs).
Improved economic governance would be evaluated using: (a) detailed corruption surveys; (b) the
periodicity, reliability and transparency of published data; (c) the evaluation of public
expenditures in light of announced and agreed priorities, as well as the strengthening of sound
procurement, accounting and auditing practices on the basis of the recommendations of the joint
FGN/Bank procurement and financial accountability review; and (d) the vigor and robustness of
enforcement actions involving incidents of pubiic malfeasance identified by the OAuGF.
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Project:
Document no.: IDA/R93-45   Date of latest CAS discussion: April 13, 1993.
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The last CAS was prepared in 1993. Preparation of a new
CAS is being initiated for presentation to the Board later this year. EMCAP is consistent with the
Bank's assessment of the areas of priority assistance needs in capacity building and technical
assistance. Massive corruption and poor economic management have been key constraints to
rapid economic growth and poverty reduction as well as to international assistance to attain these
aims. In support of the FGN's efforts to lift these constraints, IDA has restarted its lending
program to Nigeria, initially with a proposed Small Towns Water Pilot Project, designed to test
and refine the concept and sustainability of community ownership and management of water
supply and sanitation systems in small towns. This Project will be followed by two technical
assistance projects aimed at assisting the FGN make faster progress along the reform path it has
now chosen, and with a primary education project as a follow-up to an ongoing project and as a
vehicle to provide advice in the design of the recently announced "Universal Basic Education"
initiative.
The first of the two technical assistance projects is the EMCAP, which would help the FGN re-
engage the international donor community by improving transparency, accountability and probity,
as well as permit economic management and reforms to proceed based on empirical information.
It addresses the most basic requirements of institution-building and improved governance. The
other project, the privatization technical assistance, would assist the FGN in privatizing large
parastatals whose poor performance has led to inadequate provision of refined fuel, power and
telecommunications services, among other services. As FGN's commitment to reform is further
demonstrated and transparency and economic management improve, other assistance in the areas
of poverty reduction, education, her.1th and agriculture is envisaged.
2. Main Sector Issues and FGN Strategy:
After initial success in undertaking structural adjustment reforms starting in 1986, abandonment
of reform efforts in 1992 led to years of slow and stagnated growth, inflation and increased
poverty. These developments left the economy extremely weak and highly vulnerable to the
precipitous decline in oil prices that began in late 1997 and which continued through the early
part of 1999. Upon taking office, President Obasanjo took immediate action to reverse the
excesses of the previous administration, combat corruption, and build public confidence,



3
including the retirement of key military officers, the establishment of human rights and contract
review panels, the launching of investigations into financial malfeasance, the dismissal of 3000
civil servants, and presentation to the National Assembly of an anti-corruption bill. Combined
with measures to restore fiscal discipline, including a freeze on payments on extra-budgetary
commitments, suspension of capital spending, and the cancellation of oil concessions, the
Obasanjo Government has given an indication that conditions may turn for the better. Thus, the
serious deterioration of Nigeria's macroeconomic situation has been contained.
The FGN has achieved initial success in stabilizing the economy, economic activity continues to
be afflicted by a weak capacity for managing the economy, misplaced budget priorities,
inadequate financial management information, weak institutions, long delays in the audited
accounts of key government agencies, inadequate accounting and monitoring of public
expenditure, as well as outdated and deficient procurement practices. In addition, statistical
information is weak and produced with major lags, staff are insufficiently trained, there is
insufficient focus on key economic governance issues, and corruption still has to be rooted out.
The enabling environment for the integrity and performance of the public finances is very weak.
The resolution of these problems is key if Nigeria is to move to a path of rapid growth and
poverty alleviation. However, a quick fix is neither envisaged nor feasible since addressing all of
these issues will require time. The announced intentions and recent actions of the democratically
elected government of President Olusegun Obasanjo in the areas of governance, economic
management and poverty alleviation, give evidence of a new beginning for Nigeria.
3.   Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices:
Since the FGN wishes to address issues of general economic governance and management
quickly, the focus of EMCAP is mostly financial, social and institutional. It is financial
mismanagement and corruption that have led to poor economic performance; and it is the lack of
transparency-indeed, of basic, reliable economic and social information-that has led to a
severe loss of developmental credibility. Nigeria's system of national accounts has been grossly
miscalculated because of poor trade, fiscal, and monetary data. The last printed copy of Social
Statistics in Nigeria was made in 1994 and has only recently been published. Poverty statistics do
not reflect developments in the agriculture as well as the informal sectors. Accounting and
auditing capabilities are also weak. Nigeria has not closed, audited or published its fiscal
accounts in four years.  There are also major delays in the auditing of the accounts of the
parastatals, particularly of the NNPC. Moreover, public expenditure priorities do not reflect the
FGN's objective of broad-based growth and poverty alleviation. Expenditures are not efficiently
allocated to areas that help accelerate development and poverty alleviation. Project monitoring is
deficient. Adequate policies in key areas critical for good economic management - civil service
reform, fiscal federalism, reform of the legal and judicial systems, procurement, tax and trade
policy and enabling environment for the private sector - are yet to be developed. In addition, the
existing data produced in key financial management agencies of the FGN are not reconciled and
integrated nor shared among different government departments.
Poor and, in some cases, nonexistent data have partly contributed to corruption and
mismanagement. Although the problems in strengthening the data in the FGN are not uniform,
EMCAP's emphasis will not only be on better data and processes to provide and disseminate such
data, but on institution-building to ensure consistency and sustainability in its production. Based
on this strategic choice, eight distinct areas of technical assistance and capacity building have
been identified consistent with the above focus: improvement of statistics, improvement and
monitoring of public expenditure allocations, monitoring and accounting of actual fiscal
operations, comprehensive audits in the NNPC, strengthening procurement activities, key reform



4
policies critical for economic management, an adequate information management system, and the
monitoring of these activities.
A second series of strategic choices stems from the size of the ambitious effort required by
Nigeria. During the identification of Nigeria's technical assistance needs, it became apparent that
Nigeria could usefully spend a much larger amount than can be provided by EMCAP and that the
technical assistance required would demand a major labor and skills-intensive effort perhaps
beyond the capacity and expertise of any single external supporting agency. There is strong
interest among both multilateral and bilateral agencies to assist the FGN in addressing the issues
of governance and economic management. Thus, IDA is able to concentrate on some key areas
where it has a comparative advantage.
In parallel, the IMF, with assistance from the UNDP and the Government of Japan, has identified
other areas (mostly, macroeconomic monitoring, central banking, budget preparation and
execution and payments processes, as well as fiscal, monetary and balance of payments data)
where it has a strong interest and will be undertaking them in a separate project. The United
Kingdom has already begun its support, particularly in updating and improving the quality of the
external debt data, beginning with the production of the 1992-98 external debt information, and in
strengthening capacities in these areas in both Economic Affairs at the Presidency and the Central
Bank of Nigeria and could widen its involvement.
There are a number of other key areas vital to address the issues of transparency, accountability
and probity in which the FGN needs assistance. These include: tax administration, budgetary
systems in the ministries as well as expenditure priority setting in state and local governments,
customs administration, and information systems in departments of the FMF. At this time these
entities do not have support from external donors. The Bank Group will continue to encourage
other donors to support these areas.
4.   Program Description
As noted, the proposed EMCAP Project is a first step in addressing issues of economic
governance and management, but with a much stronger emphasis on institutional development
and capacity building. The Project was identified in parallel with government efforts to improve
economic governance. Within the broader efforts of the FGN that address economic governance
issues, EMCAP will concentrate on certain high priority areas which require rapid resolution: (a)
improvement of the national accounts, price, social and poverty statistics in the FOS; (b)
improvement and monitoring of public expenditure in the NPC; (c) monitoring and accounting of
fiscal operations in the OAGF, the OAuGF and the National and State Assemblies; (d) support for
a comprehensive (financial, operational, technical, and legal aspects) review of the petroleum
sector as well as reform of key sector institutions; (e) strengthening the procurement activities in
the public sector; (f) strengthening of the policy development capabilities of the government in
order for it to focus on key reform policies critical for economic management, including
legal/judiciary reforms and the use of distance learning facilities; (g) support in the design and
implementation of the initial phases of an IFEMIS which would institutionalize and rationalize
data management within core financial institutions of the FGN; (h) strengthening the legal and
judicial systems; and (i) support for a Project Unit to accelerate preparation as well as to evaluate
and monitor activities in the other PEAs involved in the program. An IDA Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) as well as a PHRD Grant from the Government of Japan are supporting activities
to facilitate early start up of the Project.



5
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1. Project Components
EMCAP would support and strengthen capacity building efforts and assist in good governance
and the anti-corruption stance of the government. Specifically, it will assist in eight areas
discussed below by providing assistance in six specific types of activities: (a) local and foreign
training; (b) on-the-job training; (c) twinning arrangements; (d) dissemination of information
through publications and workshops; (e) consultancy for technical assistance, and studies,
including audits; and (f) equipment.
Improvement of Statistics. This component will comprise assistance to the FOS to strengthen
its capacity to improve the quality of the statistical base and the timeliness of the information
needed for economic management. It will focus specifically on national accounts, consumer price
index (CPI), and poverty and social sector data, and will develop the capacity and secure the
commitment to bring Nigeria into full compliance with the General Data Dissemination Standard
(GDDS). While determining how best to improve the national accounts and economic statistics of
Nigeria, the work to be undertaken in FOS will cover the entire organization. A review of the
process of how the new needs of its clients, such as public sector planners and private sector
investors, can be satisfied is reflected in the work program of FOS. This in turn will help
determine the priorities and budget allocation between departments of the FOS, which will guide
the management in assigning its budgetary resources to the immediate tasks. This is critically
important because three separate departments of the FOS are involved in the collection,
compilation and production of the relevant economic statistics.
The component would provide financing for a total of 101 person-months of local and external
assistance (2 for a management review, 63 in the area of the national accounts, 4 for price
statistics, 2 for data processing, 15 for the social statistics, 15 for poverty monitoring), 5 person-
months of training, 9 person-months of twinning arrangements, 2 person-months for workshops,
improvement and publication of data, and equipment. Immediate tasks to be undertaken include
conducting an input, process and data assessment, reviewing the methodology for preparing the
national accounts, social and poverty statistics, identifying needs and preparing a detailed work
program for the component and terms of reference for the consultants. Specifically FOS would
be assisted in:
(i) Economic Statistics and National Accounts: drawing-up a user specification of
outputs required to allow effective management of the economy, with priorities indicated for the
various outputs, audit of the flow of data from all sources into the compilation process of the
national accounts, review the coordination mechanism within the FOS to ensure that all
departments work in a coherent manner to provide the required common statistics, improving the
methodology and processing of existing survey data, strengthening the existing coordinating
mechanism with the FMF, NPC, CBN and key parastatals for exchanges of data, expediting the
processing of data and information from existing surveys, implementing the 1993 System of
National Accounts, developing quarterly GDP data, integrating the public sector accounts as well
as foreign transactions and balance of payments data into the national accounts, and supporting
the National Census of Industries and Businesses/Annual Economic Surveys to improve the
quality of the national income accounts data.



6
(ii) Consumer Price Data: revising the CPI on the 1996 National Consumer Survey,
upgrading collation of retail prices, reducing the lag in producing the CPI and begin producing
the Producers Price Index, and allowing for back-dating of the series.
(iii) Poverty Monitoring: helping FOS develop poverty monitoring indicators, including a
Core Welfare Indicators (CWIC) Survey, supporting work leading to better analysis of rural
poverty and the agricultural sector through the linkage of past agricultural and consumer surveys,
integrating qualitative aspects of poverty through a national survey, aiding the conceptualization
and execution of gender-related analysis from existing surveys, promoting closer attention to user
needs and improved dissemination to policy makers and to the public, and preparing the 2000-01
poverty profile using the National Consumer Survey. A pilot survey, financed by the UK's
Department for International Development (DFID), is to be followed by a national survey in the
year 2000.
(iv)  Social Statistics: conducting an assessment of social sector data, reviewing
methodology for the generation of indicators, updating and publishing the social statistics, as well
as producing the Minimum National Social Data Set.
(v) Primary Data Collection: assisting FOS in improving its field activities, including the
primary data collection by enumerators, the supervision of data collection by field staff at the
state and zonal level and the transmittal of data from the field to headquarters' offices.
Improvement and Monitoring of Public Expenditure.   This component will focus on
strengthening the prioritization, allocation, and monitoring of public expenditure. It will provide
23 man-months of local and external assistance to the NPC, with participation of the Budget
Office, to lay the basis for an annual Public Expenditure Review (PER) exercise (which could be
undertaken jointly with the Bank and the EU if so desired by the FGN). The PER would be tied
to the budget cycle within the context of a three-year rolling public investment program and a
medium-term  expenditure framework.  It would address both budgetary and off-budget
expenditures and would analyze the relationship between capital and recurrent budgets. It will
also finance publication of budgetary outcomes on an annual basis, as well as the publication of
summary revenue and expenditure data, and the institutional strengthening in FMF through
workshops and study tours for the training of staff.
This component will also strengthen the capacity of the NPC to monitor the execution of the
public investment program. This aspect of NPC's responsibility will become more important as
actual capital budgeting becomes better integrated with current budgeting, with maintenance of
the medium-term rolling plan and capital program remaining in the NPC. The assistance will
take the form of 20 person-months for local consultants to develop an improved system of capital
project supervision, 30 person-months for the training of staff, and a limited amount of office and
communications equipment. Immediate tasks to be undertaken include the preparation of terms
of reference for this work.
Monitoring and Accounting of Fiscal Operations. This component will specifically support
oversight institutions so as to promote transparency and accountability in the public sector and to
improve the dissemination of information on fiscal operations. It will provide assistance in
strengthening accounting and internal auditing in the OAGF and external auditing in the OAuGF,
and budget monitoring activities in the National Assembly.
The OAGF is the major office responsible for the control and management of public finance, and
for the disbursement of funds from the federal to the state and local government. It derives its



7
legal authority from the Finance (Control and Management) Act 1958 and the Financial
Regulations made under that Act. In addition to the federal ministries, the extra ministerial
departments and the off-budget accounts, this control extends to the thirty-six state governments,
the federal capital territory, and some 774 local government councils. In order to carry out these
functions efficiently the OAGF needs a highly trained staff, modern computer and IT systems,
and reliable transport and communications.
This component of the EMCAP will assist the OAGF in discharging its important statutory
functions, especially bringing the fiscal accounts of 1994 to 1998 up-to-date and ensuring the
completion of the 1999 accounts (and the subsequent years) within the statutory period after the
end of the fiscal year. It will also assist in the acquisition of computer equipment and in studying
the feasibility of linking the OAGF to the headquarters of the federal ministries in Abuja and to
its Federal Payments Offices (FPOs) throughout the country. Major emphasis will also be placed
on training and human resource development, which has been neglected for four years or more.
The component will finance new computer equipment, and associated materials, 7 person-months
for the closure of the fiscal accounts, 20 person-months for studies, workshops and publications,
196 person-months for the training of staff both locally and abroad, and 36 person-months of
twinning arrangements. The immediate tasks to be undertaken include closing the fiscal accounts
of the past four years, the review of the 1958 Finance (Control and Management) Act; publication
of the Financial Regulations; the preparation and issue of a new Treasury Accounting Manual;
assessment of training needs; and developing the work program and terms of reference for
consultants to study the feasibility of linking the OAGF and the ministries in Abuja and linking
the OAGF to the field offices.
In the OAuGF, this component will specifically strengthen the audit function to ensure that there
is public accountability at all levels of government. Its intention is to make public accountability
transparent and to ensure that the audits are carried out and published on a regular and timely
basis. This component will also implement the recommendations of the joint FGN/Bank financial
accountability review as it pertains to audit practices. The component would finance 4 person-
months for the review of the 1958 Audit Act and for the preparation of relevant legislation for the
formation of an independent Audit Service Commission (ASC), 190 person-months for training
of staff in the OAuGF and other government agencies, workshops, publications, and 12 person-
months for twinning arrangements. Immediate tasks to be undertaken include the review of the
1958 Act and the preparation of legislation to create the ASC, a feasibility study on the
introduction of the local area networks (LANs), lay-out of the training program, and examination
of the role and modalities of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) of the National Assembly,
and the layout of the work program and terms of reference for consultant services in the later
stages of the Project.
In the National and State Assemblies, this component will provide support for strengthening the
legislatures' capacity to interpret fiscal information, review budget proposals, monitor
implementation, scrutinize outcomes, and assess policies and programs. This will include the
provision of library materials and equipment, financing of workshops and study tours, and
technical and advisory services. The feasibility of establishing a Legislative Budget and Research
Office will be studied. Training for Federal and State parliamentarians is also included. This
component would complement actions to be taken to strengthen the OAuGF.
Petroleum Sector Review. This component will specifically finance a comprehensive review of
the petroleum sector covering financial, operational, technical, legal, and contractual aspects as
well as reform of key sector institutions. The review work would be carried out by qualified



8
consultants. The World Bank Group would provide a high-caliber team that would work,
together with its Nigerian counterparts, on preparing terms of reference, and on supervising and
managing the review process. The joint FGN/Bank team would develop terms of reference and
appointment criteria and procedures for the consultants, supervise their appointment, supervise
and facilitate their work, synthesize their output and make appropriate recommendations.
Strengthening the Procurement Activities in the Public Sector. A joint FGN/Bank team will
undertake a review of procurement practices of the FGN, a sample of State Governments, and a
sample of parastatal enterprises, and also a review of financial accountability systems (i.e., the
state of accounting and audit practices). This component will finance the launching of workshops
that would address procurement and financial accountability issues as well as the implementation
of the recommendations of the joint FGN/Bank review.
Strengthening Policy Development Capabilities. This component is aimed at enhancing policy
analysis capacity and improving the efficiency and transparency of policy design and
coordination in the FGN. To this end, financing would be provided for 252 person-months of
local and foreign assistance (36 in the area of civil service reform, 148 for fiscal federalism,
including tax policy analyses, 8 for transparency surveys and audits, 42 for trade policy and 18
for other aspects of economic governance such as an investor roadmap and internet technology),
as well as workshops, study tours and 7 person-months of local and external training for capacity
building. Equipment associated with these tasks would also be provided. A distance learning
center to help policy makers with lessons of experience around the world would be established.
Pending the selection of a home base for the implementation of the respective studies, the
EMCAP Project Unit would supervise the proposed studies.
EMCAP would specifically assist the authorities in looking at overall reform issues and in
studying the next generation of reform issues. In this regard, assistance would focus on the
following: (a) studies of civil service reform; (b) review of Nigeria's fiscal federalism and
analyses designed to improve its operation, particularly in strengthening capacity of the states and
local governments in the area of economic and financial management. A series of studies would
also be undertaken to assess revenue sharing and intergovernmental fiscal relationships. In that
context, an analysis of tax policy (particularly petroleum taxes and the system of state and local
taxes) would also be undertaken; (c) studies, workshops, training, and study tours leading to
reform of the legal and judicial systems; (d) launching and publication of transparency surveys
with a view to measuring the impact of the FGN's economic governance efforts; (e) the
commissioning of transparency audits across the FGN (the PCU would commission a body to
conduct transparency audits across the FGN. This would entail going from department to
department, starting with the major ones, assessing how transparent they are in terms of their
operations); (f) trade policy analyses, including the structure of tariffs; (g) studies to foster an
enabling environment for the private sector; and (h) institutional strengthening.
Information Management System. This component will provide support for the design and
implementation of a financial management system that will eventually link key government
departments and provide them with comprehensive and integrated financial information. IFEMIS
would provide timely, consistent and accurate information for the production of monthly,
quarterly and yearly fiscal accounts. It would facilitate the analysis of payroll information for
budget purposes and thereby enhance budgetary control and cash flow management. It would
also underpin a well functioning Cabinet operation. Although it is envisaged that the IFEMIS
could ultimately comprise a comprehensive database that encompasses all major public sector
agencies, work would begin initially on strengthening and integrating fiscal data within the FMF,
the OAGF, the NPC and the CBN. Consultant services would be engaged (using a PHRD grant



9
from the Government of Japan) to develop a pilot design of IFEMIS that would incorporate key
public sector entities. Altogether, a total of 37 person-months of local and foreign consultants
would be provided for the design and implementation of the system.
Table 1: EMCAP Project Cost and Financing Plan Summary (US$ million and
percent)
Comiponents                              iacn-TtI
IDA          ~~EU'  PHGINUA
Improvement of   stics                   3.23   4.31                     0.97      20.0    8.51
Improvement and Monitoring of  2.12             0.42               -     0.40       7.0    2.94
Public Expenditure
Monitoring and Accounting of   5.17       -                       1.28    0.64     13.0   7.09
Fiscal Operations
Petroleum Sector Review        3.00                                -     0.53       8.0    3.53
Strengthening Procurement      2.50                       -        -     0.44       7.0    2.94
Strengthening Policy           2.00             0.57     0.17    5.25    0.87      17.0    8.86
Development Capabilities
Information Management System                   2.05     0.40            0.07       6.0    2.52
Strengthening Legal and Judicial  2.00          0.84               -     0.02       6.0    2.86
System s                                      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _
Support for the Project Unit   1.46             1.10               -     0.26       7.0    2.82
Total Base Cost               18.25      3.23  9.29      0.57    6.53   4.20       92.0  42.07
Contingencies                  1.75      0.27  0.71              0.27   0.63        8.0    3.63
Total                         20.00      3.50  10.00     0.57    6.80   4.83      100.0  45.70
Note: Differences due to rounding The estimates for the European Union, based on the Eurocurrency, assume a I
to I relationship with the US dollar.
Strengthening the Legal and Judicial Systems. Poor economic governance and widespread
corruption has flourished in Nigeria not only as a consequence of inadequate public accounting
and auditing mechanisms, but also as a result of a wholly permissive legal system and an
inefficient functioning of the judiciary. To improve economic management and foster good
governance, the FGN is resolved to undertake a comprehensive reform of Nigeria's legal and
judicial systems with a view to modernizing the existing legislation and improving the efficiency
of the judicial apparatus. Under the EMCAP, support would be provided to carry out preliminary
diagnostic studies which are required to assess the current constraints and the extent to which
these impede the proper functioning of the legal and judicial systems. It is expected that the
results of these studies would lead to the formulation of a comprehensive legal and judicial
reform program which would prioritize the actions needed to improve the performance of the
legal sector and provide a realistic sequencing for their implementation. Under this component,
financing would be provided for 120 persons-months of local and foreign assistance for reform of
the legal and of the judicial systems, training, workshops and study tours activities as well as
urgently needed office equipment and law books. The component will be implemented primarily
by the Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation in close cooperation with the Office of
the Chief Justice and in consultation with other key stakeholders including, inter-alia,
representatives from Nigerian bar associations and law schools.
Support for the Project Unit. The Project Unit (PU) in the Multilateral Department of the FMF
will act as the Secretariat of the Project Steering Committee (PSC) for capacity building for
economic matters and coordination issues and will prepare submissions on policy issues from the
PSC to the Monetary and Fiscal Policy Committee as required. To carry out its functions the staff



10
of the PU will receive support for training in project management, credit negotiation and
administration; workshop facilitation; and procurement and disbursement techniques.
1. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project:
The Project would encourage policy and institutional reforms at two levels. First, and this would
be the main goal of the Project, it would emphasize greater transparency and accountability in
financial management. Periodic publication of fiscal and financial data would be facilitated by
the Project. Timely and more accurate social and poverty-linked data would also be developed
and disseminated. Based on this more transparent approach, accountability should be enhanced.
Second, although only a start could be expected from this Project, there would be institution
building. The Project would have a mid-term review in September 2002. This would be about
three years into the implementation of the overall program, and a similar period in office for the
new government. At that time, both the Bank and the government would review the progress of
both the overall program and the Project based on the criteria established above (see section on
performance indicators, page I and Annex 3).
Secondly, at a micro level, the proposed Project would develop a stronger capacity for some key
institutions by providing appropriate technical and institutional development support. Key
examples would be the development of the crucial IFEMIS system, a closer link between the
budget and the capital expenditure program as well as a more rational public investment program
-both assisted by PERs - and a more transparent public procurement, accounting and auditing
function.
Thirdly, the proposed Project would pave the way for a wide encompassing reform in the legal
sector which could largely contribute to fostering good governance in Nigeria and strengthen the
foundations required for an expansion of the private sector as an engine of economic growth and
development.
2. Benefits and Target Population:
The major benefits of the Project will be: (a) improved financial management; (b)
enhancement of the FGN's capacity to implement and monitor macroeconomic and structural
policies, and the spill-over beneficial impact this could have on other departments of government
at the federal level as well as the state and local governments; (c) improvement in the quality,
consistency and timeliness of data for economic and social analysis; (d) greater transparency,
accountability and probity in the FGN's fiscal operations; and (e) strengthened coordination of
donor activities to the public sector.
The Project is targeted at key institutions to promote good governance in the public sector.
It will address the needs and expectations of the population at large regarding the efficient use of
public sector resources and optimal delivery of services. It will also lay the fouildations for
extending capacity building activities to other departments of the federal government as well as
state and local governments. The FGN and other stakeholders, public and private, would benefit
from the Project. The rent-seekers and others who had in the past gained from weak economic
management and poor governance will be the losers.
3. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements:
Given the expected return of donor assistance to Nigeria, particularly in the area of



I1
economic governance, the overall coordination of the EMCAP and of other technical assistance
and capacity building projects in economic management will be undertaken by a Steering
Committee chaired by the Minister of Finance. The authorities have informed the Bank that a
Steering Committee for coordination of EMCAP and of all other technical assistance and capacity
building support in the area of economic management will be constituted. The Steering
Committee is composed of the Minister of the NPC, the Minister for Integration and Cooperation
in Africa, the Governor of the CBN, The Minister of Justice and a Representative of the Secretary
General of the Federation. The Federal Ministry of Finance would serve as the Secretariat of the
Committee. Specific EMCAP coordination activities from all donor financing will be ensured by
the Project Unit in the MULT through a full time EMCAP Coordinator in the Project Unit. The
EMCAP Coordinator will be responsible for the management of the Project Unit and supervision
of Project Unit staff. The Coordinator, who has already been appointed, reports to the MULT
Director.
Project Management and Coordination. The performance of the Project Unit of the EMTAP
was reviewed during the EMCAP's project identification and was found to have fulfilled
expectations. Management of the EMCAP will be placed with the same group, currently under
the responsibility of the MULT. Staff in the Project Unit will be assigned full-time to the
EMCAP. A project coordinator and a full time accountant are already in place.
As with the EMTAP, the Project Unit will play a number of crucial roles: (a) coordinating,
facilitating, monitoring and evaluating performance of the other PEAs; (b) monitoring project
budgetary allocations to the PEAs; (c) contracting a training specialist for a period of six months
and a procurement specialist for a period of twelve months to assist the PEAS; (d) contracting
external auditing services for EMCAP; (e) contracting external advisory assistance to help plan,
organize, coordinate and monitor the work program of the Project Unit and of the PEAs; (f)
organizing launch, procurement and other workshops with stakeholders for the Project; and (g)
evaluating and building capacity in the PEAs to improve management and implementation
capacity for EMCAP.
The training specialist will assist the PEAs in the initial preparation of their training programs,
including cost estimates, for the duration of the Project. These programs will be updated by the
PEAs in the subsequent years as the need arises. The procurement consultant will assist in
preparing the procurement strategic plan for the Project, conduct on the job training for
procurement officers in the PEAs, and assist the PEAs in preparing relevant procurement
documents.
The PEAs will have full responsibility for developing task proposals, drafting terms of reference,
and for most procurement activities. For those PEAs that participated in EMTAP, sufficient
capacity has been built which will allow them to take advantage of EMCAP. Those that did not
benefit from EMTAP (National Assembly and NNPC) will receive the benefits of such an
experience through assistance from the Project Unit. The EMTAP has trained a cadre of Nigerian
officials in many government departments and agencies on World Bank procurement practices;
and encouraged PEAs to shape their programs directly has proven to be important to developing
stakeholder interest in the technical assistance efforts. A capacity assessment of participating
PEAs, which reviews the existing situation in terms of what currently exists in human resources
and equipment, is included in Annex 12. The authorities have finalized the first year work
program for each of the PEAs. These are included in Annex 13.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation. The Project Unit will monitor and evaluate the EMCAP
implementation and reform process and publish progress reports on a quarterly basis. It will also



12
step in to help PEAs that so request with assistance in implementing their components. The
Project Unit has developed an implementation manual to be used for all EMCAP donor financed
activities. The Project Unit will make available to all participating donors copies of the reports
produced by consultants as well as those produced by donor supervision missions. Supervision of
the Project will be carried out jointly with the Project Unit with a view to mutual learning and
exchange to increase capability and develop a shared vision for the Project.
Project Account. The Project Unit will open and maintain a project account for each of the
components of EMCAP, with the approval of the OAGF, in an approved commercial bank. The
counterpart contributions of the FGN will be deposited in the project account and disbursements
for all PEAs will be made from this account. The counterpart funds should be deposited quarterly
at the beginning of each quarter. Funds in this account will be used exclusively for procurement
and other authorized expenses under EMCAP.
Project Executing Agencies. The different sub-components of the EMCAP implementation and
reform agenda would be implemented primarily by government institutions, particularly: (a) in
the FMF: the OAGF, PRS and MULT (as the Project Unit), (b) NPC; (c) FOS; (d) OAuGF; (e)
the Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources; (f) the Office of the Attorney-General of the
Federation in close cooperation with the Office of the Chief Justice; and (g) the National
Assembly. To ensure that the PEAs are sufficiently funded to successfully undertake the
components under EMCAP, the adequacy of their recurrent budgets was reviewed during
appraisal.
Financial Management and Auditing. The Project Unit will be responsible for ensuring that
financial management and reporting procedures for EMCAP are acceptable to all stakeholders.
The Project Unit's financial management system will be strengthened in accordance with a
financial management action plan (FMAP; see Annex 14). The FMAP includes the establishment
of a project management committee, adequate staffing of the Project Unit with qualified
accountants, review and modification of the Financial Treasury accounting manual, establishment
of a fixed assets register for the capital expenditure component of the Credit as well as a contract
ledger, preparation of monthly, quarterly, and annual financial reports, and independent
monitoring by internal and external auditors. Given the need to train Project Unit staff in project
monitoring report (PMR)-based disbursements as outlined in the World Bank Loan
Administration Change Initiative (LACI) handbook, existing disbursement procedures contained
in the World Bank disbursement handbook will be initially followed, i.e., direct payment,
reimbursement, and special commitment. A financial management review will be undertaken
within 15 months of Credit effectiveness and if the results are satisfactory PMR-based
disbursements would be in place within 18 months of Credit effectiveness.
Co-financing. IDA financing will amount to SDR14.4 million (about US$20.0 million
equivalent). Other donors will finance EMCAP in parallel. A number of prospective donors -
DFID, EU, Government of Japan, and USAID - have expressed interest in participating in
EMCAP. DFID, the EU and USAID participated in the Project's appraisal. Their foci and
support were specifically quantified during the appraisal of the Project. Initial estimates of donor
parallel financing of EMCAP, to be confirmed, are as follows: DFID US$3.5 million, EU
US$10.0 million and USAID US$6.8 million. A PHRD grant of US$0.4 million was approved
by the Government of Japan. The World Bank Institute (WBI) will undertake a transparency
surveys under the umbrella of EMCAP. Close collaboration and coordination with all donors will
be ensured through a project launch and subsequent, annual periodic review workshops as well as
mid-term evaluation in September 2002.



13
D. PROJECT RATIONALE
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection:
Broad vs. Focused Approach. Many successful technical assistance projects focus on only one
or two weaknesses; but this Project will have a relatively broad agenda. The choice of such a
broad strategy was based on Nigeria's needs and the relative success of the prior, broad EMTAP.
Nigeria's public sector has insufficient qualified staff in many critical areas such as economic and
policy analysis, financial management and information systems. This weakness, combined with
deficiencies in planning, budgeting, and monitoring, has created a systemic problem. The
balance of payments situation is unknown because of poor trade and debt reporting. The poor
trade data have made it difficult to arrive at an independent assessment of the customs receipts,
and that, in turn, has contributed to poor fiscal data. The poor fiscal and trade data are major
reasons why Nigeria's system of national accounts is so uncertain. The FGN's main goal - a
major increase in transparency and accountability to improve economic governance - can only
be addressed by attempting to improve key data. And these can only be improved if the systems
linked to them are also improved. Finally, the chronic weakness of Nigeria's economic systems
stems from past arbitrary and corrupt decision-making; from investment project selection to tax
collection; from resource allocation to procurement. A more targeted project approach would
probably not be able to address sector-wide systemic weaknesses in those key institutions
responsible for economic management and good governance. The experience provided by
EMTAP shows that when a broad approach focused on the establishment of key objectives is
adopted, the envisaged results can be achieved.
Large Project vs. Program. Another approach considered was coalescing the total FGN
program into one, large World Bank project, with co-financing by other donors for those
components in which they were interested or had a comparative advantage. This approach was
rejected for the present smaller programmatic approach with parallel financing, since some
donors have to follow their intemal procedures prior to engaging in new operations with the FGN.
Moreover, the proposed approach (a) constitutes a first step in addressing economic governance
issues; (b) would be coordinated by a Steering Committee for all economic governance initiatives
while using a single Project Unit for all EMCAP components, and (c) flexibly permits adjustment
by the Administration as it focuses on its relative priorities.
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies:
Sector issue                 Project               LAteSt Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
.nplementation   Development
Prwens (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Public Sector Management  EMTAP (NG-LL64605)                  S               S
Public Sector Management  NG-IDF-TF27203 National Capacity    S               S
Assessment
Other donor agencies
Updating of External Debt  DFID                              NA              NA
Public Sector Management  IMF/UJNDP                          NA              NA
P/IDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory), NA (Not
Applicable)



14
Address a Large Number of Issues of Governance vs. Springboard for Reforms.
Consideration was also given to potentially addressing a large number of key governance issues
in the Project in order to achieve full success in that area. Significant preparation is needed to
fully address the issue of governance in all these areas. However, this Project on its own cannot
achieve full success in this aspect. Moreover, the issue of incentives will not be addressed until a
civil service reform program is advanced by the FGN. EMCAP could serve as a springboard for
reforms in the civil service (review of incentives) as well as in other areas such as the legal area
(modernization of the existing legislation, regulations and practices which provides the
framework for the operation of private sector participation in the economy), judicial area
(conditions of service for judges and logistical support for courts), tax policy (taxation of
petroleum, trade taxes, and the system of state and local taxes) and fiscal decentralization. Thus,
studies to formulate further reforms in these areas have been included in the Project.
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design:
It has been difficult to achieve lasting, measurable results in Nigeria's public services from prior
technical assistance efforts.  Regional and ethnic rivalries have, in the past, intruded
unpredictably. Frequent changes in both civilian and military governments led to shifts in
policies and programs, often with adverse results. Recent experience with EMTAP has shown
that it is of critical importance to have an enabling institutional environment of borrower
commitment. This would entail consensus among Ministers and heads of agencies to ensure
successful project implementation. It is also essential to have well defined project objectives
developed by involving all major stakeholders in their design and owned by the PEAs, a strong
Project Unit, and active and intensive Bank supervision.  In addition, during EMCAP's
preparation, lessons learned from the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department's findings,
particularly with Ghana and Uganda as well as those derived from freestanding technical
assistance for institutional development in Sub-Saharan Africa, were incorporated.
Important additional lessons from EMTAP and other projects include:
(a) a medium- to long-term strategic approach to capacity building and technical assistance
is needed. This Project proposes medium- and long-term processes to particularly address
underlying systemic constraints and necessary institutional changes to improve economic
governance. Following-up on EMCAP's participatory project design, a project launch workshop
will be held with the participation of the heads and counterpart staff of all PEAs and other
stakeholders, including the private sector;
(b) strong discipline in the implementation process needs to be established to ensure
progress towards long-term objectives and a periodic reassessment of all significant project
elements. For this approach to work, careful planning and preparation and strong project
management are needed. A main emphasis of the Project is therefore to establish a strong
planning process, up-front preparation of work programs and terms of reference, the
establishment of clear monitorable targets for performance by each PEA and a comprehensive
project management system that is able to effectively evaluate and monitor implementation
progress. A strong, highly competent and well-staffed full-time Project Unit will be essential to
undertake these tasks. PEAs will need to draw up their detailed work program for each year,
specifying measurable outputs, with the work programs rolled over approximately every six
months during supervision. PEAs that fail to perform will be excluded from further funding;
(c) up-to-date reporting on project finances is also essential to ensuring that the
implementation process is on track. This issue will be addressed by contracting a full-time



15
accountant and requiring monthly reporting ex-post on project disbursements based on each
year's agreed implementation program. Quarterly auditing of the project accounts will certify the
effective and efficient utilization of resources;
(d) overseas training should only be provided when there is a real need and selection of
trainees should be carefully screened. EMCAP will address this issue by engaging a special
training advisor to help PEAs maximize the project-related benefits of the proportionately small
overseas training allocation in the Project. The training advisor will assist the PEAs in drawing-
up their yearly training programs, based on training abroad and locally. The training advisor will
also help local training through NCEMA and other training parastatals to ensure that these
respond and are linked to the agreed annual work programs and monitorable targets. The WBI
will have an advisory role in addressing the training components;
(e) significant attention will be required to coordinate the various donor financed activities,
particularly emphasizing those aspects that are critical to support the success of the FGN's
economic program.   In addition to the launch workshop, annual review workshops will be
undertaken with the participation of all the program's stakeholders and the contributing donor
agencies; and
(f) the results of EMCAP's activities would be made public so that all stakeholders and the
public at large are aware of implementation progress. The launching workshop, together with
other workshops, should be undertaken with the participation of other stakeholders.
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership:
As noted earlier, the democratically-elected government has demonstrated by announcements and
actions that it is fully aware of the domestic and external consensus that the FGN must
demonstrate a major improvement in its economic governance it if is to retain any credibility with
its citizens and external supporters. Moreover, since the present balance of payments conditions
will require access to official external resources if economic growth is to be accelerated, the
authorities have a strong incentive to address the issues of economic governance.  Bank
preparatory missions have had strong support in project identification and preparation from
Nigeria's civil service. This strong support will likely continue, since only by the provision of
accurate and transparent information, widely disseminated, can an objective civil service expect
to operate in a professional manner. To a great extent, improved economic governance will
empower the most professional elements of Nigeria's civil service. A program "launch," which
would include all the program's PEAs, stakeholders and potential donors, would provide a further
chance for ownership to be expressed. The "launch" workshop would be scheduled following
Board approval of the Credit.
5.   Value Added of Bank Support in this Project:
The Bank, together with staff in relevant government agencies, took the lead in identifying and
preparing EMCAP. Bank staff briefed other donors extensively on the FGN's efforts to
strengthen economic governance, and have encouraged them to consider supporting EMCAP
components and other components in the overall government agenda. Given delays of bilateral
donors in assisting Nigeria, this Bank effort would help establish the institutional framework for
the FGN to access external support, besides helping the new government shape its own technical
assistance priorities. The project "launch" should also benefit new officials and potential donors.
The Bank's experience with economic management projects should also assist the Nigerian effort
to strengthen economic management; it has already affected the conceptual design of the different



16
components of the program. The proposed design also reflects specific lessons from EMTAP.
Particularly, the integrated approach is based on clear roles, mandates and operational objectives,
and the building of strong stakeholder commitment during project preparation.
E: SUMMARY OF PROJECT ANALYSIS
1. Economic:
[ ] Economic Analysis (not applicable)
The Project will strengthen economic governance, through increased transparency, accountability
and probity in public sector financial operations. This should not only improve economic
management directly, it should increase the domestic and external credibility of the FGN as a
development agent, increasing the resources available to the nation. It will also lead to increased
coordination in public sector financial management and redirection of spending priorities in the
direction of human capital development and poverty alleviation, which in turn will lead to
increased private sector confidence, increased private investment and, thus, more rapid and
broad-based growth.
2. Financial:
The Project is expected to have a strong, positive medium-term fiscal impact. Improved fiscal
management coordination will lead to savings in government operations. Enhanced credibility
should lead to a considerable increase in fiscal receipts.
3. Technical:
The proposed project design which aims at building capacity and processes in Nigeria's key
institutions of good governance corresponds to public sector management standards developed in
similar projects in other parts of the world. The design also reflects the FGN objectives of
modernizing the public sector in order to provide better and more efficient services. Institutional
capacity assessments have been undertaken.
4. Institutional:
The capacity to manage a comprehensive program and the ability to integrate the added capacity
into day-to-day operations are of crucial importance for the success of the Project. The presence
of the Steering Committee would greatly improve institutional coordination and accountability.
5. Social:
The Project will restore the credibility of the government in public administration and provision
of social and economic data, which in turn would facilitate adoption of programs that will
address public needs.
6. Environmental Assessment:
Environmental Category []A     ] B   [x] C
The Project has been rated as environmental category C, with no adverse environmental impact.



17
Table 2: Levels of Stakeholder Participation
Stakehoiders and Benericiaries  Preparation       Impleinentation   Operation
Office of the Presidency, Cabinet     COL               COL               COL
Ministries, Departments, Agencies   CON/COL             COL               COL
Public Managers                     CON/COL             COL               COL
Public Servants                        is             CON/COL           CON/COL
Private Sector                        CON               CON             CON/COL
Parliament                          CON/COL           CON/COL           CON/COL
Society                               is                IS              IS/CON
Other Donors                      ISiCON/COL         IS/CON/COL        IS/CON/COL
COL: Collaboration: CON: Consultation; IS: Information Sharing
7.   Participatory Approach:
The project design reflects the need to build internal and external support for the different sub-
components of the program to strengthen economic management. Lessons learned from EMTAP
indicate that poor ownership and weak involvement of stakeholders adversely affect the
achievement of results. Key stakeholders have been involved at every stage in the formulation of
the EMCAP. Project funds will support a wide range of stakeholder activities (e.g., workshops
and publications). Table 2 below provides an overview of the stakeholders and the level of their
involvement. During project preparation, all key elements of the program were discussed with
various stakeholders. The input that was provided has been built into the Project.
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
1. Sustainability:
Critical factors for the sustainability of project benefits are:
Degree of FGN Commitment During Implementation of its Economic Program. The
continued commitment of the FGN to improved economic governance-increased transparency,
honesty, and accountability-will be crucial to the project's success.
Building Enduring Ownership and Support. It is crucial to maintain a participatory approach
involving all relevant stakeholders during and beyond implementation of the capacity building
program. It will also be crucial for Nigerian citizens to develop a stronger demand for transparent
and accountable economic management. Comprehensive institutional and systemic changes,
which are part of the program's agenda, will only be effective if they are widely publicized,
accepted and integrated into day-to-day operations. The FGN must therefore continue to
effectively build ownership and internal/external support for the different sub-components of the
capacity building program after completion of the Project. At an institutional level, mechanisms
for internal feedback and opportunities for process innovation need to be established to increase
motivation and to provide upward feedback to management.



18
2. Critical Risks:
Political comnmitment for implementation  H      Continued high-level dialogue with FGN to maintain its
of the program is not maintained                 commitment. If commitment lags, mid-term pause allows
deferral of further support
Stakeholders and public sector agencies are  M   Build mternal and external support for capacity building;
not responsive to the program, they do not       ensure stakeholder participation during project design and
sufficiently support it                          implementation. Specify performance indicators relevant to
development objectives, outputs, outcomes, and impacts for
each relevant sub-component as well as measuring tools
Capacity (managerial, staff) to implement  M     Build into the program a substantial amount of training,
a comprehensive capacity building and            coaching and technical assistance. Introduce the anmual work
technical assistance program is not              program to serve as a combination planning, implementation
adequate                                         and monitoring tool. WBI will advise in training.
The implementation of financial           M      Continued dialogue to stress the importance of the IFEMIS
management reforms (particularly the             and PER in strengthening fmancial management; donor link
IFEMIS and PER) does not progress as             to well-prepared projects; expanded monitoring and
expected                                         evaluation; Bank's commitrnent to provide substantial
budget resources to project supervision
New systems do not adequately address the  H     Extensive stakeholder participation during project design and
needs of the public sector environment,          implementation. Comprehensive training to use new systems.
and are thus not sufficiently used               Steering Committee coordination
Turnover of key personnel substantially   H      Review of incentives based on recommendations of civil
harms/delays the implementation process          service studies. Minimize the movement of officers involved
in economic management (current practice is for officials to
be moved on a two-year cycle). Increase and extend training.
RiskRatings: H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Aodest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
The Project is a risky one. Prior efforts at improving economic governance in Nigeria have
shown mixed success. Government priorities and policies can and do change. Petroleum prices
could rise substantially and remain at relatively high levels, thus diminishing the incentive to
follow transparent policies. Even with a continued political will, implementation may be
affected, in particular because of continuous turnover of key personnel and insufficient
commitment to implement a comprehensive program in the OAuGF. The design of the Project
reflects this overall risk assessment: there are a number of high priority areas in the Project whose
implementation will test the FGN's commitment and growing capacity. Their successful
implementation would pave the way for the implementation of key aspects of other components,
thus reducing later risk. The systemic nature of the Project will make overall evaluation of
progress towards improved economic governance easier to measure. Thus, if, in spite of a strong
effort, the commitment to reform lags, the mid-term review of the Project would allow both
parties to note the lag and defer further technical assistance until agreement is reached on a
resolution of these issues.  Donor assistance to be attracted should reinforce the dialogue
supporting reform. EMCAP supervision missions will particularly focus on monitoring the risks
of the Project.



19
Possible Controversial Aspects:
....  ...  ..........  . ....a ~ a r
Major incidents of corruption occur, are  G        H      Breadth of program and donor support; clear
highly publicized, but little action is taken by          understanding on key project goal - improved
appropriate authorities                                   economic governance; mid-term review.
Type of Risk. S (Social); E (Ecological); P (Pollution); G (Governance); M (Management Capacity); 0 (Other).
Risk Ratings: H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (ModestRisk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G. MAIN CREDIT CONDITIONS
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
To ensure prompt implementation of the Project, all prerequisite actions have been completed,
including (a) the appointment of a short-term training specialist and a short-term procurement
specialist in the Project Unit; and (b) preparation of the project implementation plan/manual; (c)
issuance of a Letter of Sector Policy; and (d) appointment of independent auditors.
2. Other:
(a) Adequate staffing and logistical support of the Project Unit and of thePEAs to ensure
effective project implementation and monitoring will be constantly reviewed by supervision
missions; (b) opening of project account and deposit therein of initial amount equivalent to
US$250,000; (c) adequate staffing and logistical support of the Project Unit and of thePEAs to
ensure effective project implementation and monitoring will be constantly reviewed by
supervision missions; (d) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Annex 1, the carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; (e) prepare, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the Association each year, a report
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to section
(f) above, on the progress achieve in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying
out of the Project during and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period
following such date; (g) review with the Association, every year, the report referred to in section
(e) above, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report and the Associations view on the matter; (h) carry out with
the Association, no later than September 30, 2002, a mid-term review of the progress made in
carrying out the Project; and (i) carry out, no later than one month after the completion of the
mid-tern review referred to in section (h) above, the recommendations of said review, as agreed
upon with the Association and as set out in an action plan satisfactory to the Association..
H. READINESS FOR LIMPLEMENTATION
[x ] l(a) The documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[xl   2.(b) Not applicable.



20
L. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
[xl 1. This Project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]  2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The Project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
[xl 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and
satisfactory.
[1 ]4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under Credit conditions (section G):
Jose B. Sokol
Team Leader
[signature]
Charles P. Humphreys
Sector Manager
Yaw Ansu
Country Director



Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Nigeria: Economic Management Capacity Building Project
.                                                                   ;g g>.  <.  g    >   ,  ........................................ ,g ............ > ,, ,, , e .   ... .. . . .. ....
ota      2'B    Bo   ...........................  ...... .  . ... .......  ... ...... .. .. ............. c.    ....  - ;
CAS under preparation with the   Improved economic           Mid-term review of         Government would undertake
democratically-elected          governance: (a) detailed     EMCAP by September         systemic attack against prior non-
government. Country team and   corruption surveys; (b)        2002.                     transparent procedures; that a
Nigerian President, however,    periodicity, transparency and                           stronger constituency for honesty
have stressed goal of major     reliability of published fiscal                         and accountability will be fostered
improvement in economic         data; (c) evaluation of public                          in the country.
governance.                     expenditures as well as
strengthening of sound
procurement, accounting and
auditing practices; and (d)
vigor and robustness of
enforcement actions involving
corruption incidents.
Government's overall program    Actual and perceived         Two transparency surveys;  Govenmment commitment-
would produce improved          improvement in transparency   quarterly and annual      ownership remains strong;
economic govemance and          and accountability; greatly  reports from PEAs and      implementation not deterred by
improved tools (especially data)  improved economic data     Project Unit; Country      too frequent staff transfers; other
for economic management.        published periodically;      Economic Memoranda;        donors support program
stronger capacity to undertake  supervision and Resident    components in a timely, effective
policy analysis.             Mission reports, and mid-   manner.
term evaluation.
Improve fiscal infornation and    Have first phase IFEMIS in    Quarterly Project Unit  Continued strong government
management.                     place and publish data.      reports; receipt of        commitment to goal of project;
Evaluation of public            Solid economic justification    publications from Project    aggressive support from Project
expenditures in light of        for capital projects.        Unit; supervision and      Unit to PEAs; ownership of sub-
announced and agreed priorities,  Publication of timely      Resident Mission reports.   components by PEAs;
particularly in improving capital  economic, social and poverty                          supplementary budget resources
project choice, financing and   data.                                                   as required by PEAs.
implementation.                 Publication of candid OAuGF
Improve policy analysis and     audits; penalties for major
coordination in govenunent.     violators.
Update and publish better social   Completion of joint reviews.
and poverty statistics.
Increase accountability for
public malfeasance.
Review of petroleum sector.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
Component ~~~~~~~~~~~~~...........
0_ ...................... -  ...............j   ......................   j.....   .   .............. ,2>
government; improved policy      strategy approved.           Project Unit; supervision   analytical work.
studies for government by PCU.                                reports; policy documents
Improved public expenditures,    Budget has only capital      PERs; quarterly Project    Collaborative association between
particularly capital project     projects approved by NPC;    Unit reports.             NPC and Budget Office; PERs well
choice; link between NPC         PERs.                                                  done; government resists further
project approval, and capital and                                                       "prestige projects."
recunent budget formulation.
Development and use of first    Annual publication of         Supervision and Resident  IFEMIS can be assembled timely,
phase of IFEMIS; publication of   budget; annual and quarterly    Mission reports; quarterly  mostly from preexisting systems;
budget (and outturn) data.      publication of budget         reports of Project Unit.    government supports transparency
revisions and outcomes;                                effort.
inclusion of all expenditure
and receipts in publications,
if not formal budget.
Publication of updated and       Quarterly publication of    Periodic Project Unit       FOS priorities change to reflect
improved national income        relevant economic indicators;  reports; Country          new demands for economic
accounts and associated          annual publication of       Economic Memoranda;         statistics; FOS staff can work
economic statistics, social and  national income accounts;   supervision reports; and.    quickly to finalize survey data and
poverty statistics.              updated Minimum Social      assessments by main users   publish them; donor assistance
Data Set published by end-    in government. Annual     provided in a timely manner.
2001; 2000-2001 poverty     publication of poverty and
profile published by mid-    social statistics.
2002; poverty monitoring
indicators developed; and
household survey data
archived and published
periodically.
Timely audits of government    Audited fiscal accounts for   Project Unit reports;      Auditor General will have political
ministries and departments.     1999 produced by 2000;       supervision reports; mid-   support in producing candid reports;
subsequent fiscal audits     term project evaluation.    fiscal accounts are closed in a timely
produced in similar manner,                             manner, first phase of IFEMIS
candid audits with clear                                operational by end-2001.
conclusions. Penalties for
major violators and action by
the Executive Branch to
remedy deficiencies in control
systems reported by the
OAuGF.
Training courses for civil      Satisfactory completion of   PEA reports to Project     Govemment departments will free
servants and public economic    number of courses for        Unit; supervision reports.   staff and managers to attend courses.
managers.                       officials in the training
program.
Improved execution of           Reduced amount of problem    NPC reports; supervision   Improved training and exposure of
extemally financed projects.   projects as ranked by         missions.                  NPC staff is useful.
creditors.
Timely and effective            Project ranked as satisfactory;  Project Unit reports;  Staffrng of Project Unit will be
implementation of EMCAP.        no delay in project audits;  supervision reports.       satisfactory; strong government
satisfactory quarterly and                              commitment to project; good
annual reports from Project                            relations between Project Unit and
Unit.                                                   PEAs.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 18
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description by Components
Nigeria: Economic Management Capacity Building Project
Introduction
After initial success in undertaking structural adjustment reforms starting in 1986, abandonment of reform
efforts in 1992 led to years of slow and stagnated growth, inflation and increased poverty. These
developments left the economy weak and highly vulnerable to the precipitous decline in oil prices that
began in late 1997 and which continued through early 1999.
Though the FGN achieved initial success in stabilizing the economy during the late 1990s, economic
activity continues to be undermined by a weak capacity for managing the economy, misplaced budget
priorities, inadequate financial management information, weak institutions, large delays in the audited
accounts of key government agencies, inadequate accounting and monitoring of public expenditure,
outdated and deficient procurement practices, not readily available and weak statistical information
produced with major lags, insufficiently trained staff, insufficient focus on key economic governance
issues, and corruption. The enabling environment for the integrity and performance of the public finances
is very weak. The resolution of these problems is key if Nigeria is to move to a rapid path of growth and
poverty alleviation. However, a quick fix is neither envisaged nor feasible since addressing all of these
issues will require time. The announced intentions and recent actions of the democratically elected
govemment of President Olusegun Obasanjo in the areas of govemance, economic management and
poverty alleviation, give evidence of a new beginning for Nigeria.
Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices:
Since the FGN wishes to address issues of general economic governance and management quickly, the
focus of EMCAP is mostly financial, social and institutional. It is financial mismanagement and
corruption that have led to poor economic performance; and it is the lack of transparency-indeed, of
basic, reliable economic and social information-that has led to a severe loss of developmental
credibility. Nigeria's system of national accounts has been grossly miscalculated because of poor trade,
fiscal, and monetary data. Recent social statistics data is not readily available. Poverty statistics do not
reflect developments in agriculture as well as the informal sectors. Accounting and auditing capabilities
are also weak. Nigeria has not closed, audited or published its fiscal accounts in four years. There are
also major delays in the auditing of the accounts of the parastatals, particularly of the NNPC. Moreover,
public expenditure priorities do not reflect the FGN's objective of broad-based growth and poverty
alleviation. Expenditures are not efficiently allocated to areas that help accelerate development and
poverty alleviation. Project monitoring is deficient. Adequate policies in key areas critical for good
economic management - civil service reform, fiscal federalism, reform of the legal and judicial systems,
procurement and tax policy - are yet to be developed. In addition, the existing data produced in key
financial management agencies of the FGN are not reconciled, integrated nor shared among different
government departments.
Poor and, in some cases, nonexistent data have partly contributed to corruption and mismanagement.
Although the problems in strengthening the data in the FGN are not uniform, EMCAP's emphasis will not
only be on better data and processes to provide and disseminate such data, but on institution-building to
ensure consistency and sustainability in its production. Based on this strategic choice, eight distinct areas
of technical assistance and capacity building have been identified consistent with the above focus:
improvement of statistics, improving and monitoring of public expenditure, monitoring and accounting of



Annex 2
Page 2 of 18
fiscal operations, comprehensive audits and reforms in the NNPC, strengthening the procurement
activities in the public sector, key reform policies critical for economic management, an adequate
information management system, and the monitoring of these activities.
A second series of strategic choice stems from the size of the ambitious effort required by Nigeria.
During the identification of Nigeria's technical assistance needs, it became apparent that Nigeria could
usefilly spend a much larger amount than can be provided by EMCAP and that the technical assistance
required would demand a major labor and skills-intensive effort perhaps beyond the capacity and
expertise of any single external supporting agency. Fortunately, there is strong interest among both
multilateral and bilateral agencies to assist the FGN in addressing the issues of governance and economic
management. Thus, the Bank is able to concentrate on some key areas where it has a comparative
advantage.
In parallel, the IMF, with assistance from the UNDP and the Government of Japan, has identified other
areas (mostly, macroeconomic monitoring, central banking, budget preparation and execution and
payments processes, as well as fiscal, monetary and balance of payments data) where it has a strong
interest and will be undertaking them in a separate project that is expected to commence in 1999. The
United Kingdom has already begun its support, particularly in updating and improving the quality of the
external debt data, beginning with the production of the 1992-98 external debt information, and in
strengthening capacities in these areas in both the FMF and the Central Bank of Nigeria.
There are a number of other key areas vital to address the issues of transparency, accountability and
probity in which the FGN needs assistance. These include: tax administration, budgetary systems in the
ministries as well as expenditure priority setting in state and local govemnments, customs administration,
and development of information systems in the CBN and other departments of the FMF. Other donors
such as the Department for International Development of the United Kingdom (DFID), European Union
(EU), African Development Bank (AfDB), the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID) and Switzerland, with whom we have been discussing these issues, are expected to provide
support in the above mentioned areas.
Program Description:
The proposed EMCAP Project is an essential step in addressing issues of economic governance and
management, but with a much stronger emphasis on institutional development and capacity building. The
Project was identified in parallel with government efforts to improve economic governance. Within the
broader efforts of the FGN that address economic governance issues, EMCAP will concentrate on certain
high priority areas which require rapid resolution: (a) improvement of the national accounts, price, social
and poverty statistics in the FOS; (b) improvement and monitoring of public expenditure in the NPC; (c)
monitoring and accounting of fiscal operations in the OAGF, in the OAuGF, and the National Assembly
(including training for Federal and State parliamentarians); (d) support comprehensive (financial,
operational, technical, and legal aspects) audits and reform in the NNPC; (e) strengthening the
procurement activities in the public sector; (f) strengthening of the policy development capabilities of the
government in order for it to focus on key reform policies critical for economic management, including
the use of distance learning facilities; (g) supporting the design and implementation of the initial phases of
an IFEMIS which would institutionalize and rationalize statistical management within core financial
institutions of the government; and (h) support for a Project Unit to accelerate preparation as well as to
monitor activities in the other agencies and departments involved in the program. An IDA Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) is supporting project preparation activities, as well as a PHRD Grant from the
Government of Japan.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 18
Project Description
EMCAP would support and strengthen capacity building efforts in the above eight areas discussed below
by providing assistance in six specific types of activities: (a) local and foreign training; (b) on-the-job
training; (c) twinning arrangements; (d) publication and dissemination, direct publications and
workshops; (e) consultancy for technical assistance and studies, including audits; and (f) equipment.
Main Cost Components
EMCAP Cost Estimates (US$ million)
..~    AP t1t -  .U.. ..::2...DJ                                            -    ......EU       .. .....Progra.
>                                                                 ..   ..   .. ...   .. ..... .. > . S , X' tE;F . ; .;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .. .. .. .. .. ..
:                                                         : :   :   -?  .   :  . -  - ::  :   :  : -.: . . .;- 5I ........... : . ? . - . - ?:: .- -; . '? --- ? ............................ . . . . .. .. ...................... ...........
.... . , . ............ . : -: ? -?: 2 '$5? ?: ? :: ?: ?? . -:?- ' ' .? .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ..
~~~~~~....:.::;.?;::.:.::..... ;  ...   . ... ...    .' -. 
Improvement of Statistics                        _                     3.23           4.31                         0.97             8.51
Statistical management                                               0.08              --              -                         0.08
Economic statistics                                                  3.00                                        0.85            3.85
Price statistics                                                     0.15                      --                   --           0.15
Social statistics                                                       --          1.06                         0.02            1.08
Poverty statistics                                                                  0.85                         0.10            0.95
Field services                                                                      2.40                             --          2.40
Improvement and                               2.12                                    0.42                         0.40             2.94
Monitoring of Expenditure
PER                                        0.83_                                    0.42                         0.16             1.41
Monitoring of the PIP                       1.29                                       - --            --        0.24             1.53
Monitoring and Accounting                    5.17                                                     1.28         0.64             7.09
of Fiscal Operations
OAGF                                        1.84_                                                      --        0.32            2.16
OAuGF                                       1.83                                                    0.28         0.32            2.43
National/State Assemblies                   1.50                                                    1.00             --          2.50
Review  of Petroleum  Sector                  3.00                                                       --         0.53            3.53
Strengthening Procurement                     2.50                  --                   --              --         0.44            2.94
Strengthening Policy                         2.00          0.17                       0.57            5.25         0.87            8.86
Development Capabilities
Civil service reform                       0.50                   --                   --              --        0.01            0.51
Fiscal federalism: capacity                    --                                   0.57               --        0.01             0.58
building assessment
Fiscal federalism: tax policy              0.50                                        --           1.34         0.01             1.85
and revenue sharing
Legislative capacity building                  --                                                   0.50         0.01             0.51
Private sector development                                  --                                      1.40         0.01             1.41
Corruption survey                                        0.17                                        0.22         0.01            0.40
Transparency audits                                          --                                      0.15         0.01            0.16
Trade policy                                                                                         0.39            --           0.39
Training                                                                                             0.45            --           0.45
At a Distance Learning                      1.00                   --                   --           0.80         0.80            2.60
IFEMIS                                           --        0.40                       2.05                -         0.07            2.52
Strengthening Legal and                       2.00            --                      0.84                          0.02            2.86
Judicial Systems
Project Unit                                  1.46            --          --          1.10                _         0.26            2.82
Total Baseline Costs                        18.25          0.57        3.23           9.29            6.53          4.20          42.07
Contingencies                                 1.75            --       0.27           0.71            0.27          0.63            3.63
Total Project Costs                         20.00          0.57        3.50          10.00            6.80          4.83          45.70
Note: Differences due to rounding.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 18
EMCAP's total cost has been estimated to be around US$45.7 million, to be implemented over a period
of five years. Donor parallel financing would be as follows: the UK's DFID US$3.5 million, the EU
US$10.0 million, IDA US$20.0 million, the Government of Japan US$0.4 million, and USAID US$6.8
million.
Improvement of Statistics
The statistics component will strengthen capacity in the management, collection, preparation, analysis and
timely dissemination of statistical data produced by the FOS. It aims at assisting the FOS to strengthen its
capacity to improve the quality of the statistical base necessary for economic management, specifically
the national accounts, consumer price data, external trade, poverty and social sectors statistics, to develop
capacity and secure the commitment needed to bring Nigeria into full compliance with the GDDS
requirements as developed by the IMF.
The component would provide financing for a total of 101 person-months of local and external assistance
(2 for a management review, 63 in the area of the national accounts, 4 for price statistics, 2 for data
processing, 15 for the social statistics, 15 for poverty monitoring), 5 person-months of training, 9 person-
months of twinning arrangements, 2 person-months for workshops, improvement and publication of data,
and equipment. Immediate tasks to be undertaken include conducting an input, process and data
assessment, reviewing the methodology for preparing the national accounts, social and poverty statistics,
identifying needs and preparing a detailed work program for the component and terms of reference for the
consultants.
Project support for the economic statistics sub-component will be provided in two phases. The
preparatory phase will assist FOS design a comprehensive work program for the improvement of
economic and social statistics. The implementation phase will reflect the findings of the initial phase, and
will be carried out with a view to: (a) improving the quality of the statistical base and the timeliness of the
information needed for economic management; (b) securing commitment and developing capacity to
bring Nigeria into full compliance with the GDDS; and (c) regular publication of the improved data
series.
Preparation of firm estimates of the cost of this component will be determined by the findings and
recommendations of the short-term consultancy. The estimates provided at this stage are therefore subject
to change in the light of such findings and recommendations.
Economic Statistics and National Income Accounts. Implementation phase:
Consultants: will review the current situation and make recommendations to (a) establish a set of
priorities in the FOS reflecting the priorities set by users for timely high-quality statistics; (b) strengthen
the collection system for data feeding into the national accounts; (c) expedite the transmission and
processing of collected data; (d) strengthen the collection system for data provided by other government
departments and parastatal agencies; (e) establish a system for the timely production of reliable quarterly
GDP output and expenditure estimates; (f) introduce key concepts of the 1993 Survey of National
Accounts with particular reference to the GDP output and expenditure estimates; and (g) improve the
user-friendliness of the publications.
Training: a significant proportion of training will be destined for internal training of support staff to
handle automated systems.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 18
Equipment: this will comprise computers, some of which should be portable, printers, transport to link the
locations in Lagos, to allow more field trips, and to speed up the delivery of results from the enumeration
areas to the central processing points.
Consumer Price Data. The official monthly consumer price index (CPI) based on a survey of rural and
urban consumer prices is produced with about one month's lag (down from eight to nine weeks delay
earlier and up to six months delay a few years ago). However, consumption weights used are still based
on the 1985/86 National Consumer Survey and, in the past, a full sample of the survey data has not been
utilized in constructing the CPI data owing to lack of capacity to process large amounts of data. The FOS
also collects some data on producer prices, but these statistics are not comprehensive and no producer
price index is compiled. As a consequence, some sectoral GDP deflators are not based on producer
prices, but on consumer price sub-indices and somead hoc assumptions. The cost data for the oil GDP
deflator are based on observed data of the early 1990s, extrapolated for subsequent years, The
expenditure deflators also suffer from similar methodological shortcomings.
This component consists of: (a) financing of short-term external and local consultants to help upgrade
collection of retail prices; (b) reducing the lag in producing the CPI; (c) producing the Producers Price
Index; (d) training of FOS staff locally and abroad; and (e) providing vehicles and equipment.
Social Statistics. "Social Statistics in Nigeria" is a major publication of FOS intended to provide data for
the computation of indicators to permit the public to monitor and measure the fruits of economic growth
and social development. In particular, such indicators if available, would allow reasoned judgments to be
made concerning the outcomes of major policy initiatives such as the initiation or the abandonment of
economic reform programs. The inputs into this publication are the results of the household and
expenditure surveys, and the administrative records of FGN agencies and parastatals. Because of
deficiencies in administrative records and weaknesses in the processing of the household and expenditure
surveys, the last printed copy of "Social Statistics in Nigeria" is for 1994 and has only recently been
published. The years 1995-1998 exist only as file copies.
The social sectors statistics component will concentrate on the following tasks: (a) assessing the social
sectors data; (b) reviewing the methodology for generating social indicators; (c) updating the publication
of the backlog; and (d) producing a minimum social data set (MSDS). Support will be provided through
technical assistance, training, workshops, twinning arrangements and equipment. The component will
finance 15 person-months of international consultancy to assess the quality and relevance of existing
social data and collection method, to review the methodology used for the generation of such social
indicators, and to provide training in these aspects, 10 person-months of external training, and 6 person-
months for twinning arrangements.
Poverty Monitoring. With World Bank assistance FOS has carried out poverty analysis, creating
poverty profiles for 1986, 1992 and 1996 that were used as inputs to a joint FGN/Bank Poverty
Assessment. Subject to considerable uncertainty because of data problems, the profiles indicate that
poverty decreased between 1986 and 1992, but has increased again by 1996. Although FOS' capacity for
poverty data analysis has improved, more needs to be done for it to be able to track poverty and social
conditions in the timely manner needed to thrust poverty reduction to the center of policy making in
Nigeria.
The poverty monitoring component will: (a) develop poverty monitoring indicators, including a Core
Welfare Indicators Survey (CWIC); (b) support work leading to rural poverty and agricultural sector
analysis through the linkage of past agricultural and consumer surveys; (c) integrate qualitative aspects of
poverty through a national survey; (d) conduct gender-related analyses from existing surveys; (e) promote



Annex 2
Page 6 of 18
closer attention to user needs and improved data dissemination to policy makers and to the public; and (f)
prepare the 2000-01 poverty profile using the National Consumer Survey. Support will be provided
through technical assistance, training, workshops and equipment.
In terms of technical assistance, a 5 person-months international consultancy will help develop poverty
monitoring indicators as well as assisting in the preparation and testing of the CWIC, a 4 person-months
local consultancy will help link agricultural surveys with the national consumer surveys in order to
produce a rural poverty report and to test and analyze a revised questionnaire on a small sample, a 5
person-months international consultancy will help integrate qualitative aspects of poverty analysis, test
the instruments before a national survey on qualitative aspects is undertaken by the FOS, and a 1 person-
month local consultancy will conduct gender analysis from existing surveys and train FOS staff in this
area.
Training will be undertaken as part of the consultancy responsibilities in the areas of developing
indicators, new questionnaires integrating qualitative aspects as well as gender aspects, on the improved
NCS questionnaire to take into account linkage variables from the agricultural survey, and on the 2000-01
NCS.
In terms of equipment, financing will be available for the equipment for the CWIC as well as computers
and vehicles for developing the 2000-01 NCS poverty profile.
In order to ensure that survey data collected by enumerators in the field is reliable and speedily sent up to
FOS headquarters for processing, financing will be provided for small field equipment for enumerators
and transport for field supervisory staff at the state and zonal level. FOS will also be provided with
additional electricity generating equipment. The review of requirements in this area will be undertaken
by an international consultant in cognizance of facilities provided under the economics statistics and
national income accounts sub-component.
Improvement and Monitoring of Public Expenditure
This component will focus on the prioritization and monitoring of public expenditure. There would be
two sub-components to this part of the Project. First, the capacity of NPC to monitor execution of the PIP
would be strengthened. Second, assistance would be provided to enable NPC to undertake periodic PERs
in collaboration with other government agencies such as the Budget Office of the FMF and the line
Ministries.
Public Expenditure Review. This sub-component will provide local and external assistance to the
PBPD to help begin an annual PER exercise in conjunction with the Budget Office. If the government so
desires, the Bank and the EU could also participate in the PER as required. Both capital and recurrent
expenditures would be addressed and the PER would encompass both budgetary and off-budgetary
accounts. Institutional strengthening would be provided through staff training. In addition, the annual
publication of budget outcomes as well as summary revenue and expenditure data would be financed.
The FGN/World Bank Federal Public Expenditure Review published in March 1996 reported that "The
budget process has effectively collapsed between 1991 and 1993. The lack of commitment over
expenditure controls has made the budget ineffective as a tool for economic stabilization or development.
Government policies addressing the desired level of spending in total, in a specific ministry, or in a
specific sector were totally ineffective given the lack of adequate controls, checks and balances, and
accountability. Immediate and sustained corrective actions are required for effective fiscal management
and for the provision of essential government services to Nigeria's population."



Annex 2
Page 7 of 18
The financial management system in Nigeria originally included a small corps of funds (consolidated
revenue account, etc.) that are coterminous with the budget coverage, a warrant system, a system of
recording on a cash basis and a prominent role for the FMF. There have been a number of developments
affecting the budgeting functions including: the use of off-budget "dedicated accounts" and extra-
budgetary expenditures; the lack of control of expenditure through budget warrants and related
procedures; the lack of information on actual expenditure for earlier budgets; the over use of committees
to make decisions; and the lack of current information on the budget. Some of these have increased the
suspicion of corruption in government circles. The above aspects have been recognized, in general, by
the authorities and efforts have been initiated, effective from the 1995 fiscal year, to reverse some of the
trends, including the closing of the dedicated accounts in 1995.
Because the PBPD has a key role in the national plan and in the budget process it is an appropriate place
to locate the function of PER. Hitherto, the Bank has undertaken public expenditure reviews from time to
time in the course of its country economic work. EMCAP would provide capacity building to the FGN to
undertake this task on its own account. To that end, training and consultant services would be financed
as follows.
A consultant would be contracted to develop a PER work program with PBPD. Six one-week workshops
would be held in Abuja to familiarize key staff from NPC, FMF and line ministries with the objectives
and the modalities of a PER. It is anticipated that participating staff would number about 140 in total.
Resource persons at the workshop would include Bank staff and staff from the EU as well as specialists
from universities and other training institutions.
Study tours for senior staff would be organized to other African countries which have experience in
conducting public expenditure reviews. It is anticipated that a total of 20 senior staff from the NPC and
the FMF may be included in these study tours.
A further 20 senior professional staff from the NPC and the FMF would receive training from the WBI or
by attachment to operational units in the Bank that are currently engaged in public expenditure reviews.
In the course of specific PERs, the first of which is planned for early 2001, consultant services would be
financed to provide specialized expertise where needed. The second PER would be undertaken in early
2002. Both the Bank and the EU would finance and participate in the PER exercise.
Monitoring of the Public Investment Program. The capacity of the NPC to monitor the execution of
the PIP would be strengthened by this component. Project monitoring will become even more important
in future years as capital budgeting becomes more closely integrated with the budgeting of recurrent
expenditures. Assistance will be provided with local and external consultant services to develop and
improve the system of capital project supervision and to redefine its relationship to the three-year rolling
PIP, particularly with regard to an exit strategy for capital monitoring. Financing would also be provided
for staff training and for office, communications and transport equipment. Immediate tasks to be
undertaken include terms of reference for consultant services.
The NPC is an important arm of the FGN involved in the budgetary, planning and economic
policymaking process. It is comprised of eight functional departments. These include: Macroeconomic
Analysis (MAD); Plans, Budget and Projects (PBD); Research and Policy Analysis (RPAD); Social
Services; International Cooperation; Infrastructure and Public Utilities; Environment and Regional
Development; and Agriculture and Industry Departments. The NPC has responsibility for preparing the
Rolling Plan, from which the capital investment budget is based, developing national economic policies,
developing and monitoring FGN's capital investment budget, and, along with the Budget Office in the
FMF, preparing a comprehensive annual budget for the FGN. The NPC contributes to FGN's objectives



Annex 2
Page 8 of 18
of reducing poverty through active participation at the grass roots level. The NPC is at the center of the
planning and budgetary process allocating resources in order to achieve the objectives of rapid growth
and poverty alleviation.
The NPC has a computerized data base system for controlling and monitoring the capital planning and
expenditure contained within the Federal Budget. The NPC does not have any control over projects
financed by the Special Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF) nor of other off-budgetary accounts. The system is
capable of forecasting the recurring annual revenue impact of each project for inclusion in the annual
revenue budgets and is able to monitor the progress of donor assisted projects as well as those that are
nationally funded. Despite the apparent nature of the system, it is unable to control the inclusion of
projects advanced from the three-year rolling plan to the annual capital budget or the amounts available to
finance them. It also has not developed an exit strategy for projects out of the system. Consequently, the
capital budget is regularly overstated, schemes are started without the necessary available money and
warrants are rarely released to cover the full estimated expenditure.
The problems that the lack of control over the Capital Budget causes to the financial structure of the
country are a situation that requires EMCAP assistance. This component would support the carrying-out
of a comprehensive review of the execution of projects in the medium-term-rolling plan and the long-term
capital program. This would rationalize priorities against more realistic forecasts of available finance,
taking into account the current expenditure priorities that need to be included in the budget. Each scheme
would be reviewed and the cost and social benefits reconsidered in accordance with revised government
social and fiscal policies. Contained within this exercise will be a review of the present data base system
to assess whether it requires enhancement, particularly to develop information systems within line
ministries permitting them to track expenditures. Preferably, schemes that are currently under the
umbrella of the PTF and other non-budgetary accounts will be included in the review.
The project-monitoring sub-component of EMCAP would provide a package of equipment, training and
consultant services to enhance project monitoring and integrate it more effectively into the overall
planning and budgeting process. The specific elements within that overall package are as follows.
With the objective of capacity building, external training would be provided for 20 senior staff drawn
from PBPD and other departments within NPC that contribute to project monitoring. The areas of
training would be (a) project analysis and evaluation, both ex-ante and ex-post; (b) project monitoring,
and (c) data management. In view of the heavy workload that limits the ability of PBPD to release staff,
this training would be spread over a three-year period.
To facilitate the process of project monitoring by providing access to project sites throughout Nigeria, a
total of ten vehicles would be financed.
To eliminate manual data processing and to enable all project infornation to be processed electronically,
computers and other associated office equipment would be financed and access would be made available
to the Internet. At the same time, LAN would proceed in coordination with the IFEMIS initiative.
To further enhance the capacity of PBPD in project monitoring, local consultant services would be
provided for three purposes: (a) a total of 3 person-months to identify and recommend appropriate
software for project analysis and to train staff in the use of that software; (b) a total of 3 person-months to
review the linkage between project monitoring, the budget process and the national three-year rolling plan
and to make recommendations for strengthening that linkage. In particular, this consultant would
recommend an exit strategy for project monitoring; and (c) a total of 18 person-months over a three-year
period to supplement NPC staff with specialized technical skills where these are required to monitor
projects in the field.



Annex 2
Page 9 of 18
Monitoring and Accounting of Fiscal Operations
Accounting. This component will support activities designed to improve the capacity of the OAGF to
carry out its statutory functions as defined in the Finance (Control and Management) Act, 1958 and the
Financial Regulations made under that Act. The simultaneous strengthening of the OAGF and the effort
to improve capacity in the OAuGF are clear indications of the commitrnent of the FGN to fiscal
transparency and accountability, and demonstrate a strong desire to arrest the misallocation of resources
and eliminate waste in the public sector.
The OAGF is the major office responsible for the control and management of public funds at all levels
from the federal to the local government. In addition to funding the federal ministries, and the extra
ministerial departments, this responsibility extends to the thirty-six state governments, the Federal Capital
Territory (FCT), and some 774 local government councils nationwide. The head offices of the OAGF and
of all ministries are located in Abuja. The AGF has a Federal Pay Office (FPO) in the capital of 30 states
and has undertaken to add six more FPOs in the newly created states by the end of 1999 to cater to the
financial transactions of the FGN, the federal ministries and extra ministerial departments in each of the
thirty-six states. All spending requests come to a central system in the OAGF from which disbursements
are made in accordance with budgetary appropriations in the case of ministries and extra ministerial
departments, parastatals, agencies and government owned companies and corporations. The OAGF also
funds the states and local governments every month from Federation Account or on the basis of the
formula governing the transfer of funds from the federal to the state and local governments. The annual
accounts of the FGN have not been collated, prepared and audited since 1994. The immediate aim of the
OAGF is to rectify this and return to the situation prior to 1993 when the accounts were prepared and
presented for auditing within the statutory time period.
In order to discharge its responsibilities and carry out its functions efficiently the OAGF needs highly
trained and highly motivated accounting staff, modern computer and IT systems, and reliable transport
and communications systems. The OAGF also needs to publish up to date Financial Rules and
Regulations and provide all accounting staff with a revised Government Accounting Manual. The
management of a department such as the OAGF, with offices throughout the country, also requires a
support team of highly skilled management professionals, especially in the area of human resource
development.
In the OAGF, this component of the Project will: (a) assist in developing capacity to achieve consistency
in accounting and controls and in the observation of best practice across the departments of the FGN, and
to implement the recommendations of the joint FGN/Bank review of financial accountability systems; (b)
review public procurement practices and introduce new procedures in line with the recommendations of
the joint FGN/Bank procurement review; (c) review OAGF's organizational structure and its functional
relationship with the ministries and agencies of government in order to improve the existing information
flows; (d) bring the fiscal accounts of 1994 to 1998 up-to-date and ensure the completion of the 1999
accounts within the statutory period after the end of the fiscal year; (e) create the capacity to routinely
prepare and publish the accounts within the statutory requirement of six months after the close of the
financial year to which they relate; (f) analyze the requirements and recommend the introduction of
systems to improve accounting and reporting, information management, and the timely analysis and
dissemination of data; (g) provide computer equipment and software for the operation of a modern net
worked accounting office; and (h) review and update the 1958 legislation.
In supporting capacity development emphasis will be placed on the training of staff at all levels, including
basic training for junior staff and a program of continuing professional education for senior staff in both
the audit and accounting functions of the OAGF. The immediate tasks to be undertaken include closing



Annex 2.
Page 10 of 18
the fiscal accounts of the past four years, the review of the 195 8 Finance (Control and Management) Act;
publication of the Financial Regulations (to come into effect in August, 1999); the preparation and issue
of a new Treasury Accounting Manual; assessment of training needs; and developing the work program
and terms of reference for consultants to study the feasibility of linking the OAGF and the ministries in
Abuja and linking the OAGF to the FPOs.
Auditing. This component will specifically strengthen the audit function to ensure that there is public
accountability at all levels of government. The purpose is to make public accountability transparent and
ensure that the audit is carried out without let or hindrance from any source. Implementation of this
activity will demonstrate the commitment of the FGN to tackling the problem of corruption by ensuring
that the OAuGF establishes a reputation such that the integrity and professionalism of its staff and quality
of their investigations become a deterrent to financial malfeasance in the public sector in addition to being
a reliabre means of detection.
The provisions of such a system are already contained within the existing legislation. The Constitution of
the Federal Republic of Nigeria (Promulgation) Act, 1999 No. 24, Sections 85 to 87, provides for the
appointment of an Auditor General responsible for auditing the public accounts of the Federation. The
1999 legislation reinforces and extends the powers conferred on the Auditor General by earlier acts, in
particular the Audit Act of 1958, which provides detailed requirements for conducting Federal Audits.
The provisions of the 1958 Act have become outdated and need revising to incorporate the techniques and
requirements of modem auditing, to strengthen the information gathering powers of the Auditor General
and to take account of the changes in the legislative and institutional arrangements for public
administration in Nigeria since 1958.
Despite the operational difficulties faced by the OAuGF (lack of funding, insufficient transport, and
poorly located and equipped office accommodation) there is an increasing understanding of the auditing
needs of the country and a strong will to address the situation. However, the strength of audit is limited
by the system within which it operates and the material, as well as full FGN support at all levels of
govemment is essential to successfully perform the audit function. The OAuGF has addressed the matter
of updating audit and internal control standards through the publication, jointly with the Auditors General
of the States, of "Public Sector Auditing Standards" (PSAS) in 1997 and the "Public Sector Internal
Controls Standard" (PSICS) in 1998. The PSAS covers many of the modem techniques of auditing and
provides a basis for developing a strong and modem audit function while the PSICS provides guidance on
intemal controls for govemment operations. However, implementation of the PSAS or the PSICS is
beyond the resources currently available to the OAuGF.
Recent changes have reintroduced the system whereby intemal auditors are deployed in ministries and
extra-ministerial departments by, and are responsible to, the OAGF. As a result, all ministries and extra-
ministerial departments now have an internal audit unit charged with advising the accounting officer
whether the financial control systems are adequate and are being observed. When problems such as
fraud, loss of funds, or improper accounting are detected, the intemal auditor may issue a report to the
accounting officer with copies to the OAGF and the OAuGF. Staff from the OAuGF is also deployed to
ministries and report to the OAuGF.
The decline in the enforcement of accounting and auditing standards has been aided by the lack of a
functioning PAC and there is undue delay in the audit of the annual financial statement of the FGN. This
is because of the non-submission of schedules to the financial statements by the OAGF to the OAuGF and
because of the serious deficiency in reporting of government transactions as evidenced by the failure to
release the Statement of Assets and Liabilities of the FGN since 1993. A lack of operational
independence in the recruitment, development and retention of staff also hamper the audit function. The
establishment of an independent ASC could overcome this. (Similar Commissions have already been



Annex 2
Page 11 of 18
established in the Judiciary and the Police.) Auditing the accounts of state and local governments is the
responsibility of their respective Auditors General and the problems at these levels of governments are
similar to those in the FGN.
The ASC would be responsible for recruitment, training and promotion of staff of the OAuGF; it would
also set levels of remuneration and would have powers to take disciplinary action against staff in cases
referred to it by the Auditor General. The day to day management of the OAuGF will continue to be the
responsibility of the Auditor General, and the professional staff of the Department.
The FGN, under the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (Promulgation) Act, 1999 No.24,
Section 85 (5) has established a PAC as an essential watchdog over the public spending activities of
government ministries and departments. The PAC, drawn from members of the Senate and the House of
Representatives, has wide constitutional powers to examine books and documents and procure verbal and
written evidence in support of its investigations. The consultants will be required to advise on whether or
not the functions of the PAC should include reviewing and laying the budget of the OAuGF before the
National Assembly for approval, in order to reduce the dependency of the OAuGF on the FMF.
Technical assistance would finance the following activities in a preparatory phase: (a) review of the 1958
Audit Act; (b) preparation of relevant legislation for the fonnation of the ASC; (c) the feasibility of
creating LANs for the regional offices of the OAuGF; (d) layout of the training programs to be followed
in local training courses conducted by visiting trainers as well as by national institutions such as NCEMA,
and in external training of the staff of the OAuGF; and (e) organization of workshops for generating
awareness of the role of the PAC and the importance and value of infonnation and statistics in promoting
transparency, accountability and probity. While these activities of the OAuGF and other economic
institutions will improve the capacity to unearth malfeasance, enforcement of punishment for corruption
will also depend on the policies of the Parliament, the Judiciary and the public prosecutors.
The preparatory phase will contain three person-months of consulting services to improve the auditing
capability of the OAuGF. This consultancy will play the lead role in drafting the necessary legislation,
and determining support and training for the new initiatives. It would therefore include (a), (b) and (c) of
the preceding paragraph, and the layout of the training program. It is during this first three-month period
that the more specific tasks of the assistance in the auditing would be undertaken. Continuation of this
consultancy would constitute Phase I.
Phase I, from which the terms of reference for Phase II will be drawn, will be for a period of about nine
person-months over the life of the Project.
Phase II will include: (a) 190 person-months of local (180 person-months) and overseas (10 person-
months) training of the staff of the OAuGF in specialized courses and through posting to other national
auditing services; (b) the publication of priority non-periodic reports and manuals; (c) the purchase of
selected office and communications equipment; (d) the identification of the weaknesses in auditing in the
states, and the provision of support to and training of staff of the Auditors General of the states and local
governments; and (e) the reintroduction of twinning arrangements (12 person-months) with auditing
institutions and PACs or equivalent oversight institutions abroad.
Assistance to the National and State Assemblies. The hiatus of over twenty years of military rule has
left the National and State legislatures with little or no institutional experience in fullfilling its
constitutional role of examining policy and program proposals of the executive and evaluating
performnance. A structure of standing committees has been recreated in the National Assembly, but the
legislators who comprise them are mostly new to the task. Support will be provided to strengthen the
National as well as State legislatures' capacity to interpret fiscal information, review budget proposals,



Annex 2
Page 12 of 18
monitor implementation, scrutinize outcomes, and assess policies and programs. This will include the
provision of library materials and equipment, and the financing of workshops and study tours, as well as
technical advisory services, particularly with respect to budget making and monitoring processes. The
feasibility of establishing a Legislative Budget and Research Office at the National Assembly will be
studied. As a first step, a rapid assessment of needs will be carried out in both the National and State
Assemblies to enable an initial assessing of a work program and of supporting resources to be provided.
This component complements actions taken under EMCAP to strengthen the OAuGF.
Petroleum Sector Review
This component will specifically finance a comprehensive review of the petroleum sector covering
financial, operational, technical, legal, and contractual aspects as well as reform of key sector institutions.
The review work would be carried out by appropriately qualified consultants. The World Bank Group
would provide a high-caliber team that would work, together with its Nigerian counterparts, on preparing
terms of reference, and on supervising and managing the review process. The joint FGN/Bank team
would develop terms of reference and appointment criteria and procedures for the consultants, supervise
their appointment, supervise and facilitate their work, synthesize their output and make appropriate
recommendations.
The key areas of focus will include: (a) finance and accounts; (b) investment framework; (c)
environmental and social; (d) operations; (e) technical; and (f) synthesis.
In the finance and accounts area the component will document and review industry cash flow cycles,
review financial strategies and planning procedures, review financial controls and accountability within
key accounting systems, review effectiveness of internal and extemal audit functions, assess adequacy of
information technology support, and incorporate results of on-going value for money audits.
In the investment framework area the component will: (i) develop an overview of the following aspects of
the investment framework and make a comparative analysis of appropriate international benchmarks on
petroleum laws and regulations, procedures for the award of acreage, petroleum fiscal arrangements,
MOU, PSC, Sole Risk Contracts, JOA and other contract arrangements, impact of contractual and fiscal
arrangements on local content and technology transfer, crude oil pricing and sales arrangements, gas
fiscal and downstream regulatory arrangements, and products pricing, imports, specifications and other
regulatory arrangements; (ii) undertake reviews of DPR and NAPIMIS including funding, reporting and
authority, institutional capacity and effectiveness of monitoring function; (iii) review, in the case of the
Ministry of Petroleum Resources, its role in sector policy development, the sector strategy and
institutional capacity; and (iv) review, in the case of independent producers, the segment overview, fiscal
arrangements and external monitoring.
In the environmental and social area the component will: (i) based on a review of completed and ongoing
work, evaluate the impact of petroleum operations on land, river and sea water pollution, distribution of
economic benefits, government and company performance in addressing environmental and social issues,
and the impact of security concerns on operations and investments; (ii) review the market for and
availability of petroleum products and develop recommendations for improving access; and (iii)
coordinate closely with other ongoing activities and develop recommendations for the mitigation of any
adverse impacts.
In the operations area the component will: (i) establish and review key performance indicators for NNPC
and its subsidiaries and benchmark against international comparators; (ii) review capitalization and
manpower requirements of NNPC subsidiaries; (iii) establish and review key performance indicators for
joint venture operations and independent producers and benchmark against international comparators; (iv)



Annex 2
Page 130f18
review procedures for reconciling JV partners' work programs to overall sector strategy, developing
appropriate budgets for the individual work programs, processing and scrutinizing the subsequent cash
calls and allocating funds for the payment of cash calls, and review lifting procedures.
In the technical area the component will: (i) develop a consolidated reserve picture for the country based
on a review and harmonization of existing data from the joint venture companies, NNPC and other
sources; (ii) evaluate the consolidated producibility of the various producers; and (iii) undertake technical
review of refineries, pipelines and other downstream assets especially as regards value, maintenance
practices and the condition of physical assets.
In the synthesis area, the component will, based on the foregoing reviews, make recommendations for
improvements in industry efficiency, fiscal revenues, protection of the public interest and attraction of
capital.
Strengthening the Procurement Activities in the Public Sector
A joint FGN/Bank team has been undertaking a review of procurement practices of the FGN (Country
Procurement Assessment Review [CPARI), a sample of State Governments, and a sample of parastatal
enterprises, and also a review of financial accountability systems (Country Financial Accountability
Assessment [CFAA], i.e., the state of accounting and audit practices). This component will finance the
launching of workshops that would address procurement and financial accountability issues as well as the
implementation of the recommendations of the joint FGN/Bank findings.
Strengthening Policy Development Capabilities
The new administration has been discussing the possibility of establishing a policy coordination unit
within the President's Office to coordinate economic policies. In the meantime, the EMCAP Project Unit
would initially manage and supervise the proposed studies envisaged under this project component and
then pass them on to the respective units in the FGN in due course. EMCAP would specifically assist the
authorities in looking at overall reform issues and in studying the next generation of reform issues.
Macroeconomic policy and institutional reform is high on the agenda of the recently elected govemment
of Nigeria. To that end, new procedures for policy analysis and review will need to be introduced that are
consistent with democratic principles. The government has indicated its intention to establish a policy
coordination function within the presidency itself and, when the institutional structure of the policy
coordination function crystallizes, EMCAP would be able to provide finance for (a) training staff in
economic analysis and management both locally and abroad, (b) bringing in local long-term consultants
from national universities and institutions such as the Nigeria Institute of Social and Economic Research
(NISER), NCEMA, the Centre for Management and Development (CMD), Audit, Revenue and Treasury
Training School (ARTS) as well as extemal experts for short-term advice and on-the-job training; and (c)
providing key items of office and communications equipment that are required to accomplish identified
tasks in the work program.
The FGN accords the highest priority to anti-corruption efforts. Improving govemance is an integral part
of capacity building. Indeed, it is the emphasis on good governance that differentiates the current focus
on capacity building from past ones. Essentially, the capacity building-govemance link means integrating
lessons of good govemance with government training programs. Given the vast and urgent needs of
training and capacity building, the FGN is keen to install a distance leaming facility in a Nigerian
institution that will facilitate the delivery of broad-based learning programs. The facility would help
deliver the exchange of lessons of experience from around the world on issues ranging from anti-
corruption to financial reforms. The basic facility would comprise a videoconferencing studio and a



Annex 2
Page 14 of 18
classroom with computers. The facility would have the capability to hold classes for 30-50 participants
with two-way instructions with other distance learning sites in Africa and other parts of the world. The
initial investment cost of a center is estimated at about US$ 1.0 million. The annual operating cost would
amount to about US$0.4 million. The WBI is currently setting up a Global Distance Learning Network
with seven sites in Africa and several others around the world. Nigeria is keen to become part of this
network by establishing a Distance Learning Center in the country.
EMCAP would also finance a number of studies that are urgently required to get a program of policy and
institutional reform on track. Where possible, parallel finance has been assembled on a grant basis from
other bilateral and multilateral donors. IDA finance would be provided for the remainder. Specific
details of the proposed studies are inidicated below.
Fiscal federalism would also be studied with a grant from the EU and recommendations would be made to
strengthen the capacity of state and local governments to respond effectively to local needs. Tax policies,
including revenue sharing between federal and state governments would be studied with grant finance
from USAID and with the credit from IDA. This study would focus on the policy aspects of revenue
sharing and make recommendations to improve the effectiveness of the system.
Tax and trade policies would be studied with grant finance from USAID with the objective of
rationalizing the trade regime and assisting the government to prepare a new tariff structure as required
for the year 2001. An "Investor Roadmap" would be drawn up with a grant from USAID. It would
identify impediments faced by investors who seek to establish enterprises in Nigeria and it would identify
critical policy areas where change is needed for Nigeria to be competitive in attracting domestic and
foreign investment. Internet connectivity would be studied with a grant from USAID to identify
constraints that may impede Internet use in Nigeria. It would complement the proposed integrated
financial and economic management information system (IFEMIS) by identifying cost-effective solutions
for Internet interconnectivity. A transparency audit would be financed with a grant from USAID to
identify measures for enhancing transparency, accountability and probity in the public administration.
Corruption surveys would also be introduced by the WBI to measure public perceptions of transparency
in governance and the survey results would be published from time to time.
In 1994 the FGN set up a Review Panel to, among other things, examire and properly define the role of
the civil service in the executive arm of the FGN and to evaluate how well this role has been performed.
The Panel reported in June of 1995 when theMain Report of the Review Panel on Civil Service Reforms
was submitted but since then very little progress was made. The impetus for reform of the civil service
has been revived with the transition to democracy and the separation of the position of the Head of the
Civil Service from that of the Secretary to the Government. With the transition the reform of the civil
service is even more urgent because of its critically important role in policy design and implementation
and in the promotion of probity and transparency in the affairs of state. A meaningful program of reform
in the civil service would cover such areas as management practices and techniques, human resource
management and development, measures to reintegrate the service into a coherent body following the
period when an officer's career choices were limited to a single ministry or department, pension reforms,
records management and the preparation of a civil service procedures manual.
Immediate actions in civil service reform to be supported witi IDA resources are a study leading to
pension reforms and records management. The public service pension system is in urgent need of reform,
both to increase the morale and motivation within service as well as to avert fiscal imbalances which
could emerge if the contingent liability of the FGN for civil service pensions is not placed on a sound
financial basis. In addition to addressing the second-generation fiscal reforms, review of the pension
system could also have a beneficial impact on capital markets development. As a corollary to pensions



Annex 2
Page 15 of 18
reform the study will also recommend management systems to ensure accessible and accurate personnel
records.  Any improvements in these areas would also be easily transferable to state and local
governments and to state-owned enterprises.
In parallel to these studies, workshops would be organized, training would be provided and twinning
arrangements would be put in place between selected Nigerian institutions and similar institutions in other
countries to facilitate a transfer of experience in key areas of public policy. Specifically, USAID would
provide grant assistance for workshops in economic governance.
Training for local research and training institutions would be provided to better enable them to train
public sector staff in economic analysis, and financial accounting. Twinning arrangements would be
designed to expose a range of public officials and parliamentarians to ways in which their counterparts in
other countries conduct financial oversight. In particular, staff from the OAGF and the OAuGF would
gain direct experience of best practice in other countries.
Information Management System
This component would focus on the design and implementation of the initial phases of an Integrated
Financial and Economic Management Information System (IFEMIS) that would enhance the ability of
core financial institutions in the public sector in matters of policy formulation and execution.
The Planning, Research and Statistics Department (PRS) is one of ten departments within the FMF. Its
functions include research into policy issues of concern to the Ministry as well as the management of
information resources on fiscal matters. It produces the annual report of the FMF and acts as a planning
secretariat for the development plans of the FMF itself  Information management is central to the
functions of PRS and it has long harbored ambitions to expand its system of financial statistics to a
broader clientele both within the FMF and beyond to other government institutions.
IFEMIS fits well into the functions of PRS, which is eager to accept the challenge of implementing a
broader integrated system of financial information. Under EMCAP, the design phase of IFEMIS would
be financed by a PHRD grant and system implementation would be financed with grant funds from the
European Union.  IFEMIS would build upon the data bank already operational within PRS that is
designed to serve the needs of FMF. The present system would be upgraded first by introducing a local
area network within the FMF and then by extending the system to provide accurate and timely
information throughout all government financial institutions starting with the OAGF and the CBN. It is
expected that IFEMIS would facilitate the transfer of information between departments and contribute to
a well functioning Cabinet operation by providing up to date information on payroll and other expenditure
information. Budgetary control would be enhanced by producing accurate monthly and yearly accounts
and cash flow forecasts.
Financial management in Nigeria has commonly been opaque and obscured by a multiplicity of off-
budget funds and by accounting practices that underestimate the actual size of public revenue and
expenditure. An integrated system of financial and economic information management would provide the
tools for unraveling the tangled web and pave the way for greater transparency, accountability and
probity.
The most acute need is for timely and accurate fiscal and other economic information. Currently,
information is sketchy and produced months or even years behind time. Information may also be
inaccurate because it is assembled from unreliable sources or based on estimates. Established data
systems have often broken down, thereby preventing information from being furnished when legally



Annex 2
Page 16 of 18
required. Faced with these many problems, the FMF has now determined to become an "encyclopedia of
financial management information".
The IFEMIS component of EMCAP would be structured as follows,
A short term consultant would be engaged to formulate terms of reference for the design of the IFEMIS
and to supervise the design phase. The short term consultant would start by reviewing existing data
collection, processing, analysis and dissemination facilities in those government institutions which are
key producers and users of economic and financial data. These would include the PRS, OAGF, OAuGF,
CBN, PBPD and the FOS. The consultant would form a general appreciation of the desired outputs of an
information system for each producer and user of data and assess the adequacy of existing hardware and
software facilities against these needs. The consultant would indicate a prioritization of institutions
according to their importance in the production and dissemination of data for financial analysis.
The output of this short-term consultancy would be the detailed terms of reference for two studies: one
terms of reference for a design study for hardware requirements and one terms of reference for a design
study for software requirements, both aiming at the setting-up of an integrated information system that
could be used by all key government institutions involved in the production and dissemination of
economic and financial information. Since the EU would be financing the implementation phase of the
IFEMIS, the EU would participate in the process of selecting the short-term  consultant.  Bank
procurement guidelines would be followed. Upon review and acceptance of both terms of reference by
the FGN, the World Bank and the EU, the consultant would assist the FGN in preparing two short lists of
international and local firms to be invited to tender for these studies; he/she would also assist the FGN in
evaluating tender bids. The short lists and the outcomes of tender evaluations would need to be approved
by the World Bank and the EU. The short-term consultant would remain available to supervise the
carrying out of the design phase of IFEMIS. In total the short-term consultant would provide 30 days of
consultancy for the preparation of the terms of reference and assistance in bid evaluation and 14 days per
month over the two months of the design phase. The short-term consultant would be financed with PHRD
grant funds; the terms of reference for this short-term consultancy, the short list of invited
firms/individuals and the outcome of the tender evaluation would have to be submitted by the FGN to the
World Bank and the EU for review and approval.
A second phase would entail carrying out the studies for hardware and software design aiming at setting
up local area networks within key government institutions and at linking information systems across these
institutions through a wide area network. Both studies would take account of hardware and systems
already in place such as to build upon existing facilities, of the desired outputs of a new system and of the
volume of data to be handled. The studies would start by designing local area network information
systems for the OAGF, the OAuGF and the PRS of the FMF where pressing needs exist for the immediate
upgrading of existing facilities. The studies would then deal with the remaining institutions in order of the
prioritization identified by the short-term consultant.
The output of the hardware design study would include the technical specifications of hardware
requirements for each institution in terms of computer and networking equipment, the requirements for
power supply upgrading in order to support expanded computing facilities, the requirements for internet
connectivity and the requirements for inter-building connections. The two latter issues would be
discussed with NITEL (Nigerian Telecommunications Company) which has, hitherto, a monopoly over
the Nigerian telecommunications system. In particular, the possibility of independently installing
dedicated optical fiber cables for inter-office communication would be explored. In addition to the
specifications of hardware requirements, the study report would also present a time-phased
implementation plan and cost estimates of hardware requirements and of engineering works to be
undertaken; it would propose a short list of international and local hardware suppliers and identify



Annex 2
Page 17 of 18
possible firms who could undertake the engineering works. This hardware design study would be
financed with PHRD grant funds.
The design study for software requirements would endeavor to build upon existing systems such as to
expand and enlarge them where required. It would pay particular attention to the methods used for data
collection and data entry: where required, the consultants would recommend improvements. The study
would have two main outputs. Firstly, it would provide the specifications of software requirements which
would include both the software required for data collection, processing, organization and analysis within
each institution and the software required for the analysis of aggregated data from different institutions.
The consultants would assess the technical specifications against existing off-the-shelf software packages
and against tailored software used for similar purposes in other countries (in particular for the collection
and dissemination of budgetary data). For the PRS of the FMF in particular, recommendations would be
made for improvements in the collection of budget data, the monitoring of budget spending, reporting,
and budgetary control. The consultants would provide a cost estimate of the implementation phase,
including: the cost of recommended software packages and/or of the tailoring of existing software and the
consultant's cost for software deployment.
Second, the consultants would assess the training needs of staff involved in the use of the integrated
information system. It is envisaged that within each institution, there would be one staff member
functioning as a help desk for IFEMIS and one person functioning as a network systems engineer. Both
should receive appropriate training under the Project. In addition all users of the system should be trained
in general computer skills and in the recommended software. The consultant would assess training needs
and give a preliminary indication of appropriate local and international training courses and their costs.
The software design study would be financed with PHRD grant funds.
A third phase would entail the implementation of IFEMIS in the various institutions according to the
priorities defined by the short-term consultant in Phase 1. A full and comprehensive implementation of
IFEMIS would be an open-ended process that would need to accommodate the changing and growing
needs of the FGN over time. Such an endeavor is clearly beyond the scope of EMCAP. However,
EMCAP would finance an extension of IFEMIS over a three year period to the core financial and
planning institutions. Eventually, all govenmment financial institutions would participate in the system
that would also assemble economic information and performance indicators from all line ministries. The
electronic conveyance of inter- and intra-ministerial mail would be incorporated within the system.
The implementation phase of integrating the FGN's financial management systems would thus be
undertaken in three stages. First, a local area network would be implemented within the OAGF and the
OAuGF components supported by IDA as soon as the design for immediate upgrading of facilities
existing in these institutions has been completed. Second, a pilot implementation of IFEMIS would be
launched across three institutions. Notwithstanding the prioritization of institutions identified by the short
term consultant, these might include the PRS of the FMF, the Research and Foreign Operations
Departments of the CBN and the PBP of the NPC. The IFEMIS implementation would include both the
implementation of local area networks in three institutions and the linking of these institutions by wide
area networks. The implementation of IFEMIS in the three pilot institutions would be accompanied by the
training of staff according to the training needs identified during the software design phase. Short extemal
and local courses for key staff and on-the-job training by extemal consultants would be provided over a
period of three years. Project supervision would be provided by an external consultant who would be
available about three months a year for the supervision and monitoring of IFEMIS implementation; the
project manager would in particular take the responsibility for preparing tendering dossiers, assisting the
FGN with bid evaluations and organizing the timely intervention of the various parties involved in
hardware and software installation and engineering works. This stage would be financed with grant funds
from the EU.



Annex 2
Page 18 of 18
After one year of operation, the functioning of IFEMIS would be reviewed by external consultants funded
with grant funds from the EU; a third implementation phase could extend the system to other financial
and data management institutions such as the OAGF, the OAuGF, FOS and the Economic Advisory
Office in the Presidency, if the medium-term review at end 2002 indicates satisfactory progress.
Strengthening the Legal and Judicial Systems
Poor economic governance and widespread corruption has flourished in Nigeria not only as a
consequence of inadequate public accounting and auditing mechanisms, but also as a result of a wholly
permissive legal system and an inefficient functioning of the judiciary.  To improve economic
management and foster good governance, the FGN is resolved to undertake a comprehensive reform of
the legal and judicial system with a view to modernizing its laws and improving the efficiency of the
judicial apparatus. Under the EMCAP, support would be provided to carry out preliminary diagnostic
studies which are required to assess the current constraints and the extent to which they impede a proper
functioning of Nigeria's legal and judicial systems. It is expected that the results of these studies would
lead to the formulation of a comprehensive legal and judicial reform program which would prioritize the
actions needed to improve the performance of the legal sector and provide a realistic sequencing for their
implementation. Under the legal and judicial systems component, IDA and EU financing would be
provided for 120 persons-months of local and extemal consultants, training, workshops and study tours
activities as well as urgently needed office equipment and law books. The component will be
implemented primarily by the Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation in close cooperation with
the Office of the Chief Justice and in consultation with other key stakeholders including, inter-alia,
representatives from Nigerian bar associations and law schools.
Support for the Project Unit
As a result of staff changes the Project Unit has been depleted of trained staff and is inadequately
equipped to administer projects. The EMCAP will therefore provide support for staff training, for
computer and office equipment and for two vehicles for the PU. The PU has to rebuild its cadre of trained
staff and ensure that there are at least two staff members from each project execution agency who are also
trained in project management. This component will also support training for staff of the PU in loan
negotiation and administration; workshop facilitation; and procurement and disbursement procedures.
The PU will play a number of crucial roles to ensure the effective implementation of the Project. The PU
will (a) coordinate, evaluate, and monitor performance of the other PEAs; (b) monitor budgetary
allocations to the PEAs under the Project; (c) contract a full time accountant, a training specialist for six
person-months, and a procurement specialist for a total of 12 person-months to assist the PEAs; (d)
contract external auditing services for EMCAP; (e) contract external advisory assistance to help plan,
organize, coordinate and monitor the work program of the PU and of the PEAs; (f) organize and launch
workshops with stakeholders for the Project; and (g) evaluate and build capacity in the PEAs to improve
management and implementation capacity for EMCAP. PU staff has been actively involved in EMCAP's
appraisal and will be involved in supervision of the Project.
To ensure that the Project starts on a sound footing the PU has been strengthened with the appointment of
an accountant and two assistants. Training has also been provided in negotiation and administration. In
addition the PU has also secured the services of an external and a local procurement advisor. This
component will provide 158 person-months of training for the staff of the PU and the PEAs.



Annex 3
Page 1 of 3
Annex 3: Project Phases, Performance Indicators, and Exit Strategies
Nigeria: Economic Management Capacity Project
,. . ,  . .....   ....   ...........                                 . . . . .  -,........, =:,.,..;  ia  AN d C , .
Federal Ministry of Finance    Preparation of detailed work programs;  Completing studies, training, and systems;
(for total project)           closure and dissemination of partly-   wide dissemination of greatly improved data;
assembled data, developing IFEMiS      strengthening of key institutions involved in
system, and putting in place able Project   economic governance. By end of phase, both
Unit, strengthening government         economic governance and management
procurement, and undertaking audits of    improved in a sustainable
NNPC. By end- 2002, perception and     sense.
actual economic governance would have
greatly improved.
Triggers               Review of progress in meeting project   Standard World Bank due diligence clauses.
objectives on September 2002, based on:
(a) corruption surveys, (b) periodicity,
transparency and reliability of published
data, (c) evaluation of public expenditures
in light of announced and agreed priorities,
as well as the strengthening of sound
procurement, accounting; and auditing
practices; (d) the vigor and robustness of
enforcement actions involving incidents of
public malfeasance identified by OAuGF.
Exit Strategy          Lack of progress of the project, as judged   Standard World Bank remedies.
by the above four criteria, would require
canceling the uncommitted amounts.
Policy Studies Unit           Preparation of detailed work program   Carry out fiscal federalism, civil service, legal,
(including TORs) for follow-up activities.  judiciaL tax policy studies/analyses, and
publication of transparency surveys.
Triggers               Completion of TORs by consultant by     Completion of studies by mid-2003.
mid-2001. Contracts signed for detailed
-............... -work program by end-2001.
Exit Strategy          Cancellation or transfer of credit allocation  Credit allocation for non-contracted tasks
at end-2002.                           reassigned to other units; inadequate staffng
could lead to cancellation or reassignment of
whole component.
National Planning             Completion of TORs to strengthen the   Strengthen project supervision and staff
Commission                    capacity to monitor execution of the PIP;   training; shift priorities toward strongly justified
publication of 2000 budget; quarterly  projects and poverty-linked programs; quarterly
fiscal publications begun.             fiscal publications continued; integrate capital
and recurrent budgets.
Triggers               Complete first three project supervision  Conduct annual PERs.
reports. Complete first PER.
:.........
Exit Strategy          If the above task is not completed by end-  Cancellation of component funds. Inclusion in
2003, reallocate funds or cancel them.  FGN' s expenditure program of anyunjustified,
___._ ________________________ _________________________________________ major "prestige" project.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
Nvelopmeift Ojcie                     bto'rprtM    n                         itd        mu.tAtvt
PRS                            Greater fiscal transparency through      Use system and training to produce consistent
development of IFEMIS.                   and integrated financial management data.
.  ..Triggers               Publication of fiscal data for 1995-99;  Inclusion of all receipts in IFEMIS system.
. ......IFEMIS used for 2003 budget
..................
.........
..................Exit Strategy  Deferral of action until 2003 if delay from .Reassignment of component resources;
.                      ~~~~~~~~technical causes; component cancellation    cancellation if second trigger not met.
. ~~~~~~~~if triggers not met by end-2003.
......,... ...
FOS                            Review of the process of how the new     After training  and institution building, periodic
needs of users will be reflected in the work  publication of improved quality social data
program and how this will affect the     linked to poverty.
priorities and budget allocations between
FOS departments.
WRMMO Triggers                 mplementation of recommendation of       Periodic production and publication of National
.. ~~~~~~consultant' s report; publication of                   income accounts and Minimum National Social
'  household surveys for 1991-1994 and   Data Set; publication of 2000-2001 poverty
.,.,.,, . B            ~~~subsequent years; development of detailed   profiles. Annual publication of social statistics.
.                      ~~~~~~~work programs and poverty monitoring
...  ................ ..        indicators.
... .. (......
.. ....... . t
...... Exit Strategy          Reallocation o      f component f find s     Lack of utilization of funds would lead to
technical causes; component     l        reallocation or cancellation of outstanding
g.: .- -:- I                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~sums.
OAGF                        Closure of fiscal accounts for 1995-1999.   Review current procurement practices i the
OAGF.
E.s S .a <E . Triggers  Publication of fiscal accounts for 1995-  Implement recoum endations of procurement
r1999 no undue delays in procurement.    practices review.
pCarryout analyses of current accounting
FOstandards.
Exit Strategy           Suspension of new commitments.            Cancellation of uncommitted allocations.
OAuGF                          Draft revisions of Audit Law,            Enactment of revised Audit Law, reenactment
recommendations for strengthening PAC    of PAC and establishment of Audit
and establishing Audit Commission.       Commission; publication of audited fiscal
Publication of audited fiscal accounts for    accounts annually.
1995-1998.
it Triggers              No undue delays in procurement,          Continued publication of current audited fiscal
..............-               reasonable expectation that 1995-1999     accounts; no undue delays in procurement.
OaGF                           Closure of fiscal accountsfor199fiscal accounts will be available for audit.



Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
DeveIopmext'; ObjEttves        <K3'i4~naaiiAfiR
:.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .-..-..... . 
---::--Exit Strategy      Suspension of new commitments.         Cancellation of uncommitted allocations.
.,.,.-..........~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~............
~~~~~~~~~~. . . ..... 
Project Unit                 Preparation to oversee EMCAP.          Effective oversight of EMCAP.
Triggers               Staffmg of Unit with effective         Maintain up-to-date financial information on
procurement and training advisors, project  project and program; PEA training focused on
accountant and project auditor; develop  objectives; improvement in FGN procurement.
procedures to provide up-to-date financial  No undue delays in EMCAP's procurement.
information on project; successful project
launch workshop; no undue delays in
procurement.
Exit Strategy          Suspension of new commitments.         Cancellation of uncommitted allocations.
Ministry of Petroleum        Comprehensive review of the sector.    NA
Triggers               Selection of counterpart teams;        NA
engagement of consultants; provision of
appropriate data and information;
completion ofjoint review.
Exit Strategy          Cancellation of uncommitted allocations    NA
NA: not applicable



Annex 4
Page 1 of 1
Annex 4: Estimated Project Costs
Nigeria: Economic Management Capacity Building Project
Estimated Project Cost in Local and Foreign Currency
.................... F...
?reject cost...............        ... .ub Ciij-n                    X---..-t                ---
lmprovement of Statistics                                                1.70           6.81           8.51
Tmprovement and Monitoring of Public Expenditure                         1.05           1.89           2.94
Monitoring and Accounting of Fiscal Operations                           4.06           3.03           7.09
Petroleum Sector Review                                                  0.53           3.00           3.53
Strengthening the Procurement Activities in the Public Sector            0.44           2.50           2.94
Strengthening Policy Development Capabilities                            4.43           4.43           8.86
Information Management Systems                                           0.20           2.32           2.52
1.43           1.43           2.86
Support for the Project Unit                                             1.23           1.59           2.82
Total Baseline Costs                                                    15.07          27.00          42.07
Contingencies                                                            1.51           2.12           3.63
Total Project Costs                              16.58          29.12          45.70
Note: Differences due to rounding.
Project Costs By Category
(in US$ millions)
.. .........C. Mil           " i "qu" nen   . Tini        rtigues          T
IDA                                               9.26        5.48        4.51           1.75          20.00
DFID                                              2.28        0.30        0.65           0.27           3.50
EU                                                3.46        4.04        1.79           0.71          10.00
PHRD/WBI                                          0.57          --          --             --           0.57
USAID                                             3.28        0.55        2.70           0.27           6.80
FGN                                                 --         3.40       0.80           0.63           4.83
TOTAL                                            18.85       12.77       10.45           3.63          45.70
Note: Differences due to rounding.



Annex 5
Page 1 of 4
Annex 5: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Nigeria: Economic Management Capacity Building Project
1. Procurement
All goods and services financed under the IDA Credit would be procured in accordance with the
appropriate IDA Guidelines (Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995
and as revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999; and Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 and as revised September 1997
and January 1999). Procurement of goods and services would be the responsibility of each of the PEAs
receiving financing under EMCAP, with assistance from the Procurement Advisor and the Procurement
Specialist to be contracted by the Project Unit. The Project Unit is housed in the MULT. A formal
assessment of the capacity of the PEAs for this task has been carried out according to Procurement
Services Policy Group (OCSPR) guideline dated August 11, 1998 (see Annex 12).
The Procurement Advisor and the Procurement Specialist are expected to be well acquainted with IDA
disbursement and procurement procedures. As part of preparation activities, financed by a PPF, the
Procurement Advisor, in consultation with the Bank procurement specialist, would carry out training of
procurement staff in each PEA. Once the staff havebeen identified, an orientation workshop would be
held; topics to be covered would include Bank procurement and disbursement procedures. The Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) would be used for the procurement of all works and goods, and the
Bank's Standard Request for Proposals would be used for all consulting assignments.
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory and would be published before Board presentation in
the UN Development Business and in a national newspaper as provided under the Guidelines. The GPN
would be updated on a yearly basis and would show all outstanding International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) for goods contracts and all international consulting services. In addition a Specific Procurement
Notice (SPN) is required for all ICB and all consulting services with a value in excess of US$100,000
prior to the preparation of the short list.
A. Equipment and supplies (US$5,480,000)
The Project would finance computer hardware and software upgrades, office equipment, and
communication equipment in each of the PEAs and some limited procurement of supplies in the OAuGF
and the Treasury Department of the OAGF. To the extent possible and practicable, goods and equipment
to be purchased by each PEA would be grouped into bid packages to take advantage of bulk purchase.
Each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more would be procured under ICB
procedures using IDA Standard Bidding Documents. Each contract for goods estimated to cost between
US$ 30,000 and US$ 100,000, up to an aggregate of US$1.0 million, would be procured through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) using procedures acceptable to IDA. Procurement for readily available off-
the-shelf goods that cannot be grouped or standard specification commodities for individual contracts of
less than US$ 30,000, up to an aggregate of US$500,000, would be procuredunder International
Shopping (IS) or National Shopping procedures as detailed in paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits ".
To ensure that these limits are observed, each quarterly progress report of the Project would include a
table setting out the number and value (in US$ equivalent) of the contracts issued through local
shopping and national competitive bidding during the quarter as well as the cumulative total value (in



Annex 5
Page 2 of 4
US dollar equivalent) of the contracts under each of these two procedures from the date of the project
start-up.
B. Consultancy Services (US$9,260,000)
These services consist of consultancy services for studies and reports, technical assistance for coaching
and training, workshops and focus group discussions internal for the various components of the project.
Selection and appointment of consultants for studies, technical assistance and support of project execution
will be carried out in accordance with the Consultant Guidelines (Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999). As a
rule, consultant services will be procured through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)
methodology. All consultancy assignments estimated to cost US$ 100,000 or more would be procured
through QCBS and would be advertised in Development Business (UNDB) and in at least one national
newspaper. In addition, the scope of the service will be advertised in an international newspaper or
magazine seeking "expressions of interest." In the case of assignments estimated to cost less than US$
100,000, the assignment may be advertised nationally and the shortlist may be made up entirely of
national consultants, provided that at least three qualified national firms are available in the country and
foreign consultants who wish to participate are not excluded from consideration. All consulting services
of individual consultants will be procured under individual contracts in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the Guidelines. The Procurement Advisor and the Procurement Specialist may,
with the agreement of IDA, be selected on single-source basis. For twinning arrangements, the same
Standard Request for Proposals for consultant services will be used for selecting twinning institutions.
The expected output of the twinning arrangements and selection criteria will need to be defined up-front
and included in the Request for Proposals. For twinning arrangements to be financed by IDA, at least
three prospective institutions will be invited to submitproposals except in cases where it can be verified
that expertise is limited to very few institutions in the world.
C. Training programs (US$4,510,000)
Training is geared towards improving management and skills of public servants. The Project Unit will
contract a Training Advisor to help each PEA ensure that its training program contributes effectively to
the agencies' objectives as agreed under the EMCAP.
D. IDA Prior Review
Table B provides the prior review thresholds. Each contract for goods estimated to cost US$100,000
equivalent or more will be subject to IDA prior review as per paragraph 2 of appendix I of the Guidelines.
Other contracts will be subject to post review in accordance with paragraph 4 of Appendix I of the
Guidelines. All consulting contracts costing US$100,000 equivalent or more for firms, and US$50,000
for individuals, will be subject to IDA prior review. Any exceptional extensions to non-prior review
contracts raising their values to levels equivalent or above the prior review thresholds will be subject to
IDA clearance. All single-source selection and training programs above US$50,000 will be subject to
IDA prior review. Other training programs will be reviewed and agreed annually, as part of the
procurement plan.
E. Other Procurement Method
On behalf of the Borrower, the Bank (ISG Department) will procure network access equipment for the
video conference room and computers and computer-related communications equipment on a direct



Annex 5
Page 3 of 4
contracting basis to ensure compatibility with the Global Distance Learning Network and to benefit from
a bulk discount from the 3ank suppliers. The satellite bandwidth rental contract will be procured on a
direct contracting basis (one supplier selected under the Bank umbrella).
F. Procurement Plans
The Bank's standard bidding documents for goods, and the Standard Request for Proposals (RFP) for
consulting services as well as the Standard Bid/RFP Evaluation Forms will be used. The Borrower will
prepare a Global Procurement Plan (GPP), and a Detailed Procurement Plan (DPP) for the first year of the
project showing processing time for each component and will forward these documents to IDA before
Credit effectiveness. The GPP and the DPP, which will be updated yearly, should be sent to IDA for
clearance not later than three months before the end of each fiscal year.
2. Disbursement - Allocation of loan proceeds.
A. Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
Disbursements for all expenditures would be against full documentation, except for items of expenditures
and purchase below US$ 100,000 equivalent, for goods, below US$ 50,000 for consulting firms, and
below US$ 50,000 for consultancy services (individuals), training, workshops and incremental costs for
which disbursements would be based on statements of expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documentation
for SOEs would be retained by the Borrower for review by IDA missions and external auditors.
B. Special Accounts
To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account for the EMCAP would be established and operated by the
Project Unit in US$ 500,000 at a commercial bank under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The
authorized Special Account allocation is US$ 1,000,000 to be capped at US$ 5000,000 until the aggregate
disbursement amount is SDR 2,500,000. Upon credit effectiveness, a sum of US$ 500,000 would be
deposited by IDA into this account. Further deposits by IDA would be made into this account against
withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documentation.
C. Financial Reporting
The Project Accounts Statement, SOEs and the Special Accounts would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. Audited Financial Statements for the EMCAP consisting of each of these
statements of accounts, together with the auditors' reports and certificates thereon would be submitted to
IDA within six months of the close of the project financial year.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average                                              X
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months during the first year
and semi-annually thereafter (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits).



Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditur                        Procurement Method                        Total
e Category
ICB         NCB       SHOPPING    OTHER          N.B.F.
Consultants                                          10.10        10.38       20.48
Equipment      4.48         1.00        0.50                      7.89        13.87
and Supplies
Training             .                              4.92         6.43        11.35
Total        4.48        1.00         0.50        15.02        24.7         45.7
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Goods          US$100,000 and above       ICB                    All
US$30,000 to US$100,000    NCB
less than US$30,000        Shopping
S6rvices       US$100,000 and above       QCBS'                  All
Below US$100,000 (Firms)    CQ
US$50,000 (Individuals) and   INDIVIDUAL          All
above                      INDIVIDUAL
Below USS50,000            Single-Source          All
(individuals)
=____________   No specific Threshold
Training      International, Twinning     Intermational Shopping   All
National                   National Shopping      All
Notes: ICB - International Competitive Bidding; NCB - National Competitive Bidding; QCBS - Quality
and Cost Based Selection; CQ - Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds (US$ million)
Expenditure Category             Amount               Financing Percentage
1. Equipment, materials and supplies       5.1         100% of foreign expenditures and
85% of local expenditures
2. Consultant services                    13.1         100%
3. Refunding of PPF                        0.6         100%
4. Unallocated                             1.2



Annex 6
Page 1 of 1
Annex 6: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Nigeria: Economic Management Capacity Project
...........  P ro-e   S ch ed u l   -la             ed. .-a
....-  ......                  . .. .,:i  tV....    ..  .............  ' :  .    ...
(tfinl C   tge>    _______
Time to prepare the project                  Seven months         Seven months
First Bank mission (identification)           10/29/1999            10/29/98
Pre-Appraisal mission departure                  July             June 28, 1999
Converting Pre-Appraisal mission to                             November 11, 1999
Appraisal Mission
Negotiations                              November 15, 1999      November 18-19,
1999
Board                                       March 30, 2000       XXXXXXXXX
Planned Date of Effectiveness                May 31, 2000        XX/XX/XXXX
Bank Staff and consultants who have worked on the project include:
.........    ......S..l.... .. ...t....y. ...  .p....t
Jose B. Sokol                            Public sector management
T. Mpoy-Kamulayi                         Lawyer
Hovsep Melkonian                         Disbursement Officer
Mike Stevens                             Public sector management (peer reviewer)
K.S. Venkatraman                         Public sector management (peer reviewer)
Paul Meo                                 Financial management (quality assurance)
Robert G. Lynch                          Statistics
Francis J. Earwaker                      PER and Project Monitoring
Thomas Hutcheson                         Financial Analysis
Winston Cox                               Accounting and Auditing
Keith Soffe                              Accounting and Auditing
Greg Nzekwu                               Public sector management
Jeri Larson                               Operations
Bayo Awosemusi                            Procurement Specialist
Muraino Olaseni Ogunsanya                 Financial Analysis



Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
Annex 7: Documents in the Project File
Nigeria: Economic Management Capacity Building Project
1. FGN Vision 2010 Strategy
2. FGN 1998 Budget Speech
3. FGN 1999 Budget Speech
4. World Bank Federal Public Expenditure Review of March 18, 1996
5. IMF: Nigeria: Selected Issues and Statistical Appendix of August 1998
6. CBN: Needs of the Research Department
7. FGN Report of the Constitutional Conference Containing the 1995 Draft Constitution
8. FMF: Functions of the Policy Coordinating Unit
9. FMF: Budget Office: Required Assistance
10. World Bank Proposed EMCAP Aide Memoire of November 17, 1998
11. NCEMA: The State, Leadership, Governance and Economic Development
12. IMF: Nigeria: Strengthening the Budget Office, Report of November 1995
13. FMF: Terms of Reference for a Consultant for a Paris Club Rescheduling Exercise
14. Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research Brochure
15. FMF: Proposal for the Expansion of the FIRS Computerization Project
16. Office of the Auditor General of the Federation: Duties and Responsibilities Document
17. FOS: The Consumer Price Index 1995-1997
18. FOS Consumer Price Index: Development of Methodology in Nigeria
19. FOS: National Accounts 1981 to 1996
20. FOS: National Accounts of Nigeria: Sources and Methods
21. The Nigerian Economic Summit Group: Recommendations for the 1999 Federal Budget
22. Closing Remarks by the Head of State at the Fifth Nigerian Economic Summit
23. Address Delivered by the Pernanent Secretary of the National Revenue Mobilisation,
Allocation and Fiscal Commission on the 15th of January, 1999
24. National Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission Proposal for the
Proposed EMCAP Project
25. EMCAP - Further Submission from the National Planning Commission
26. FOS: Social Statistics, Further Submission
27. World Bank: Nigeria: Prospects for Development of August 2, 1996
28. "Proceedings of the Workshop: Nigeria - Prospects for Development," Central Bank of
Nigeria
29. "Corruption and Development" PREMNotes May, 1998
30. "The South Africa Auditor General's Office" Findings November 1998
31. Computerization Consultancy Progress Report No. 21 ICC, Inc. Jan., 1999
32. "Budget of Realism" 1999 Budget Address by General Abdusalam Abubakar,
Head of State, Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic
of Nigeria
33. Loan Administration Change Initiative: Implementation Overview, World Bank 1998
34. "Capacity Building for Economic Management in Nigeria: the Role of NCEMA,
NCEMA Occasional Papers No. 1, 1998
35. "The State, Leadership, Governance and Economic Development," address to
Annual Conference of the Nigerian Society, July 1998
36. "Office of the Auditor General for the Federation," AuGF, 1998
37. "A Draft Proposal for NCEMA's Participation in the Economic Management Capacity Project
(EMCAP," NCEMA, Nov., 1998
38. "Brochure," Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research, 1996



Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
39. "Annual Report and Statement of Accounts," Central Bank of Nigeria 1997
40. "Proposals of the Money and Banking Statistics Committee on Measures to Address Comprehensive
Monetary and Financial Statistics Compilation an Analysis," CBN, Dec. 1998
41. "Needs of the CBN Research Department" CBN, Nov. 1998
42. "Foreign Operations Department of Central Bank of Nigeria" CBN, Nov., 1998
43. "National Planning Commission (proposal)" NPC, Nov., 1998
44. "Functions of the Policy Coordinating Unit," and "Brief on Policy Coordinating Unit," PCU, Nov.,
1998
45. "Computerization Cost/Benefit Analysis," Federal Inland Revenue Service, Nov. 1998
46. "Proposal for Expansion of the FIRS Computerization Project,' FIRS, Nov. 1998
47. "FIRS Computerization Expansion," FIRS, Nov. 1998
48. "Economic Management Capacity Project, Federal Office of Statistics Component (proposal)",
FOS, Nov. 1998
49. "Economic Management Capacity Project, Federal office of Statistics Component, National
Accounts Sub-component (proposal)", FOS, Nov. 1998
50. "Price Statistics Special Areas of Assistance," FOS, Nov. 1998
51. "Establishment Surveys and Census" FOS Nov., 1998
52. "Foreign Trade Statistics Branch," FOS, Nov. 1998
53. "Economic Statistics Production in Nigeria," FOS, Nov. 1998
54. "Specification of IMF's Special Data Dissemination Standard," IMF 1998 (?)
55. "The Consumer Price Index" 1995-1997" FOS, Jan. 1998
56. "Social Statistics," FOS Nov. 1998






on
aD w
p..
a)  t4
r 0
Annex 8: Statement of Loans and Credits
Nigeria: Economic Management Capacity Building Project
Closed 79
Projects                                           Bank
Difference Between
Last PSR                                                       Expected and Actual
13oard
Date                                               Supervision Rating b/          Original Amount In USS Millions        Disbursements"
Fiscal                                         DvlpetIpeetto
Year  Active Projects                          Develob ment  Implementaion      IBRD         IDA     Cancel.  Undisb.      Orig. Frm Revd
Obiectives     Progress
1991    P002092   AG. RESEARCH                       S              U                 0      80.07          0       0.2    -3.78      -3.67
1991    P002106    HEALTH FUND                       S              S                70          0          0      7.04     23.04      7.04
1991    P002134    PRIMARY EDUCATION                 S              S                 0     124.31      29.95     35.01     59.42      2.65
1991    P002084    WATER REHAB                       S              S               256          0          0     46.83     46.83     46.83
1992    P002140   AGRIC TECH                          S             S              42.5          0          0       7.4      7.17       3.9
1992    P002109    STATE WATER I                      S             S                .0    102.56           0     14.97     10.29     10.14
1993    P002156    DEV. COMMUNICATION                 S             S                 0        8.08         0      1.14      0.94      0.93
1993    P002176    STATE ROADS il                     S             S                 0      84.47          0      12.2    12.27         8.1
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Annex 8
2 of Page 2
IFC
As of 8/31/99
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                    Disbursed
FY Approval Company               Loan  Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1998 AEFAnsbby               0.1      0      0     0    0        0     0      0
1996/98     AEF Bailey Bridg        0.68      0      0     0    0       0      0      0
1992 AEF Canplas            0.04      0      0     0  0.04       0     0      0
1996 AEF Courdeau           0.46      0      0     0  0.46       0     0      0
1997 AEF Ekesons            0.29      0      0     0  0.29       0     0      0
1994 AEF Eterna             0.83      0      0     0  0.83       0     0      0
1996 AEF Mid-East              0      0  0.12      0    0        0  0.12      0
1998 AEFMinaj                0.5      0      0     0    0        0     0      0
1997 AEFMoorhouse           1.35      0      0     0  1.35       0     0      0
1997 AEF Radmed             0.29      0      0     0  0.29       0     0      0
1991 AEF Stark              0.03      0      0     0  0.03      0      0      0
1997 AEFTelipoint           0.16      0      0     0  0.16       0     0      0
1998 AEFTrans                  0      0  0.15      0    0       0      0      0
1995 AEFVinfesen             1.1      0      0     0   1.1      0      0      0
1994 Abujalntl              1.75   0.75      0     0  1.75   0.71      0      0
1964/66/89   ArewaTextiles             0   0.12      0     0    0   0.12       0      0
1992 FSDH                      0   0.86      0     0    0   0.86       0      0
1981/85/88   Ikeja Hotel               0   0.25      0     0    0   0.25       0      0
1993 Tourist CoNir            11      0    6.5     0    0       0    2.5      0
Total Portfolio:         18.58    1.98   6.77    0   6.3   1.94   2.62      0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
1999 AEF CHARTERED          0.32      0      0     0
1999 AEF GLOBAL FABRI   0.32          0      0     0
1999 AEF HERCULES            1.3      0      0     0
1999 AEF HYGEIA             0.38    0.2      0     0
1995 AEF-NABEGU CO.            I      0      0     0
Total Pending Commitment:       3.32    0.2      0     0



Annex 9
Annex 9: Nigeria At-A-Glance                                                 Page I of 2
Economic Management and Capacity Building Project                                       9/22/99
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan      Low-
Nigeria    Africa  income   [ Development diamond-
1998
Population, mid-year (millins)                      121.3       628     3,515                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    300       480       520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     36.4       304     1844
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                        2.9       2.6        1.7
Labor force (%)                                       2.9        2.6       1.9     GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                              per                          enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  66
Urban population (% of total population)               42        33        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       54        51        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               77        91        69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             39                                   Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 50        47        74
illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   40        42        32
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)   98        77       108                 Nigeria
Male                                                109        84       113                 Low-income group
Female                                               87        69       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                          36.0    23.4        39.9      41.4
Gross domestic investmenUGDP                28.3     16.0       15.3      20.0                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           24.9     28.6       40.9     23.5
Gross domestic savingstGDP                  30.7     19.9       21.9      11.8                      T
Gross national savings/GDP                  29.3     11.4       20.0       8.7
Current account balance/GDP                  -2.8     -7.4      4.7      -7.3      D s
Interest paymentslGDP                        0.1      2.6        14       3.6      Do                          Investment
Total debtUGDP                               8.7    123.8       72.0      69.6     Savings
Total debtservice/exports                    1.0    14.1        12.4      13.4
Present value of debtUGDP                     ..       ..      67.7        ..
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..    172.7                             Indebtedness
197747  1988-98     1997       1998   199943
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 -1.3     3.3      3.6        1.8       2.1                   __
GDP            -t3       3.3      3.6       1 .a      2.1  ~ ~I   Nigenia        Low-income group
GNP per capita                     -4.6      0.9      2.5       -1.8      -1.6
Exports of goods and services       -5.4     5.5      1.2       -8.3      14.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998     Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         30
Agriculture                                 29.6      36.7      32.7      31.7
Industry                                    31.4    33.3        46.9      41t0     1St
Manufacturing                               4.6      6.8       4.8         .
Services                                    39.0     30.0       20.4      27.3    .1  93 9       4 198XW >9           98
Private consumpton                          55.9     68.9       69.6      77.5   | 0
General govemment consumption               13.4    11.1         8.5      10.7                    GD        t  GDP
Imports of goods and services               22.5     24.7       34.3      31.7
1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)l
Agriculture                                  -0.5      3.0       4.2       1.5    20
Industry                                    -3.2      2.4        3.1       2.9   i   I
Manufacturing                               5.6      2.5       1.3       2.8    10
Services                                     0.4      4.6        3.4       2.5
Private consumption                          0.5      0.3       27.0       5.5 |
General govemment consumpbon                -2.7      1.6       18.5       2.0       .                     96
Gross domestic investment                  -13.7     10.8      -24.4      13.6   -10
Imports of goods and services               -9.6      4.9        8.4       7.8                  Exports       imports
Gross national product                       -1.6     3.9        5.4       1.0
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estmates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared wfth its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 2 of 2
Nigeria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987      1997      1998     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                      1 
Consumer prices                             13.8    11.3       8.3      10.3     80
Implicit GDP deflator                       10.7    50.1       10.5     10.5         5
40
Government finance                                                               20V
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               n'
Current revenue                            20.3    15.2        18.9     15.4            93   94   95   96   97   98
Current budget balance                      12.3    -1.1        9.7     -6.0                  GDPrdfator    o C
Overall surplus/deficit                     -6.8    -7.6        1.1     -8.6
TRADE                                      1977_198__199______
(L/S$ millions)  1977    1987  1997  1998   I Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
(US$ millions)j
Total exports (fob)                       12,373    7,532    15,208    9,727    2000
Fuel                                    11,564    6,994    14,850    9,519   j   0
Cocoa..                                              ...                 .                                   _
Manufactures                                 ..      ..       40        36    12,000
Total imports (cif)                       13,225    6,392    10,246   10,873     6,000
Food                                     1,373     671      1,219    1,479      4,       t0
Fuel and energy                           240       27       143       130     ' 
Capital goods                                ..      ..        ..       ..   | 0          _ _          _       f
92  e3  94  s5 95   97  sa
Export price index (1995--tO0)               94      100       112       82 
Importprice index (1995=100)                 45       75        92       84              N Exports     uImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   210      134       122       98   |
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                             1977    1987       1997     1998      Current account balance to GDP rao%)
Exports of goods and services            12,955    7,757    15,330    9,845
Imports of goodsand services             11,731    6,689    12,753   12,045
Resource balance                           1,224    1,068    2,577   -2,200
Net income                                -2,046   -2,770    -2,211   -2T661
Net current transfers                         ..      ..    1,512    1  833
Current account balance                   -1,007   -1,726     1,877   -3,027      s
Financing items (net)                       189    1,648      1,183    3,026 -8    .
Changes in net reserves                     817       78    -3,061        1   -15
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)    4,259    1,199     7,222    7,221
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)             0.9     4.6     * 81.1     88.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997     1998 j
(US$ millions)                             1                                     Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       3,146   29,021    28,712   28,774
IBRD                                      410    2,939     2,373    2,278                       A: 2.278
IDA                                        39       32       410      564            G: 6,571            B: 564
Total debt service                          138    1,106      1,934    1,352
IBRD                                       47      332       518      467
IDA                                         1        1         4        4
Composition of net resource flows
Offical grants                              6       14
Official creditors                         38      378
Private creditors                          18      425        ..        ..       F: 5,765                   E: 13,596
Foreign direct investment                 439      603
Portfolio equity                            0        0
World Bank program
Commitments                                62       71         0        0      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              64      385       260      222      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       18      125       339      314      C-IMF                       G-Shot-temn
Net flows                                  46      260       -79       -93                                      - ___ _
Interest payments                          30      209       182      156
Net transfers                              16       52      -261      -249
Development Economics                                                                                            9/22/99



FROM : DIRECTOR MUIT,INST. FMF ABUJR. PHONE NO. : 09 2343609  Feb. 04 2000 10:40PM P2
Annex 10
1 of Page 6
FEDERAL MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Office of the Honourable Minister
P.M.8. 14, Gark,                                             W: 09-2340932
Central Area,                                                    -2346928
Abuja, Nigeria                                               Fax:09-2340903
F.11373/S.34/C.96/38                          4th February., 2000
Mr. Yavw, Ansu,
Country Director for Nigeria,
Africa Region,
The Wrid Bank,
Washington D.C.
U.S.A.
LE-TTS ROFSC R LDEM-OPMENT POLICY FOR THIE WORtLD
BANK~ ASSISTED ECONOMIC MANAGEMN
CAPAC        BUILPDXNG P0E:(MA
The Govemment of the Federal Republic of Nigeria has embarked on
various .ar reaching reforms of the Nigerian Economy with a view to
strengt,Iening economic govemance through effective economic management
capable of putting the economy on the path to recovery and prosperity. The
Govemment intends in this letter to highlight its strategy and modus operandi
to the envisaged reforms and to re-affirm its request and desire for the
support of the IDA and the international donor agencies/countries in the
financing of the EMCAP programme.
Country background
2.   After initial success in undertakirg structural adjustment reforms starting
in 1986, its abandonment in 1992 led to years of slow and stagnated growth,
rising inflation and increased poverty. The situation left the economy
extremely weak and highly vulnerable to the precipitous dedine In oil prices
that began In late 1997 and  continued through the early part of 1999.



FROM  DIRECTOR MUIT,INST. FMF ABUJA. PHONE NO.: 09 2343609  Feb. 04 2000 i0:40AM P3
Annex 10
2 of Page
Though the FGN has recently achieved initial success in stabilizing the
economy, economic activity continues to be undermined by inadequate
managerial capacity, inappropriate budget priorities, inadequate financial
management and information system, weak Institutions, long delays in the
audit of the accounts of key government agencies, inadequate accounting and
monitoring of public expenditure and outdated procurement practices. In
addition, statistcal information is partcularly weak, inadequate and produced
with major lags. The staff are insufficiently trained and there is insufficient
focus on key economic govemance issues, culminating in massive corruption.
The enabling environment for ensuring integrity and transparent handling of
public finances was very weak. Such a situation is fraught with many
problems which have to be urgently tackled if Nigeria is to move to a path of
rapid growth and development. The solution to all these problems require
sustained long term efforts. The announced intentions and recent actions of
the Federal Govemment in the areas of govemance, economic management
and poverty alleviation give credence to the dawn of a new beginning for
Nigeria, under a democratic system of government. It is instructive at this
juncture to mention that one of the first bills to be presented to the National
Assembly was the anti - corruption bill which is meant to combat corruption
and economic mismanagement, both of which pose formidable barriers to
economic development.
Sector background
3.   EMCAP consttutes a first step in FGN's bid to strengthen economic
governance by:
(a)  ensuring greater transparency, accountability and probity in fiscal
operations;
(b) strengthening the systems designed to improve the efficiency of
resource allocation, while discouraging those elements that have
hindered such efforts in the past;
(c) improving the quality and timeliness of data production for
economic and social analyses and dissemination; and
(d) enhancing the capacity to cary out, coordinate, and monitor
2



Annex 10
3 of Page
macroeconomic and structural policies. While EMCAP itself will
focus on a relatively small number of priority areas of technical
assistance and capacity building in key institutions of
government, it will also be used to help identify and define the
overall technical assistance and capacity building agenda.
Strengthening Nigeria's economic governance will drive the
Implementation of the project. While the project on its own is
not expected to lead to full achievement of this objective, it could
serve as a springboard for reforms in the civil service as well as in
legal, judidal, procurement and tax policy areas, and in fiscal
decentralization by supporting studies in these areas.
Pro-ram/Prgject objectives
4.   The Economic Management Capacity Building Project (EMCAP) aims at
assisting the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) in strengthening key
aspects of economic management. EMCAP is a part of a broader, ambitious
effort by the FGN to improve economic governance and the tools for
economic management. Nigeria's past economic record confirms that these
goals are the initial, but not the sole, requirements underpinning the longer-
term stategy of reducing poverty, reviving economic growth, and better
allocation of resources. Within the broader efforts of the FGN at addressing
economic govemance issues, EMCAP will concentrate on certain high priority
areas which require rapid resolution. These areas are:
(a) improvement of the national accounts as well as price, social and
poverty statistics in the Federal Office of Statistics (FOS);
(b) improvement and monitoring of public expenditure profile by the
National Planning Commission (NPC);
(c) monitoring and accounting for fiscal operations in the Office of the
Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF) of the Federal
Ministry of Finance (FMF), the Ofmce of the Auditor General of the
Federation (OAuGF), and In the National Assembly;
(d)  support for a comprehensive (financial, operational, technical and
3



FROM  DIRECTOR MUIT,MINST. FMF ABUJA. PHONE NO. : 09 2343609  Feb. 04 2000 10:41AM P5
Annex 10
4 of Page 6
legal aspects) review of the petroleum sector as well as reform of
key sector Institutions;
(e)  strengthening the procurement activities in the public sector;
(f)  strengthening of the policy development capabilities of the
govemment in order to enable it focus on key reform policies
critical for economic management, induding distance learning or
the exchange of lessons;
bg) supporting the design and implementation of an Integrated
Financial and Economic Management System (IFEMIS) which
would insttutionalize and ratlonalize statistical management
within the government; and
(h)  support for a Project Unit, located in the Multilateral Institutions
Department (MULT) of the FMF, to accelerate preparation as well
as to evaluate and monitor activities in the other agencies and
departments involved in the program.
Proaram Description:
S.   As noted, the proposed EMCAP project is a first step in addressing issues
of economic governance and management, but with a much stronger
emphasis on institutional development and capacity building. The project was
identified In parallel wtth govemment efforts to improve economic governance.
Within the broader efforts of the FGN that address economic govemance
issues, EMCAP will concentrate on certain high priority areas which require
rapid resolution:
(a) improvement of the national accounts, price, social and poverty
statistics in the FOS;
(b) improvement and monitoring of public expenditure in the NPC;
(c)  monitoring and accounting of fiscal operations In the OAGF, the
4



Annex 10
5 of Page (
OAuGF and the National Assembly;
(d)  support for a comprehensive (financial, operational, technical,
legal and finandal aspects) review of the petroleum sector as well
as reform of key sector institutions;
(e)  strengthening of the procurement activitles in the public sector;
(f)  strengthening of the policy development capabilities of the
govemrnment to focus on key reforrn policies critical for economic
management, including distance learning or the exchange of
lessons;
(g)  supporting the design and implementation of an IFEMIS which
would institutionalize and rationalize statistical management
within the government; and
(h)  support for a Project Unit to accelerate preparation as well as to
evaluate and monitor activities in the other PEAs involved in the
programme;
(i)  support a study of the current fiscal federalism and equitable
method by which revenues are collected and shared among the
federating units; and
Oi)  review of the tariff policy and the development of a new tariff
schedule.
Prject Implementation
6.  The project will Initially concentrate on preparatory work in priority
areas: development of the IFEMIS in the FMF; support to strengthen the
OAGF and the OAuGF; support for greater transparency and a stronger anti-
corruption stance; assistance to Improve and disseminate economic, social and
poverty statistics by the FOS; and preparatory work by the Project Unit. It
would also further advance the strengthening of economic management and



FROM  DIRECTOR MUIIT, INST. FMF ABUJA. PHONE NO.  09 2343609  Feb. 04 2000 10:42AM P7
Annex 10
6 of Page 6
capacity building efforts and expand the focus to all project executing
agencies. This phased approach will permit the democratically elected
govemment to review and shape implementation proposals before they are
executad.
PrMiect Sustainabit
7.  There are a number of aitical factors that will be important for the
project's sustainability. First, and most important, will be the degree and
continuity of FGN's commitment to greater transparency and probity. Second
will be the level of the FGN's continued financial and loglstical support for the
different sub-components of the project beyond implementation. The
necessary costs of these elements for capacity building and strengthening
economic management would be taken Into consideration and integrated.into
the FGN's budget. Finally, of crucial importance will be a particIpatory
approach involving all relevant stakeholders during and beyond the
implementation of the capacity building programme.  Comprehensive
institutional and systemic changes that are part of the programmme's agenda
w'ill be widely publicized, internal feedback and opportunities for process
innovatfon would be established to increase motivation and to provide upward
feedback to management
8.  The FGN developed the project jointly with the World Bank and with
some participation and contribution of donor agencies namely the USAID,
DFID, European Union and Japan. However, the content of the project
emanatbd from the Govemment and was based on the myriad of problems
militating against the development and growth of the Nigerian economy. The
project details reflect our desire to ensure that at the dose of the credit,
Nigeria would have gone a long way in eradicating corruption and enthroning
transparency, probity, accountability and good govemance in Nigeria.
Adanwu Ciroma
Ministeraof Finance
6



Annex 1 1
Page 1 of 1
Annex 11: List of Project Executing Agencies
Nigeria: Economic Management Capacity Building Project
Improvement of Statistics
1.  Federal Office of Statistics (FOS).
Improvement and Monitoring of Public Expenditure
2.  National Planning Commission (NPC).
Monitoring and Accounting of Fiscal Operations
3.  Accountant General of the Federation of the FMF (OAGF).
4.  Auditor General of the Federation (OAuGF).
Petroleum Sector Review
5.   Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources.
Strengthening the Procurement Activities in the Public Sector
6.   Project Unit of the FMF.
Strengthening Policy Development Capabilities
7.   Project Unit of the FMF for the time being.
Information Management System
8.   Policy, Research and Statistics Departnent of the FMF (PRS).
Support for the Project Unit
9.   Project Unit of the FMF.
At a Distance Learning
10.  Project Unit of the FMF.
National and State Assemblies
11.  National Assembly Secretariat.
Strengthening the Legal/Judicial Systems
12. Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation in close cooperation with the Office of the Chief
Justice.



Annex 12
Page 1 of 10
Annex 12: Institutional Capacity Assessment of Participating Project Executing Agencies
Nigeria: Economic Management Capacity Building Project
EMCAP constitutes a first step in assisting the FGN strengthen economic governance by: (a) ensuring
greater transparency, accountability and probity in fiscal operations; (b) improving the quality and
timeliness of data for economic and social analyses, as well as their wide dissemination; (c) strengthening
the systems designed to improve the efficiency of resource use, while discouraging - via public
transparency - those elements that have deterred such efforts in the past; and (d) enhancing its capacity to
carry out, coordinate, and monitor macroeconomic and structural as well as poverty policies.
A capacity assessment involves a description of: (a) human skills; (b) institutional structures; (c)
organizational structures; and (d) institutional procedures and systems for the purpose of assessing the
strengths as well as the weakness of PEAs involved in EMCAP and of assessing if the PEAs have a
minimum capacity to undertake the Project successfully. This Annex summarizes the review of the
capacity assessment undertaken during project preparation and appraisal of the participating agencies and
departments. Six government agencies have been identified as key agencies to participate in the EMCAP.
These include: (a) the FMF, and within the FMF, the OAGF, PRS and Project Unit; (b) FOS; (c) NPC; (d)
OAuGF; (e) NNPC; (f) the National Assembly; and (g) the Office of the Attorney General of the
Federation in close cooperation with the Office of the Chief Justice.
While economic policy-making in Nigeria has improved significantly in the last few years, it is faced with
problems which stem from a number of factors including: (a) economic decline and increasing poverty;
(b) inadequate capacity for planning, budgeting, and policy decision making and implementation; (c)
unavailability of user friendly data; (d) inadequate availability of competent and committed civil servants;
and (e) inadequate management capacity.
Nigeria's economy has, in the past fifteen years, experienced many adverse trends, including low
economic growth, declining capacity utilization in industry, high deficits in public finances, non-
performing utilities, bloated external debt with substantial arrears, huge balance of payments deficits, and
high unemployment levels. In particular, there is a problem of inadequate linkages between the various
economic and financial programs, which result in inconsistent priorities. Also, there is a high incidence
of abandoned projects, which is clear evidence of inadequacies in the planning and budgeting procedures.
Economic management is still crippled by unavailability of timely, accurate and user friendly statistical
infornation, as well as the lack of access to on-line stored data and information. More effective
coordination and timely availability of relevant statistical data will not only improve management and
application of relevant data and information, it is also critical for improved management of the economy.
This would require enhanced capacities and compatible technical facilities. The flight of civil servants to
the private sector is frequent due to existing poor conditions of service in the public sector. It has also
been difficult for the Govermment to retain the capacity already built due the brain drain, and critical
shortages of skilled personnel remain. Management problems are also pervasive. This is evidenced by
the lack of capacity in the public sector for managing extemal assistance, existence of undue bureaucratic
bottlenecks that prevent the easy flow of donor resources and the lack of harmony in the utilization of
domestic and extemal resources. The number of viable institutions to provide training to public servants
whose roles are addressing these problems is inadequate. The shortage of managerial and technical
manpower to convert existing facilities to use has resulted from the adoption of weak economic policies.



Annex 12
Page 2 of 10
There is also evidence of generally deteriorating housing conditions, inadequate infrastructure facilities,
human and environmental poverty and declining quality of life. There is, therefore, a need to build and
strengthen the capacities for development. Steps taken by the government to address these problems
include enhanced policy, planning and budgeting processes, improved statistical information base, and
strengthening capacity.
The proposed EMCAP operation is a first step in addressing issues of economic governance and
management but with a much stronger emphasis on institutional development and capacity building.
Within the broader efforts of the FGN that address economic governance issues, EMCAP will concentrate
on certain high priority areas which require rapid resolution in the area of capacity building. The
assessment of institutional capacity to address these issues is discussed below.
Improvement of Statistics
FOS. The FOS is an arm of the NPC and the principal government agency in charge of collecting,
processing, compiling and publishing all economic and social statistics in Nigeria. As an arm of
government, FOS is regarded as an extra-ministerial agency supervised by the NPC. The approved
budgets (recurrent and capital) create a limitation in what the FOS can do to improve the statistical
system. Apart from the human resource constraints facing the FOS, including difficulties in retaining
capable and trained statisticians at the very low civil service wages, there are also technical deficiencies
that hinder the improvement of data processing techniques. As an institution, FOS is also faced with
inadequate office space to accommodate its staff and resources to analyze, process and publish statistical
results for public use. The FOS has offices in all states of the Federation, and at the various ports.
The FOS has benefited from EMTAP and stood out as one of the very successful PEAs under the
program. Through IDA assistance from EMTAP, major achievements were made in the delivery rate of
statistical information. For example the lag associated with the measurement of inflation was reduced
from six months to no more than two months. The data on external trade, which remained unprocessed
for four consecutive years, 1985-1990, were processed and published and a fresh stream of activities
generated therefrom. Currently there is enhanced data processing capability in the FOS, especially as
they affect information on poverty. However, despite these improvements, there are still some unresolved
issues and serious problems with consumer prices, the national accounts, and social and poverty statistics.
The staff of FOS is comprised of statisticians, economists, economic statisticians, enumerators, and
statistical officers. The FOS currently employs some 5,673 staff or 90% of its 1999 approved staff
complement of 6277. However, for senior statistical staff (grade level 13 to 15), this ratio falls to 60-75
percent. The bulk of statistical officers and statisticians are located in the Census and Surveys department.
Most of the staff of FOS, especially high level, is well trained. Many of the economists have worked in
the FOS for some time and have become specialized in national accounts statistics. Most staff of the FOS
has restricted mobility within the civil service. FOS has no training school of its own, but has affiliation
with some of the universities and technical institutions where it conducts training. Other skills in the FOS
include enumerators, programmers and data entry operators. The middle-level staff of the FOS
undertakes training at any of the three Federal School of Statistics at Ibadan, Enugu or Kaduna, while the
universities handle the degree programs for statistical staff. For staff to be fully integrated into EMCAP,
they would need to be trained.
One of the missions of the FOS is to produce high quality statistical information relating to the
commercial, industrial, agricultural, mining, social, economic and other national activities. FOS does this
through collaboration with other departments and agencies of government, including Federal, state and
local governments.



Annex 12
Page 3 of 10
The FOS organizational structure is comprised of the following: (a) Director General's Office, comprising
the public relations unit, legal services unit, and intemal audit unit; (b) Personnel Management,
responsible for personnel issues, training and welfare; (c) Finance and Supplies, charged with preparing
the budget, monitoring expenditures and handling purchases; (d) Corporate Planning and Technical
Coordination with responsibility for corporate planning in the FOS, coordinates technical assistance and
the dissemination of statistical information to the public; (e) Social and Economic Analysis, responsible
for the formulation of the national accounts statistics as well as social statistics; (f) Census and Surveys,
including agricultural and household surveys, economic surveys and census as well as trade and price
statistics and industrial, business, energy, construction, transport and other surveys; (g) Field Services and
Methodology coordinates the activities of the FOS in the field and formulates relevant methods to be
applied to various exercises; and (h) the Computer Management and Information Services Unit, in charge
of computers and information systems.
FOS is structured along the pattern of the Federal Civil Service. The chief executive is the Director
General and all issues are channeled through him. The Director General reports to the Minister of
National Planning on issues affecting FOS. The establishment currently has six deputy directors and ten
assistant directors. There are four zonal controllers, one each for Northeast, Northwest, Southeast and
Southwest Zones. The FOS plays a critical role in the National Council of Statistics, a policy-making
organ chaired by the Minister of National Planning. Other bodies include the National Consultative
Committee on Statistics (NCCS) which consists of states' central statistical agencies and selected
parastatals of government. The NCCS puts forward a national statistical program for the country. The
Director General of FOS is the chairman of the NCCS.
FOS has a central computer unit, but because of separate and distant office locations at headquarters,
several departments have their own computer units. Different departments use different software
packages that have been funded by different donors -- an integrated information technology development
policy is yet to be established. For departments that have to rely on secondary data (such as social
statistics), accessing statistics from other governmental agencies and parastatals has proven to be difficult
and time consuming. This is the result of the dispersion of agencies throughout the country and of the
Act granting independence between ministries, which has interrupted the flow of information. The
Planning, Research and Statistics departments within the ministries, which were supposed to provide such
information, do not do this on an effective and reliable basis. FOS thus has to collect the information
from the source, without being endowed with the resources for this task.
The FOS is grossly under-funded. Details of the budget bids, allocations and receipts from the Federal
Government for the past three years suggest that the FOS budget as a whole, and that allocated to
economic statistics in particular, has declined in real terms over time. FOS capital expenditure is
controlled centrally and disbursed on a project by project basis. Capital expenditures were approved at
between 27 million and 108 million Naira during 1994-98. However, the approved amounts are likely to
suffer cuts by as much as 50 percent. Thus, the amounts received have fluctuated between 21 million and
about 60 million Naira during the same period. Budgeted recurrent expenditures, on the other hand, have
not experienced significant variance between approved and actual amounts received. In 1998, approved
budgeted recurrent expenditures amounted to 228 million Naira. However, the received amount reached
325 million Naira as a result of the salary revisiona that took place. Personnel costs have fluctuated
between 75 percent and 90 percent of total recurrent expenditures. The amount left for materials,
supplies, maintenance, purchase of services and training is quite small for the activities that FOS needs to
undertake.
The FOS buildings are in a gross state of disrepair, the basic furniture, toilet facilities, brickwork, floors,
and lighting, are all significantly sub-standard. Electricity supply is intermittent, and the dispersion of the



Annex 12
Page 4 of 10
office across many locations is a significant barrier to good liaison between departments. Consumable
goods such as paper are in very short supply; transport for travel between FOS locations is limited.
National accounts receive low priority in the call on collection and survey processing objectives within
the FOS. The reasons seem to be as follows: (a) traditional surveys and their outputs receive priority over
outputs for economic statistics; (b) given lack of government or other user demand for economic
statistics, there has been little extemal pressure for reliable and timely economic statistics; and (c) the
national accounts section has not risen to the challenge of managing with the cut in resources. However,
examination of the 1992 sources and methods of publication reveals that even the annual accounts of
GDP are mostly based on the very old benchmark statistics and heroic assumptions on continuing ratios.
This means that the current outputs are very poor measures of recent changes in the economy, and it is
understandable that outside users such as the CBN have been forced into making their own estimates
through ad-hoc surveys. It also makes understandable the reluctance of the national accountants to
employ even more quick fix methods to produce timely indicators of little intrinsic value. Despite the
above reasons for low morale, staff responsible for the production and publication of economic statistics
remains committed to do a good job if the raw material, equipment and resources are made available.
Priorities of the FOS reflect current extemal demands.  For example, the desire of international
institutions for information on poverty and their provision of resources to the FOS to collect such data,
have directly improved the quality of output in this area, but at the expense of economic statistics. The
change from having FOS staff outposted in other ministries and agencies has meant that data from
government departments has dried up, making the estimation of output and expenditure estimates for the
government sector almost impossible.
In order for the national accounts to be improved, it is necessary to enhance both the funding of national
accounts compilation, and more importantly, the collections and processing which provides the inputs
into the national accounts. This makes it critical that the first steps in this Project pay particular attention
to the flow of information into the national accounts, and assessing the timeliness and quality of the data
sources with a view to identifying those inputs which are key, and most deserving of higher priority and
funding.
This process must be supported by a clearer specification of user demands from the economic planning
agencies of government. Emphasis should be placed on the new nature of these demands, helping the
FOS to re-orient its internal priorities to meet this new set of demands. Ideally, a clear specification of
the inputs necessary for the government management of the economy should be translated into a set of
outputs from the FOS, and a plan drawn up to allow the customer demands to be met over the next few
years. It is difficult to see how much improvement can be made without a better set of inputs into the
national accounts estimation process.
Communications and liaison between the various departments and divisions of the FOS need to be
strengthened. Differences of opinion exist on how well the needs of the national accounts are being met
by the collection and processing divisions. The collection process, in particular, seems not responsive to
national accounts needs. Evidence such as the back-log of work on the agricultural survey, the complete
absence of timely data on modern holdings in agriculture, the failure of the quarterly industrial production
index, the lack of new weights to re-base the consumer price index from the national consumption survey,
are all concrete evidence of the failure of the system to allow good national accounts estimates to be
made.
One of the deductions from the analysis of its current weaknesses is that every effort should be made to
work with the FOS to draw-up an inclusive strategic plan for the office in terms of economic statistics. In
attempting to respond to donor preferences there is a danger of achieving sub-optimal solutions in terms



Annex 12
Page 5 of 10
of bolstering different components of the statistical system, without addressing central issues such as the
integration of the various components to an agreed set of final outputs.
National Planning Commission
The NPC is a ministerial department of the FGN under the Federal Civil Service Structure. It is
responsible for the formulation of broad economic and development objectives and the setting of national
priorities and goals. NPC also prepares the Rolling Plan and Long-term Perspective Plan as well as the
Community Action Program for Poverty Alleviation. The NPC has a cabinet minister at the head and a
Permanent Secretary as the accounting officer responsible for the day-to-day activities.
The NPC comprises ten operational departments, of which the Plan, Budget and Policy Department
(PBPD) would be the institutional focus of both these two project sub-components. The principal
responsibilities of the PBPD are to: (a) coordinate the preparation of a three-year rolling National
Development Plan; (b) organize and coordinate all aspects of project monitoring nationwide; and (c) issue
clearance for the release of capital funds to line ministries on the basis of quarterly progress reports.
NPC staff carry out tasks related to planning which includes project preparation and appraisal, integration
of projects to the available resources in the budget, project monitoring and supervision. They are also
exposed to macroeconomic modeling techniques. NPC staff was involved in the Joint Govemment/Bank
PER carried out in 1995. NPC staff was also part of the committee that drafted the FGN's Poverty
Assessment.
While NPC is staffed primarily by graduates with background in economics, statistics, and social
sciences; within the civil service, staff is moved from other ministries to the NPC with or without the
relevant exposure to economic analysis. This creates problems for planning as gaps begin to emerge in
the capacity to manage the economy. There are shortages of the right caliber of trained staff to fit into the
planning processes. There is no distinction between the staff in the NPC and any other arm of the civil
service and this means that staff could be moved from one section to another without reference to
background and competence in performing the task. The required tools for planning and information
management are grossly inadequate. Also, for monitoring the investment program, the NPC lacks
vehicles and effective communication mechanisms, and good follow-up.
The project monitoring sub-component of EMCAP would address the second of PBDP responsibilities, to
organize and coordinate all aspects of project monitoring nationwide, which, at present, is impaired by
insufficient trained staff and logistical support. PBPD fulfills the role of manager and coordinator in
carrying-out the project monitoring function. It draws upon personnel from other departments of NPC
and from the line ministries to staff project monitoring missions. Even so, the combined resources of
these agencies are not sufficient to permit all projects to be monitored at the national, state and local level.
The task is made even more difficult by the lack of equipment, which slows down data processing. In any
one year a sample of about ten percent of the total is monitored by PBPD.
At present, the higher level staff of PBPD number only nine. In recent years, an across-the-board
moratorium on hiring has prevented PBPD from increasing the number of higher level staff although the
establishment calls for a total of twenty. It is anticipated that the new administration will now permit
PBPD to fill some of the vacancies. This prospective increase in staff numbers and the need to deploy
existing staff more effectively in a management and coordinating role underscores the need for a vigorous
training program.



Annex 12
Page 6 of 10
Office of the Accountant General of the Federation
The OAGF has the responsibility for financial control and resource management. The major areas of
responsibility include collation of accounts of all federal ministries and extra-ministerial departments,
publication of annual statements of accounts and other statutory financial statements; management and
control of the pool of accountants and internal auditors; revenue monitoring and accounting; funding of
all federal ministries and parastatals through cash backing of the recurrent and capital warrants;
management of federal government investments, and management and distribution of the federation
accounts to all tiers of government; training of all accounts and internal audit personnel of the FGN, and
servicing the debt of the FGN.
There are six departments in the OAGF; the personnel management, finance and supplies, and the
planning and research departments are the three service departments common to all ministries and
parastatals. Other departments of the OAGF are revenue and funds department responsible for revenue
monitoring and accounts, funds, and the final accounts, the Inspectorate department responsible for
inspections, investigations, and boards of enquiry into loss of government property, and the Ministry of
Finance Incorporated (MOFI) department which is responsible for government investments in
commercial enterprises, whether by equity or loans. Each director is assisted by three deputy directors,
except in the case of MOFI, which has only two deputies. There is no Deputy Accountant General and in
the absence of the OAGF the most senior deputy acts in the position. The OAGF has a staff of
approximately 7350 persons located throughout the country; 1560 officers are in the FPOs, 5000 in the
ministries and extra ministerial departments, and 784 in the head office. The OAGF employs some 3,000
chartered accountants and an even larger number of account clerks and assistants. Most staff above level
15 is located in the head office or in the offices of ministries and departments in Abuja or Lagos.
Since 1993 the OAGF has not been able to prepare final accounts of the FGN and deliver them to the
Auditor General, one of its most important functions. There are many reasons for this failure, including an
apparent lack of interest in fiscal reporting by the Administration at that time when the PAC ceased to
function. The move of the Department from Lagos to Abuja in 1998 was badly planned and executed and
until the beginning of 1999 the accommodation assigned to the Office in Abuja was poor and insufficient,
especially for the Data Processing Unit, Final Accounts Department and the Revenue Department. This
lack of accommodation still extends to the personal accommodation of staff, many of whom were forced
to live under squatter conditions. Shortages of essential stationary and supplies have reached the point
where even the most basic functions cannot be performed. The OAGF is staffed with qualified
accountants and accounts clerks and is the major source of recruits to the Audit, Revenue and Treasury
Training School (ARTTS) for middle-level staff. Staff is also exposed to training in the professional
accounting schools and the universities but training has been neglected in the recent past. The OAGF has
inadequate facilities for handling its responsibility, especially computers and appropriate accounting and
networking software. In recent times, staff morale seems to be on the rise following the improvement in
office accommodation and the interest, which the new leadership has shown, in the work and welfare of
the staff.
A major concern is the lack of influence, which the OAGF has over the spending policies, and actions of
line ministries. The OAGF is no longer represented on the Appropriations Committee of the FMF, a
situation that should be rectified because of the importance of the Office in financial management. The
new Financial Regulations will provide sanctions against cases of wrong spending, delay in rendition of
moneys collected by other ministries, failure by ministries and departments to pay monies collected into
the Consolidated Revenue Fund and other administrative offences. Such offences have become a serious
problem, but the OAGF currently has no powers to impose sanctions on offenders. Essential returns and
accounts from line ministries are regularly delayed, and are often not received at all. Some essential



Annex 12
Page 7 of 10
returns have not been made for up to 54 months in some cases with out penalty. Cases of criminal
wrongdoing remain province of the police.
The only management data available to the FGN is the fiscal accounts prepared by the Revenue and
Funds Department (formerly the Treasury Department). In this regard, of immediate concern are the
problems facing the Revenue and Funds Department of the OAGF that is responsible for overall control
of the federal accounting system, producing the annual accounts of the FGN and providing regular
financial information to assist other Departnents. Prompt presentation of accurate accounts is critical in
the effort to promote transparency and accountability in the financial transactions of the FGN. Late
processing of accounts means that there is neither effective budgetary control nor any chance of
identifying fraud or corruption in time to take corrective action. The lack of timely and accurate accounts
also erodes the trust and confidence of creditors, limits opportunity for the FGN to credibly explain its
financial status and undermines the work of the OAuGF and the Public Accounts Committee.
Office of the Auditor General for the Federation
The OAuGF is an independent organ of the FGN with responsibility for the audit of public accounts of
the Federation including all offices, courts, government statutory corporations, commissions, authorities
and government agencies. The OAuGF has access to all books, records, returns and other documents
relating to such accounts. The OAuGF also has a mandatory responsibility to provide all agencies
established by laws of the National Assembly with a list of qualified auditors from which the external
auditors must be appointed, and with guidelines on the scale of fees for external auditors. Although the
OAuGF is not responsible for the audit of such agencies it is required to comment on their audited
accounts and has the power to perform periodic checks on their books.
The OAuGF is headed by the Auditor General for the Federation who is appointed in accordance with and
carries out the functions assigned under Sections 85 to 87 of the 1999 Constitution. The current staff
complement of the OAuGF is 2000 of which 1600 are qualified in auditing. The staff of the Head Office
is made up of 100 auditors and 113 support staff; 1500 auditors and 287 support staff are deployed in the
24 branch and eight regional offices (1123) and in the Federal ministries and extra-ministerial
departments (664). The OAuGF has five directorates, the most senior of who acts in the absence of the
Auditor General, and each director is assisted by two deputy-directors. There is no position of director
neither for personnel management nor for research and statistics; officers at the level of deputy director
carry out these functions. There is also an Internal Audit Division, a Losses Committee Division and an
Annual Reports and Public Accounts Committee Division all of which report directly to the Auditor
General.
Out of the 1600 staff qualified in auditing, 700 public sector auditors and 900 audit assistants, with
backgrounds in accountancy especially public accounting. The public sector auditors are qualified mainly
in accountants with exposure in economics, business management, and statistics. The audit assistants
serve as account clerks and supervisors and are under the direction of the public sector auditors. In the
regional offices of the OAuGF there are 400 public sector auditors and 500 audit assistants out of a total
of 1123 persons. A further 250 auditors and 350 audit assistants are deployed in Federal Ministries and
extra-ministerial departments.
The OAuGF submits reports to the National Assembly with copies to the Presidency; its budget
requirements are currently approved by the FMF. The Office of Establishments approves the staff
complement of the OAuGF and Management and the positions are filled by the Federal Civil Service
Commission on the request of the OAuGF. There is close cooperation between the OAuGF and the
auditors general at the state and local government levels through a strong net work of informal links, as
evidenced by joint publications, training and conferences.



Annex 12
Page 8 of 10
The training and accommodation of the staff of the OAuGF have been badly neglected under previous
Administrations which did not assign a high priority to accurate and timely financial reporting and
auditing of such reports. As a result the Audit occupies offices that are poorly equipped, poorly appointed
and in disrepair. Although assistance was provided to the OAuGF under the EMTAP, this was inadequate
to meet the backlog of basic training for junior staff and the continuing professional education for seniors.
The OAuGF does not make use of up-to-date information technology and computer equipment except for
simple data processing and staff generally is not sufficiently familiar with computers. The budget of the
OAuGF is inadequate and often audits of projects cannot be undertaken because there are no funds to pay
per diems or transport costs, as vehicles often are unserviceable. Most of the headquarters staff of the
OAuGF is in Lagos while most of the working documents are in Abuja where there is a small office for
the AuGF. As a result of the poor communications and transport the regional offices often are isolated
from head quarters and this feeling is reinfdrced by the occasional late payment of salaries in those
offices.
Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) was established on April 1, 1977 in accordance
with the provisions of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation Act No. 33. The corporation is
charged under section 4 (1) of the Act with the duty of: (a) exploring and prospecting for, working,
winning or otherwise acquiring, processing and disposing of petroleum; (b) refining, treating, processing
and generally engaging in the handling of petroleum for the manufacture and production of petroleum
products and its derivatives; (c) purchasing and marketing petroleum, its products and by-products; (d)
providing and operating pipelines, tanker-ships or other facilities for the carriage or conveyance of crude
oil, natural gas and their products and derivatives, water and any other liquids or other commodities
related to the Corporation's operations; (d) constructing, equipping and maintaining tank farms and other
facilities for the handling and treatment of petroleum and its products and derivatives; (e) carrying out
research in connection with petroleum or anything derived from it and promoting activities for the
purpose of turning to account the results of such research; (f) generally engaging in activities that would
enhance the petroleum industry in the overall interest of Nigeria; and (g) undertaking such other activities
as are necessary for giving full effect to the provisions of the Act.
NNPC was established as an integrated company designed to facilitate the government's participation in
control, management, and development of the country's oil industry. The government holds the majority
share (about 57 percent) in joint ventures with foreign oil companies in exploration and production.
NNPC does exploration on its own, although on a relatively limited scale. It owns and manages the
domestic refineries and has an interest in several petroleum product-marketing companies.  The
Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), an arm of the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, is charged
with enforcement of petroleum sector regulations.
The petroleum sector is characterized by many weaknesses: the sector falls short of running on a
commercial basis, the institutional capacity in the sector is weak, there are funding constraints and
inadequacies, there is a lack of strategic direction, there are governance issues in the financial area and in
the management of social tensions, and the subsidiaries of NNPC are not capitalized,
Planning, Research and Statistics Department
The PRS is a department of the Federal Ministry of Finance that has overall responsibility for planning
the Ministry's own activities and facilities. It is also responsible for information technology and data
management to serve the needs of the Ministry and its dependent offices such as the OAGF.  Since
IFEMIS would focus, first and foremost, on fiscal data and financial management, the PRS is a natural



Annex 12
Page 9 of 10
place to locate the function because it already possesses a core of specialist expertise that manage the data
requirements of the FMF, albeit with limited resources.
The PRS is structured in two divisions, a Planning Division and a Research and Statistics Division, each
of which is headed by a deputy director. The total staff of the department numbers 92, of which one third
are professionals and the remaining two-thirds support and technical staff. The Research and Statistics
Division manages the data processing needs of the Ministry and furnished data to other departments on
the basis of requests. It also produces the Annual Report of the Ministry. However, much work remains
to be done in terms of constructing a more comprehensive data base of revenues and expenditures (both
recurrent and capital) as well as borrowing and transfers for all government entities at the federal, state
and local levels. There is also a need for a local area network that would permit users within the FGN to
access data directly rather than indirectly by individual request to PRS. IFEMIS would address that need
by providing appropriate hardware, software, training and management systems.
Over and beyond the financial data requirements of the FMF itself to manage the budget and the process
of budget execution, there is a broader need to integrate the data system of the FMF with that of other
institutions such as he Central Bank and the Federal office of Statistics. That calls for the introduction of
a wide area network to encompass the data resources of those other institutions and link them with users
throughout the Federal Government, including the office of the President and the legislature. IFEMIS
would also address that need with the design and implementation of an open-ended system that would
permit progressive expansion to different levels of government as future requirements dictate.
Project Unit
The PU is housed within MULT. The performance of the PU on the EMTAP Project was reviewed
during project identification and was found to have fulfilled expectations. Management of the EMCAP
would be placed under the same group that provided logistical and other support during project
identification.
Staff of MULT has been involved in many other Bank credits as well as in major external borrowing
programs of the FGN. They have attended programs and seminars designed to acquaint them with World
Bank operations as well as guidelines on procurement of goods, works and consultants. However, high
turnover has depleted the PU and it is necessary to train continuously to ensure that there is a minimum
number of trained staff for effective operation. This training should also extend to the staff of MULT to
ensure that substitutes are readily available in the event of a shortage of core staff of the PU.
The PU currently has 8 staff, who will be involved in EMCAP. These persons are under the overall
supervision of the Director of MULT. They include the Deputy Director, who will coordinate the Project,
the Chief Financial Officer, who is responsible for the day to day management of the Project, with the
assistance of a Principal Finance Officer and a Senior Finance Officer. In addition, the PU will have a
full-time Project Accountant, and two Assistant Accountants. The Project will also engage an independent
auditor. Because of recent turnover, the current staff of the PU will require extensive training in
procurement procedures, project administration and project monitoring and evaluation.
National Assembly
The National Assembly comprises two arms of the legislature. These include the House of Senate and the
House of Representatives. The Senate is the upper house with the President of the Senate at the helm of
affairs. The House of Representatives has the Speaker of the House presiding. Both arns of the
legislature function through Committees. The National Assembly is serviced by staff drawn from the
Federal Civil Service. In the National Assembly, there is a Finance Department headed by a Director.



Annex 12
Page 10 of 10
The Finance Department has a career staff with statistics and economics background. However, their
level of exposure is grossly inadequate for the type of budget and expenditure control and investigation
responsibilities of the legislature. There is therefore a need for intensive training of the staff in budgeting
and expenditure process monitoring, planning techniques, analytical tools and general economic
techniques. The Finance Department also requires computer training as well as computers in order to
undertake its responsibilities.



Annex 13: Annual Work Plan                                                            Annex 13
Nigeria: Economic Management Capacity Building Project                                             Page 1 of 12
Office ofthe Accountant General ofthe Federation
1_9    _                               2000                         '051 02  '03
Office of the Accountant General for the Federation                 ui  Aug Sep Oct iNov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr MaY Jan Ju  Aug Sep Oct Nov Dcc I
I Bring Accounts up to date
Hire local consultants to clear backlog
Complete 1994 to 1996 Aocounts
Complete 1997 to 1998 Accounts
Complete 1999 Accounts
2 Review of 195 8 Finance Act and drafting of new legislation
Tendering for Internatonal Consultancy Services
- drawing up list of invited frirms
- launch tender
- Evaluation of tender bids
- Approval of selected firm by WB
Issue contract to selected frm_
Contracted firm undertakes work
Presentation of recommendations
Drafting ofnew Finance Act to replace 1958 legislation
Final Draft of Legislation
3 New Financial Regulations and Treasury Accounting Manual
Printing and distribution of new Treasury Accounting Manual
Preparation of Treasury Accounting Manual
Issue of Treasury Accounting Manual
4 Feasibility study on the LANs
Tendering for international Consultancy Services
- drawing up list of invited firms
- launch tender
- Evaluation of tender bids
- Approval of selected finn by WB
Issue contract to selected frnn
Contracted fnmn undertakes work
Presentation of reports and recommendations
5 Implementation of recommedations onLANS
6 Layout of traming Program
Traimng needs identified
Local and External Training
7 Procurement of Equipment
Preparation of specs and tender documents
- drawing up list of invited funns
- approval of shortlist by WB
- launch tender
- Evaluation of tender bids
- Approval of selected firm by WB
Issue Contract to selected firm
Contracted firm begins delivery
8 Procurement of equipment under no objections contract
Request no-objections waiver for issue of contracs=
Receive no-objection waiver from WV  Rep. Office
Delivery of equipment



Annex 13: Annual Work Plan                                                 Annex 13
Nigeria: Economic Management Capacity Building Project                                Page 2 of 12
Office of the Auditor General for the Federation First Year Work Plan
1999                                   2000                        .01  '02 '03
Office ofthe Auditor General for the Federation          Jul Aug ISep |Oct NoV IDec Jan IFeb M   Apr IMay Jun JU  Aug SepOct Nov Dec     
1 Review of 195 8 Audit Act and drafting of new legislation
Tendering for International Consultancy Services
- drawing up list of invited fims
- launch tender
- Evaluation of tender bids
- Approval of selected fnmn by WB
Issue contract to selected firm
Contracted finn undertakes work
Presentation of reports and recommendations
Drafling of new Audit Act to replace 1958 legislation
New Legislation and set up of ASC
2 Feasibility study on the LANs
Tendering for International Consultancy Services
- drawing up list of invited fims
- lanmch tender
- Evaluation of tender bids
Issue contract to selected firm
Contraoted fmn undertakes work
Presentation of reports and reconrmendations
3 Implementation of reconomedations on LANS
4 Layout of training Program
Training needs identified
Local andfExtenalTraining              _ _                    -   -   *   j m    M  M    M u a  E                                           -
5 Revise and Publish PSAS and PSICS
6 Procurement of Equipment
Preparation of specs and tender documents
- drawing up list of invited fnmns
- approval of shortlist by WB
- launch tender
- Evaluation of tender bids
- Approval of selected firm by WB
Issue Contract to selecoted farm
Contracted fum begins delivcry                                                                                            E7E=



Annex 13: Annual Work Plan                                                             Annex 13
Nigeria: Economic Management Capacity Building Project                                               Page 3 of 12
Work Plan of the Project Unit
1999                                   2000                         '01 '02  '03
Project Unit                                             Ju3 lAug Sep lt Nov |Dec Ilan |Feb IMar |Apr IMay IJuo Jul |Aug |Sep |Oct INov IDec I   I   I
I Hiring of Consultants and Advisors
Preparing TORs for
- Training Advisor
- Procurement Consultant
- Project Auditor (World Bank)
-ProjectAuditor (Et)
- Training Advisor
- Procurem ent Consultant
-Project Auditor (World Bank)
-Project Auditor (EU)
-Long term advisor (EU)
2 Hire Project Accountant                                                                                    I
3 Prepare Procurement Strategic Plan                                                                     f   I
4 Preparation of Training plan
5 Training for PU and PEAs Staff in Procurement
6 Evaluation Report on EMTAP
7 Complete first year project Audit
S Purchase of Office equipment for PU



Annex 13 Annual Work Plan                                            Annex 13
Nigeria: Economic Management Capacity Building Project                          Page 4 of 12
Integrated Finandal and Economnis Management System (IFEMIS)
1999 --            2000                 --                          'Cugsl=0 102 1'03
Integrated Financial and Economic                   Jul Aug Sep |Oct |Nov IDec lJan Feb Mar Apr May Jun TJU  AU Sep |Oct |Nov |Dec I   I   I
Management System (IFEMIS)
Develop Poverty Monitoring Indicators
in support of Core WelFare Indicators
1 Initial short-term consultant (individual or firm)
Draft terms of reference
Tendering for International Consultancy Services
- advertize for services
- approval of shortlist by IBRD & EU
- invite tenders
- evaluation of tenders
- approval of selected firm by IBRD & EU
Issue contract to selected firm
Contracted firm undertakes work
Consultant issues report
Evaluation of cosultant report
2 Principal system design
Draft terms of reference
Tenderng for International ConsuHtancy Services
- advertize for services
- approval of shortlist by IBRD &EU
- invite tenders
- evaluation of tenders
- approval of selected firm by IBRD & EU
Issue contract to selected firn
Contracted firm undertakes work                  _
Consultant issues report
Evaluation of consultant report
3 Initial support to FMF
Equipment & supplies
- packaging and tender preparation
- approval by EU
- invite bids
- evaluation of submissions
- selection of supplier
- purchase and installation of equipment        =                                                        MM
Local Area Networking
- shopping for contractor
- contractor installs network infrastructure
Training for FMF staff
4 Principal support to FMF, OAGF & CBN
Equipment & Supplies
- packaging and tender preparation
- approval by EU
- invite bids
- evaluation of submissions
- selection of supplier
- purchase and installation of equipment
Wide Area Networking
- shopping fo, contractor
- contractor installs network infrastructure
Training for FMF staff
Consultant services



Asnex 13:Arnal Work Plan                                                          Annex 13
Nigeria: Economic Management Capacity Building Project                                          Page 5 of 12
Federal Statistical Ofrice - Poverty Statistics
Poverty Statistics                                        .                                       2000                      01 302 Wl
Jui Aug IeP lOt INov IDeC Jla IFeb TM. lApr IMay 1Jo |JU lAug |Sep Out rNov IDe. I   I   I
I Develop Poverty MonRtoring Indicators and support of
Core Welfare Indicator Natonal Survey
Development of Poverty Monitoring Indicators
Identification of indicators from existng surveys
Tendering for Intemational Consultancy Services
- drawing up list of invited firms                     _. __                                                               _
- approval of shortlist by EU
- launch tender
- Evaluabon of tender bids
- Approval of selected firm by EU
Issue contract to selected firm
Contracted firm undertakes work
Streamlining existing indicators
Preparabon of questionaires
Production of instruments
Support forNabonal Survey on CWl quesffonaire survey_  =_   _   =
Planning and preparation
Pilot test
Training
Data collection
Data retrieval
Data processing and analysis
Reportwritng
Publication and dissemination
2 Rural poverty and agricultural sector analysis
Analysis of NASS 1996/1997 and report writing
Tendering for Local Consultancy Services
- drawing up list of invRted firms
- approval of shorhist by EU
- launch tender                                                   WA
-Evaluation of tender bids
- Approval of selected firm by EU
Issue contractto selected firm
Contracted firm undertakes work
Identification of linkage variables
Linkage of NCS and NASS 1996/97
Production of Rural Poverty report
Review of NASS questionaire
Pilot testing, analysis and report
3 Integraton of qualitative and quantitativepoverty studies
Planning commitee
Identification of gaps for qualitative studies
Tenderng for Intematonal Consultancy Services
- drawing up list of invited firms
- approval of shorUlist by EU
- launch tender
- Evaluation of tender bids
- Approval of selected firm by EU
Issue contract to selected firm
Contracted firm undertakes work
Preparation of instrument
Field test instrument
Analysis of pretest instrument
Finalisabon of instrument
National survey on qualitative studies
to complete NCS 200/2001
Data processing and analysis
Preparation of report
Prnting of report and dissemination
4.Poverty profile of 2000/2001 using NCS
Planning and preparabon                                                                                                I    I    I    I
Production of survey instruments
Training
Data collecton
Data retrieval
Data processing and anaivsis
Publicabon and disseminaton
5 Promobon of poverty informabon to
policy makers and public
Production of poverty report
Seminar userfproducer
Policy workshop and launching of report
6 Gender related analysis
Hiring of a consultant
Training
Gender related analysis from existing surveys



Annex 13: Annual Work Plan                                             Annex 13
Nigeria: Economic Management Capacity Building Project                           Page 6 of 12
Federal Statistical Office - Social Statistics
Social Statistics                                                   1999         1                      2000                      101  02  03
Jul JAug |Sep |Oct INov |Dec |Jan |Feb |Mar |Apr |May lJun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
1 Assessment of data and publications
Tendering for consultancy services
- drawing up list of invited firms                       a   .
- approval of shortlist by EU
- launch tender
- Evaluation of tender bids
- Approval of selected firm by EU
Issue contract to selected firm
Recruit short-term consultant
S-T consultant undertakes study                       =
Consultant delivers report
Review of consultants report
2 Review of methodology and training
Tendering for consultancy services
- drawing up list of invited firms
- approval of shortlist by EU
- launch tender
- Evaluation of tender bids
- Approval of selected firm by EU
Issue contract to selected firm
Contracted firm undertakes work
Methodology review and development of social indicators
Report delivery
Identify the course for training and twinning                           =     = = = =
Make arrangements                                                                          -                           -        -   - .
Foreign training                                                    = = =
Twinning arrangement
Local training workshop                                                                                       __
3 .Sourcing of data
Local training workshop
- on computer use
-on data entry
-on data analysis                                 ==
Constructon of key social indicators
Foreign training                                                                                            _=
Twinning arrangement                                                 .    .    .
Procurement of equipment
- preparation of tendering dossier
- approval by EU
- launching of tender
- evaluation of submissions
- selection of supplier
- purchase of equipment
4   Producing a minimum social data set
Procurement of equipment
- preparation of tendering dossier
- approval by EU                                                   Ws
- launching of tender
- evaluation of submissions
-selection of supplier
purchase of equipment
Training of staff overseas
- identification of training institutions                                                  I
- approval by EU
- make training arrangements
- undertake training                               __                                                          l



Annex 13 Annual Work Plans                                                          Annex 13
Nigeria: Economic Management Capacity Building Project                                         Page 7 of 12
National Planning Commission
National Planning Commission                                 1i9o.                                25000'0  02*
Jul lAug ISep [Oct iNov IDec Jian [Feb IMar jApr iMay IJun IJct Aug ISep lOct iNov lDecI I  l
1. Publro ExpendAture Review
Consultant for overall PER process
Draft terms of reference
Selecton of consultant
Approval by iDA
Issue consultant contract
Consultant undertakes assignment-                                                    *     .      .    2:  
Workshops
Preparation                                                                                      _
Resource consultants, local and foreign
-Draft terms of reference                                                                         P
-Selection of consultant
-Approval by IDA
-Issue consultant contract
-Consultant undertakes workshop
Study Tours
Preparations with host countries
Approval by IDA
Undertake study toura
Attachment to IDA
Preparations for attachment
Visit to IDA
Public Expenditure Review Completed
2 Project Supervision
Consultant to examine plan/budget linkage
Draft terms of reference
Shopping for consultant
Approval by IDA
Issue Contract
Consultant undertakes work program
Consultant for hardware/software needs
Draft terms of reference
Shopping for consultant
Apprval by IDA
Issue Contract
Consultant undertakes work program
Consultant specialists for project supervision
Draft terms of reference
Shopping for consultant
Approval by IDA
Issue Contract
Consultant undertakes work program
Vehicles
Invitations to bid
Evaluation of bids
Approval by IDA
Selection of supplier
Purchase of vehicles
Equipment & supplies
Packaging of equipment and supplies
Invitatons to bid
Evaluation of bids,
Approval by IDAI
Selection of suppliergaI I
Purchase of equipment & supplies
Training
Identification of training insftittons
Approval by IDA
Arrange training
Undertake training



Annex 13: Annuad Work Pian                                                                                               A-n x 13
Nigeria: EConoan-C Monagmonr Cap-tily BEildiraPgEojeor                                                                             PThn5 oflZ
F.rdlr  SM^tamrIoul OffIoDlD Ci-opoti.oo
fIDTh Spfrap dnr Wrair Plaa-fFSO
F-al prop=noo of TOR
No objon from W_                                                                                                            _
T-deng fotro tinodal  Condtoncy Snv_ 
app-oo at of tMftit by WB
- lanooorino lande bid                                                                _ _ _ _                      _ _ _ _  
-App,onad of =ntt by WB
Apponal by  id. Beoerd (FON)
Cooeatraomokrorroo orn                                                                                              
2 Enonror Sialnre
Finl praplnn of TOR d        lander
No rt1rdonforr=fllD                                            ___                         _ _         _        _ _ _ _ _ _ __
T.dsmgfnIte-orm..aI Cntrnny fs-
, d-nsnOdp l,t of -nrrndfi-___
- approvl rfhndtby DFTDr
- Appl-     anebYDFmMl
p A -obonby rd.rBnd (r_N)
W.tofh,tul.byDr]                                                                      __          __M_     
Ainp-n ned xe      by MM_                                                                                                  _        _
-App-i a by -dir Bo-d (PON)I-_t__                                                                  _       ____        __
Connadad    t fono dW olasrol
Pr pflor of TORfer    rea rnealrI__                                                                                              _
No nbpdhrfrom DECo                                          _T13 
Tnndarngfno ,rrtanolnatnoralrC__on_ar__lr.   _                                                                                      _ _
fq,arertot.oaoatdoanoseadi>Id oorua                        _                      Tt_   _   _ 
-     gpn li of ind i   _dfrn._
-Appro-IadofomnhhabyDFlDF
- AppontboaderByl IE)F
C-nnitdfirnrrd.oaoavnk-
3     rntioo ofrfnro _er _ro_n_                                                                           _    __lI_rro  
F.l ,pp.. u TOR                                         F_T_____T-  
No obnfom WBr_T__ _ __                                                                                                          _
Tid-rrg for. nrrnlnnrntCndrn
-= -n n=g.   l  p o  in ir d o - _ _ -
dr-.a1 ofbrldrt by WBr
I- Roanmno ofd reae bidTs   ___  
-App-Wooatnfnnn byIDJ
-App-nl otby WBrda _Bod _N)
l.i robor srl.ddfnr                                                                     __          _        __      
ConnoddfnronDds.lar_  i_  nnrIFT      __
3 Prier tooter ~ ~     ~             ~            ~            ~           ~           I    m      -- 
Finti pop xum  of TOR
|  No obrl in fonon WE                                                                                            
|   edao for lorp1ernamtinoal rC_naTl__alio_   _                                                                             T _o           _ 
-po  atofdrorriabyWE                                                                                           
|-RoattiI  C ofoarersbida    _____    
- App-onl of airnan by WB
-App-lo byrsnderkoed (PEN)
fIn ronrondro anadfnrn_T  -ZF!  
|5T-gnfn FOSr_                                                                       _T__                          __            I____
Pro xof p Lon=pernarr of__ TO__  _  
Tererrgforftnnerarl rCon_er_ _a__y_fT     _i_
R .-byoatof*         ,                                                                                       Noby_T
Aprp-alofIDby3-
-AppoonabytrDerBai  OlN
Io  annfnorndtatraw__ od__  ll__  
,one rt_ _ T aiboniroq_io _n
Lot Toanoone                                                                                                       
PrnPa        ofn nsirog pli.
nIn  bytnong erparar-
Appro,a byDFlD
l.f.aitfnonarI I ong
App-onI byDF                                                                                 km_
T-zono



Amnex 13
Page 9 of 12
Annex 13: Annual Work Plan
Nigeria: Economic Management Capacity Building Project
USAID) Components Work Plan
USAID Work Plan                                            19ctgg                              2000201
Ju |AUg sin, Oct |N.. ID.0 J   |Feb |r|APr |MaY |J  |JUI |A9 IS.p loc |ND|.C   |Feb |M. Apr MayJuneJulyvAug SeD
1 Fiscal Federalism and Tax System
Development of Scope of Work, Phase I
Idenification,of Consultant(s), Phase I
Consultancy TA to MOF and Revenue Commssion
Policy Paper as Input to Budget 2000
Developmnent Scope of Work, Phase II
Contractor Selection, Phase 11
Contract Award
Contractor to finalize VWork Plan
Work Plan Approved by AIDIGON
Local Contractor hired
Studies Launched
MIS Development begins for Home Finance and Rev Comnmission
Training Program Developed
In-countryTraining
Study Tours
Interim Draft Reports
Policy Paper for 2000 Budgtet
Workshop
Draft Report                                                                                                                          m     M
Workshops
Final Report
Policy Paper for 2002 Budget
2 Trade Policy
Scope of Work to hire Contractor
Indentification of Contractor
ContractAwarded
Consultancy TA to MOF
Local Consultants hired
Contractor to finalize Work Plan
Work Plan Approved by AID/GON
Tariff Studies Begin
TA for Rationalizing New Tariff Schedule for 2001-2005
MIS Development and Training Begins
In-countryTraining
Study Tours
Draft Report
Workrshops
Final Report
Policy Paper for 2002 Budget
3. Investor Road Map
Scope of Work for Globat Bureau                                                                                                                         T
Study.-Global
Final Report
WorkShop
4. Legislative Capacity Building
Scope of Work for Contractor
Selection of Contractor
Contractor to finalize Work Plan
Work Plan Approved by AIDIGON
Training and Workshops
S. Pnvate Sector Enabling Environment
Scope of Work for Consutant Phase I
identifcation of Consultant
Consultant Award
Consulltant Drafts Work Plan, Phase 11
Review of Work Plan, USAIDIGON, Phase 11
TAIStudies begin
MIS System and Training begin
In-house Training
Study Tours
Training on PEPES
Development of Regulatory Framework
Final Report and Recommendations
Workshops
6. Transparency Audits
Scope of Work for Contractor
Selection of Contractor
Contract Awarded
Consulltant Drafts Work Plan
Work Plan Approved by AIDIGON
Selection of Local ConsurBng Finm
Development of Survey Instrument
Audits Begin
7. Training For ENCEMA and Other Training Institutions
Scope of Work for Consultant
Selectin of Consultant
ConsultantAward
Training Plen Developed
Approval of Training Plan by AID/GON
Selection of Contractor
Training of Trainers, In-house
Tvwinning wth U.S. Institutions



Annex 13: Annual Work Plan                                                Annex 13
Nigeria: Economic Management Capacity Building Project                             Page 10 of 12
European Union Components - Policy Studies
European Union Workplan - Policy Studies                             199S                                  2000                        301  '02  03
Jul |Aug |Sep lOct |NOV IDec Jan |Feb IMar |Apr IMay I Jun |JUI|Aug Isep lOct ]Nov |Dec I   I   I
1. Fiscal Federalism: Capacity building
Preparatin of terms of reference
Approval of ToR by EU
Tendering for Consultancy Services
- drawing up list of invited firms
- approval of shortlist by EU
- launch tender
- Evaluation of tender bids
- Approval of selected firm by EU
Issue contract to selected firm
Contracted firm undertakes work
2. Private sector enabling environment
Preparation of terms of reference
Approval of ToR by EU
Tendering for Consultancy Services
-drawing up list of invited firms
- approval of shortlist by EU
- launch tender
- Evaluation of tender bids
- Approval of selected firm by EU
Issue contract to selected firm
Contracted firm undertakes work                                                                                          v.:     
3. Review of the judicial system
Preparation of terms of reference
Approval of ToR by EU
Tenderng for Consultancy Services
- drawing up list of invited firms
- approval of shortlist by EU
- launch tender
- Evaluaton of tender bids
- Approval of selected firm by EU
Issue contract to selected firm
Contracted firm undertakes work



Annex 13 - Annual Work Plan                                                           Annex 13
Nigeria: Economic Management Capacity Building Project                                          Page 11 of 12
Distance Learning Center Component
1999    I                      2000                       I         2001
1Oct NDec |Jan IFeb |Mar |Apr |May |Jun IJui |Aug ISep lOct |Nov |Dec lJan |Feb |Mar APr May Jun
1. Site selection and requirement
specifications
2. Financing availability
3. Retrofit
4. Technical design and contracting
5. Procurement
6. Staging, testing, shipping,
implementation
7. Inauguration



Annex 13: Annual Work Plan                                                               Annex 13
Nigeria: Economic Management Capacity Building Project                                            Page 12 of 12
Petroleum Sector Review
1 9 9 9                                                     2 0 0 0
NOV.        DEC.       JAN.         FEB.       MAR.      APR.        MAY         JUNE        JULY      AUGUST    SEPT
MONDAYS        1 8 15 22 29 6 13 20 27 3 10 17 24 31 7 14 21 28 6 13 20 27 3 10 17 24 1 8 15 22 29   12 19 26 3 10 17 24 31 7 14 21 28 5 12 19 26
WEEK                   40           45            50       1         5           10            15           20           25            30
PRELIMINARIES
Prepare TORs. Review internally/IMF
Organize Abuja counterpart team
Joint reviews of TOR in Abuja
Indication of Interest adverts.
Counterpart team selects short list
Bank response                                                              _
Counterpart team issues RFP
Response time
Bid evaluation: technical
: financial                                                            _
Bank response
Contract negotiation/award recomm.
Bank approval
Consultant starts work                                                                                 _
SPECIFIC STUDIES                        =           =          ==                     =         =           ==                      =_=_=
Financial management
Environmental and social issues                                                                                         =                       =
Downstream activities
Upstream activities                                                                                          _           -                               -
Natural gas
Structure of sector                                                                                                  _



Annex 14
Page 1 of 4
Annex 14: Financial Management Action Plan
Nigeria: Economic Management Capacity Building Project
EMCAP's Project Unit will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting
procedures for the Project are acceptable to all stakeholders. The financial management system (FMS) to
be introduced will support the management of the Project in ensuring adequate internal control
arrangements for proper, efficient utilization, and management and accounting of funds. Specifically, the
FMS should be capable of producing timely, relevant, clear and reliable financial information needed for
the planning, coordination, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of EMCAP's overall progress. In
order to attain EMCAP's objectives, the Project Unit's financial management system must be
substantially strengthened and enhanced (i.e., computerized) as discussed below.
1.   Project Management Committee.  To ensure the smooth flow  of project activities, a
representative project management committee (PMC) would be constituted. The PMC would be
comprised of representatives of the PEAs, chaired by the Director of the Multilateral Department of the
FMF. The PMC would be responsible for reviewing the project management report (PMR) every quarter;
the minutes of its quarterly meetings will be properly documented. The PMR would be comprised of the:
(i) financial statements discussed below. Members of the PMC would review and approve quarterly and
annual financial statements. They would also examine material variances between budgeted and actual
figures, seeking remedial action(s) as appropriate within an agreed timeframe; (ii) project progress report,
i.e., output monitoring report (OMR). The format and details of the OMR would need to be developed.
Project physical progress would be measured against planned financial/operational performance
indicators; and (iii) procurement management report. The latter would also include the contracts status
report.
2.   Staffing and Capacity Building. The assistant chief accountant of the Project Unit has been
appointed as project accountant for EMCAP. He previously was the project accountant for the recently
closed IDA-financed EMTAP. He has a considerable wealth of experience in government accounting and
has shown that he is capable of directing and guiding the financial management operations of EMCAP.
To strengthen the accounts group, two senior accounting personnel have been identified and have been
deployed to the Project Unit. Two other relevantly qualified and experienced accounting support staff
have also been identified and appropriately deployed. While the project accountant is experienced in
procedures relating to the utilization of funds, i.e., special accounts, SOEs, direct payment, special
commitments, etc., varying levels of training will be required for all accounting personnel in financial,
management and public sector accounting, and, in particular, in information management systems and
computer applications.
3.   Financial Procedures Manual. The Committee on the Restructuring of the Published Accounts
of the FGN has produced a Federal Treasury Accounting Manual which is currently being implemented
by the FMF. The manual provides detailed procedures on cash receipts and disbursements, including
bank reconciliation, contract accounting, and internal audit. However, given that it is currently a manual
system, simple, computerized, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies and procedures that
would govern the financial management and accounting of the Project would be developed. These would
include procedures on procurement, preparation of journal vouchers, extraction of monthly trial balance
and preparation of financial reports. A detailed chart of accounts would also be developed to capture
financial data under appropriate headings and classify group financial data for the various financial
reports. The structure of the chart of accounts would conform closely with the project cost tables to
enable comparison of actual project costs during implementation with those estimated during project
preparation.



Annex 14
Page 2 of 4
4.   Accounting System/Status of Accounting Books and Records.  Currently there is a cash
payment register with the respective PEAs files in place. Principal books of accounts, i.e., cash and bank
books, journal book, general ledger, fixed assets register, contract/other subsidiary ledgers and
sequentially pre-numbered payment vouchers would be introduced to ensure improvement in financial
management reporting.  The accounting system  would be based on principles of double-entry
bookkeeping.
5.   Internal Audit.  An internal audit group would be staffed with relevantly qualified and
experienced personnel. The group would carry out periodic reviews of EMCAP's activities (including the
activities of the PEAs) and ensure effectiveness and compliance with financial and accounting policies
and procedures as well as internal control mechanisms. The group, which will report to the PMC, would
also be responsible for the overall reliability of the accounting systems, data, and financial reports.
6.   Computerization. Currently, the Project Unit has no financial information system in place.
Pending the development and installation of a computerized financial management information system,
the project accountant would continue the application of a spreadsheet system (Excel) to facilitate timely
accounting for the Credit and counterpart funds. Basic computer appreciation training (Microsoft Word
and Excel) and hands-on implementation assistance would be provided for the staff of the accounts group.
7.   Planning and Budgetary System. Each of the PEAs will follow the FGN's budgetary process and
prepares its annual budget based on approved work program. The project accountant will have
responsibility for budget preparation. With the support from PBPD, counterpart funds would be approved
and made available quarterly on a pool basis. The budgeting system would be integrated with the
accounting system to enable comparison of actual performance with budget targets (quarterly, annual and
cumulative) for the Project, while funding will be based on projected work programs and actual
performance.
8.   Accounting System Basis. The cash basis system of accounting has been currently adopted.
However, it is being modified for management reporting purposes. The intention is to convert it to an
accrual one under EMCAP.
9.   Procurement of Goods, Works and Services. The procurement procedures will be documented
in the revised financial procedures manual and the key members of the Project Unit will be conversant
with such procedures. Proper documentation will be maintained for all goods and service contracts by
both procurement and accounting groups of EMCAP. A procurement management report, detailing
procurement status and contract commitments, will be prepared quarterly for consideration by the PMC.
10.  Banking Activities. The Project Unit will maintain three bank accounts as follows: (i) a current
project account with a commercial bank to which the PEAs' counterpart funding would be deposited; (ii)
a special account with a commercial bank to which the IDA initial deposit would be made; and (iii) a
special account - (interest) to which interest on the US dollar special account would be credited. All the
bank accounts would need to be reconciled on a monthly basis. Reconciled accounts would be reviewed
on a timely basis by the project accountant and approved by the project officer. Identified differences as
well as long outstanding reconciliation items would be promptly investigated.
11.  Withdrawals/Disbursements. The Project Unit will not adopt a PMR-Based disbursements
method for the time being. At the initial stage, the traditional disbursements procedures as implemented
under the recently closed EMTAP will be adopted. The strengthening of the accounts group is expected
to provide a more conducive internal control environment and facilitate the introduction of PMR-Based
disbursements within 15 months following the declaration of effectiveness.



Annex 14
Page 3 of 4
12.  Fixed Assets/Service Contracts and Inventories.  A fixed assets register (FAR) will be
introduced and regularly updated for the capital expenditure component of the Credit. A stock verifier
will be appointed and shall have responsibility for ensuring compliance with the inventory control
procedures as will be documented in the financial procedures manual. The contracts ledger will be
maintained for all service contracts and a contracts status report will be prepared on a quarterly basis as
part of the procurement management report for consideration by the PMC.
13.  Financial Reporting (monthly, quarterly and annually).  In meeting IDA's and other
stakeholders' reporting requirements for project monitoring, the project accountant will be responsible for
preparing monthly, quarterly and annual reports. Such reports will include: (i) a statement of sources and
uses of funds by credit category/activity; (ii) monthly Statement of Cash Position for the counterpart
funding, taking into consideration significant reconciling items; (iii) a monthly/quarterly statement of
expenditure classified by PEAs, project components, disbursement categories, and comparison with
budgets - variance analysis; (iv) a cash forecast for the next two quarters - based on approved work
programs; (v) project financial statements as at the reporting date with the notes on significant accounting
policies; (vi) SOE withdrawal schedule listing individual withdrawal applications relating to
disbursements by the SOE method, by reference number, date and amount; and (vii) special account
statement/reconciliation showing deposits and replenishment received, payments supported by withdrawal
applications, interest earned on account and the balance at the end of the reporting period costs for key
items and comparison with budgets. Formats of the various periodic financial reports to be generated
would be developed. However, sample formats of these reports are contained in the World Bank's Loan
Administration Change Initiative (LACI) Handbook and Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing
Handbook (FARAH).
14.  External Audit. The external audit will cover both interim and annual audits of project financial
statements. Independent auditors will be appointed with acceptable terms of reference (TOR). The TOR
for the auditors will be developed for World Bank review.
15. Actions Completed By Negotiations: (a) notification of the membership of the Project Management
Committee to the IDA with acceptable terms of reference; (b) revision/updating of the Financial
Procedures Manual; (c) development of a detailed Chart of Accounts; (d) review of basic books of
accounts - cash and bank books, general ledger; (e) terms of reference (TOR) for the external auditors
cleared with the IDA; and (f) review format and content of Monthly, Quarterly, and Annual Financial
Reporting.
16. Required Actions and Next Steps.
By Board Presentation: (a) IDA advised of the authorized signatories; and (b) training undertaken in
World Bank procedures for the new staff.
16. Actions Required to attain LACI Compliance over a 15 Month Period
Below are detailed the required actions to be taken in order to attain LACI compliance for the EMCAP
within 15 months of credit effectiveness (15 months after May 9, 2000). The authorities have agreed to
this set of actions and are proceeding with their compliance.
Staffing Requirements/Internal Controls: The staff of the Accounts Unit will be exposed to basic
computer appreciation training by April 2000. The structuring of the Internal Audit function with respect
to the EMCAP implementation activities would be completed by June 2000 with the Unit being fully
staffed by that date. Internal Audit manual for internal audit arrangements should also be finalized by



Annex 14
Page 4 of 4
June 2000 while the schedule of duties of all staff in the Accounts/Internal Audit Units will be finalized
and documented for inclusion in the Financial Management Manual by September 2000.
Accounting Systems and Procedures: While the accounting systems and procedures to be used for
recording financial transactions and reporting financial payments and status are being documented in the
Financial Management Manual, specific procedures for each significant accounting transactions will be
finalized by not later than June 2000. The Chart of Accounts being currently developed will be under
review for adequacy and appropriateness and will also be finalized for incorporation into the Manual by
that date. To maintain efficiency and timeliness of financial reporting, the accounting systems will be
computerized. The software package would be identified and installed, taking into account the
requirements of the EMCAP by December 2000.
Financial Reporting: Formats, contents and structure of the various financial reports to be produced will
be scrutinized to establish clear linkages between the information in these reports and the Chart of
Accounts as well as quality and timeliness of information. Finally agree format and content of financial
reporting comparable to those sample formats that are contained in the World Bank Loan Administrative
Change Initiative (LACI) Handbook by September 2000.
Financial Management Manual: This would be updated and finalized by September 2000 and it would
cover, among others, the following aspects: (i) flow of funds; (ii) financial and accounting policies for
the EMCAP; (iii) accounting systems and procedures; (iv) authorization procedures for transactions; (v)
budgeting and budgetary controls; (vi) procurement and contract administration and monitoring systems;
(vii) financial reporting; (viii) audit arrangements; and (viii) procedures for the replenishment of the
special account under a PMR-Based disbursement method
Audit Arrangements: The selection of external auditors has been determined and communicated to
IDA.



