Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3345-UNI
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic Management Capacity Building Project)
between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 22, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3345-UNI 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 22, 2000, between FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter, dated February 4, 2000, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen the Borrower’s overall economic management capacity, (the Program) and 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Department for International 
Development (DFID) of the United Kingdom a grant (the DFID Grant) in an amount 
equivalent to $3,500,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the DFID Grant Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and DFID; 
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from the European Union (EU) a grant 
(the EU Grant) in an amount equivalent to $10,000,000 to assist in financing the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EU Grant Agreement) 
to be entered into between the Borrower and EU;  
(E)
the Borrower intends to contract from the United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID) a grant (the USAID Grant) in an amount equivalent to 
Page  2
$6,800,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in 
an agreement (the USAID Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
USAID; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read: 
“If the Association shall at any time receive less than the full amount 
then due and  payable to it under the Development Credit Agreement, the Association 
shall have the right 
to allocate and apply the amount so received in any manner 
and for such purposes under the 
Development Credit Agreement as the Association shall 
in its sole discretion determine.”; 
and
(b)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the word 
“radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new sentence at the end of the said 
Section to read: 
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“DLC” means the Distance Learning Center referred to under Part E. 3 of 
the Project; 
(b)
“FOS” means the Federal Office of Statistics, the Borrower’s agency 
responsible for the collection, the treatment and the dissemination of official 
statistical data within the Borrower’s territory; 
(c)
“National Assembly” means the Borrower’s parliament; 
(d)
“NPC” means the National Planning Commission, an agency of the Borrower 
responsible for planning of public investments and monitoring of their implementation; 
(e)
“OAGF” means the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation, an 
agency responsible for monitoring the accounting operations of the Borrower; 
(f)
“OAuGF” means the Office of the Auditor General of the Federation, an 
agency responsible for auditing the national accounts of the Borrower;
(g)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement; 
(h)
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the manual describing the 
Project reporting and monitoring procedures, plans and other implementation 
arrangements (including procurement and disbursement arrangements) and specifying the 
performance indicators, included in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, to be used in 
assessing the progress achieved in the execution of the Project; 
Page  3
(i)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(j)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on May 18, 1999 and on behalf of the Borrower on May 28, 
1999;  
(k)
“PU” means the Project Unit referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; 
(l)
“SC” means the Steering Committee referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(m)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fourteen million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 14,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
Page  4
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 1 and December 1 commencing June 1, 2010 and ending December 1, 2034.  Each 
installment to, and including the installment payable on December 1, 2019, shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and economic management practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services, and other resources required for 
the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
Page  5
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of 
the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall (a) open and thereafter maintain, until 
completion of the Project, a project account in a commercial bank, into which it shall 
deposit in advance, no later than the first day of each calendar quarter, the amount 
required to cover the Borrower's quarterly counterpart contributions to the Project, 
as such amount shall have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association; 
(b) deposit into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to $250,000; and (c) 
ensure that the proceeds of the Project Account shall be used exclusively to defray 
the cost of expenditures related to the implementation of the Project which are not 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources, and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts, 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
Page  6
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than September 30, 2001, or such later date 
as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress achieved in Project 
implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered 
by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; 
and 
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation shall have arisen 
which shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and has deposited therein an 
initial amount equivalent to $250,000; and  
(b)
the Borrower has appointed the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) 
of this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  7
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Honorable Minister
Federal Ministry of Finance
Ahmadu Bello Way
Abuja, Nigeria
Cable address:
FEDMINFIN
Abuja
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Abuja, Federal Republic of Nigeria, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
By /s/ Jubril Martins-Kuye 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
Page  8
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Equipment, 
   3,700,000
100% of foreign
materials and
expenditures
supplies
and 85% of local 
expenditures 
(2)
Consultants’
   9,400,000
100%
services and
training
(3)
Refunding of
     450,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) of
Advance
this Agreement
(4)
Unallocated
     850,000
TOTAL
  14,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for (a) goods under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent each; (b) for consultants’ services under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 each for consulting firms, and $50,000 each for individual consultants, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s efforts to promote 
better  economic governance within its territory, inter alia, through (a) fostering 
transparency and accountability in fiscal management; (b) improving economic 
management information and monitoring systems; (c) enhancing the quality of economic 
and social analyses and ensuring a large dissemination of the result of the said 
analyses; and (d) strengthening its capacity to coordinate and monitor the 
implementation of macroeconomic policies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Improvement of Statistical Databases
Strengthening FOS’ capacity  to collect and adequately treat , store, retrieve 
and disseminate statistical data pertaining, inter alia, to national accounts, 
consumer price indexes, poverty monitoring, and social indicators, through provision 
of technical advisory services.
Page  9
Part B: 
Improvement of Public Expenditures Management and Monitoring Systems 
1.
(a) Design and carrying out of a public expenditures review exercise; and (b) 
establishment of an appropriate monitoring system to enable NPC to supervise 
adequately the execution of the Borrower’s public investment program; all through the 
provision of technical advisory services. 
2.
Publication and dissemination of data pertaining to revenue collection and 
budget execution on a yearly basis.
Part C:
Monitoring and Accounting of Fiscal Operations 
1.
Strengthening the OAGF and the OAuGF’s capacity to monitor and audit national 
accounts efficiently through the (a) the provision of technical advisory services, 
inter alia, to revise and update laws, and regulations pertaining to the management of 
the Borrower’s public finances (including the Treasury Accounting Manual); and 
(b) provision of computer equipment and necessary logistical support. 
2.
Promotion of transparency of the Borrower’s national accounts through the (a) 
the timely carrying out of the audit of the said accounts; and (b) regular publication 
of the results of the audits thereof.
Part D:
Diagnostic Studies 
1.
Carrying out of a comprehensive diagnostic study aimed at assessing all the 
current arrangements covering the financial, operational, technical, legal and 
contractual aspects pertaining to the exploitation of oil resources and the management 
of oil revenues with a view to designing a comprehensive reform program aimed at 
improving the management of the Borrower’s petroleum sector. 
2.
Carrying out of a procurement assessment review with a view to improving the 
legal and regulatory framework for procurement operations.
Part E:
Economic Policy Formulation and Capacity Building
1.
Strengthening the Borrower’s capacity to formulate appropriate economic policies 
and to coordinate and monitor their implementation specifically in the areas of: (a) 
civil service reform; (b) fiscal federalism; and (c) trade policy reform; all through 
the provision of technical advisory services and the carrying out of 
seminars/workshops, and study tours. 
2.
Carrying out a training program for relevant staff of the Borrower involved in 
the carrying out of any part of the Project in subject matters related to the 
implementation of the said parts of the Project. 
3.
(a)
Establishment of a distance learning center, to increase the access of 
the Borrower’s and private sector managers to global innovations and information. 
(b)
Installation in DLC of (i) a video-conference room with about a fifty 
(50) person capacity; (ii) a computer room outfitted for a maximum of fifty (50) 
computer stations; and (iii) a technical and administrative center through the 
provision of civil works, technical advisory services training, auditing, and 
evaluation services.
Part F:
Establishment of Management Information Systems 
Design and implementation of a comprehensive and integrated financial and 
economic management system, aimed at generating data required to enable the Borrower 
to adequately monitor the ongoing management of its economic and financial operations.
Part G: 
Legal and Judicial Reform Program 
1.
Carrying out of diagnostic studies aimed at assessing existing constraints that 
affect the good functioning of the Borrower’s legal and judicial systems. 
2.
Formulation of a comprehensive legal and judicial reform program aimed at 
improving the functioning of the Borrower’s legal and judicial systems.  
Page  10
3.
Implementation of selected priority programs through the provision of technical 
advisory services training and study tours, and acquisition of urgently needed 
equipment and law books.
Part H:
Support to Economic Management Committees of the National Assembly
Enhancement of the expertise of relevant economic management committees of the 
National Assembly in subject matters relating, inter alia, to public finance 
appropriations and budget making processes through (a) acquisition of required 
technical advisory services and carrying out of seminars/workshops and study tours; 
and (b) provision of necessary logistical support including inter alia computer 
equipment and library materials.
Part I:
Logistical Support to the Project Unit
Strengthening of the PU capacity to coordinate the implementation activities 
through (a) provision of required training; and (b) acquisition of technical advisory 
services, office equipment, and materials and supplies. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods and Works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping 
Page  11
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods under Part E. 3 of the Project, for network access, video-conferencing and 
satellite band width rent and elevator rehabilitation which should be procured as an 
extension of an existing contract or must be procured from a particular supplier as a 
condition of performance guarantee and costing $600,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for financial audits estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  12
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the procedures, 
guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the PIM and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision 
of said PIM if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of carrying out the Project, establish and 
thereafter maintain: (a) the SC with membership and oversight functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association; and (b) the PU, with functions, 
responsibilities and qualified staff in adequate numbers, all satisfactory to the 
Association.
Page  13
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, by March 31 of each year, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by May 15 of each year, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
4.
(a)
The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 2002, carry out with the 
Association, a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying out the Project.  
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out, not later than one month after the 
completion of the mid-term review referred to in paragraph (a) above, the 
recommendations of said review as agreed upon with the Association and as set out in 
an action plan satisfactory to the Association.
5.
The Borrower shall: (a) by October 31, 2000, carry out the studies referred to 
under Part D of the Project; (b) promptly upon completion of the said studies, submit 
their results to the Association for its review and comments; (c) take into account 
the comments and recommendations made by the Association; and (d) implement the 
recommendations of the said studies, as agreed and in accordance with the timetable 
agreed upon with the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $1,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of $500,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of SDR 2,500,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
Page  14
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
Page  15
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators 
1.
(a) Three corruption surveys designed in agreement with the Association shall 
have been carried out by March 31, 2001; (b) the results of the said survey shall have 
been reviewed with the Association by not later than December 31, 2001; and (c) an 
action plan designed to address the issues identified under the said surveys shall 
have been submitted to the Association by not later than March 31, 2002. 
2.
(a) The Borrower’s national accounts shall have been audited by June 30 of each 
year; and (b) the results of the said audits shall have been submitted to the National 
Assembly by September 30 of each year. 
3.
(a) A public expenditures review exercise shall have been carried out by 
December 31, 2001; and (b) the results of the said public expenditures review shall 
have been reviewed with the Association by March 31, 2002. 
4.
(a) Identified incidents of mismanagement of public finance shall have been 
investigated as appropriate by the relevant investigative authorities in a speedy 
manner; and (b) the results of any such investigation shall have been publicized as 
appropriate.
