                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR0000882



                IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                     (IDA-33450)




                                        ON A

                                   {LOAN/CREDIT}

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.4 MILLION
                           (US$ 20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE


                               REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA


                                       FOR AN




             ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT

                                     June 26, 2008




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Africa Region

              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective April 21, 2008)

               Currency Unit = Nigerian Naira (NGN)
                   NGN 1.00 = US$ 0.00852
                    US$ 1.00 = NGN 117.296

                      FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 ­ December 31

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AuGF     Auditor General of the Federation
ASC      Audit Service Commission
BB       Bank Administrative Budget
BMPIU    Budget Monitoring and Price Intelligence Unit of the Presidency
CBN      Central Bank of Nigeria
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPI      Consumer Price Index
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
CWIQ     Core Welfare Indicator Questionnaire
DFID     Department for International Development of the United Kingdom
DMD      Debt Management Department of the CBN
DMO      Debt Management Office
EFD      External Finance Department of the FMF
EMCAP    Economic Management Capacity Project
EMTAP    Economic Management Technical Assistance Project
EPCC     Economic Policy Coordination Committee
ERGP     Economic Reform and Governance Project
EU       European Union
EC       European Commission
FGN      Federal Government of Nigeria
FIRS     Federal Inland Revenue Service of the FMF
FMJ      Federal Ministry of Justice
FMF      Federal Ministry of Finance
FOS      Federal Office of Statistics
GDDS     General Data Dissemination Standard
GDLC     Global Distance Learning Center
HOS      Head of Civil Service of the Federation of Nigeria
IFEMIS   Integrated Financial and Economic Management System
ISR      Implementation Status Report
KPI      Key Performance Indicator
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR      Mid-Term Review

                               ii

MULT     Multilateral Institutions Department of the FMF
NASS     National Assembly of Nigeria
NAO      National Authorizing Officer
NBS      National Bureau of Statistics
NEEDS    National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy
NPC      National Planning Commission
NNPC     Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
OAGF     Office of the Accountant General of the Federation, FMF
OAtGF    Office of the Attorney General of the Federation
OAuGF    Office of the Auditor General of the Federation
OCJ      Office of the Chief Justice
PAC      Public Accounts Committee
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PBPD     Plan Budget and Policy Department of the NPC
PCU      Policy Coordinating Unit of the FGN
PDO      Project Development Objective
PEAs     Project Executing Agencies
PER      Public Expenditure Review
PHRD     Japan Policy and Human Resources Development
PIP      Public Investment Program
PRS      Planning, Research and Statistics Department of the FMF
PU       Project Unit
SC       Steering Committee
SCN      Supreme Court of Nigeria
USAID    United States Agency for International Development




            Vice President:         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
          Country Director:         Onno Ruhl
           Sector Manager:          Jan Walliser
        Task Team Leader:           Gregory Taiwo Nzekwu
         ICR Team Leader:           Hawa Cisse Wague




                                iii

                                                      REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                  ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
                                                                    (EMCAP)




Contents
                                                                                                                                                         Page
A. Basic Information................................................................................................................................... v
B. Key Dates............................................................................................................................................... v
C. Rating Summary..................................................................................................................................... v
D. Sector and Theme Codes....................................................................................................................... vi
E. Bank Staff.............................................................................................................................................. vi
F. Results Framework Analysis................................................................................................................vii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .............................................................................................viii
H. Restructuring (if any)..........................................................................................................................viii
I. Disbursement Profile............................................................................................................................. ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design..........................................................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .........................................................................4
3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................................................7
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome....................................................................................12
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................................................12
6. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................................................14
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......................................16
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................................................17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...............................................................................................................18
Annex 3......................................................................................................................................................22
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes..........................................23
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) ...........................................................................................25
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................................................26
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR.................................................27
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................................................28
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................................................29
Annex 10: Indicators in the PAD, DCA and ISR .....................................................................................30




                                                                           iv

A. Basic Information

                                                                       ECONOMIC
                                                                       MANAGEMENT
Country:                Nigeria                 Project Name:
                                                                       CAPACITY BUILDING
                                                                       PROJECT
Project ID:             P065301                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-33450
ICR Date:               06/08/2008              ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:
Original Total
                        XDR 14.4M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 13.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: Federal Ministry of Finance, NPC, OAGF, OAuGF, PRS, MULT, NBS,
HOS, NASS, SCN, and OAtGF.
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: DFID, European Union, and USAID



B. Key Dates

     Process              Date              Process        Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/01/1998     Effectiveness:         07/07/2000        07/07/2000
Appraisal:             06/21/1999     Restructuring(s):          N/A              N/A
Approval:              05/11/2000     Mid-term Review:       09/15/2002        11/15/2002
                                      Closing:               12/31/2005        12/30/2007



C. Rating Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                 Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank            Moderately Satisfactory Overall Borrower       Moderately Satisfactory

                                               v

Performance:                                    Performance:


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                              QAG Assessments (if
       Performance                Indicators              any)                    Rating

Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                            Yes                                         Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of Supervision
                            No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                   (QSA):
DO rating before
                            Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:



D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                  89
Law and justice                                                    11


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Economic statistics, modeling and forecasting                     Primary
Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms                Secondary
Other accountability/anti-corruption                              Primary
Public expenditure, financial management and procurement          Primary



E. Bank Staff
         Positions                       At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:             Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili         Callisto Madavo
Country Director:           Onno Ruhl                          Mark Tomlinson
Sector Manager:             Jan Walliser                       Cadman Atta Mills
Project Team Leader:        Gregory Taiwo Nzekwu               Jose Sokol
ICR Team Leader:            Hawa Cisse Wague
ICR Primary Author:         Abdoulaye Bamba




                                                vi

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

As stated in the project appraisal document (PAD), the overall objective of the project was to
strengthen economic governance in key institutions by achieving the following 4 project development
objectives (PDO): (a) fostering greater transparency and accountability in fiscal operations, (b)
strengthening the systems designed to improve the efficiency of resource use, while discouraging - via
public transparency - those elements that have deterred such efforts in the past, (c) improving the
quality and timeliness of data for economic and social analyses, as well as their wide dissemination,
and (d) enhancing the capacity to carry out, coordinate, and monitor macroeconomic and structural
policies. These PDOs were consistent with the Federal Government of Nigeria's development
objectives, and with the Bank and other donors support programs, which stressed the importance of
governance and capacity building for alleviating poverty and promoting sustainable economic growth.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)  from Project Appraisal Document (Indicators pre-populated from the ISR)
Baseline Values from Project Outcome Indicators/Date of Value (from approval documents)

The table will be pre-populated from the last ISR.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

The table will be pre-populated from the last ISR




                                                 vii

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                 Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived          DO                     IP            Disbursements
                                                              (USD millions)
 1    12/26/2000      Satisfactory          Satisfactory               1.51
 2    06/28/2001      Satisfactory          Satisfactory               3.38
 3    01/16/2002      Satisfactory          Satisfactory               5.41
 4    06/05/2002      Satisfactory          Satisfactory               6.03
 5    12/03/2002      Satisfactory          Satisfactory               8.31
 6    05/22/2003      Satisfactory          Satisfactory               9.59
 7    12/30/2003      Satisfactory          Satisfactory              11.47
 8    05/28/2004      Satisfactory          Satisfactory              12.29
 9    12/16/2004      Satisfactory          Satisfactory              14.08
 10   04/14/2005      Satisfactory          Satisfactory              15.00
 11   12/22/2005      Satisfactory          Satisfactory              17.16
 12   06/29/2006      Satisfactory          Satisfactory              18.12
 13   01/19/2007      Satisfactory          Satisfactory              18.46
 14   06/09/2007      Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory          18.46
 15   12/19/2007      Satisfactory          Satisfactory              19.32
 16   12/27/2007      Satisfactory          Satisfactory              19.32



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                    viii

I. Disbursement Profile




                           ix

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1. Context at Appraisal

Country/sector background. In spite of considerable revenues from oil exploration, Nigeria is still one
of the poorest nations in the world. Sound macroeconomic reforms initiated in the mid-eighties were
abandoned by the middle of the nineties, leading to years of slow growth, high inflation, and a decline
in per capita income. Key public institutions had extremely low economic and financial management
capacity. These weaknesses, coupled with widespread mismanagement and corruption, undermined
Nigeria's economic growth prospects and hurt the government's ability to design, implement and
enforce economic policies effectively. In 1999, the new democratically-elected president undertook
vigorous measures to deter corruption and restore public confidence.

Rationale for Bank Assistance. EMCAP was aligned with both the newly-elected government's
priorities and donor support programs which included strengthening economic governance, spurring
economic growth and focusing public expenditures on poverty reduction. Both the FGN and donors
identified massive corruption and poor economic management as key constraints to rapid economic
growth and poverty reduction objectives. EMCAP was designed to support the FGN in dealing with
these constraints. By restarting its lending program to Nigeria, the Bank also helped the FGN engage
with the international donor community.

1.2. Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project development objectives identified in the PAD are: (a) fostering greater transparency and
accountability in fiscal operations, (b) strengthening the systems designed to improve the efficiency of
resource use while discouraging - via public transparency - those elements that have deterred such
efforts in the past, (c) improving the quality and timeliness of data for economic and social analyses as
well as their wide dissemination, and (d) enhancing the capacity to carry out, coordinate, and monitor
macroeconomic and structural policies.

The key performance indicators identified in the PAD are: (a) detailed corruption surveys; (b) uniform
periodicity, transparency, and reliability of published fiscal data; (c) evaluation of public expenditures
as well as strengthening of sound procurement, accounting, and auditing practices; and (d) vigor and
robustness of enforcement actions involving corruption incidents.

The outcome/impact indicators in the PAD are: (a) first phase of IFEMIS in place and publish data; (b)
solid economic justification for capital projects; (c) publication of timely economic, social and poverty
data; (d) publication of candid OAuGF audits; (e) penalties for major violators; and (f) completion of
joint reviews.




                                                     1

1.3. Revised PDO and Key Indicators

The PDOs and key indicators were not revised. However, the PDO indicators and key indicators
monitored by the supervision team are slightly different from the key indicators in the PAD. The ICR
focuses on indicators identified in the PAD and those monitored by the supervision team as the latter
were relevant to assess the achievement of PDO.

1.4. Main Beneficiaries, Original and Revised

The main beneficiaries of the project are key institutions of the federal government. The primary target
groups as identified at appraisal included the Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF); agencies within the
FMF such as the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF), Office of the Auditor
General of the Federation (OAuGF), PRS, MULT, Federal Office of Statistics (FOS) (now National
Bureau of Statistics (NBS), Head of Civil Service of the Federation (HOS), National Assembly of
Nigeria (NASS), Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), National Planning Commission,
the Supreme Court of Nigeria. As the operation unfolded, some states and local governments would
benefit through support to the national and state assemblies. Secondary beneficiaries included the
Nigerian population. Indeed, enhanced economic governance and sound financial management were
likely to ultimately lead to efficient delivery of public goods and services as well as reduction in
poverty. Other stakeholders, public and private, would also benefit from the Project. In particular, new
investors would gain from the implementation of the recommendations of studies on Private Sector
development.

1.5. Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Improvement of Statistics - $8.5 million (under the former FOS, now called NBS).
This component included assistance to the FOS to strengthen its capacity to improve the quality of the
statistical base and the timeliness of the information releases. It focused specifically on national
accounts, consumer price index (CPI), and poverty and social sector data, with the objective of
bringing Nigeria into full compliance with the General Data Dissemination Standard (GDDS).

Component 2: Improvement and Monitoring of Public Expenditure - $2.9 million (under National
Planning Commission (NPC) and Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF) through budget office).             This
component focused on strengthening the prioritization, allocation, and monitoring of public
expenditures. It provided local and external technical assistance to the NPC with the participation of
the Budget Office, and it formed the basis for an annual Public Expenditure Review (PER) exercise
which should be tied to the budget cycle within the context of a rolling three-year public investment
program and a medium-term expenditure framework. Expectations were for this component to help
improve the publication of annual budgetary outcomes, summary revenue, and expenditure data. The
strengthening of FMF and that of the NPC's capacity to monitor the execution of the public
investment program were also two expected outcomes of this component.

Component 3: Monitoring and Accounting of Fiscal Operations - $7.0 million (under the Office of
the Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF), and the Office of the Auditor General of the
Federation (OAuGF)). This component supported oversight institutions in their promotion of
transparency and accountability in the public sector, including the dissemination of data on fiscal
operations. It provided assistance in the areas of accounting and internal auditing (OAGF) and external
auditing (OAuGF), and budget monitoring activities of the National Assembly. This component
sought to help the OAGF in some of its key statutory functions, specifically as they relate to bringing

                                                    2

the fiscal accounts of 1994 to 1998 up-to-date and ensuring the completion of the 1999 accounts (and
the subsequent years).

Component 4: Petroleum Sector Review - $3.5 million (under Federal Ministry of Petroleum). This
component sought to fund a comprehensive review of the petroleum sector covering financial,
operational, technical, legal, and contractual aspects, as well as reforms of key institutions of the
sector.

Component 5: Strengthening the Procurement Activities in the Public Sector - $2.9 million. The
component sought to undertake a review of procurement practices at the federal and state levels
(including some government-sponsored enterprises), and a review of financial accountability systems
(i.e., the state of accounting and audit practices) was also part of the component.

Component 6: Strengthening Policy Development Capabilities $8.9 million (under various
ministries and agencies). This component aimed at enhancing policy analysis capacity and improving
the efficiency and transparency of policy design and coordination in the FGN. To this end, financing
was provided for technical assistance to undertake studies/reviews in the area of civil service reform,
fiscal federalism, tax policy analysis, transparency surveys and audits, trade policy, and other aspects
of economic governance such as an investor roadmap and internet technology. The component also
sought to fund the establishment of a distance learning center to help policy makers to learn from
experience around the world.

Component 7: Information Management System - $2.5 million (under various departments and
agencies: FMF, OAGF, NPC and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). This component dealt with the
design and implementation of a financial management system linking key government departments
and providing them with comprehensive and integrated financial information (IFEMIS). It was
expected that IFEMIS would provide timely, consistent and accurate information for the production of
monthly, quarterly, and yearly fiscal accounts.

Component 8: Strengthening the Legal and Judicial Systems - $2.9 million (under the Office of the
Attorney General of the Federation (OAtGF), and the Office of the Chief Justice (OCJ)). The
component provided support to the OAtGF and OCJ in carrying out preliminary diagnostic studies on
the constraints impeding the proper functioning of the legal and judicial systems. It was expected that
the results of these studies would lead to the formulation of a comprehensive legal and judicial reform
program aimed at improving the performance of the legal sector.

Component 9: Support for the Project Unit - $2.8 million (under the Multilateral Department of the
FMF), the Project Unit (PU) acted as the Secretariat of the project Steering Committee SC for capacity
building for economic matters and coordination issues.

1.6. Revised Components

Due to its urgency, the Petroleum Sector Review - Component 4 - was dropped from EMCAP
financing in 2000 and funded out of the Bank's administrative budget (BB). The Petroleum Sector
Review was completed in 2000, and its original EMCAP funding allocation was used to provide other
components with additional funds and compensate for exchange rate losses. This ICR reports on the
remaining 8 components.




                                                     3

1.7. Other significant changes

There were a number of significant changes pertaining to funding allocations and the project's
schedule. With respect to funding allocations, the resources for the Petroleum Sector Review
component, supplemented with the allocation for contingencies, were reallocated as follows: (i)
US$800,000 for civil works of the GDLC building; (ii) US$500,000 for the value-for-money audits;
(iii) US$400,000 for the IFEMIS studies; (iv) US$250,000 for the establishment of the BMPIU; (v)
US$1,800,000 in US$/SDR exchange rate losses. An appreciated value of SDR vis-à-vis the US$ in
the last few months of the life of the Project (June-December 2007), caused an increase in available
US dollar funds for the Project. A US$0.4 million PHRD grant fund from the Government of Japan,
which was intended to finance the preparation activities of the IFEMIS, lapsed due to non-utilization.
The grant was subsequently cancelled and the Bank compensated for the loss. The EU increased its
initial resource allocation for EU-EMCAP components by 20 percent, essentially support the
relocation of FOS staff from Lagos to the new offices in Abuja. The ceiling on the funds was also
increased by 20 percent.

Regarding the project's schedule, the closing date was extended by two years, from June 2005 to
December 2007. This change was approved in order to allow for the completion of the construction of
the GDLC facility.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1. Project Preparation, Design Stage, and Quality at Entry

The project was comprehensive in tackling constraints in various areas relating to economic
governance, and was well aligned with overall government objectives. The Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) provided a sound background analysis and a solid understanding of the main sector
issues, and helped identify appropriate measures to improve economic governance in Nigeria. It took
stock of an earlier Bank project (EMTAP), and incorporated important lessons from other successful
World Bank operations in Sub-Saharan Africa. The project adopted a comprehensive approach,
dealing with weaknesses in areas of economic and policy analysis, financial management, and
information systems. It was also designed in a way that allowed stakeholders to be involved in the
process.

The shortcomings on the project design is relating to the arrangement of donors coordination through
parallel disbursements. The weaknesses relating to donors coordination (see section 2.2.1.) delayed the
implementation pace and caused some shortcomings in achievement of the PDOs.

At appraisal, the project was rated highly risky. The main risks were appropriately identified, some
were mitigated by dialogue. But others such as weak capacity of implementing agencies delayed
project implementation.

2.2. Implementation

This assessment draws on strengths and shortcomings. Positive factors included the good quality of
cooperation between Government and the project supervision team, and the unanticipated relocation of
NBS staff from Lagos to a convenient working space in Abuja. Furthermore, as discussed in section
5.1.2, the midterm review (MTR) and other supervision missions were thorough and helpful in
keeping the project on track.


                                                  4

On the less positive side, implementation and project outcomes were affected by factors outside the
control of the government and factors subject to government control.

2.2.1. Factors outside the control of government or implementation agency:

Multiple donors funding through multiple disbursement processes, and weak coordination among
donors: The project adopted a parallel financing approach, which afforded donors the flexibility of
setting up and following their own internal rules. But, this flexibility created a multitude of redundant
and sometimes confusing requirements of accessing each fund, and resulted in a set of inconsistent
management processes and reporting systems, . While in the PAD it is stated that the PU was
mandated to manage the overall EMCAP, EU and DFID had their own arrangements; the team could
not develop common arrangements and concerted actions to address issues. The project accountant
was also unable to provide consolidated financial information due to all this lack of coordination.
Although coordination was tightened following the midterm review, these initial deficiencies caused
delays especially in the EU components which also suffered from high turnover among the
consultants/ experts working on the project.

Delay in fund availability: Donor funds were not always available in a timely manner. In September
2003, for example, the supervision mission noticed that NAO, the authorizing officer for the EU
components, was taking more than five months to approve proposals and requests made by PEAs,
causing substantial delays not only in the commencement of certain activities, but also in the payments
for activities already carried out.

2.2.2. Factors generally subject to government control:

Absence of an effective Steering Committee. The SC led by the Federal Minister of Finances was
expected to meet once a month and oversee the project implementation stage, technical issues, and
other capacity building efforts. The committee could have dealt with unforeseen technical, political,
and funding issues as well as advised the stakeholders on areas that required modification,
restructuring, and improvement. However, the SC never exercised its leadership role and its
effectiveness was further curtailed by the absence of high level representatives from key government
agencies. These shortcomings were partially addressed by the setting up of several steering sub-
committees.

Weak capacity management of the PU and PEAs The management of EMCAP was demanding on
the PU because the operation was involving several agencies and various donors. The PU was
expected not only to monitor and coordinate the implementation progress of all of the PEAs' activities,
but also to act as a PEA itself. Indeed, the PU was in charge of the Strengthening Policy Development
Capabilities component which included the coordination of 7 key studies and the installation of the
GDLC. During the first two years, the PU lacked sufficient office equipment to carry out its basic
functions which limited their ability to monitor the progress of implementation effectively, and to
communicate with other PEAs and funding agencies in a timely manner. The managerial capacity of
PRS and NPC was also weak.

Delay in fund availability and delivery of land for GDLC: Government counterpart funds were
available sometimes with considerable delays, compelling some PEAs, like SCN, to use their own
resources to finance urgent activities. The major source of delays, which was also the primary cause
for extending the closing date from December 2005 to December 2007, was the slow pace of
implementation of the GDLC. Delays were essentially recorded in the delivery of the plot of land for


                                                   5

the GDLC, the hiring of consultants and contractors for its construction, and the amendment to the
plan layout requested by the Bank.

2.3. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E was rated moderately unsatisfactory. The M&E design was weak, and it was not
implemented effectively.

2.3.1. M&E Design.

The PAD did not develop an effective M&E framework. It is indicated that the PU, based on reports
generated by PEAs, was supposed to monitor and evaluate implementation of EMCAP, and publish
progress reports on a quarterly basis. The PAD, however, did not outline the monitoring tools to be
used, the data collection methods, baseline data, and annual target values.

Some indicators were neither measurable nor defined in a way as to capture the intent of achievement
of the PDO. Thus, for example, corruption surveys (one of the outcome indicators) could not capture
the intent of the PDO to improve fiscal transparency and efficiency of resource use. Other KPI such as
"vigor and robustness of enforcement actions involving corruption incidents", "evaluation of public
expenditures in light with announced and agreed priorities as well as strengthening of sound
procurement, accounting, and auditing practice and solid economic justification for capital projects"
were not measurable.

Others, such as "publication of timely economic, social and poverty data" were appropriately defined.

2.3.2. M&E Implementation

Weaknesses in the M&E design were carried into implementation. The PU did not produce the
expected quarterly M&E progress reports and the above-mentioned framework was not updated on a
regular basis. The project did not elaborate an M&E manual which would have helped on facilitating
the implementation. The Bank team, in some cases jointly with donor agencies, undertook semi-annual
supervision missions throughout the life of the project, and a midterm review (MTR) which helped
project monitoring. But baselines and final target values were identified and included in the
framework somewhat late in project implementation (March 2005) and combined broad intermediate
outcome indicators ("greater transparency through improved accounting") with processing steps
("procurement bill finalized and forwarded to the national assembly"). Although these indicators were
adequate and appropriate, they did not reflect progress toward actual achievement of PDOs fully
because the framework did not include 2 project components and an adequate indicator for the fourth
PDO.

This ICR assesses progress toward the actual achievement of PDOs from the aide-memoires, the
Implementation Status Reports (ISR), the MTR report, various reports generated by the PEAs and
interviews with stakeholders.

2.3.3. M&E Utilization

The monitoring framework developed by the Bank team could not be used because it could not track
the progress of the implementation of all components and was not updated on a regular basis.



                                                   6

2.4. Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance. Not applicable

2.5. Post-completion Operation/Next Phase. Not Applicable.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1. Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The PDOs are still consistent with current development priorities of the FGN and the donors' strategy
and lending program in the areas of economic governance and capacity building. They are in line with
the country sectoral strategies as expressed in Nigeria's recent National Economic Empowerment and
Development Strategy (NEEDS), the Country Strategy Partnership (2005-2009) of the Bank and
DFID, and the Economic Reform and Governance Project (ERGP) funded by the Bank and DFID. The
latter can be seen broadly as a continuation of EMCAP. This shows that EMCAP's higher level
objective is still relevant and should be further consolidated in the event of successful implementation
of ERGP.

3.2. Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(Including a brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details in Annex 4)

Overall, the achievement of the PDO is rated moderately satisfactory with regard to the main objective
of the first stage in strengthening economic governance. EMCAP's contribution has been                  strong
when it comes to the improvement of statistics, strengthening of the procurement procedures in the
public sector, and improving the policy dialogue among various stakeholders. The ensuing sections
assess the results under each PDO.

PDO 1: Foster greater transparency and accountability in fiscal operations. The objective was to
have an actual and perceived improvement in transparency and accountability. Three KPIs and three
outcome indicators were associated to this PDO. The shortcomings in these were discussed above.

The corruption survey was conducted once and the results were not published.

Under the "Component: Monitoring and Accounting of Fiscal Operations", the goal of publishing
candid OAuGF audits and the levying penalties on major violators was partially achieved. While
accounts from 1994-2002 have been audited and published, those for the period 2003-2006 have not
yet been published by the project closing date (December 31, 2007). There is no evidence of any
penalty levied against any major violators. But there were significant achievements; in addition to the
clearing of years of unprocessed backlog in fiscal account, EMCAP major outputs under this
component included the reinforcement of OAGF's statutory function and its capability to undertake
internal auditing. Through training, the project has strengthened the efficiency of the accounting
system by introducing consistency in accounting and controls in the line ministries using updated
Financial Regulations and new procedures in line with the recommendations of the CFAA. EMCAP
also contributed to the Reorganization of OAGF from six to eight functional departments, aimed at
enhancing its functional relationship with the ministries and agencies of government in order to
improve the existing information flows.

On the audit function, EMCAP assisted the FGN in reviewing the outdated 1958 Audit Act, which had
been revised into a new Audit Bill and submitted to the National Assembly but is not yet passed into
an act. Through training, the project has strengthened the efficiency of the auditing function.

                                                       7

EMCAP contributed to the reinforcement of the oversight role of the public account committee (PAC)
of the NASS as strong legislative support is critical for the success of government' audit reforms.

As a goal, the implementation of IFEMIS was not achieved. Under the "Component: Information
Management System", IFEMIS infrastructure is in place, but the publication through the system of the
budget expenditures and receipts, including revisions and outcomes, has not happened as the software
has not been installed. EMCAP was supposed to provide support for the design and implementation of
IFEMIS through the Japan PHRD grant (which was canceled) and EU funding. The more serious
problems that affected IFEMIS stemmed from the high turnover of the EU staff and the lack of strong
Government's leadership from the outset. Implementation performance was also impaired by the lack
of coordination between the EU, the PRS, and the NAO.

Based on shortcomings presented above as regard to the KPI and the outcome indicators, the PDO 1 is
rated moderately unsatisfactory.

PDO 2: Strengthen systems designed to improve the efficiency of resource use, while
discouraging - via public transparency - those elements that have deterred such efforts in the
past. The primary goals were to (i) strengthen the prioritization, allocation, and monitoring of public
expenditures by enhancing the capacity of NPC to undertake annual PERs and monitor PIP, including
a solid economic justification for capital projects, and (ii) improve the procurement activities in the
public sector of Nigeria.

With regard to what has been achieved, under the "Component: Improvement and Monitoring of
Public Expenditure", key staff were sensitized, thorough several workshops, training and study tours,
on the rationale for reinforcing government's control over public expenditures. Staff of the NPC was
trained on how to supervise capital projects efficiently and undertake periodic PERs. EMCAP
provided local and external technical assistance to the NPC, and the Budget Office (BO) to undertake
PER exercise. NPC conducted 4 sectoral PERs under this component. Findings of the PERs were
disseminated through a workshop held in 2003. The recommendations of the PER and the workshop
formed the content of the Memo-to-Council of the Economic Adviser to the President. In addition, the
project supported the reorganization of the NPC by the relocation of the Plans, Budget and Projects
(PBP) Department to the BO. With this repositioning, the capacity created through the PER exercise
and other training is used within the BO since 2004 to prepare an annual review of budget
implementation. The conclusions of the annual review of the budget implementation for year n-1
inform the preparation of the budget for year n+1.

Regarding the evaluation of public expenditures in light of announced and agreed priorities; there is no
baseline and annual target of public expenditures versus announced target in the PAD. Based on 2007
PEMFAR conclusions, there is a considerable increase in total spending on MDGs which are the
agreed priorities in the NEEDs.

In addition, the project was successful in sensitizing key staff in the federal and state governments,
through several workshops, training and study tours on project evaluation, and macroeconomic
modeling, planning techniques, and on the rationale for reinforcing government's control over public
expenditure, especially capital expenses. While there is no evidence that economic justification is used
to prepare the PIP, thanks to EMCAP, FMF now requested for feasibility studies for any investment
project to be considered in the PIP.



                                                    8

Under Component: Strengthening the Procurement Activities in the Public Sector, EMCAP's targeted
outcomes which are the launch of the reform process have been achieved. Through EMCAP, a CPAR
was undertaken in 2000 by a joint FGN/Bank team and aimed to advice on the best procurement
practices. The Executive Council adopted the revised CPAR recommendations. The value for money
exercise contributed to have a better understanding of the importance of the procurement reform.
EMCAP was successful in developing the framework for the preparation of best-practices
procurement system in the country, including new procurement bill and implementation mechanism.
This was pursued and strengthened under ERGP and other donors assistance, as demonstrated by the
(i) establishment of the Budget Monitoring and Price Intelligence Unit (BMPIU) which is in charge of
due process, (ii) issuance of the Nigeria Procurement Manual, which did not exist before, and (iii) the
National Assembly's approval of a new Public Procurement Bill based on the CPAR
recommendations and best procurement practices around the world.

This PDO2 is rated moderately satisfactory owing to the success under the procurement component
which contributed to launching the procurement reform in the country, and progress made on
preparing the budget and the PIP thanks to the capacity building through the PER exercise, and other
training programs.

PDO 3: Improve the quality and timeliness of economic and social analysis data, as well as their
wide dissemination. The objective was: (i) to improve the quality and timely delivery of the National
Accounts data, Consumer Price Index (CPI), Poverty and Social Data, and (ii) ensure widely
dissemination of these data. Success was to be measured through:
    -    Quarterly production and publication of relevant economic indicators,
    -    annual publication of national income accounts
    -    Publication of updated minimum national social data set and of 2000-2001 poverty profiles,
         and
    -    Household survey data published and archived periodically

Under the "Component: Improvement of Statistics", EMCAP provided technical, and financial
assistance to NBS to strengthen its capacity to improve the quality of the statistical base and the
timeliness of the information releases. NBS Staff were provided with relevant training in the areas of
compilation of quarterly GDP, economic statistics, balance of payment accounts, economic modeling,
and government finance statistics. These training sessions and workshops not only improved the skills
of statisticians, but also paved the way to bringing Nigeria into full compliance with the GDDS
requirements. Data production technology has been significantly enhanced, with the introduction of
digital technology into data collection and processing, which has reduced the likelihood of errors and
sped up processing. In addition, the IT capacity was strengthened with provision of equipment
including computers and other peripherals. A new NBS web site was set up to make data ready
available online.

With respect to the improvement of the quality of statistics, NBS succeeded in enhancing the quality
of the CPI by improving the method of collection and computation of data as well as expanding the
coverage. The consumption weights, which were based on the 1985/86 National Consumer Survey,
were revised using the 1996/96 National Consumer Expenditure survey. Derived item weights were
updated to May 2003 which served as the new index reference month.

Through the same assistance, NBS also made remarkable progress with regard to the improvement of
social and poverty statistics. NBS has now produced new indicators of social statistics and compiled
them in a major publication, the "Social Statistics in Nigeria". When EMCAP was getting off the
ground, the last "Social Statistics in Nigeria" publication dated back to 1994. The most up-to-date

                                                   9

publication is now only a year old, dating to 2006, and covers data from 2001 to 2005. This
achievement provided the framework to assess the impact of major development policies and
economic reforms. In 2004, EMCAP helped launch the Nigerian Living Standards survey (NLSS),
which was a success in that it provided a survey framework for timely monitoring, management, and
tracking of poverty statistics. The capacity of the NBS to monitor poverty was further reinforced by
the implementation of the 2006 Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire Survey (CWIQ) which
produced welfare indicators for the population at national and sub-national levels.

On the timely delivery of statistics, improvements in the compilation process and the coordination of
the collation of information ­ within NBS departments and with other government departments and
state agencies ­ have resulted in reduced time lags. In collaboration with the Central Bank of Nigeria
and with the assistance of EU and DFID, GDP data is now produced quarterly, based on
comprehensive surveys that cover all economic sectors. The lag in the production of the CPI has been
reduced from 6 months to 1. The current delay is mostly due to problems transmitting the collected
data from the field offices to the states, and from the state offices to the headquarters.

On the dissemination of data, EMCAP (along with ERGP) contributed to increasing the number of
publications, as demonstrated by the series of Compendium of National Statistics, the development of
an operational National Socio-Economic Database (NSED) covering all socio-economic activities in
Nigeria, and the release of other important publications. Official statistics are being disseminated
through FOS's offices. A new FOS website has been set up to make data readily available online.

This PDO 3 is rated satisfactory as the main sub-objectives were achieved.

PDO 4: Enhancing the capacity to carry out, coordinate, and monitor macroeconomic and
structural policies. The objective was (i) to provide support to economic policy coordination and
capacity building efforts in newly created institutions such as EPCC, BMPI, DMO, (ii) provide
training courses for civil servants and public economic managers, (iii) to finance several
macroeconomic and structural policy studies, and (iv) to initiate the installation of a Global Distance
Learning Center. Achievement was to be measurable by having:
     -    satisfactory completion of number of courses for officials in the training program
     -    completion of joint reviews as outcome indicator, which is identified as an outcome indicators

It is difficult to measure the performance of the PDO through the identified indicators listed above. As
stated before, assessing the impact of training in the Nigerian context is ambitious. On joint studies,
the understanding and agreement is that the appropriate indicator is to create an enabling environment
for improving policy dialogue.

Under the component: "Strengthening Policy Development Capabilities", the main thrust was to
strengthen the policy development capabilities of the FGN. To this end, the project (i) gave support to
economic policy coordination and capacity building efforts in newly created institutions such as
EPCC; (ii) financed several macroeconomic and structural policy studies; (iii) and initiated the
installation of a Distance Learning Center

Based on feedbacks received through the interview process with various stakeholders, and the
conclusions of the 2005 survey1 on training impact evaluation, EMCAP has increased policymakers'
awareness of the challenges facing Nigerian economic governance. The objective of 2005 survey was
to obtain feedback from trainees and their institutions on how EMCAP courses have affected their job

1At the time of the survey, 674 have benefited from the project over the period 2000 - 2004, comprising 270 foreign and 404 local courses.
Out of 175 questionnaires sent to course beneficiaries 110 were retrieved.
                                                                     10

performance in five PAEs (FMF, NPC, OAGF, OuGF, and NAASS). The conclusion from the survey
is that EMCAP was a veritable tool for capacity building enhancement and brought about tremendous
impact on beneficiaries' efficiency and effectiveness through: (i) broadened knowledge and enhanced
skills, (ii) improved organizational efficiency and effectiveness, (iii) positive attitudinal change to
work, and (iv) improved interpersonal communication skill. The ICR team has not been able to assess
the impact of the training in a comprehensive and detailed manner.

Through joint reviews and studies, EMCAP created a momentum on policy dialogue among various
stakeholders in several areas such as pension reform, trade, private sector development, and fiscal
decentralization. EMCAP was successful in creating an adequate environment to improve pension
reforms and records management in the Federal Civil Service. Following series of diagnostic studies
and seminars on the Nigerian Pensions System funded through EMCAP, a new Pensions Act was
passed by the National Assembly and a National Pensions Commission established.

The other key studies undertaken under this component have provided broader framework for dialogue
on structural reforms in government. The study on fiscal decentralization advised on strategies to
improve the effectiveness of the current revenue sharing system. The Trade Policy of Nigeria study
provided thorough recommendations as to how to enable Nigeria benefit from the multi-lateral trade
system, especially in the wake of the emerging global economic trends. Another study focused on how
to spur private sector development in Nigeria.

The project was not able to deliver the GDLC by the project closing date, in spite of the two-year
extension. The reasons for these shortcomings range from insufficient capacity management of the PU
to fluctuating commitments of the FMF and the FGN. In other hand, some weaknesses were identified
in the Bank distance learning team based in Washington to adequately handle this sub-component.

The PDO4 is rated moderately satisfactory.

There is no indicator in the PAD to monitor the performance of the legal and judicial component.
Under the "Component: Strengthening Legal and Judicial System", the outputs included a review of
the judicial system and 6 zonal stakeholder workshops in the country. A national summit was held to
put together all the recommendations and draw up an action plan for their implementation. A full
report with accompanying recommendations on the stakeholder consultations is being awaited from
the Project Unit (PU) housed in the Supreme Court. EMCAP also supported the enhancement of the
library of the Supreme Court and the Judicial Council with law books. The achievements under this
component contributed to improving the dialogue on legal and judicial reform.

Efficiency. Not Applicable.

3.3. Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Keeping in mind the difficulty in assessing the full impact of training and capacity building efforts in
the Nigerian context, the overall outcome of EMCAP is rated Moderately Satisfactory. It is important
to highlight that the overall objectives of EMCAP were ambitious given the country's political
environment of the late 1990s. EMCAP was successful as a springboard for reforms in providing
technical assistance in priority areas "which required rapid resolution", and it also helped the Bank
identify areas requiring substantial reform efforts. As a follow-up project to EMCAP, ERGP is
designed to further advance, deepen and broaden the initial reforms and capacity building activities.
EMCAP's impact is strong in the area of statistics in supporting the NBS in the provision of timely


                                                 11

economic, financial, and social data. EMCAP also contributed to creating an enable environment for
procurement reform, and policy dialogue.

3.4. Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts

3.4.1. Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Although EMCAP did not directly target reduction in poverty as a goal, it did seek to identify and root
out the underlying causes of increased poverty such as economic mismanagement, poor governance,
and lack of alignment of public resources with the country's development priorities. Adopting best
procurement practices by line ministries and the introduction of Due Process are likely to lower
wasted public resources and to strengthen the government's fiscal stance. Doing so will contribute to
poverty reduction objective in the country.

3.4.2. Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project generates important institutional development impacts in terms of strengthening the
operational capacity of key economic institutions through the development of their IT capacity, the
enhancement of human capacity, the creation of institutions, and the reorganization of existing ones.
The accounting function of the FGN was strengthened by the reorganization of the OAGF from six to
eight functional departments. These changes improved the timeliness of the submission of returns
from various ministries and agencies and the production of the Statements of Accounts of the FGN. In
the presidency, the project gave support to the creation of the new Budget Monitoring and Price
Intelligence Unit (BMPIU), responsible for Due Process.

3.4.3. Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative). Not Applicable.

3.5. Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops.
Not Applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The overall risk that development outcomes that are achieved - such as the performance of NBS to
publish timely economic and social data and the adoption of best procurement practices by the
government will not be maintained is moderate. The FGN commitment is not expected to wane,
assuming there is no significant shift in the government's current development priorities. Measures
such as adoption of good practices in procurement are not easily or likely reversible. Furthermore,
some key outcomes are likely to be maintained in the medium term in part because most of the public
institutions that benefited from EMCAP continue to be sustained through ongoing technical and
financial assistance such as ERGP.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1. Bank Performance

5.1.1. Ensuring Quality at Entry.

This ICR judges the quality at entry moderately satisfactory.

As noted in section 2.1, the project design was tailored to the country's priorities. The contextual

                                                 12

factors and weaknesses were correctly identified. The project adopted a comprehensive approach,
dealing simultaneously with weaknesses in key areas of economic and policy analysis, financial
management and information systems. It was designed to serve as springboard for reforms, which was
a realistic choice because Nigeria economic governance was severely hit after 20 years of military rule
and was not expected to fully recover over a five-year span. It aimed to form the basis for transparency
and accountability in key public institutions. Important lessons and experience learned from other
successful World Bank operations were adequately incorporated. The Bank team involved key
stakeholders at every stage in the formulation of the project.

However, the Bank performance at appraisal was deemed moderately satisfactory because of various
shortcomings. The design seems to have been too optimistic with regard to the arrangement with
donors. It was difficult to execute the project in a timely manner under different sources of funding
arrangement.

With respect to monitoring, an adequate M&E system was not designed from the outset. In fact, some
key indicators did not reflect progress toward development goals fully. Indeed, one of the PDO
indicators for Improved Accountability was measured by the Penalties for major violators by the
Executive Branch. This was not an adequate indicator because, as noted in the PAD, enforcement of
punishment for corruption would depend on the policies of the National Assembly the Judiciary, and
public prosecutors. It was also difficult to meet this goal while the project was being implemented
because issuing penalties entailed many steps that would have taken years. The weaknesses of the
M&E are discussed under section 2.3.

5.1.2. Quality of Supervision

The Bank's performance on supervision is rated moderately satisfactory.

The Bank carried out regular supervision missions led by a senior economist and composed of a
procurement specialist and a Legal and Judicial Specialist. The Task Team Leader changed once
during the seven-year implementation period. With the TTL based in the field, the collaboration and
relationship with the PU and PEAs was good. The PU and PEAs felt that the supervision team was
proactive and supportive during the implementation period. The team was proactive in assisting the
PU and PEAs with their work programs and procurement plans as well as resolving any bottleneck
that is relating to the accomplishment of the activities. In addition, the Bank conducted regular
financial reviews and advised on ways to strengthen the financial management systems. The records
were manually maintained. While there was no Financial Procedures Manual, disbursement
information was properly maintained and relevant documents could be traced easily, as indicated in
the financial mission report.

Even though the Bank team responded in a timely fashion to the various requests by the Government,
the outcome orientation of the supervision was limited. Some critical issues that were called to
attention during successive supervision missions were not addressed, in part due to decreased
commitments of the government and PEAs. While Bank management maintained high level dialogue
with the FGN on reforms, its direct oversight on the EMCAP was limited as many ISRs being filed
without management review after 20 days. There is limited information content of some ISRs.
Coordination with other donors was not very close from the onset, though it improved after the MTR.
During the early years of the project and at the MTR, an opportunity was missed to more vigorously:
    -    review PDOs and performance indicators based on changes such as the cancellation of the
         Petroleum component, and the additional GDLC activity,
    -    improve donor coordination or launch a project restructuring based on shortcoming on

                                                   13

         coordination among donors,
     -   and establish a more stringent M&E framework.

5.1.3. Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

The overall Bank performance is moderately satisfactory because of various shortcomings
experienced in the design and implementation of M&E system, lack of proactively in addressing the
coordination issues among donors, the weak outcome orientation of the supervision team, and limited
Bank management oversight.

5.2. Borrower performance

5.2.1. Government Performance

Government performance was rated moderately satisfactory.

On the positive side, the FGN was involved in the different stages of project preparation. Indeed, as
indicated in his letter of Sector Development Policy to the World Bank on 4th February 2000 regarding
EMCAP, the Federal Minister of Finance stated that, while the content of the project is a joint
initiative with the Bank and other donor agencies, the content emanated from the government. The
FGN showed strong ownership in and commitment to implementing the various measures listed in the
aforementioned letter. They also showed willingness to put into practice good Governance in Nigeria.

Government performance was less than fully satisfactory owing to the following reasons:
     -   During implementation, FGN's commitment and ownership fell short of their startup levels,
         but they were enough to keep the project moving forward,
     -   The steering committee, chaired by the minister of finance, failed to be effective,
     -   The PHRD grant (US$0.4 million), which was intended to finance the preparation activities of
         the IFEMIS, lapsed due to non-utilization , and
     -   The GDLC took two years to get land.

5.2.2. Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

The performance of the Multilateral Institutions Department of the FMF (MULT), the PU, was rated
moderately satisfactory. This rating factored in the context in which the operation was executed. The
country was transitioning from military rule to democracy, and struggling to regain international
credibility. Most of the PEAs were still evolving. The task was very demanding on the agency, the
number of PEAs involved (9) and the long list of activities to be implemented. Although MULT
carried out its mandate, including the close monitoring of budgetary allocations to the PEAs, in the
supervision of contracts and procurement processes and the organization of workshops with
stakeholders, major shortcomings were observed during implementation. There was a lack of close
coordination with donors and other PEAs during the first two years. The PU did not produce any
monitoring and evaluation report. The project manager was replaced three times. The last project
manager was disconnected from the implementation status of project components, with the exception
of the GDLC component. The latter could not be delivered as scheduled due in part to insufficient
commitment from the FMF.

6.   Lessons Learned
(Both project-specific and of wide general application)


                                                  14

An adequate M&E arrangement from the onset, which regularly informs on the gaps between
expected and realized activities, is critical not only for measuring progress toward PDOs, but also
for making decisions that keep outputs aligned with the original PDOs. Because of the absence of an
adequate M&E, tracking implementation status of all components and thus actual progress toward
achievement of the PDOs turned out to be more difficult than anticipated. It is also to appoint an M&E
specialist within the PU who will ensure the implementation of the M&E framework and reinforce it if
needed.

In a multi-donor program with parallel financing, coordination among funding partners is critical
to timely delivery of outputs. Donor coordination may involve (i) harmonization of procedures, and
(ii) sharing of information in a systematic way during implementation. Full harmonization is unlikely
when each donor is required to follow a separate set of rules when it comes to funding and component
management. It is incumbent upon the project team to harmonize rules & procedures during the
project preparation phase and to adopt an acceptable set of consistent procedures that will facilitate
implementation, funds availability, and monitoring and evaluation.

In operation involving a great number of executing agencies, donors, and activities, the importance
of having a strong Implementing Agency assembled at the inception of the operation with the
required equipment and expertise cannot be overstated. EMCAP involved a number of executing
agencies involved, funding sources, components and activities. During the first two years, the PU
lacked the necessary equipment and skills to perform efficiently.

While having a strong PU can boost project performance, the creation of an effective Steering
Committee, whose role is to keep output and outcome aligned to original goals, is critical. The
Steering Committee should be composed of high-level representatives and be meeting on a quarterly
or biannual basis to provide guidance and possibly relieve bottlenecks/resistance to the reforms to the
political level for resolution.

While embedding capacity building in the objectives of programs is important to institutional
development, more emphasis needs to be put on the institutionalization of capacity building efforts.
The Bank should focus on building the structures that will allow the country to offer on a regular and
long term basis capacity building programs and training courses at a national or regional level. This
will cut spending on training sessions while providing a long term solution to the issues of
effectiveness and sustainability of capacity building efforts. The initiation of a center such as the
Global Distance Learning Center by EMCAP represents a significant step toward the
institutionalization of capacity building. Focus should be on how to ensure a smooth transitional phase
from inception until the project reaches financial sustainability. By providing adequate funding, the
FGN is supposed to sustain GDLC during that transitional phase. But, the way GDLC was handled
during implementation suggested that FGN would need support during that critical phase.

Train the trainers could be an effective way to initiate a process to sustain capacity building efforts.
Because of the higher turnover rate experienced in some of the PEAs, there were constant needs to
train new people. At the National assembly, for instance, more than fifty percent of the members who
benefited from EMCAP training sessions were not reelected.

In a project that is mostly comprised of soft components such as training sessions, a careful
assessment of the impact of training and on the institution should be undertaken in order to
improve efficiency and effectiveness. The value of training can be difficult to quantify, and people
always tend to want more training, even on the same issues. While the ICR measures the overall
impact in terms of achievement of PDOs, an in-depth capacity building assessment would gauge the

                                                   15

impact with respect to the purpose of training (building awareness, analytical capacity, or building
decision-making capacity), the type (courses, seminars, workshops), and the location and the targets
(human, equipment, institution). This will allow the Bank to improve efficiency in the delivery of
future programs while building on past experiences.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

The Borrower provided comments on the ICR which are presented in summary in Annex 8.

According to the Borrower, the many achievements of the project were reflected in the ICR but the
importance of these achievements in economic management of the country was not properly
highlighted. This may be a result of the weak M&E arrangement and the absence of baseline data.

The Borrower did not agree with the Bank assessment of the overall performance of the project. In
view of timing of the project and the amount of resources that was meant to do so much, the Borrower
was of the view that the project rating is satisfactory.

The Borrower provided comments on one justification relating to the borrower performance which is
MS. It was stated that the inability to deliver the GDLC as schedule was not due to insufficient
commitment on the part of the FMF as stated in the ICR. Instead, it was due to communication gap
between the Bank and FMF during the design stage of the GDLC which led to amendment to the
design midstream with concomitant cost implication and loss of time.

On Factors generally subject to government control identified in the ICR which affected project
implementation, first the Borrower highlighted that the Steering committee function was delegated to
head of PEAs who met regularly and report to the FMF through the PU. So, the arrangement did not
have any adverse effect on project implementation at any point in time. Second, in their view, the
capacity of the PU and PEAs was weak at inception of the project implementation but improved
significantly overtime. Third, the fact that the PU was able to manage multiple donors and PEAs was
not adequately reflected in the ICR. And, there was no delay in fund availability to the GDLC. The
delay in land delivery was beyond the FMF as the matter was within the jurisdiction of the Federal
Capital Territory Administration.

On lessons learnt, however, there is no disagreement.




                                                    16

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                                 Appraisal  Actual/Latest
                   Components                    Estimate                    Percentage of
                                                  (USD         Estimate       Appraisal
                                                 millions)  (USD millions)

   Improvement of Statistics                           5.73

   Improvement and Monitoring of Expenditure           2.79
   Monitoring and Accounting of Fiscal                 4.59
   Operations
   Review of Petroleum Sector                          3.53
   Strengthening Procurement                           2.94
   Strengthening Policy Development                    7.86
   IFEMIS                                              3.88
   Project Unit                                        3.36
   Total Baseline Costs                               34.68
   Contingencies                                       2.95
   Total Project Costs                                37.63
Note: Differences due to rounding.

(b) Financing

                                                  Appraisal     Actual/Latest

Source of Funds                       Type of     Estimate      Estimate      Percentage of
                                      Cofinancing (USD          (USD          Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
US: Agency for International
Development (USAID)                                        6.80           N/A            .00

Borrower                                                    4.03          N/A            .00
UK: British Department for                                                N/A
International Development (DFID)                           3.50                          .00

EC: European Commission                                    10.00          N/A            .00
International Development Association
(IDA)                                                      20.00         19.27          96.3

JAPAN: Gov. of (excl. Ministry of
Finance - PHRD Grants)                                     0.40              0           .00


Differences due to rounding.




                                              17

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component: Improvement of Statistics

Outputs included:

   Lags in the publication of economic statistics and the National Accounts have been significantly
   reduced.

   360 NBS Staff were provided with relevant training in the areas of compilation of quarterly GDP,
   economic statistics, balance of payment accounts, economic modeling, and government finance
   statistics. These training sessions and workshops not only improved the skills of statisticians, but
   also paved the way to bringing Nigeria into full compliance with the GDDS requirements.

   Data Production Technology has been significantly enhanced, with the introduction of digital
   technology into data collection and processing, which has reduced the likelihood of errors and
   sped up processing.

   GDP now is produced quarterly, based on comprehensive surveys that cover all economic sectors.
   Collection, coordination, and transmission of National Accounts data have been strengthened, and
   the processing and methodology of existing survey data has been improved. The 1993 system of
   National Accounts has been adopted. The calculation of the GDP deflator has also been improved.

   CPI method of collection and computation improved and coverage expanded. Consumption
   weights were revised using the 1996 National Consumer Expenditure survey. The lag in
   production has been reduced from 6 months to 1. Four other CPI - rural CPI , urban CPI, and state
   CPI ­ are being produced and published on a monthly basis in the NBS Statistical News. The
   coverage in the producer prices index has been expended based on a farm gate price survey and
   the improved collation of retail prices. They are produced on an annual basis

   Indicators of social statistics have been produced and compiled in a major publication, the "Social
   Statistics in Nigeria". The last one was published in 2006 and covered data from 2001 to 2005.

   Poverty profile has been updated. The Nigerian Living Standards Survey (NLSS) was launched in
   2004. The NLSS was a success in that it helped update the poverty profile and provide a survey
   framework for the timely monitoring, management, and tracking of poverty statistics. Although
   the results could not be directly compared to the earlier poverty profile (series 1980-1996) due to
   differences in the coverage, the NLSS could serve as a basis for a strong poverty analysis as well
   as monitoring and evaluation of poverty alleviation projects.

   2006 Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire Survey (CWIQ) produced, with welfare indicators for
   the population at national and sub-national levels.

   IT capacity strengthened with provision of equipment including computers and other peripherals.

   A new NBS web site was set up to make data ready available online.




                                                  18

Component: Improvement and Monitoring of Expenditure

Outputs included:

   Key staff were sensitized, thorough several workshops, training and study tours, on the rationale
   for reinforcing government's control over public expenditures. Staff of the NPC was trained on
   how to supervise capital projects efficiently and undertake periodic PERs.

   Public Expenditure Review at the federal level carried out with focus on four sectors. Findings
   were disseminated through a workshop held in 2003. The recommendations of the PER and the
   workshop formed the content of the Memo-to-Council of the Economic Adviser to the President.

   Staff were provided with training in local and foreign institutions on project evaluation,
   procurement, and macroeconomic modeling and planning techniques

   Reorganization of the National Planning Commission: relocation of the Plans, Budget and Projects
   (PBP Department) to the Budget Office. With this repositioning, the objective was to the PER to
   the budget cycle within the context of a three-year rolling public investment program and a
   medium-term expenditure framework.

Component: Monitoring and Accounting of Fiscal Operations

Output included:

   Clearing of five years of unprocessed backlog in fiscal accounts (1994-1998);

   Training of staff on computer and public accounting in local and external institutions,
   computerization of OAGF Headquarters;

   Reorganization of OAGF from six to eight functional departments, aimed at enhancing its
   functional relationship with the ministries and agencies of government in order to improve the
   existing information flows. Two new units were added: the Treasury Services Department which
   supervises and controls the pool of Accountants and Account Assistants in all Federal
   Ministries/Departments. It also collates, compiles, and prepares financial statements of accounts of
   the Federal Government and answers queries raised by the Public Accounts Committee. The
   second unit is the Treasury Internal Audit Department responsible for the control and supervision
   of the staff in Ministries. It also collates and analyses the Internal Audit reports from all the
   Ministries and Agencies. Following on this restructuring, the Accountant General's Office is able
   to access submission of returns from various Ministries and Agencies on a timely basis promptly
   produce the statements of Accounts of the Federal Government; and quickly respond to Audit
   Queries raised by Public Accounts Committee.

   Publication of audited fiscal accounts by OAuGF from 1994 to 2002.

   OAGF's statutory function (act 1958) and its capability to undertake internal auditing has been
   reinforced.

   Introduce consistency in accounting and controls in the line ministries using updated Financial
   Regulations and new procedures in line with the recommendations of the CFAA of the joint
   FGN/Bank review.

                                                  19

   Assisting various branches of the federal government integrates the electronic Transaction
   Recording and Reporting System (TRRS) into their operations as part of the ongoing
   computerization of the accounting system. At present, TRRS was rolled in 20 MDAs and was
   expected to be extended progressively to all line ministries and federal pay offices.

   Reinforcement of the oversight role of the PAC.


Component: Strengthening Procurement

Outputs included:

   CPAR was undertaken in 2000 by a joint FGN/Bank team and aimed to advice on the best
   procurement practices. Adoption by the Executive Council of the revised CPAR/CFAA
   recommendations

   Organization of enlightenment programs to imbue transparency, accountability, and efficiency in
   the conduct of government procurements through workshops at geo-political zonal levels.

   Revision of the public procurement practices and introduction of new procedures in line with the
   recommendations of the CPAR

   Value for Money audits of 60 recurrent and 60 capital projects of the FGN carried out using
   external consultants and submitted to FEC;

Component: Strengthening Policy Development

Outputs included:

   Key policy studies undertaken and recommendations disseminated through Government training
   programs and workshop.

   Support the creation of Economic Policy Coordination Committee (EPCC)

   One corruption diagnostic survey study was undertaken. The study assessed the impact of
   corruption on economic development and spelled out recommendations to tackle the issue. The
   results of survey were not published.

   Study on fiscal decentralization advised on strategies to improve the effectiveness of the current
   revenue sharing system.

   Study on Trade Policy of Nigeria provided thorough recommendations as to how to enable Nigeria
   to benefit from the multi-lateral trade system, especially in the wake of emerging global economic
   trends.

   Study on private sector development in Nigeria laid out the basis to creating an enabling
   environment for private sector. The Nigeria Investor Road Map, which provided guidance on
   reforming commercial, business, and foreign investment procedures to provide a more flexible,
   user-friendly environment for investors and relevant government agencies, was created.

                                                  20

   The private sector assessment report, which consisted of a review of the overall policy and
   institutional capacity issues relating to private sector development in Nigeria, was issued.

   EMCAP funded a series of diagnostic studies and seminars on the Nigerian Pensions System..

   Training and workshops were held to disseminate the findings of the studies. In some cases
   memorandums of recommendation were submitted to the FEC or governments ministries.

   The GDLC has been partially completed.


Component: IFEMIS

Outputs included:

   Installation of an Integrated Financial and Economic Management Information System (IFEMIS).
   The system provides fibre-optic networks and currently links 9 institutions: OAGF, NPC, CBN,
   NBS, DMO, and FMF. However, there is no content in the system.


Component: Strengthening Legal and Judicial System (not discussed in the report)

Outputs included:

   Conducted a review of the judicial system.

   6 zonal stakeholder workshops were held with judges, magistrates, the police, wardens, lawyers,
   and other stakeholders in the administration of justice in the country. A national summit was held
   to put together all the recommendations and draw up an action plan for their implementation. The
   topics that framed the discussion at the workshops include: (i) Judiciary, (ii) Administration of
   Justice, (iii) Police and Public Safety, (iv) Prisons and Alternative Punishment, (v) Public
   Officials' Conduct (executive and legislative branches) and its Impact on Citizens, and (vi) Access
   to Justice, Alternative Dispute Resolution, and Human Rights. Following the stakeholder
   workshops, significant improvements have been made in all aspects of the legal and judicial
   system. A full report with accompanying recommendations on the stakeholder consultations is
   being awaited from the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) housed in the Supreme Court

   Supported the enhancement of the library of the Supreme Court and the Judicial Council with law
   books.




                                                    21

Annex 3




           22

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

     (a) Task Team Members
            Name                      Title             Unit     Responsibility/Specialty
Preparation/supervision

Jose B. Sokol                Lead Technical           AFT:     First TTL
                             Specialist               Macro. 4
Mark Stevens                                                   Public sector management
                                                               (peer reviewer)
Paul Meo                                                       Financial management (quality
                                                               assurance)
Robert G. Lynch                                                Statistics
Francis J. Earwaker                                            PER and Project Monitoring
Thomas Hutcheson                                               Financial analysis
Winston Cox                                                    Accounting and Auditing
Keith Soffe                                                    Accounting and Auditing
Greg Nzekwu                  Sr Economist             AFTP3    TTL
Jeri Larson                  Operations Analyst       AFCNG    Operations
Allan Crego                                                    Research Assistant
Steve Wan                                                      Team Assistant
Mary Asanato                 Procurement Spec.         AFTPC   Procurement

Bayo Awosemusi               Lead Procurement                  Procurement
                             Specialist               AFTPC

Adenike Sherifat Oyeyiola    Sr Financial                      FM
                             Management Special       AFTFM


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
       Stage of Project Cycle
                                        No. of staff weeks    USD Thousands (including
                                                              travel and consultant costs)

Lending

   FY99                                                                   156.61
   FY00                                        34                          86.04
   FY01                                         3                            1.17
   FY02                                                                      0.00
   FY03                                                                      0.00
   FY04                                                                      0.00
   FY05                                                                      0.00
   FY06                                                                      0.00
   FY07                                                                      0.00
   FY08                                                                      0.00
                            Total:             37                         243.82
Supervision/ICR
   FY99                                                                      0.79
   FY00                                         1                            1.67

                                             23

FY01               30    113.73
FY02               38    151.98
FY03               32    103.35
FY04               24     49.45
FY05               24     74.65
FY06               15     35.18
FY07               15     38.06
FY08               13     55.26
        Total:    192    624.12




                  24

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

Not Applicable.




                                             25

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

Not Applicable.




                                          26

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower is in agreement with the factors affecting project implementation and outcomes. These
factors include project preparation, design and quality at entry, multiple donor funding, and weak
coordination among donors, and delay in fund availability from donors.

The Borrower provided remarks on the following factors identified by the ICR (subject to government
control) which affect project implementation:
    -   absence of effective steering committee (SC) led by the Honorable Minister of Finance,
    -   weak capacity management of the PU and PEAs,
    -   Delay in fund availability and delivery of land for the GDLC.

On the issue of SC, the Borrower stated that the function was delegated to head of PEAs who met
regularly and reported to the FMF through the PU. In the borrower's view, the arrangement did not
have any adverse effect on project implementation at any point in time

The capacity of the PU and PEAs was weak at inception of the project implementation but it improved
significantly overtime. In the borrower's view, the fact that the PU was able to manage multiple
donors and PEAs was not adequately reflected in the ICR.

There was no delay in fund availability to the GDLC. The delay in land delivery was beyond the FMF
as the matter was within the jurisdiction of the Federal Capital Territory Administration.

According to the Borrower, the many achievements of the project were reflected in the ICR but the
importance of these achievements in economic management of the country was not properly
highlighted. This may be as a result of the weak M&E arrangement and the absence of baseline data.

The Borrower has noted the rating (Moderately satisfactory) of performance of the Bank and
Government in the course of project implementation. However, the borrower wishes to observe that
the inability to deliver the GDLC as scheduled was not due to insufficient commitment on the part of
the FMF as stated in the ICR. Instead, it was due to communication gap between the Bank and FMF
during the design stage of the GDLC which led to amendment to the design midstream with
concomitant cost implication and loss of time.

In view of timing of the project and the amount of resources that was meant to do so much, the
Borrower is of the view that the project rating is satisfactory.

The Borrower has noted the lessons learnt in the course of the project implementation as contained in
the ICR. These include:
    -   need for adequate M&E arrangement at the onset of the project
    -   need of proper coordination in a situation of multiple donor funding
    -   need for a strong PEA
    -   institutionalization of capacity building and train trainers

The lessons learnt would serve as a guide for future engagements in project design, preparation and
implementation




                                                    27

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Available




                                          28

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

  Project Development Credit Agreement

  Project Appraisal Document for Nigeria Economic Management Capacity Building Project, dated
  February 25, 2000 (Report No: 20150 UNI

  World Bank ­ Project Information Document (PID), dated February 25, 2000

  World Bank - Aide-Memoires of supervision mission

  World Bank - Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISR)




                                            29

Annex 10: Indicators in the PAD, DCA and ISR

The objective of this annex is to provide a broad view on the indicators identified in the project's
various documents. The ICR assesses the project against the indicators identified in the PAD when
possible. When the indicator in the PAD is not relevant, the ICR reports on the achievements under the
component and its link to the overall objective of the project. Three out of five outcomes indicators are
easy to monitor and to assess.

                                     Project Appraisal      Development Credit Agreement          Project Status Report
                                     Document (PAD)                       (DCA)                           (ISR)                  Project achievements
                                  Detailed corruption
                                  surveys (PDO 1)          3 corruption surveys designed in
                                                           agreement with IDA shall have
                                                           been carried out, action plan
                                                           designed to address issues
                                                                                                                         One survey was undertaken and its
                                                                                                                         results were not made public.
                                                                                                                         3-5 year lag cleared but non
                                                                                                                         periodic publication of audited
                                                                                                                         fiscal account.      Strengthened the
                                                                                                                         efficiency of the accounting system in
                                                                                                                         line with the recommendations of the
                                                                                                                         CFAA. Supported reorganization of
                                                                                                                         OAGF from six to eight functional
                                                                                                                         departments. Assisted the FGN in
                                  Periodicity,             National account shall have been                              reviewing the outdated 1958 Audit
                                  transparency, and        audited by June 30 of each year,                              Act.    Strengthened    the   auditing
                                  reliability of published results of the audit submitted to the                         function, reinforced the oversight role
                                  fiscal data (PDO 1)      National Assembly by September                                of the public account committee.
                                                           30 each year
                                                                                                                         NPC conducted 4 sectoral PERs. The
                                                                                                                         PERs formed the content of the
                                                                                                                         Memo-to-Council of the Economic
                                                                                                                         BO since 2004 prepares an annual
                                                                                                                         review of budget implementation
         Indicators                                                                                                      which informs the following year's
                                                                                                                         budget. Considerable increase in total
                                                                                                                         spending on MDGs.

                   rformance                                                                                             Through EMCAP, a CPAR was
                            Pe                                                                                           undertaken in 2000. The Executive

                              Key                                                                                        Council adopted the revised CPAR
                                                                                                                         recommendations. Other significant
                                                                                                                         contributions    included,   a    new
                                                                                                                         procurement           bill        and
                                                                                                                         implementation           mechanism
                                                                                                                         for          procurement             (
                                                                                                                         establishment     of    the    Budget
                                  Evaluation of public                                                                   Monitoring and Price Intelligence
                                  expenditures in light                                                                  Unit (BMPIU) which is in charge of
                                  with announced and                                                                     due process, issuance of the Nigeria
                                  agreed priorities as     A PER shall have been carried out                             Procurement Manual, and the National
                                  well as strengthening of by December 2001, the results                                 Assembly's approval of a new Public
                                  sound procurement,       should be reviewed with IDA by                                Procurement Bill).
                                  accounting and auditing  march 2002
                                  practices (PDO 2)
                                                           Identified incidents of
                                                           mismanagement of public finance
                                  Vigor and robustness of  shall have been investigated as
                                  enforcement actions      appropriate by the relevant
                                  involving corruptions    investigative authorities in a speedy
                                  incidents.               manner; and the results of the
                                                           investigations made public as
                                                           appropriate                                                   Not achieved.



                                                                                     30

                                       Have       first    phase                       Fostering greater
                                       IFEMIS in place and                             transparency and
                                       publish data (PDO 1)                            accountability in fiscal
                                                                                       operations                 IFEMIS infrastructure is in place
                                                                    Not applicable                                but data has not been published
                                                                                                                  There is no evidence that solid
                                       Solid economic                                  Fiscal Operations of FGN   economic justification is used for
                                       justification for capital                       open to audit by the       capital project in Nigeria. However,
                                       projects (PDO 2)                                Auditor General of the     feasibility studies are required for a
                                                                    Not applicable     Federation                 project to be listed in the PIP.
                                                                                                                  NBS made remarkable progress in
                                                                                                                  economic, social and poverty statistics
                                                                                                                  and enhancing quality of CPI. The
                                                                                                                  most up-to-date publication is now
                                                                                                                  only a year old, dating to 2006. GDP
                                                                                                                  data is now produced quarterly, based
                                                                                                                  on comprehensive surveys that cover
                                                                                                                  all economic sectors. The lag in the
                                                                                                                  production of the CPI has been
                                                                                                                  reduced from 6 months to 1.


Indicators                                                                                                        EMCAP         (along     with    ERGP)

          ODP                          Publication of timely                                                      contributed to increasing the number
                                       economic, social and                                                       of publications. A new website has
                                       poverty data (PDO 3)                            Improved quality and       been set up to make data readily
             or                                                                        timeliness of economic and available online.
                                                                    Not applicable     social data
                                       Publication of candid
               ndicatorsi              OAuGF audits;
                                       penalties for major                             Improved transparency and
                                       violators (PDO 1)                               accountability in
                                                                                       government operations and  Reports for 3-5 years done but no
                         outcome                                    Not applicable     specially fiscal spending  penalties for violators.
                                                                                                                  Joint reviews and studies, created a
                                                                                                                  momentum on policy dialogue among
                                Agreed                                                                            various stakeholders in several areas
                                                                                                                  such as pension reform, trade, private
                                                                                                                  sector    development,      and    fiscal
                                                                                                                  decentralization (the focus of studies
                                                                                                                  financed under EMCAP). While direct
                                                                                                                  attribution is not possible, the studies
                                                                                                                  helped    contribute     to   improving
                                                                                                                  pension      reforms      and    records
                                                                                                                  management in the Federal Civil
                                                                                                                  Service.    Following     a   series  of
                                                                                                                  diagnostic studies and seminars on the
                                                                                                                  Nigerian Pensions System funded
                                                                                                                  through EMCAP, a new Pensions Act
                                       Completion of joint                                                        was passed by the National Assembly
                                       reviews. (PDO 4)                                                           and a National Pensions Commission
                                                                                                                  established.

                                                                                                                  Sub-objective of a GDLC was not
                                                                    Not applicable                                achieved.




                                                                                 31

