RESTRICTED
Report No.   PA-125a
Tlis report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specificafly authorized orgarizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not acoept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
COSTA RICA
April 12, 1972
Agriculture Projects Department






COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICUILTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...............................1 i-i
1.   INTRODUCTION .........................                        1
II.   BACKGROUND         .............................................    1
A.   General         ...........................................  1
B.   The Agricultural Sector .....      ......................    2
III.   PROJECT PERFORMANCE UNDER TRE FIRST LOAN, 538-CR  ...   5
IV.   THE PROJECT .................................   8
A. General Description                  . . .   8
B.  Detailed Features                 ..... .   9
C . Cost Estimates.                           .. 12
D. Financíng....  13
E. Procurement               ...13
P. Disbursement.                             .. 14
Y.   PROJECT ADMINISTRATION  ......... . 14
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES, AND PRODUCER BENEFITS..  17
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .20
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACRED AND REOOMKKNDATION .21
This appraisal report is based on the findinga of two missions. The
first visited Costa Rica in October/November 1970 and was composed of
Messrs. R. R. Rossi, J. Bazo, S. J. Khoo and H. Vieilhescaze (Bank); and
C. Percival (consultant), who all contributed to the report. The second
mission, to update the report, was in September/October 1971 snd was composed
of Messrs. M. Walden, R. R. Rossi, R. Arrivillaga, and J. Bazo.



- *2 -
ANNEXES
1.   Agricultural Growth in Costa Rica, 1965-1970
Table 1   The Contribution of Agriculture to Groas Domestic Product
at Market Prices, 1965-70
Table 2   Total Value, Quantity and Unit Value of Agricultural Ex-
ports, and Total Exporta, 1966-70
Table 3   Employed Population by Sector, 1950, 1963 and 1967, and
by Size of Farme, 1963
2.   Supporting Services
3.   The Banking System
Schedule A - Lending Terma and Conditiona
Schedule B - Allocation of Loan Proceeda
Schedule C - Central Bank Agricultural Credit Departnent
Table 1   Consolidated Annual Balance Sheets of the Four State
Commercial Banks
Table 2   Credit Ceilings and Credit Used Within Cellinge
for Years 1967-71
Table 3   Agricultural Loans Portfolio of the State Cowmercial
Banks Distributed According to Departments and Agri-
cultural Activity
Table 4   State Commercial Banks' Portfolio Distributed According
to Terms
Table 5   Agricultural Loans Approved by the Four State Commercial
Banks and BNCR's Rural Credít Department
Table 6   Agricultural Loans Disbursed and Collected by the State
*ommercial Banks
Table 7   Arrears and Outstanding Portfolio of Couqercíal Depart-
ments of the State Commercial Banks
Table 8   Consolidated Statement of Earninga and Expenditures of
the Four State Comercíal Banks
4.   Livestock
5.   Estímates of Proposed Investment Program - Livestock
6.   Farm Modela Livestock
- Beef Cattle
- Dairy Cattle
7.   Estimates of Proposed Investment Program - Crops



-3-
8.   Farm Models Crops
- Annual Crops
- Bananas/Plantains
- Fruit Trees
- Pineapples
9.   Estimates of Proposed Investment Program - Forestry
10.   Farm Model - Forestry
11.   Estimates of Proposed Investment Program - Agro-industries
12.   Estimates of Proposed Investment Progran - Technical Services
13.   Project Cost
14.   Project Cash Flow
15.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
16.   Estimated Increase in Utilized Area and Production
17.   Markets and Marketing
18.   Financial Rates of Return to the Enterprises
Beef Cattle
Dairy Cattle
Annual Crops
Bananas/Plantains
Fruit Trees
Pineapples
Forestry
19.   Economic Rate of Return
CRARTS
1.   Central Bank Organization
2.   Ministry of Agriculture Organization
MAP






COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRIC$JTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUMMAKY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Thís report appraises an Agricultural Credit Project to support
a three-year lending program for investmepts in farms producing livestock,
crops and tímber, and ín agro-industries. A loan of US$9.0 million is
proposed. This amount represents the foreign exchange cost of medium-
and long-term investments estimated at US$16.5 million. Agriculture ís the
largest sector in the Costa Rican economy, accounting for about one-fourth
of gross domestic product and three-fourths of export receipts and providing
employment for about 40% of the employed population. Accordingly, the
Government has given top priority to ite development and diversification.
The Central Bank would be the Borrover and respongible for Project adminis-
tration.  It vould on-lend Bank funda to four autonomous state-ovned
commercial banks.
it.       Thís would be the Second Agricultural Credit Project financed by
the Bank in Costa Rica. It would be essentially a continuation of Loan
538-CR for US$3.0 million made ti June 1968 for the development of beef,
banana, cotton, and pineapple, but would &l8o provide loans for dairy
production, a wider range of crops and forestry, and certain types of agro-
industries. It would also include technical assistance to ensure effective
administration of the Project. After a rather «low start, the First Project
progreased satisfactorily and loan funds were fully comiitted in August 1971.
iii.      The Project would be financed as follows:  55% by the Bank, 26% by
the four commercíal banks (participating banks), and 19% by the sub-borrowera.
The Bank loan would be made available to the Central Bank at the prevailing
interest rate. The Central Bank would bear the foreign exchange risk and
on-lend to participating banks at not less than 7.25% interest p.a. Partici-
pating bank lending to borrowera would be at an effective interest rite of
not leas than 9.75% p.a. Project loans by the participating banks would
be committed over a three-year períod though actual loan diabursementa would
extend for four years. Project loanr above US$100,000 as well as proposals
for oil palm and agro-Industries would be submitted to the Bank for approval
accompanied by technical and financial justifications.
iv.       The participating institutions in the Project have competent
management and are in sound financial condition. Together with additíonal
Costa Rican technical personnel to be recruited under the Project, the
technical supporting services and administrative arrangements would be
adequate to implemnent the Project efficiently.
Y.        The investment items in the Project are amall and varied and would
not be suitable for bulk procurement. The country, moreover, has a well
established group of importera and dealera for the necessary inputs. Facilí-
ties to service machinery and equípment are also adequate and prices are
competitive.  In view of this, procurement would be through normal conmer-
cial channels.



- ii -
vi.       The investments under the Project are of hígh priority and
technically feasible, with financial rates of return ranging between 18% and
35%. The economic rate of return ranges from 20% to 37%. The necessary
assurances having been obtained during negotiatíons, the Project 18 suítable
for a loan of US$9.0 million, repayable over 18 years, including a five--
year grace period.



COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Costa Rica has requested a Bank loan of
US$9.0 million to help finance a Second Agricultural Credit Project for
intensified development of about 350 commercial farms, covering about 73,000
ha, and 20 agro-industrial enterprises. The Project would be essentially
a continuation of the First Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 538-CR for
US$3 million), which provided finance for investments in beef, banana, píne-
apple and cotton production. All funds under the First Project were fully
committed in August 1971. The proposed Project would cover a wide range
of crops as well as dairy farming, forestry and agro-industries. It would
finance land and crop development; machinery and equipment; constructions
and installations; planting material and breeding stock; and capital goods
and services for technical assistance. Government plano to concentrate Bank
funds mainly on a selected group of commercially viable farms operated
efficiently to enable achievement of a quícker and higher growth rate in
the agricultural sector.
1.02      This report ls based on the findings of two missions that visited
Costa Rica; the first in October/November 1970 was composed of Messrs.
R. R. Rossí, J. Bazo, S. J. Khoo and H. Vieilhescaze (Bank); and C. Percival
(consultant). An updating miesion composed of Mesars. M. Walden, R. R. Rossi,
R. Arrivillaga and J. Bazo visited Costa Rica in Septenber/October 1971.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Costa Rica is one of the more prosperous and progressive countries
in Latín Amerlca.  It experíenced rapid economic growth during the 1960's, wíth
GDP at current market prices inereasing from an annual average of 7.5% in the
first half of that decade to 9.5% in the second. Corresponding rateo for
real CDP growth were 6% and 8%, respectively. In 1970, per capita real GDP
reached an estimated US$520 compared with US$39O in 1960. At this level,
Costa Rica has reached a stage of development where the economy can be
expected to become more diversífied and less dependent on traditional forms
of agricultural production. There has been, in fact, a gradual ahifting of
labor out of the agricultural sector.
2.02      Costa Rica has an open economy with exports accounting for
well over 30% of GDP and imports supplying about the same proportion of
aggregate demand. Except for limited exchange control, there are virtually
no restríctions governíng imports or capital movemente. Consequently, with
rapid economic expansion and increases in incomes, excesa demand has led
to substantial increases in importe and subsequent deterioration in the



-2-
balance of payments.  The disequilibrium in the balance of paymenta has
become iracreasingly acute In recent years.
2.03      Because of the importance of expanding exports in Costa Rica's
economic grolth performance, continued efforta are needed to sustain export
grawth if the present momentum ls to be maintained. With production and
export of tradítional products facing lover prices and unfavorable market
prospects, a major effort ís required to ínerease the production of ímport
substitutes as well as of non-traditional export commoditíes. The proposed
Project would assist in achleving these objectives.
B.  The Agricultural Sector
2.04      Agriculture remalns one of the most important sectors in the Costa
Rican economy. It still accounts for one-fourth of the gross domestie
product (GDP), contributes about three-fourtha of export receipta, and
provides employment for a declining but still signifícant proportion (about
40%, Annex 1, Table 3) of the working population. Agrículture's share in CDP
has remained relatively stable for the last five years, decreasing only
slightly (about 24 to 23%). Main export cropa are coffee, bananas, sugar
and cocoa and basic food crops are rice, corn, and beana. Beef cattle and
dairv are the two major livestock enterprises, wíth the former becc>ming
íncreasingly important as an export commodity. In terma of value, coffee
and bananas are the leading export crops and together account .for about 80%
of agricultural exports and 60% of total exporto.
2.05      Although most of Costa Rica is ecologically suitable for
agriculture 1/ and forestry, only about one-thírd la under cultívation or
pasture.  lhe four main climatic zones -- hot and dry tropical (Dry Tropics:
Guanacaste, North Puntarenas); hot and monsoonal tropical (Southern
Puntarenas and Southern San Jose); hot and humíd tropical (Wet Tropics:
Atlantíc); and subtropical (Central Plateau) -- also mark the geographical
concentration of agricultural production. Bananas, cocoa, and oil ptlT
4ro ímportallt tin the Atlantíc and South Pacífíc; coffee, sugar, and dairy
in thie Central Plateau; and beef cttle, cotton, and basic gráina in the
i)ry Tropics, maínly Guanaraste.  Forest products, corn, and field crop
mi- 'iarvested throughout the country. According to the latest Agricultural
Cen.sus (1963), Costa Rica has about 65,000 farms, 53% being lees than 10
ha in size, 14% hetween 10 and 20 ha, 18% between 20 and 50 ha, 9% between
50 and 100 ha, -ind 6% larger than 100 ha.  There are three major centers of
small farms:  (a) Peninsula Nicoya (Dry Tropics), (b) Central Plateau, and
(c) Province of Limon (cocoa growers).
2.06      Agricultural output, whích has been growvng at an annual average
rate of nearlv S.59% (1965-70), received ite main ímpetus from expansion
of banana and beet cattle. This was accomplished under govenunent's policy
of dlverstflcaclon to crops other than coffee and sugarcane, which in five
years added beef and bananas to the liot of the most important cormodities
I1/ The term "agriculture" includes crop and animal production.



- 3 -
produced. Between 1966 and 1970, the volume of bananas exportea more than
doubled, while meat, a non-traditional export, almost tripled (Annex 1,
Table 2).
2.07      Government has been actively encouraging the deveiopment of
agriculture. Except for coffee, íncreases in agricultural production, based
mostly on expansion of cropped hectareage rather than on yield increases,
have been confined mainly to export commodities, which increased from
US$106.0 million in 1966 to US$175.9 míllian in 1970. However, other crops
(fruit trees, pineapples), beef and dairy, forestry, and agro-industries have
great potential for development and are receiving increasing government
financial and technical support. Improved agro-industries, particularly
packing facilities, would greatly strengthen Costa Rica's marketing capabili-
ties.
Supporting Services (Annex 2)
2.08      The agricultural sector ia served by several government and private
institutions. Besides the banking system, the principal institutiona are
the Ministry of Agriculture, Consejo Agropecuario Nacional, Consejo Nacional
de la Produccion, Camara Nacional de Agricultores and Camara Nacional de
Ganaderos. The Central Bank's Training Center conducts regular courses on
appraisal and supervision techniques for selected candidates from participating
banks and, occasionally, from government and private institutions.
2.09      The Mínistry of Agriculture (MAG) has a technical staff of about
300 and provides countrywide technical assistance through extension and
research activities. It is in charge of plant and animal sanitation and
coordinates the efforts of all the national and international institutions
providing services to farmers. Ita extension service is actively engaged
ín assisting borrowers under the First Project. Using funda from USAID and
1DB loans (paras 3.09 and 3.10), MAG started a four-year program in 1971
to reinforce its technical services. Costa Rica has qualified and experienced
technicíans for the production of bananas, coffee, pineapple, beef and milk,
but it ís short of expertise in sorne areas, particularly processing industries
and forestry.
2.10      The Consejo Nacional de la Produccion (CNP) is an autonomous
government institution set up in 1956. Its objectives related to agriculture
are to (a) promote development; and (b) stabílize prices of food products
consumed domestícally in the interest of both producers and consumers.  To
achieve these objectives, CNP purchases and sells basic items such as rice,
maize, beans, fish products and seeds. These are acquired through 34 buying
agencies throughout the country. CNP sella much of ita produce directly to
consumers and the rest to wholesalers and retailere, mainly at the large
storage centers in San Jose and the provinces. CNP builds, rents and
operates processing, storage and transport facilities; it also regulates the
domestic beef market by determining the quantity of cattle that can be
exported. CNP also provides guarantees of up to 0 20,000 as collateral for
productíon loans by small farmers borrowing from commercial banks and lacking



-.4-
security. Recently, rice has constituted three-quarters of the approximate
C 4 milllon guaranteed iri this way
Agricultural Credit
2.11      The banking system consists of the Central Bank (CB), four
autonomous state-owned commercial banks and two private banks. State-owned
institutions are Banco Anglo Costarricense (BACR); Banco de Costa Rica (BCR);
Banco de Credito Agrícola de Cartago (BCAC); and Banco Nacional de Costa
Rica (BNCR). The two private banks are not permitted to accept deposits
and their lending to agriculture is negligible. The state-owned banks have
been in business for over 50 years, are well organized and operate accordíng
to good banking practices.  They have a total of 171 offices throughout the
country, 130 of which belong to BNCR. All have experience in agrícultural
credit. Provisiorks of the basic bank law are presented in Annex 3.
2.12      Froin 1967 to 1970, the conmmercial banks' total portfolios rose
from ¢ 1,316 million to * 1,750 million.  Their resources increased by 26%
during the last three years, mainly because of a substantial rise in depostes
and borrowing. Interest on deposits varies from 4% p.a. to 7% p.a., depending
on maturity; short-term deposité represent 48% of resources, and seasonal
fluctuation le very small. After deposits, borrowings (31%) are the major
component of total resources, while capital and reserves account for 15%.
72.13      Up to the end of 1970, CB tightly controlled credit expansion
through a set of ceilíngs ímposed on the commercial banks' loan portfolios.
These ceilings conbined quantítative and qualitative controlé through
subceilings on credit to the various sectors of the econony and even to
specífic industries within a sector. Early in 1971, the system was
substantially simpl.ified. It now fixes percentage diotribution aÉonig the
actívittes that cach commercial bank should have in ite loan portfolio
according to rnational priorities and the bank's traditional loan pattern.
During 1971, however, the system proved incapable of controlling over-all
,-redit expansion, ancl nodlfications were introduced for 1972. The
`min one placed individual ceillngs on banks and required that they be
reviewed quarterly.  Lending unider the First Project was initially clasified
under agriculture.  it has since been shifted to the maximum priority
catesory, which ls not subject to limite.
2,14      T!he state commercial bánking system has more tlian half of it8 total
portfolio in agriibi (ture development, production, and marketing. Agricultural
lending grew from ¢ 701 míllion at the end of 1967 to e 953 million at thé
end of 1970 (Annex 3, Table 3).  Two-thirds of the loans are medium- and
lor.g-term, principally to large- and medium-sized farns.  Smsll faruera
have credit facilities in the commercial departments of the banks or in the
BNCR rural credit department, opened especially to deal with this type of
applicant (17% of the agricultural portfolio of the four banks). About 60%
of agricultural lending is through BNCR and 25% through BCR.
2.15      In additlon to controlling lending by a system of categories
(para 2.13), CB determines the, interest rates that the coumercial banks
may charge.  This is 8% for agrículture and industry and 12% for moet other



- 5 -
purposes, plus, at the optíon of the commercial bank, a commission of up
to 1% per annum.  Interest and commission are charged quarterly in advance,
which effectively raises the rate payable in total by about 1/4 of 1%.
Hígher interest rates are charged by non-institutional sources and by a
number of financial companies (mining, agriculture and industry, 12%, other
purposes 16%) which are not governed by the basic bank law. CB's rediscount
rates also carry a differential between sectors: agriculture and industry,
4% and for other purposes, 8%.
2.16      In addition to the Bank's First Project, other agricultural credit
projects have been supported by USAID and IDB. These projecta and the
role and performance of the conmercial banks under the First Project are
considered in Chapter III.
III. PROJECT PERFORMANCE UNDER THE FIRST LOAN, 538-CR
Puzpose of Loan
3.01      The First Agricultural Credit Project helped finance a CB three-year
lending program to finance medium- and long-term investments, estimated at
US$6 million, to increase the productlon of beef cattle, banana, cotton, and
pineapple. The Bank loan of US$3 million (effective December 1968) supported
this program and covered total foreign exchange costs. Loans to commercial
farmers have been made through the four state-owned commercial banks.
Policies and Procedures
3.02      Under Loan 538-CR, CB reimbursed viable operations appraised by
the participating bank (PB) technicians under the guidance of CB technicians.
Loan maturities conformed to the particular repayment capacities of sub-projects,
but did not exceed asset life, according to financial projectiona and grace
periods recommended by PB technicians in farm plans they helped prepare.
Loans were made only if beneficiaries provided an average of at least 20%
of the estimated cost of their development plans. It was intended at first
that sub-borrowers would pay interest rates, including commissiona, of between
8 and 9%; CB, however, allowed a higher rate so that PBs could meet their
administrative costs and most farmers, as a result, have paid an effective
total rate of 9-3/4%. Bank funds at 6-1/4% to CB have been passed on to
PBs at 6-1/2%, together with the Bank commltment charge. Under the First
Project, the financing plan called for farmers to pay 20%; PBs, 30%; and
the Bank, 50%.
Pr-ogres of Operations
3.03      The First Project went slowly at first for various reasona, the
most slgnificant being that there were delays in setting up the organizational
arrangements manifested in unsatisfactory staffing and coordínation arrange-
ments in the CB technical unit. Further, the PBs and their technicians were
not yet familiar with the concepts of lending based upon detailed farm
plans and thus required a level of supervision that CB was not staffed to
provide. CB therefore became a bottleneck. However, in 1970, these problems



--  -
were overcome and all Bank funds were cc-.maítLeú by August 1971,  ro montha
after the original closing date. PBs, wí'th CB's approval, bave continued
comnimtting funds ín anticipation of a Second Project and by September 30,
1971 had made total loan commitments of US$6 million, US$t.3 million beyond
their First Project lending program of US$4.7 million.
3.04      The pattern of Firsi Project lending has varied substantially
from that envisaged at the time of appraisal. It was expected then that beef
lending would be 37%, bananas 34%, and cotton and pineapp3e 29%. However,
because banana and pineapple producers had a source of alternative financing
up to the end of 1970 from two private banks (US and Canadían) 1/ and cottCEl
areas were adversely affected by floods and volcanic eruptiona, the demand
for loans under the Project carne mainly from beef producers. As ef
September 30, 1971, 102 loans have been made -- two for banana development
(US$400,000), one for pineapple (US$20,000), and 99 for beef cattle develop-
ment (US$5.6 millaon).
3.05      Until recently, partícipating banks had no problem In providing
their share of funds to support the Project. However, in early 1971, CB
altered the classificatíon system that controlled the old credit cellíngs
and the First Project was placed in a non-prlorlty category (para 2.13).
This caused difficulties for PBs close to their ceilinga. The situation
has since been corrected by placíng the First Project in a prlority
category. The Second Loan would be similarly treated. Another funde
problem arose when BCAC approached the límits of ita lending resources for
all purposes, but government provided the solution by lncreasing the bank's
capital. It is not expected that the problem wíll recur ín the near future.
Impact
3.06      The Project has been in operation too short a time for a flrm
judgment to be made as to its impact.  There are indications, however, that
investments will show satisfactory returns. Project funds are financing the
development or lmprovement of about 60,000 ha of land and pasture9
about 1,400 km of fences and about 70 ¡m o: ln1ernal roada.  Some 16 000
head of additional cattle have been purchased and all the water facílities
and installations needed for handling them have been financed.  Many of
these lmprovements are completed and some are 8till ín progreso; the rate of
impleientation is satisfactory.
3.07      As ímportant as the physical assetS establíshed Is the fact that
the Project has succeeded in introducing into the banking system a new
approach to lending for farm development, based on farm plans, incorporating
a "package" of well integrated agrículturzl and fínancial príncinI3ea
Application of this approach, welcomed by most progresoive farmers, ha8
oeen made possible by creating the technlcal unlt i CR and matching it
with competent technical staffs in the PBs.  This uaít ln CB ha  sunce
been upgraded and is now the Agricultural Credit Department through which
mnost agricultural lending is being handled.  Sub-loans froo Project funds
1/   Chase Manhattan Bank loan for US$(5.0 milIion end Baklk of Nova Se,otla
loan for US$2.0 million. Banana producere were pa. ing up to 132 lnterest
per annum.



are not yet due for collection but interest payments are being made on time,
and the four participatíng banks have a satisfactory record of collections
on other lending. As of December 31, 1970, less than 4% of loans from a
portfolio amounting to US$1,254 million were in arrears for over one year,
and actual losses from bad debts are negligible.
Other International Agencies
3.08      BNCR fully disbursed by May 1971 a US$5.2 million loan made
directly to it by IDB in 1965, with over 80% of the funds going to beef
cattle production. A new IDB loan to BNCR for US$6 million, also mainly
for beef, was approved in February 1972.  There lo a maximum ceíling on
sub-loans of US$40,000 and only farmera with groas assets below US$60,000 wíll
qualify. The terms to BNCR and to farmers are significantly more attractive
(farmers' interest rate between 8 and 9% per annum) than i8 possible under
the proposed Second Project as funda are derived from IDB's Fund for Special
Operations. Thus, the IDB loan will, to some extent, compete wlth the Second
Project as its predecessor did with the First Project. This was one of the
difficulties in getting the First Project moving as BNCR ís the largest
co=mercial bank.  It has used some First Project funds recently as it has
not had lower cost IDB funde available, but now it has again under the new
IDB project, BNCR's Bank usage will fall or cease. Estimates of total credit
demand are, however, much greater than could be met only by the IDB loan
and, further, IDB funds will be channelled only through BNCR. Since farmers
tend to remain customers of their usual coimnercial banks for loans even when
they are at sllghtly greater cost, no signlficant drift of customers from
the other three PBs is expected. Further, although the maximum size of IDB's
farmers' loans is larger than the average loan expected under the proposed
Second Project, a number of Second Project borrowers would be íneligible
for IDB funds for reasons of size.
3.09      An IDB loan of US$2.5 million, approved in 1970, is not competitive
wíth the Bank but, rather, ls expected to be complementary in that it will
strengthen agricultural research and extension actívities and construct MAG
regional centers.
3.10      Another complementary loan was made by USAID at the end of 1970.
Total program cost is US$30 million, approximately US$7 million of which
is for credit through the bankíng system. Much of the program íB devoted to
improvement of the agricultural ínfrastructure, with particular emphasis
on small farmers, and a major component wlll enable such farmers to obtain
land títles, the lack of whích has been a constraint in granting credit to
them (from all sources, including the Bank). The USAID miesion in Costa
Rica, with its staff of eight professionals in agriculture, is well suited
to supervise the program and lf it la successful, the demand for credit ia
likely to exceed the sum available. Accordingly, there are reasonable
prospects that credítworthy farmers who are conducting viable operations
would be interested in participating in the Second Project.



-8 -
3.11      The lending portion of the USAID program is adminIstered by the
Agricultural Credit Unit in the CB establíshed under the Flrst Project.
The close association of the two lending prograas la benefici.al to both.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The Second Agricultural Credit Project (totalling about US$16.5
million) would help finance mned!um- and long-term Investments over a period o:
three years to increase production of livestock, crope, and torestry,
and to establish agro-lndustries.  Items included under major Investnent
categoríes are shown in Annex 3, Schedule B. Livestock would be mainly
beef and dairy cattle (46%), and crops (41%) would include annuals (mainly
rice and maize), fruit trees, other tree crops (banana, plantaina, oíl palrn),
and pineapples.  Investments would be made by individual farmers; thte Central
Bank would be responsible for administration of the lendlng program through
participating conmercial banks. Technical servícea (2%) would be provided
ts strengthen the work of the Central Bank and participating bank technicians,
4.02      The following table shows the major investments expected to be
made over the three-year period:
Typical
Size of   Number              Investment
Individual      of                  Per          Total
Investment            _roject  Sub-loans  Total  Sub-borrower  Investment
(ha)                 (ha) .. .e'7o0o) .......
Livestock
Beef                   300         180      54,000    218.5         39,330
Dairy                   40          50       2,000    158.9          7,945
,om,lementarv
_evelop¿ment                      --                   --         9,930
_ C ropKs
Annual Crops            50          60       3,000      82.7         4,965
Fruit Trees              15         30         450    119.2          3,575
other Tree Crops       300          l0       3,000  2,422.9         24,230
Pineapple               100         10       1,000    496.5          4,965
Forestry             1,000          10      10,000    529.6          5,295
ear!-industr            --^         20         --      327.5
Total                    370     73L450                 106, 785



- 9
4.03      Investme"nts under the Second Project would be mainly to support
beef breeding and fattentn$ operation's es under the First Project and to
extend lnto dairyin; (Annexep 4, 5, nd 6).  Investmenta for beef development
would be main1y in the Dry and Wet Tropico on available land suitable for
pasture develop;aent *pd close to p rts that would give access to large foreign
markets. The PrQject wQul4 fin*nce expan_ion of livestock operations through
the upgrading  4f bveeding otoclk (nias 4nd plfnt8) re,lted to land develop-
ment.  PNstYre Improvqient wouid be ;chieved through legume-grass asuociations
with phosph;tic fort1ilters, which hay  bceen deu»n8trated to be en efficient
form of devolopmopt,
4.04      Under the First Project, loans to farmera for livestock develop-
ment included as a precondition, pyot,ctiln of ani=m4 health. This would
continue to be a requireuent unter the proposed Project end aseurances to
this effect were obtezned during ngoQti.tIouns.  Regul*r vaccination programa
*gainat epizOQ~,tcs, *opei#lly          q#tc"lo4i and tvblrculosi, operete vel
under the supervtsoit  of M1AG.
Cropa
4.05      Loens for crop development (Annexes 7 and 8) would finance
cotton, bananas, 8n4 pine4pple  and would addiLtionaly cover other annual
crops, mainly iaize and rice, oilseçds (qeoame and groundnuts), beans,
--vegetables, iwshrois, fruits and fruit trees (qvocados, citrus and mangos),
and oil pala.  Invesernts for annal Crops would be mainly In the Dry and
Wet Tropica, banu4a *nd oil palm in the Wet Tropice, and pineapple ín the
Central Plateau. These loanq would he usde on the basis of farm development
plans for eílsting farms. Oil palm i8 a spe*ial casç, since the minimum
viable nucleus (*bout 2,000 ha of oil p;lm) would be established in a selected
area in the Wet Tropics (<tlantic waterohed). Potential oil pala farmer8
would be current b4nana and coqoa growera wiuhing to diversify. The former
would particip4te indivídually, while the latter, mainly small farmers, would
participate as membqrs of a cooperative yet to be organized. Because of
the time interval betwçen planting anid uignificant production (i»ore than
three yeara) , it is unnecessary and ín*ppropriate to provide finance for
processing facilitieo qn4er the propgsqd Project.  It would be sufficient to
require careful coordination to ensure that oporadic development by individual
farmers did not inhibit efficient harvesting and procesing arrangements. For
these reasons, «a,urances were obtd.ned during negotiations that technical
and financi4l juotficatíions for Qi1 pg4, developm*nt would be drawn up in
consultatiQn with MA4G end the MWn$!tWy of Industry and Commerce and
be submitted for prior Bne)c ipproyg.
4.06      Frult f4rws would be located in ecologically suitable areas selected
in the inter.oVnta4in plateau and piedionto of the Central Plateau and ln the
Dry Tropics Avocados and citruv w9ulo be 8orn iín frost-free ;reas and in
deep and vell dreined solsg. Tr*e* yoy1d be propqrly protected by windbreake.



4.07      CB would ensurc that borrowers for crop development had acquired
selected seeds and seedlings from a source acceptable to MAG and that they
carry out a fertilízer program appropriate to soil coOditiono and crop
requirements. Assurances were obtained duríng negotiations that the
procedures set out in this and the preceding paragraph would be followed.
Forestry
4.08      Loans for forestry development (Annexes 9 and 10) would be made
throughout the country.   About 50% of the forestry lendíng program wouUd
cover producers in the Wet Tropics and the rest would be distributed between
the Dry Tropics and the Central Plateau, where Costa Rica la well endowed
with indígenous forests.
4.09      In the forest areas commercial species of timber would be extracted
and measures taken to replace cut crees through reforestation and
afforestation, whlch generally have been neglected. While the present legal.
base 1/ for protectíng the ecology through conservation of forest resources
Is adequate, enforcement ls difficult and there la presently little incentive
for producers to follow the sound principles contained in the forestry
legislation. Government, through CB, would therefore support an approach
to forest management that would encoarage and protect the forest resour¢ee
and the natural environment of the country.  Proposed on-farn  infrastructcre
lnvestments would be common to the three types of land use (cropping,
grazing, and forestry). To qualify for a loan, each farmer vould submit
a development plan, lnciuding an inventory of forest resources aS well as
the commercially usable volume (as required by lav), on the basis of which
certain investments would be financed under the Project: (a) land and forest
development; (b) machinery and equipment; and (c) small nurseries to produce
the needed number of trees for re-Zorestation. During negotiationa, aJaur-
ances vere obtained that development plana for forestry would be carried
out in consultatlon with MAC.
Compglementary Development
4.10      Under the Second Project, lt would be feasible and desirable to
carry out additional investments on commercially viable farms, already
possessing most assets necessary for effícient operatíon, to consolidate
cheir position.  Investmenta would rmainiv involve completion, expansion,
or renovation actívities related to farm machínery and equiprient, planting,
cattle handllng facilities, anc installatíons, as well as rehabilitation
works linked both to land asud crops. !he cost and benefits derived from
such ínvestments would be justífied on indivídual bases through complementary
tarm development plans.  This is dlstinct f1ox tie large-scale establishlent
of new farmnland and major development of exlsting farms, which has comprised
the whole of the First Proiect and la expected to attract the large"t nuFber
of sub-borrowers under che Second Proiect. Present informatIon is in-
adequate, l¡owever, to p;edict a priori, wlti ¿ substantial degree of
accuracy, the nwnber of loans likely to be made in each Investment category.
1/   Forestry Law No. 44óo  of November 25, 1969.



- 11 -
Their identification would depend on the results of field appraisal which
would differ from farm to farm. However, based on requests received by CB
and PBs during the First Project, many potential participants are expected
to apply. The total of this type of investment ís expected to be of the
order of US$1.5 million and this la included in the categories of livestock,
annual and tree crops, other than fruit, described above. In particular,
this approach would be relevant to lending to amaller farmers benefitting
under the USAID project referred to in paragraph 3.10.
Agro-industries
4.11      Agro-industry 15 still on a small and inadequate scale.  Part of
the Project aims at assisting farmers to develop or improve different
agro-industrial enterprises (Annex 11). Among these are 11 packing plants
for banana and pineApple. These processing, storage, and handl.ing facilities
would either be used only for Project operations or to provide services to
other farmers (small and mediím), thereby strengthening the marketing of
theír farm products.
4.12      The remaining ínve8tments would be for the expansion and improve-
ment of slaughterhouses, milk pasteurization plants, feed concentrate mixing
plant, grain storage, sawmills, and small planes for pesticide and fertilizer
spraying, for which there i8 an increasing demand.  Most proposed agro-indus-
tries would be privately owned and operated mainly by individual producers.
Except for the fruit packing plants, no feasibility studies or proposals have
been made. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that technical and
financial justifications for agro-industry sub-loans would be drawn up in
consultation with CNP and the Ministry of Industry and Comerce and submitted
for prior Bank approval.
Technical Services and Training
4.13      Strengtheníng of the Agricultural Credit Department of CB is
described in paragraph 5.04. Of the four additional professional staff
required on a full-time basís, it is unlikely that any would be expatriate.
llowever, CB expects to require forelgn technical expertíse, either by way of
short-term assignments or by engagement of foreign consulting firms, parti-
cularly in the areas of forestry development snd agro-industry. Accordingly,
about US$145,000 is provided for such expatriate staff or consultants. A
number of additional vehicles for CB and PB staff would also be supplied under
the Project.
4.14      Fellowships wíll be required for further training of CB, PB and
Government staff in institutiong abroad. Detalls of the costo and the nature
of technical services and training are set out in Annex 12. On average, the
periods of training are expected to be for one year per trainee, but longer
or shorter periods may be appropríate. It ls expected that about 15 trainees
from CB, PB, MAG and other agencies would participate -- five in agro-indus-
try, three each In marketing and farm mnaagement/agricultural credit, and
two each in livestock and forestry. kxcept for lívestock, these allocations
reflect areas in which Costa Rica lacks sufficlent expertise to support



its growing requirements.  Benefits of sucn training wolildQ not acerue :o
the proposed Project but are intended to strengthen the teehnological base
for future agricultural efforts. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the fellwship program would be establlshed in agreement with
the Bank.
C. Cost Estinates
4.15      Total project cost is estimated at about < 109.2  i1lioon (V3$16.5
million), of which 0 59.5 million (US$9.0 million) would be the forel.gn
exchange component.  Cost estimates are summarized below:
0                      US(million) 
Category        Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreig   Total  I1C
Livestock
Beef               16.9     24.5   41.4    2.5        3.7    6.2    38
Daíry               3.2       6.0    9.2    0.5       0.9    1.4      8
20.1     30.5   50.6    3.0        4.6    7.6    46
Crops
Annual              3.3       4.3    7.6    0.5       0.7    1.2      7
Fruit Trees         2.3       1.3    3.6    0.3       0.2    0.5      3
Other Tree Crops  15.8       12.4   28.2    2.4       1.9    4.3    26
Pineapple           3.1       1.8    4.9    0.5       0.2    0.7      4
24.5     19.8   44.3    3.7        3.0    6.7    41
Forestry              2.4       2.9    5.3    0.4       0.4    0.8      5
Agro-industries       2.5       4.1    6.6    0.4       0.6    1.0      6
Technical Services   0.2        2.2    2.4    12        0.4    0e4      2
Total           49.7     59.5  109.2    7.5        9.0   16.5   100
_1  Percent of Total Project Cost.
/2   Less than US$0.1 million.
Detaíls of the cost estimates are shown in Annex 13.  Although Costa Rica
has recently introduced multiple exchange rates, the lower official rate
has been used in this report as all Project importa fall within the category
of goods for which transactíons are made at the official rate.  Siuilarly,
export benefits will accrue at that rate. Costa Rica has suffered little
inflation in recent year  asnd, although sone increases in local costa can
be expected to follow the introducti.on of the multiple rates, it ís not
anticipated that they will be substantial. Project cost estimates are based
on present prices, including a 107' allowance for cost increases.



- 13 -
D. Financing
4.16      The total Project cost of US$16.5 million would be financed by
a Bank loan of US$9.0 million (55%); PBs' contribution of US$4.3 million,
or 26%; and sub-borrower contributions of US$3.2 million, or 19%. A
summary of the financing plan of the Project follows:
Participating
Sub-borrowers       Banks         IBRD        Total
Category
Livestock                       1.5             2.0           4.1         7.6
Crope                           1.3             1.8           3.6         6.7
Forestry                        0.2             0.2           0.4         0.8
Agro-industries                 0.2             0.3           0.5          1.0
Total Lending Program           3.2             4.3            8.6       16.1
Percentage of Lending
Program                    20%             27Z           53%        100%
Technical Services               -              L             0.4         0.4
Total Project Cost         3.2             4.3           9.0        16.5
Percentage of Project Cost    19%                26%           55%       100%
L1   Less than US$0.1 million.
cB would be the borrower and bear the foreign exchange risk. The Bank loan
would be for 18 years, including five years of grace. The lending terms and
conditions applicable to CB, PBs and sub-borrowers are detailed in Annex 3,
Schedule A. If demand for credit under any category should decrease, the
unutilized amount of the loan allocated to such category could be reallocated
to another category. During negotiations, asaurances were obtained that CB
would reimburse 67% of PBs' eligible loans and PBs would, in turn, require
sub-borrowers to contribute at least 20% to the cost of their investments.
PBs would, in addition to providing funda other than those supplied by
sub-borrowers and the Bank, undertake to make avaílable the necessary
seasonal finance to Project sub-borrowers.
E. Procurement
4.17      The investment items are small and varied and unsuitable for bulk
procurement. The country has many well established importers and dealers in
the machinery and equipment required under the Project. There are at least
a dozen large agricultural suppliers in San Jose, who are represented by a
total of about 25 regional dealers in urban centers throughout the country.
These suppliers sell the major brands of agricultural machinery and equipment,



- 'í 4 -
fencing material, hardware, veterinary products, seeds, ferilíizers, and
pesticídes imported mainly from Western Europe and the U.S. Spare parta and
repair services for the varíous types of machinery and equlpment are adequate.
4.18      Importe of these producto are freely permitted, and lmport taxes
are low, generally not exceeding 10%, with few exceptíons. Procurement of
all Project itema would, therefore, be through normal comercial channels.
F. Disbursement
4.19      CB'9 disbursements to PBs would take about four years.  The dís-
bursement schedule (Annex 15) takes into account retroactive financlng (not
exceedlng US$500,000) of disbursementa made by CB after September 1971
following full commitment of the First Loan. Loan proceeds would reimburse
CB for 67% of the payments made by PBs for sub-loans. The requests for
withdrawals prepared by CB would be supported by documentation, includling
recorda showing disbursements by investment categories and certification
by PB technicians that such disbursements were for approved development
plane. Reimbursement for support services, technicians, fellowships, and
vehícles would be made on the basís of foreign exchange co0ts.
V. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
5.01      Organization and management for the Project would be similar to
that in the First Project, with certain adjustments (para 5.04). The CB
would administer the Project and make funds available to the four PBs. It
would be assisted by the Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) and the Consejo
Nacional de la Produccion (CNP). Detalls on CB and PBs are given in
Annex 3, snd the organizational structures of CB and MAG are showm in
Annex 3, Schedule C, and Charts 1 and 2.
Ministry of Agriculture and Consejo Nacional de la Produccion
5.02      The Project would be carríed out by the PBs.  MAG and £NP would
advise PB technicians in matters related to the preparation and appraisal
of farm development plans and assist farmers in implementing their invest-
ments. Coordination between the CB, MAG, and CNP ia adequate; they meet
through a commlttee at least once a month.
Central Bank
5.03      CB ls administered by a Board olf Directora composed of seven
members, including a representative of the \4inístry of Finance. Each PB
may appoint a delegate to attend Board meetings, wlthi volce but no voting
power. The Board of Directors appoints the CB Manager and Deputy Manager.
The First Project was implemented by a unit under a Director who reported
to CB's Manager. The unit presently consists of credit, lívestock, and
crop specialists who review each loan appralsal, guide PB technicians and
supervise their work. In víew of the expanded scope of operatione envi-
saged under the Second Project and the USA').) project ti ara 3.10), GB



- 15 -
recently changed the unit to an Agricultural Credit Department (para 3.07),
which will concentrate mainly on agricultural credit policy with less
emphasis on tight supervision of PB technicians.
5.04      The Agricultural Credit Department is operating effectively.
However, in order to cope with the increased lending volume under the Second
Project, more staff will be required. The net increase would be four pro-
fessionals specialized in farm management and credit. In addition, there
should be a staff reallocation within the Department. At its present size,
it requires a Deputy Director and a second regional resident officer (Annex
3, Schedule C). Staff numbers, however, cannot be too closely defined be-
cause of the USAID project work in the Department and an expansion of more
than four additional professionals may be necessary. Accordingly, a condl-
tion of loan effectiveness would be the recruitment and allocation of addi-
tíonal professional staff as set out in Annex 3, Schedule C. An assurance
was also obtained during negotiations that a staff development plan would be
prepared by CB before September 30, 1972, and the Bank would review its
suitability as the Project proceeds.
5.05      CB would ensure the continuance of sound appraisal, supervision,
and disbursement, and it would supervise the execution of the program. It
would also ensure the provision of domestic bank financing and act as a
residual source of such funds. PBs would be primarily obliged to contribute
these funds (para 4.16), but to avoid any problem such as the one referred
to in paragraph 3.05, assurances had been obtained during negotiations that
GB would make available to PBs, when necessary, counterpart funda to match
investments as well as lhcremental working capital, and that fundo required
for the Project would not be included in the credit ceilings or similar
mechanism allocated to each PB.
Participating Banks
5.06      As mentioned earlier, the four state-owned commercial banks have
played a dominant role in agricultural credit and are consequently ex-
perienced in lending in this field. Their sound financial positions are
reflected in good and consistent earning records. They are also adequately
staffed and have competent technical personnel to appraise and supervise
agricultural loans (para 2.11).
Lending Policies and Procedures
5.07      PIS staffs would assist individual applicants in the preparation of
detailed farm plans, income and expenditure estimates, and cash flows;
appraise all sub-projects in terms of incremental returns, and submit re-
commendations to their management. PBs would extend loans to borrowers not
exceedlng 80% of their investments. Sub-loans in excess of US$100,000 or
for oil palm and agro-industries would require prior approval by the Bank
(paras 4.05 and 4.12). Technical staff of CB and PBs would periodically
visit borrowers to ensure that fundo were being used for intended purposes.
Assurances to this effect were obtained durlng negotiations.



5.08      The following maximum repayment perio<s to suil-borrowers vould be
appropriate:
Years
Repayment            Grace          Total
Beef                   7                  5             12
Dairy                  7                  5             12
Annual Crops           3                  3              6
Fruit Trees            7                  5             12
Other Tree Crops       7                  5             12
Bananas/Plantains    10                   2             12
Pineapple              6                  2              8
Forestrv               7                  5             12
Agro-industries        7                  3             10
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that these peri.ods would iot
be exceeded.  The total period for beef 1s slightly longer than that
allowed under the First Project which, while adequate for most sub-loans,
was a little short for some investmenta.
Interest Rates
5.09      Government, through CB, has made credit available at preferentia.l
rates by the commercial banks for agriculture and industry. Taken togetlier
with the system for credit ceilinga referred to in paragraph 2.13, these
measures cause more than the usual difficulty in arriving at a true rarket
rate of interest. Interest rates on most agricultural and industrial loana
have since 1966 remained without change At 8Z per annum, compared with 9
to 12% for other loans.  On all lending, the comercial banks %ay also
charge, at their option, up to 1I per annum comuission (para 2.15). The
differential between agricultural and industrial lending and other lending
is maintained in the CB discount rates, which, broadly speaking, are 4Z
for agriculture and industry and 8% for other pposes.
5.10      An exception to the above rates has been ¡mde in the case of
the First Project. As observed ín paragraph 3.02, CB has allowed en effec-
tive rate to farmera of 9-3/4%, 3/4% more than originally envisaged by the
Bank. Thís has been used to give a higher margin to the cormercial banks
and CB to help cover admínistrative costa. The comercial banks consider
they have operated the First Project profitably. The Bank interest rate for
the Second Loan would probably be 1% more than for the First Loan ard CB
proposed to pass on Bank funds at the :4nk ¡' standard rate plus coiit~ent
charges (without necessarily adding a a4rgln of 1/4 of 1% &a at present).
CB and PBs preferred not to change thelr rates to farmera ao they believe
the narrover apread would be sufficient to operate a larger volume of funda
profitably.
5.11      The interest rate to stib--borrowers could be Increased to be more
in line with the opportunity cost of capl,tal, which, on the basis of free-
market interest rates, vould appear to be at least 12%.  Although an ínterest



- 17 -
rate of 12% would be well within commercial. farmers' debt repayment capacity
(financial rates of return range from 18% to 35%), it would raise the
medium- and long-term lending rate to almost 50% above rates charged on most
agricultural loans, including those made by IDB (8%) to miedium-sized farmers
similar to those under the Project. Since suct a drastic upward adjustment
could adversely affect the willingness of farmiers to borrow under the
Project, the rate should remain the same as under the First Project, 9-3/4%.
CB would bear the foreign exchange risk and oI-lend Bank funds to PBs at not
less than 7-114% interest; the rate of interest charged to farmera (including
coimissío11s) would not be less than an effective 9-3/4%. CB may decide to
continue charging PBs for its administrative costs and IBRD's conmitment fees.
Accounts and Auditing
5.12      The PBs have good accounting proceduzes.  Project accounts a-e
kept separately, but are handled through their rormal accounting systers
and the CB's; an accountant in the CB Agricultural Credit Department works
in a liaison capacity with the CB'3 Accounting Department.  All PBs are
subject to audit by the Auditor General of Banks, appointed by the Central
Bank Board of Directors under the Central Bank Law. Full details of audit
arrangements are set out in Annex 3.  A series of interim audita comprisíng
regular and unscheduled visits to commercial hanka and their customers
culminates in a final audit, with a report produced relatively promptly.
In addition, each bank maintains an internal auditing unit. Assurances were
obtained that separate accounts would be maintained and audited by independ-
ent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The arrangements for audit by the
Auditor General of Banks were deemed satisfactory under the First Project
and would be acceptable for the Second Project.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES, AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
Product ion
6.01      Incremental production due to the Project would be important.  It
is estimated that Project beneficiaries would, at full development, produce
annually, In addition to their present production, about 13,000 tona of beef;
7 million litera of milk; 8,000 tono of maíze; 2,000 tons of rice; 3,000
tons cach of avocados, mangoes and citrus fruita; 82,000 tons of bananas
and plantains; 24,000 tons of fresh pineapples; and 400 million m3 of timber
(Annex 16).



Markets and Prlces (Annex 173
6.02      Beef.  The increases ln output from the Project would easlhy be
absorbed by rislng domestic demand and strong external markets, as reflected
in the upward trend in prices.  Projectiona to 1980 show that world import
demand for beef would contínue te rise faster than export avallabillties.
Unlike many suppliere, Costa Rica, free of foot and mouth disease, has
access to lmportant markets such as the US.  The expected buoyanLt tnterna
tional trade during this decade would. therefore, give Costa Rica ar.
opportunilty to export all the beef ¡t can, especially to the high priced
US market.  In fact, domestic consumptíon requirementa and anticípated
exporte to the US market alone would be sufficlent to absorb Costa Rica ts
output durlng the 1970's.
6.03      Current prices received by producera have been used in estl.atlng
the financíal rate of return.  These prices average US$0.39 (¢ 2.60) per kg
liveweíght, but because of anticipated shortfalls in world supplies ra1atíve
to demand during the 1970's, they are expected to increase. The projected
hlgher prices have been used  in calculating the economic rate of return.
6.04      Milk.  The increment in milk output would be consumed do.:esticaRllJ.
since, on a per capita basis, the additional production would lncrease supply
avaílabillties by only about 3 kg per annum at the time of full. development.
Thís la a relatively amall amount, considering the fact that this product
has a high income elastícity of demand.  Producer prices are fíxed by the
Government. Currently, producers receive a príce of US$0.133 per kg, whnr'
has been used to estimate the financial rate of return. Costa Rica la cae
of the lower cost producers among Central American countries, lower than
Nicaragua and Honduras, and in comparison with many countries, ita producer
príces are aleo lower. Accordingly, current producer prices can be used
to estimate the economic rate of return.
6.05      Basic Grains - Rice and Corn, Becanse domestic produc,-lori of
rice and corn has been *nable to keep up wíth consumption requirements, the
addítiona]. output from the Project wou1.d be readlly absorbed by the doomestlc
market and help reduce Importe. The current guaranteed minimum support
príces for rice and corn paid to producera are used in estimating the
financial rate of return.  Hovever, projected world prices for rice and
corn are lower than current producer prices by about 15% and 20%, respec-
tively, and have therefore been used "£n estimating the economlc rate of
return.
6.06      Bananas.  The international prices of bananas have declined iln
recent years. Production for export ¡o expected to resume its strong upward
trend ln the next few years, however, which would lead to seríous imbalances
and marketlng diffículties unleas consumption can be expanded in countries
(the centrally planned countries of Eastern Europe) where per capita intake
remains low. Per capita importes into the high income developed countries
of North Ameríca and Western Europe appear to have stabilized. Furthermore,
the increasing competition among producing cauntries ls reflected in the



- 19 -
International trade requírement that supplies of fruit be regular, of a
consístently good qualíty, free of blemiqhes, attractive in appearance,
and of good keeping quality. Costa Rica meets this requirement with the
Cavendish variety and seems to have made significant inroads in the market
for the Gros Michel variety in recent years.
6.07      The estimated financial rate of return has been based on
current producer prices but, fromn 1975 onwards, a 10% lower price for
bananas has been assumed.  However, ín view of the increasing competition
and weakening in prices that can be expected ln the ne4r future, a projected
price that ls lower than the current producer price has been used to
estimate the econpmic rate of return. At the projected price level,
Costa Rican productíon would remain profitable as it is low cost and there
ís increasing emphasis on the pro4uction of the desirable high-ylelding
Cavendish varíety and on good quality fruit.
6.08      Pineapple.  Part of the production la beíng absorbed domestically
(fresh fruit and preserves) while the rest ia exported as fresh frult to
the Federal Republic of Germany.  The first shipments encountered some
technical problemis connepted with temperature and humídity but they have
since been solved. It is expected that additional production generated by
the Project would be largely absorbed by the expanding German market and
posslbly by other Western European countries. Current volumes of plneapple
domestícally consumed and exported 4re about 0.7 milllon kg (O 160,000) and
1.5 million kg (O 400,000), respectively.
6.09      Forestry.  Basically, Costa Rica's timber production is used
doomestically.  A small volume of selected woods (mrahogany and Costa Rican
oak) is exported as furniture or barrels for wine and some sawn timber
is exported to Panama. The additional production expected under the Project
would be absorbed ln the country, mainly for rural housíng.
Producer Benefits
6.10      Production and incomes of the farms and agricultural processíng
facilíties financed by the Project would increase signifícantly. The return
on all incremental Project investments would range from 18% for bananas to 35%
for forestry. Financíal returna and income to farmers have been estimated
on the basis of farm model calculations (Annex 18). On the basis of invest-
ment costs, yield, and price assumptions detailed in the models, incremental
farm incomes after debt service and income tax líabilities are estimated to
be as follows, at full development:



20 -
Farm Model                     1           II           IV        v
Beef       Dairy        Banaias  Foreatry_
Farm size (ha)                       300         40          300        1,000
Capital Investment in Colónes  218,500    158,900   2,422,920         529,600
Full Development Year:              10         8            3            4
------colones---------------
Gross Income                    191,600    153,900   3,505,500        363,000
Production Cost                  42,800      61,100   3,150,000       185,000
Net Income Before Debt
Service and Income Tax       148,800      92,800      355,500     178,000
Debt Service (Principal and
Interest)                     32,310      23,500      283,910      78,320
Net Income After Debt Service
and Before Income Tax        116,490      69,300       71,590      99,680
Income Tax                       25,850      12,070       14,320      20,970
Net Income After Debt Service
and Income Tax                 90,640      57,230       57,270      78,710
6.11      The net incremental income has been derived after taking into
consideration taxes, duties, and other relevant levíes. ThIe magnitude ot the
net incremental income would be sufficient in all Project components to pro-
vide adequate incentive to invest under the Project on the termas and condí-
tions proposed. During the first three years, Government vouid collect
about t 1.8 million from duties on Lmported machínery and other investment
items. In addition, the export tax, generated uaLnly by increaental beef
and banana output, is estimated to reach about 0 340,000 in year 3 and to
atabilize at about 0 500,000 annually on present tax ratea, once beef and
bananas have reached full development. Annual income tax recelvable by
government would total about 0 8 míllion by year 10.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The Project would increase agricultural production for domestic
consumptíon and export significantly as shown la Annex 16. The agricultural
processing facilities would also increase the value added of agricultural
production. Since it í8 expected that about 40% of the beef and all the
bananas and pineapples produced under the Project would be exported, their
net foreígn exchange value would amount to about US$8.0 million per annwn
at full development. In addition, the iaport substitution of rice amd
corn corresponding to the lncremental quantUties produced aunually at full
production would mean an annual net forelgn exch age savings equivalent to
US$0.6 million.



- 21 -
7.02      The economic benefita and costs of the Project are set out in
Annex 19. The economic rate of return for the Project at projected world
market prices has been estimated to range from 20% to 37%.  As the incremental
incomes and rates of return have been based on representative modelo, a
nuaber of them may, in practice, range higher than indicated, while some
would expectedly be lower.
7.03      The sensitivity of the Project was tested by assuming that the
net lnvestment value of production would be 10% below the estimates used in
the models, and the results still showed an adequate rate of return ranging
from 14 to 35% (Annex 19).
7.04      Proper lmplementation and execution of the proposed investment
program would allow diffusion of effective experience now possessed by
only a few, to a larger number of producers. Beneficial environmental
effects would be obtained by protection of the forest resources and the
natural ecology of the country (para 4.09). Social benefita of increasing
employnent on farms and in processing facilities, which would increase Costa
Rica's employment opportunities, cannot be accurately measured; these factors
enhance the Project's already satisfactory rate of return to the economy.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiationa, the following principal points were agreed
to that CB would:
(a) lend to PBs under the Project at not lees than 7-1/4Z
lnterest per annum, and ensure that PBs lend to sub-
borrowera for not less than an effective 9-3/4% interest
per annum. CB would bear the foreign exchange risk
(para 5.11);
(b) submit to the Bank for prior approval all sub-loana
exceeding US$100,000 or for agro-industries or oíl palm
(para 5.07);
(c)  establish a fellowship program in agreement with the
Bank (para 4.14), and prepare a ataff development plan of
ita Agricultural Credit Department before September 30,
1972 for review by the Bank (para 5.04); and
(d) ensure that the PBs follow the other lendíng terma and
conditiona as set out in Annex 3, Schedule A.
8.02      As a condition of credit effectiveness, CB would:
(a) employ four additional qualified experts, who are
apecialized in farm management or agricultural credit; and



- 22 -
(b)  appolnt a Deputy Director and a Regional Resident
Officer for th¿ Atlantic Coast area (para 5.04).
8.03      The proposed Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$9.0 mill1on
for a term of 18 years, including a five-year grace period.
April 12, 1972



ANNEX 1
Page 1
COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Growth in Costa Rica, 1965-70
1.       The economy of Costa Rica is heavily dependent on agriculture.
The sector acgounts for about one-quarter of Costa Rica's groas domestic
product, contributes between 75% and 80% of total export receipts, and pro-
vides employment and income to some 40% of the employed population.  The
economic growth of Costa Rica, therefore, would depend, to a large extent,
on increases in agricultural production, exports, and productivity.
2.       The value of agricultura1 production rooe from US$147 million in
1965 to US$219 million in 1970, 4n increase of about 49%. Annual growth
rates at current prices averaged 8% during this períod. Since agriculture is
the most important sector in the economy, ita rapid expansion has been prl-
marily responsible for the significant growth rates in the country's groas
domestic product, which increasqd by an annual average of about 9.5% during
the period concerned (Table l).
3.       Expansion in agricultural production has been confined mainly to
commodities for export, as can be seen in Table 2. Total agricultural
exports increased from US$106.0 million in 1966 to US$175.9 million in
1970, or at an average annual rate of about 14%. If price levels for the
two most important exports, coffee and bananas, had not generally declined,
total receipts would have been much higher.  The five major agricultural
commodities -- coffee, bananas, meat, sugar, and cacao -- all registered
general increases in quantity exported, particularly bananas and meat
(essentially beef). Between 1966 and 1970, the volume of bananas exported
more than doubled 1/, while meat nearly tripled. On an annual rate basis,
the increase averaged 23% and 37% for these two producta, respectively. The
high rate of increase in beef production in recent yeara has been mainly
the result of strong external demand and higher prices. Milk productíion,
mostly for domestic consumption, also increased gteadily from about 142
million kg to 165 million kg or at an annual rate of about 4% during the
period concerned.
4.       In the near future, Costa Rica's export prospects would continue
to be mainly determined by the behavior of the traditional exporta - coffee,
bananas, sugar and cocoa - which still account for about two-thirda of total
exporta. It is envisaged that the rate of expansion In the production and
1/ Production in 1969 was about 700,000 tona (21 million bunches), still
below the 1934 peak level when about 1 million tono (34 millian bunches)
were produced.



ANNX 1
Page 2
exports of the traditional products would decline signifirantly i. the future
because less favorable market prospecto and lower prices are anticipated.
Thus, in order not to slow down the momentum of economic grovth, a major
effort required would be to expand the production of import substitutes as
well as other non-traditional exports. The proposed credit project would
help increase agricultural production, mainly the non-traditlonal exporto.
5.       The Government has been actively encouraging the development of the
agricultural sector. Probably the most effective measure taken has been
the Central Bank's regulation of commercial bank credit in favor of the
agricultural sector, particularly for export commodities, such as bananasr
and beef cattle, which have the greatest domestíc value added. Thus, 57% of
the total loan portfolio of the banks at the end of 1970 went to the agri-
cultural sector, compared with 54% at the end of 1965. The increasing
emphasis given to the development of beef cattle is even more marked. Of
the 0954 million extended to agriculture by the banks as of the end of 1970,
41% went to livestock as against 32% as of the end of 1965.
6.       The employed population engaged in agricultural production declined
from about 55% in 1950 to an estimated 46% in 1967 and la expected to decline
further (Table 3), while the other sectors have gradually absorbed an
increasing ahare.
7.       In order to sustain a continuing high rate of agricultural devel-
opment, the Government, with the asaistance of IDB and USAID, has recently
embarked on a scheme to provide expanded and more effectíve technical
services for agricultural producera (Annex 23.
April 5, 1972



ANNEX 1
Table 1
COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PRWOECT
The Contribution of Agriculture to
Gross Domestic Product at Market
Prices, 1965-70 (in US$ Million)
Percent Share of
Agricultural        Groas Domestic    Agricultural Pro-
Production mL          Product        duction to GDP
1965               146.7                 596.7                24.6
1966               150.8                 640.9                23.5
1967               165.0                 694.2                23.8
1968               181.9                 764.2                23.8
1969               209.7                 854.1                24.5
1970              219.1                  944.7                23.2
/1 Including forestry, fishing and hunting.
Source: Banco Central de Costa Rica, Cifras de Cuentas Nacionales de Costa
Rica, Serie 1959/1968 Estimacion 1969.
April 5, 1972



ANNEX 1
Table 2
COST1A RICA
Second Agricultural Credit Project
Total Value, Quantity ard Unit Value of Agricultural
Exporte, and Total Mcports, 1966-70
Agriculturo  Exporte        1966        1967      1968      1969       1970
Coffee:
Total value (US$'000)       52,64s9    54,841    55,264    55,833       72, Lr
Quantity (tono)             54,849      66,163    68,539    67,649     68,862
Unit value (US$/kg)          0.960       0.829     0.806     0.825       1.05P
Banana:
Total value (US$o000)       29,186      30,928    42,778    51,5148    66,770
Quantity (tons)            358,739    371,046   553,251   694,575   8O8,5155
Unit value (US$/kg)          0.081       0.083     0.077     0.074      0.075
Meat:
Total value (US$1000)        5,610      8,868    12,000    15,082      17?983
Quantity (tone)              7,273      10,885    14,628    16,632     17,473
Unit value (USgkg)           0.771       0.815     0.820     0.896      1.03
Sugar:
Total value (u$oo000)        8,693       8,390     8,710    9,099       10,144
Quantity (torn)             64L61o      62,404    62,820   62,820      67,390
Unit value (US$/kg)          0.135       0.1334    0.139    o.1145      0.1 51
Cocoas
Total value (US$'OO0)         3,103      3,146     2,955    7,063        1,942
wQuantity (tons)              7,743      7,194     5,200    9,060       3,266
Unit value (US$/kg)           O.4ol      0.1437    0.568    0.780       0.595
0ther:  (US$l000)               6,800      4,400     5,200    6,0oo0/      6,200 1/
Total Agricul tural Exporte
(US$'o0o)       106,041  1í0,573   126,907  144,625y-  175,879
Total Exporta (US$'000)     135,500   1143,800   170,800  189,700    231,163
1/ Estimated
Source:  1966-1968 from Provision for Social and Economic Development 1969-72
Vol 1, Planning Office (Costa Rica), 1970; 1969-1970 data from the
Central Bwnk of Costa Ríca.
November 22, 1971



ANNEX 1
Table 3
COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Employed Population by Sector
1950, 1963, and 1967, and by
Size of Farms, 1963
1950             1963             1967
No. of           No. of           No. of
Sector                           Persona    %    Persona    %    Persona    %
Agricultural /1                  149,591   55.0  201,641   49.5  209,271   45./2
Manufacturing, Construction,
and Public Utilities            43,102   15.8   75,164   18.4   85,378   18.7
Other                             79,291   29.2  131,019   32.1  162,029   35.5
Total             271,984  100.0  407,824  100.0  456,678  100.0
Size of Farme (ha)                     % Share of Agricultural Employment 1963
Leas than 10                                               33
10 to less than 20                                         11
20 to less than 50                                         17
50 to leses than 100                                       12
100 and above                                              27
Total                                     100
/1  Including a negligible number of persona engaged in mining.
/2  Estimated to decline to 41.6% in 1972.
Source:   Provision for Social and Economic Development 1969-1972, Vol. I
Planning Office (Costa Rica) 1970.
Censo Agro-Pecuario 1963, Ministerio de Economic y Hacienda,
Costa Rica, 1965.
IBRD Report CA-7a, 1971.
Aprll 5, 1972






ANNEX 2
Page 1
COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTtJR   CR.TIT PROJECT
Supporting Sorvices
1.        The agricultural sector in Copta Rica ls servçd by many governen*t,
private and international institutions.  Within the Governmept, the most
important is the M.nistry of Agriculture and Anímal Husbandry (Ministerio de
Agricultura y Ganaderia, MAG). The National Planning Office and the Ministry
of Industries and Commerce a4so have some activities related to agriculture,
the former in regard to the short-, medium- and long-term programo ard the
latter in connection with agricultural statistico and census.
2.        Another group of government institutions are the so-called au-
tonomous offices, fully financed by the government but a4uiniutered and
operated by their own boards of directors. Among these institutlons, the
National Council of Production (Consejo Nacional de la Produccion, CNP); the
University of Costa Rica, through ita f4culty of Agronomy; and the banking
system (essentially the CB's Training Cçnter) provide services to the agrí-
cultural sector through commodíty price stabilizatíon, education, and
financing.
3.        Agricultural producer associationa, sometimes called chambers
(camaras), exist at local and national levels.  The most irportant of these
are the National Chamber of Agriculturists (Camara Nacional de Agricultores),
the National Chamber of Livestock Producera (Capara Nacional de Ganaderos),
and the Coffee Growers' Chamber. Also important are the Cooperatives, such
as the Federation of Coffee Producers' Coops, the Milk Producers' Coop, and
the National Slaughterhouse Cooperative of Montecillos.
4.        Costa Rica receives substantial economic and technical asaistance
from international institutions. The U.S. Agency for International Develop-
ment (AID) has programa with the Ministry of Agriculture and the University
of Costa Rica for the expansion and improvement of extension and research
services. The Inter-American Development Bank io very active in financial
asaistance for agriculture through credit programa with the Banco Nacional
de Costa Rica. The Inter-American Institute of Agrícultural Sciences
(IICA) of the Organization of American States (OAS) has ite headquartera
at the Inter-American Research Station and Post-Graduate Agriculture
College in Turrialba, Costa Rica. The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)
also conducta programa through MAG in cooperation with IICA.
5.        MAG ís the main government ipatitution serving the agricultural
sector, and has as its principal functions the formulation of agricultural
policy, the provision of technícal assistance through extension and research
activities, the prom»tion and control of plant and animal sanitation, and the
coordination of the activities of all the national and foreign institutiona



ANNEX 2
Page 2
connected with the agricultural devwdnpment effort of the country.  To
carry out these functions (see organization chart 2), MAC is asaisted by
a National Agrarian Council, formed by representatives of the Natlonal
Planning Office, Central Bank, A&ronomy Faculty of the Universlty of Costa
Rica, and commercial banks, Natioval Productíon Council, the President of
the Republic and the private sector. The Agricultural Planning and Coordi-
nation office of MAG acts as the executive secretariat for the Council.
6.        At the executive level of MAG there are four main bureaus:
Livestock, concerned mainly with aiímal sanitation; Agricultural Researct
and Services; Forestry; and Agricultural Extension. The sub-diviaions of
these bureaus are shown in Chart 2. Of recent creation is the new Ger.eral
Bureau for Regional Centers. According to the policy of the new Goverrment,
in 1971 most of the activities of MAG will be decentralized Into five or sl.x
regional centers, each headed by a Director represeuting the Minister. On
each Director's staff will be sub-directora representing the bureaus whoac
activities are necessary in each particular region. The extension offices
are under the admínistration of the Regional Centers.
7.        To gtrengthen MAG's supporting services, the Inter-MAericaa Develop-
ment Bank two years ago granted a loan of US$2 million, whích la being
used to construct offices for the Regional Centers and extension offices.
In October of 1970, AID loaned US$16 million to MAG to help finance a US$31
million four-year program to properly equip and train personnel in the
five Regional Centers and 60 county extension agencies. This expansion
program is underway, and the national budget has the necessary allocationa
to provide posts for five technicians and necessary administrative persoanel
in each Regional Center and two technlcians, an office assistant and a
secretary in each county office.
S.        Agricultural research la expected to Improve greatly, since, by
agreement between the OAS aid the Government of Costa Rica, the Turrialba
Inter-American Research Statlon will aim its work only to tie areas of
interesc to Costa Rica and other Central Anaerícan countries Interested in
this effort.  Also, AID ls financing the Unlversíty of Costa Rica ln taking
over research work at MAC's atations.
9.        According to a study made by the IICA-U.N. in September 1969, the
technical personnel engaged in agriculture in Costa Rica, at the end of 1968,
numbered 80 executives and 600 profeasional and techuical personnel.
Between MAC, the National Banking System, and the Consejo Nacional de la
Produccion, there were 216 agronomist engineere, 113 agronorists, 14
veterinarians, 5 chemists, 22 4-H club apecíalista, 21 hore economistea,
14 accountants, and 3 civil engineera.
1W.       Costa Rica has sufflicent qualified and experienced experta
for the production of bananas, coffee, pineapple, tropical grasses, beef,
or milk. There are in each of these fielda a number of producers that
use the most advanced technology that it is posaIble or econonical to
cxnploy under the given environment.  Tlere is know-how In the country, not
oaly among the farmers but at the level of national and international



ANNEX 2
Page 3
institutions providing services to the agricultural sector. In fact, for
guidance in banana, pineapple, and cattle production, Costa Rican experta
are being used in other countries. Productivity targeta for the average
farmer are already obtained by the more progressive; the problem, however, iS
how to make technical know-how and financial resources accessible to a larger
number of producers. These taaks are the responsíbility of MAG in the first
instance and the-banking systea in the second.
11.       Costa Rica needs addltional qualified and experienced technicians
and additional training in the fields of non-traditional agricultural
production such as cotton, citruw fruit8, poultry, food processing industries,
and forestry industries. Another arca in which assistance ¡s needed is
research on Costa Rican native legume pastures using phosphate fertilizers.
April 5, 1972






ANNEX 3
Page 1
COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
The Banking System
A. Introductíon
1.        Costa Rica has no specific agricultural credit institution.  Its
banking system is composed of a Central Bank (CB) created by law in April
1953; four autonomous state-owned commercial banks, and two prívate banks.
The state owned are: Banco Anglo Costarricense (BACR); Banco de Costa
Rica (BCR): Banco de Credito Agricola de Cartago (BCAC) and Banco Nacional
de Costa Rica (BNCR). The two private banks (Banco Lyon, S.A. and Bank of
America) are not permitted to accept deposita and their lendíng to agricul-
ture la negligible. They are not equipped for, or lnterested in, partici-
pating in the Project and accordingly the remainder of this Annex deals
only with the four state-owned banks. Before 1953, the funetione of a
Central Bank were performed by the Issuing Department of BNCR, the largest
of the commercial banks. In September, 1953 a separate law for the organi-
zation of the national banking system was approved.
B. The Central Bank
Funetiona
2.        CB has the usual functions of such an institution and in
particular: (a) promote the development of the Costa Rican economy; (b)
promote monetary stability and a sound financial structure in the country;
and (c) maintain the external stability of the national currency and
assure ita convertibility. The most recent amendment to the organic law
(October 1970) stipulates that it ís the obligation of QB to prevent any
decline in production because of a lack of credit and to promote the
diversification of national production that would aleo strengthen the
balance of payments position of the country.
3.        Other specific duties of CB are to:
(a) determine the interest ratee for all operations of the
banking system;
(b) establish limits on the volume of lending and investment of
all banks; and



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(c)  support a department for a General Auditor of Banks that
supervises and controla the different departments of the
CB and other banks.
4.        CB rediscounts state-owned commercial Government banks' credit
documents that originate from operations related to:
(a)  the productíon and processing of fazrm and Industrial
products;
(b) the import, export, purchase, or sale of producta and
merchandise; and,
(c) the storage of producto.
The date of maturity for these rediscount8 cannot exceed three years for
the operations stated under item (a) or one year for the cases indicated
in (b) and (c).
5.        CB is authorized to lend for price-.tabilizing with Government
guarantee and mortgage of products purchased.
6.        CB can also guarantee the state-owned counercial banks and other
institutions for medium- and long-term loan agreements with foreign finan-
cial institutions, íf and when such loans are to be used to finance economic
development programs. In specíal cases, CB may advance funda from ite own
resources to the state-owned banks and other institutions for developaent.
Credit Limítations
7.        Up to the end of 1970, CB tightly controlled credit expanslo
through a set of ceilings imposed on the commerclal bankst loan portfollos.
These ceilings combined quantitative and qualitative controls through
subcellings on credit to the various sectora of the economy and even to
speclfic industries within a sector. Eariy in 1971, the system was
substantially simplified. It now fixes percentage distribution among the
actlvities that each conmmercial bank should have  in its loan portfolio
according to national priorities and the bank's tradltional loan pattern.
During 1971, however, the system proved incapable of controlling over-all
credit expansion, and nodifícations were Introduced for 1972. The main one
placed Individual ceilinga on banks ánd requtired that they be revlewed
quarterly.  The credit priority categortes are divided In four groupm a$
follows:
Group   I -    Preferential Lines,  includlng matnly the flnancing of
coffee harvest, the marketing of coffee, sugar, cotton,
cacao, rice, tobacco, banana, the fattenlng of beef
cattle, pack.In  plante, production and export of
industrial goo>cls, uníversity atudies.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Group  II -    Agro-Industrial Activities, - includes Agriculture
and Porestry, Livestock and Pishing, Manufacture and
extractive industry.
Group III -    Other Activities and Financial Investment in Stock,
includes Commerce, ínvestment in urban property,
personal credit, electricity and transport and services.
Group  IV -    Economic Development Programe
The amount set for group I, constitutes a minimum, in the case of groups II
and III, the amounts set are to be maxima of financing permitted.  Group IV
is considered outside the total amount set for the program and has no
limitation for ita financing other than availability of resources. The
credit program for 1971 has a limit of 0 1,367 millions which was assigned
by categories as set out in Table 2.
8.        With regard to the maximum limits on credit to natural or
juridic persons, the law prescribes that this shall not exceed 15% of the
capital and reserves of the bank except in special cases. In such cases,
the ceiling could be raised to 25%, with the previous approval of CB'8
Board of Directors.
Organization
9.        The Central Bank of Costa Rica is an autonomous institution.
The Bank is governed by a Board of Director8, which is composed of seven
members, as follows: (a) the Minister of Hacienda (economy); (b) the
Director of the Planning Office; and (c) five persona with experience
and knowledge of banking, appointed for an eight-year period by the
Counsel of Government. Each of the conmercial state banks may also
appoint a delegate to participate in the meetings of the Board with voice
but no voting power. The Board of Directora appoints a Manager and a
Deputy Manager for a six-year period.
10.       CB has a department under the Board of Directora in charge of
auditing ita other departments and those of commercial banks; below the
Manager, there are five departmentg - Administration, Accounting, Agricul-
tural Credit, Foreign Commerce, and Economic Studies - as well as a General
Secretariat and a Treasury office (Chart l).
C. State Commercial Banks
11.       The four state commercial banks were established from 1863 to 1918
Banco Anglo Costarricense (BACR) in 1863, Banco de Costa Rica (BCR) In 1877,
Banco Nacional de Costa Rica (BNCR) in 1914 and Banco Credito Agricola de
Cartago (RCAC) in 1918. These institutione are governed by their ovn boarda
of dlrectors according to the general policy and administrative procedures
set up under the organic law establishing the national banking system.
The Board of Directors of each bank ís composed of seven members, all of



ANNEX 3
Page 4
whom are ippoíntad by the Gove-nmXint ior a period of eight years.  lle
M1anagers of these banks are appoirted by thelr respective boards of directors
for a períod of six years.
12.       The latest amendment to the organlc law (October 29, 1970) pro-
vides that, in order to ipeed up transactiona in credit applications, the
Board of Directors of each bank chall appoint a Credit Comrnittee. Each
committee consists of the General Manager, the other department managers,
and the head of the credit unit. They can approve loans for up to
0500,000.  The Board of Dírectors also csíigns Individual limits on loan
approvals to managers and deputy managers.
13.       The four banks each haye a Commercial Department through which they
make their loans to agriculture, industry, and commerce, and a Mortgage
Department for loans de8tined for real estate transactions. BNCR, in addi-
tion, has a Rural Credit Department, which, ,-hrough the Juntas Rurales de
Credito, deals exclusively with small farmers, and a Cooperatives Depart-
ment. Each department, by law, has its own allocatlon of cápital, whtich
requires CB permission to alter, and independent accounts.
14.       Tbree of the four banks have their main offtces ln San Jose, the
country's capital; the other bank (BCAC) la located in the nearby city of
Cartago.  Besides these, the banks have branches, agencies, or officee in
other parta of the country.  The branches are the only ones that make loans,
and each in run by a branch manager. Branches that are located in the
capital of a province must also have thelr own boarda of directots, composed
of three local people appointed by the bank's Board for a period of four
years. They hbve power to approve loans up to 0150,000. With the exception
of one agency of the BCR, agency and city or country offices dÓ fiot make loaná.
rthe exception vas made because of the isolated locatioh in'oi1d atid coyers
loans of up to <15,000.
15.       The four banks have a total of 21 fíeld branches that make loana:
BNCR has 13, BCR 7, and BCAC 1.  None, houever, can approve loá±s aiounting
to more than <150,000 of accumulated balance to one applicant.  Except for
the branches of BCR, vhich make their own studies, appraising ahd supervis-
ing of the larger loans are done by the main office tedhni¿ál staffs.
The 9mall size of the country and the efficient air traneport seríice make
it poesible to operate In thie manner ln most cases.
16.       Besides branches, banks also ope-ate agencies, and warehouses for
commodities taken in lien.  Three of the hanks lend to small faríierá through
their commercial departments, but BNCR, the largest, has a separate depárt-
ment, the Rural Credit Department, which operatee through Juntas Rutales
(local credit comaittees for small farmers).  In total, the cdultty' l  served
by 171 bank units that provide different kinds of banking sétvicea.  The
size and functione of the offices are determíned by the líportaxxce of their
locations and the kind of service that ls required by the comminity.
Geographic locationa of bank officea are shovn in the fbo'toÉing táble.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
BNCR           BCR    BACR    BCAC
Dpto.      Juntas
Provinces                        Commercíal    Rurales
San Jose                             14           10        10       6      1
Alajuela                             17           16          3      1      -
Cartago                               7            6         -       -      5
Limon                                 4            3          3      -      -
Heredia                               8            3          1      -      -
Punta Arenas                         11            9          3      3       -
Guanacaste                           11           11          3      2      -
72          58         23     12       6
17.       The four state-owned banks employ over 2,500 people, of whom more
than 250 are qualified professionals, (50% in the fleld at branch level) with
education and experience in the flelds of agricultural aciences, (120)
veterinary acience, (40) economics, (40) and others (50). The four banks
have been in business for over 50 years, are vell organized, and operate
according to sound banking practices. They all have experlence in agricul-
tural credit in Costa Rica, and their standard. of operationa 8nd accomplish-
ments compare favorably with the Latín American average.
Resources
18.       As of December 31, 1970, the total resources of the four atate
commnercial banks amounted to 02,210 million (Table 1). Compared to 1967
(01,683 million), they show an increase of 31%, oainly because of a substan-
tial rise in the deposita (0252 million) and in borrowings.
19.       Deposits (01,052 million) represent about 50% of the resources.  /
They developed steadily and, although they are represented almost entirely
(95%) by sight and leas-than-30-day-notice depoeits, their seasonal
fluctuation is too emall to generate liquidity problems (Table l).
20.       After deposita, borrowings (lncluding bonda and CE rediscounting)
are the major components of the total resources, with 31% (0685 million).
They have increased by 0222 million since 1967 (0464 million). By law CB
can rediscount up to 50% of etate-owned banks current asseta and could go up
to 80% in case of emergency.
21.       Capital and reserves account for 15% of the total resources,
with 0333 million against 0311 millíon in 1967. Other liabilities, 0140
million, represent precollected interest, dífferent paynents In abeyance,
and also provisions for depreciation and bad debts.
1/ Interest on deposits: 3 to 6 months 4% p.a.; 7 to 12 nonthes 6% p.a.;
more than 12 months to 24 months 7% p.a.; slght savinge up to 0 15,000:
3% p.a.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Lendín Policy snd Procedure
22.       The atate commercial banking system devotes more resources to
agriculture than to other sector* of aetivity. 55% of ite loan port-
folío te diteeted at the flnancing of agricultural fsrclng, development,
or market£ng opérations, againet 45% to commerce and industry.
23.       Lw No. 4646 of October 29, 1970, amending the two organic bank-
ing lava, fi*ed the coiposition of the credit commfttee and ita limit of
power (mxiímum I500,000 per loan), for each bank, but each establishes the
loan approval powers to be allocated to ite head office manager, branch
managers, and branch credit comíittees.
24.       The rate of lnterest and commission charged on agricultural
and industrial credits are, 8% and up co 1% per annum, whatever the term.
They are fixed by CB for all banks and are much lover than comercial ratea
(12%). No penalty is charged on delinquent loans. CB's rediícount rate lo
4% for agriculture and fndustry, and 8% for moet other actlvities. Interest
is calculated on the outatanding balance, and is charged quarterly and in
advance thereby increasung the effective ínterest rate by about 1/4% of 1%
per annum.  Although based on farm return and borroers' expetlence and
creditworthineat, final repayment la secured maínly by mortgge, lien, or
chattel mortgage and, sometimes, a joínt guarantee.
25.       Practícally all lending procedures in agriculture are the same
for the four state comercíal banks.  The credit department makes a prelimtíary
study of the application and attached docimente. Then the appr*i.al oectten
proceeda tO the fleld investigations and project evaluatíon. It rq¡ort
and the section head's comments are handed over to the credit  .rtment,
w-hich, after careful review, oubmits the file, together with the dpartm~eiit
head's recnnendation, to the manager, the branch or head #ffice cro«St
comnnittee, or the Board of Directora, according to the size of the loan
i'srplied for.  Credit committees meet about twice a week and boardo twice
.r three tunes a month. At the local branch or ageney level, where the
rianager knows the positlon5 experience, and creditworthineas of each farmer,
,,,e procedure for small Joan approval la simplifled.  The applUcaticn for
i s used .also as an evaluation report and contains recoimnendatlons to the
muanager or credit corunittee. Loans are supervised and, es far es possible,
repayment dates are fixed In accordance with crop harvestíng.
26.       The largest portíon of funde loaned goes to a few large and
medium sized conmercial. farms.  Although  amall farmers haye acceso to credit
facilitíes  íth the conmercial departments of the banks, most of them are
financed through the Rural Credít Department speclally opened in BNCR to
deal. with thls category of applicant. At June 1971, outatanding loano of
this department represented 90% in number (41,000) but only 31% in imount
(0182 million) of total. agrictiltural loans outstanding by BNCR (45,600 loans
for É585 million).  Comparable figures for loan8 to amall faimrs are aot
nvallable for the three other banks.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
Lending ActLvity
27.       From 1967 to 1969, total bank loans outstanding progreased from
1,316 million to 01,459 million and amounted to 01,710 million as of
Deceiber 31, 1970. Loans outstanding to the agricultural sector accounted
for more than half, progresslng from 0701 million in 1967 to 953 millíon in
1970. Two-thirds exceeded 12 months (Table 4). Livestock loans have aleo
increased duríng the last three years: from 0252 million to 0388 million.
.nvestment for on-land development represented the major part of the increase,
with beef and dairy cattle accounting, respectively, for 80% and 7% of the
credits. Two-thirds of the agricultural loans approved over the last four
years (excluding livestock) went to coffee growera. Rice, banana8, cotton,
and sugarcane combíned received leas than 12%, and cocoa, tobacco, corn, and
beans lees than 8% (Table 5).
28.       About 59% of agrícultural credits are made through BNCR and 25%
througii BCR.  BACR and BCAC's shares are, respectively, 11% and 5%.  Their
commercíal departments made 73% of the loans and the BNCR's rural credit
departnent handled 17%.
Arrears
29.       As of December 31, 1970, loans past due in all sectora for more
than one year represented less than 4% of banks' portfolios (Table 7).  The
actual rate of delinquency is lower, however, since loans reported delin-
quent include not only installments past due but also the unmatured loan
balances. The number of loans written off as uncollectable in recent
years has been nil. All loans are secured by mortgage or other charge and
the banking law provides that such commercial banks' security realization
shall be expedited. At the end of every fiícal year banks, and the Auditor
General of Banks, make an analysis of portfolios and accordingly charge
against profits amounts transferred to an account called Provisions for
Loans and Interest of Doubtful Collection.  As of December 31, 1971, this
provision for possible bad debts totalled 033.6 million for the four
participating banks (Table 1).
Results
30.       From 1967 to 1970, the four atate owned commercial banks net
operating income progressed from 014.2 million to 019.3 million (Table 8).
In compliance with Article 12 of the Bank law, net earnings after payment
of income tax are allocated to the staff's retirement fund (10% of annual
salaries), to BNCR's cooperative department (10%), and to legal reserves.
As shown in Table 1, capital and reserves have grown slowly from 0311 mil-
lion ín 1967 to 0333 million In 1970, st an average of 06 million per year.
Audit
31.       All the participating banks under the First and proposed Second
Projects are subject to audit by the Auditor General of Banks who la
appointed by the Board of Directora of the Central Bank under Article 16



ANNEX 3
Page 8
of the Central Bank Lay. The Auditor General's office fe composed of
professiónal bank examinera and auditora and their work 18 conducted both
by program visita on interim audita and by a certain number of unscheduled
visitS to the various departments and branches of the commercial banks.
The final audit is completed relatively promptly (that for the year ended
December 31, 1970, was completed and reported to the Central Bank Board of
Director* in April 1971 although the final formal report was published two
months later). The report seta out full detalls of the financial condition
of the báaka and also lista field visita made by audit staff, including
visits tó botro*tes of the coamercial banks.  The report ls deficient in
one respect; no adverse comments regarding management or defalcatione appear.
The final réeort however refers to the detailed reporte made throughout the
year whlch are perhape mote suitable vehlcles for such comments. In
addition to the Auditor General's Audit, each bank maíntains an Internal
auditing unit. Under the First Project, the above provisions were conaidered
appropriaté aad they would be acceptable for the Second Project.
April 5, 1972



ANNEX 3
SCHEDULE A
Page 1
COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Lending Termo and Conditiona
IBRD to Central Bank
1.   Interest rate at 7.25% p.a.
2.   Conmitment charge at 0.75%.
3.   Repayment of loan In 18 years íncluding fíve years of grace.
4.   CB would carry foreign exchange risk.
5.   IBRD would disburse 67% of eligible loana made by PBs, and
100% of foreign exchange costo for Technical Services incurred
by CB.
Central Bank to Participatlng Banks
1.   Interest rate at not less than 7-1/4% p.a.
2.   CB would refínance 67% of eligible loans.
3.   Repayment to CB same as borrowers to PB.
4.   PBs would have responsibílity for loan approval and would
assume financial responsibility of loans granted to borrowers.
5.   CB may decide to charge PBs a margin. to help cover ite
administrative costa (margin of 114 of 1% under the First
Project) and charge them with IBRD's commltment fee.
Participating Banks to Subborrowers
1.   Interest rate at effective minimum of 9.75% p.a.
2.   Subborrowers would provide a minimum of 20% of total medium- and
long-term ínvestment costS from their own resources.
3.   Repayment periodo as follows:



ANNEX 3
SCHEDULE A
Page 2
Enterprises                         Years       Grace       Total
Beef                                  7           5          12
Dairy                                 7           5          12
Annual crops                          3           3           6
Frult trees                           7           5          12
Other tree crops                      7           5          12
Bananas/Plantaina                    10           2          12
Pineapple                             6           2           8
Forestry                              7           5          12
Agro-industries                       7           3          10
OTHER CONDITIONS
Financial
1.   PBs would be primarily responeible for providing counterpart
funde (including requiremento for additional seasonal
capital generated by the Project) other than those provided
by IBRD, but in the event they are unable to do so, CB
would make such funde available (para 5.05).
Administrative
1. All subloanS in exceso of US$100,000 or for agro-industry
and oil palo would require prior approval by IBRD (para
5.07).
2.  PB staff would assist individual applicants in the preparation
of detailed farm plane, income and expenditure estimates
and cash flows, and appraise subprojects in terms of
incremental retumns (para 5.07).
3.   Technical staff of Central Bank and participating banks
would periodically visit borrowers to ensure funds were
being used for intended purposes (para 5.07).
Technical
1.   Livestock subborrowers vould take measures for protection
of animal health to the atandards maintaíned under the
Pirst Project (para 4.04).



ANNEX 3
SCHEDULE A
Page 3
2.   For oil palm development, technical and financial
justifications drawn up in consultation vith the
Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of
Industry and Comerce would be submitted for prior
IBRD approval (paras 4.05 and 5.07).
3.   Fruit farma would be located in the ecologically suitable
inter-mountain plateau and piedtonts of the Central
Plateau and in the dry tropics. Avocado and citrus would
be grown in frost-free areas and in deep and well drained
soils. Trees would be properly protected by vindbreaks
(para 4.06).
4.   Subborrowers for fleld crop development would acquire
selected seeds and seedlings from a source acceptable to
the Ministry of Agriculture and they would carry out a
fertilizer program appropriate to soil conditiona and
crop requirements (para 4.07).
5.   In forestry subloans, subborrowers would take measures to
replace trees cut through reforestation and afforestation.
Crop diversification matters and development plans for
forestry would be carried out in consultation with the
Ministry of Agriculture (para 4.09).
6.   All subloans for agro-industries would require that
technical and financial justifications, drawn up in
consultation with CNP and the Ministry of
Industry and Commerce, vould be submitted for prior
approval to IBRD (para 4.12).
April 5, 1972






ANNEX 3
SCHEDULE B
COSTA RICA
SEC0ND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PRWOECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Maximum Amount to be
Used in Each Category
CATEGORY                          US$ Equívalent
1.   LIVESTOCK
Pasture establishment and improvement,
fertilizers during pasture establishment,
buildings, fencing, water and handling
facilities, selected breeding stock and
semen, and agricultural machinery and
equipment                                              4,100,000
2.   CROPS
Land preparation, drainage, buíldinge,
machinery and equipment, wells, and on-farm
irrigation, as well as fertilizers, insecticides,
fungicides and herbicides for the establishment
of tree crops including bananas and plantaina          3,600,000
3.   FORESTRY
Road construction, tree establishment,
machinery and equipment, construction and
installations, nurseries, and fertilizer
for nurseries and during tree establishment              400,000
4.  AGRO-INDUSTRIES
Buildings, machinery and equipment, and up to
five aircraft primarily for crop spraying                500,000
5.   TECHNICAL SERVICES
Salaries and fees of staff and consultants,
Central Bank vehicles (four-wheel drive vehicles)
and foreign exchange costo of training fellowships
for technical staff                                      400,000
Total                                            9.000.000
April 5, 1972






ANNEX 3
SCHEDULE C
COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Central Bank Agricultural Credit Department
In Post    Required For
Now      Second Project  Additions
Director                                        1             1
Deputy Director                                 -             1              1
Regional Resident Offi¿er                       1             2              1
Agricultural Promoters) Farm Management         3             3              -
and
Livestock Promoters   ) Credit Specialista    1               3              2
Economist                                       1             1
Accountant                                      1             1           _
Total                                      8            12             4
Secretaries/Clerks                              2             4
April 5. 1972






COSTA RICA
SSCO0f  A&RICULTURAL CIT PCT
Consolidsted Annual Balance Sbats cf the Four 8tate Camrcial Banks
(D*ecber 31, 1967-1970)
(9  iton)
1y                    f18££1969,                                                 1970
AS S E TS
Cah                                      55.0      3.3             62.2        3.4            80.7        4.1              72.2       3
Centr&l B*nk                            i06.9      6.4            126.2       7.0            160.9        8.2             134.6       6
Foreign Currency                         58.4      3.5             72.0      L%o              63,8                        ' 72.6      3
220.3    13-             260.4       14.1.43                    156              279.4       12
Bonds, Stoeks. Share^   1                274.3     1.4             32-7       1.8             30.1        1.5              39.0       2
LosnE to Crops Pro4qction/'             450.0    26.7             460.9       25.6           4t¶8.4      24.4            5s;s-        26
Loans to Livestock                                14.9            285.2      15.8            332.3       17.0            3J7;9       17
Loans to Other Sectora2:/               6-5_                      621.9       34.L           643.1       331              757.0      34
1.339.8    79.5          1,400.7       7717          1488.9      76.0           1,749.4_      79
Fixed Ascets                             74.1      4.4.            81.3        4.6            90.3        4.6             101.8       5
Other Asaets                             49.2      2.9             60.2        3.3            73.1        3.8              79.0       4
100.0         112L_        100-0 1_9                   100.0           2,209.6     100
L I A B I L } T I E S
Deposita on Demnd                       714.8    42.5             789.0       43.8           895.8       45.8             982.8       45
Deposits up to 30-y Notice               47.5      2.8             32.0        1.8             24.4       1.2              23.9        1
Deposlts over 30-day Notíce                        2.2             40.1        2.2             45.9       2                45.0        2
799.8    47.5            861.1       47.8            966.1      4!9.           1,051.7       48
80rrovings through Central Bm
Rediscount                           47.8      2.8            31.4        1.7              3.4        0.2            151.5        7
IBRD Loans                          17.4      1.0             14.2        0.8             11.0        o.6             10.4        -
Other CB Loans                      123.0     73             128.7        7.1            139.8        7.1            125.0        6
188.2    11.1            174.3        9.6            154.2        7.9            286.9       13
Borrowings from Foreígn Banks           140.2      8.3            186.9       10.4            240.9       12.4            243.9       11
Bonds in Circulatior                    135.6      8.1            145.3        8.1            147.1        7.5            154.1        7
Other Liabilities. !                     108.4     6.5            116.3        6.4            124.0        6.3            139.8        6
Capital                                  148.3      8.8           148.3        8.2            149.5        7.6            151.0        7
Reserves                                3162.9      9.7          -170.4        9.5            175.9        9.0            182.2        8
1.683.4    100.0         1.802.6      100.0          1.957.7      100.0           2,209.6     100
lJ Include loans made by comercíal departmente to other departments for relending program.
I lncludes pro"isiis for bad debtl;  33.6 millon *a of Dhc_er 31, 1970.
November 16, 1971



COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTUhAL CREDIT PROJECT
Credit Ceilin& and Credit Used Within Ceilinas
For Years 1967. 1968. 1969, 1970 and 1971*
(t Million)
1967                          1968                            1969                          1970
Ceiling    Z    Used          Cetlinp    %    Usd           Ceiltni    I    Ueed           Ceiling    7    Used
Agriculture                      148.1   17    143.5            225.7   22    193.3           228.2   21    199.0            222.9   20    207.8
Livestock                        148.2   17    143.5            295.1   29    247.9           321.9   30    290.8            352.8   31    339.5
296.3   34    287.0           520.8   51    441.2            550.1   51    489.8           575.7   51    547.3
Rural Credit Sections            163.3   19    160.6             22.7    2      20.9            23.3    2      22.0           26.7    2       22.9
Total Agricultural Sector:    459.6   53    447.6              543.5   53    462.1           573.4   53    511.8            602.4   53    570.2
Other Economic Sectors           405.9   47    392.3            479.9   47    452.6           501.8   47    467.9            532.5   47    506.2
Grand Total               865.5  100    839.9         1,023.4  100    914.7          1,075.2  100    979.7          1,134.9  100  1,076.4
#===t==wWCs   flD=    «-=                      «     wan  se     nasas          assss  Sá  _       n         n=__   _=   saas
1971
Reguired Portfolio Structure
Croup             Ce i1,      X   MaxwE.7n.
I.  Preferential Lines        402      29   Mtni.i
II. Agro-Industrial Actí-
vities             725      53   Maxiije
A&ricult4re          202      15   Mini.ru
Livestock            207      15   Minimum
Industry             234      17  I«nlmiw
Rossíble variatiotso  82       6       -
H1l.  O,ther Activtties         240      18   M4ximuo
IV.  Economic D2e'. P-ro.gra   NO#       -      -
Total     1,367    100%.
ant      t=s                                                                                  w
*1971 according to new ceiling system
November 16, 1971



COSTA RICs
SECmD ACRICULTUvAL CIIDIT POJCT
Acríoo1roraI Loaos Portfolto of th. State Co.rcld  baokk
DiotrIbuted Arcotrdía to Dee.rtenta ad Aríc"Iturta  Artiíiti
(.. of Dece~cr 31. 1967168.  1969 6 19701
~IWCO NACIONAL DE COSTA RICA            AI~  DE COSTA RICA               kU~CO AIICLO COSTAPIIIC13E      RSCO CIZOITO :OIA DE=s ~&                               TL
Aari lrore   Llveatock   Tmtal   A*ricoítore   Livaatotk   Total   A*rctlture   Ll.estock   Total  báiooclturf   LI',etock   Total-  Aarlte.t19                Liveoeak   litel    -
1967  Co_erceal Deprtmnt            134.9          77.4      212.3       129.3         52.0      181.3       42.1         21.5        63 6       19.7          7.1        26.8         326.0       158.0      484.0       69
Hortía Dapart_nt               53.9           -         53.9         6.3           3.0       9.3         5.3         3.5         8.8        0.3          0.4         0.7         65.8          6.9       72.7       10
fl.rel Credit Dep.rtíno        52.6          85.2      137.8         -              -         -          -           -            -         -             -          -            52.6         85.2     137.8       20
Copratia Uart_nt                5.6           1.5        7.1         -     .                  -          -           -            -         -             -          -             5.6          1.5    - 7.1         1
total                       247.0         164.1      411.1       135.6         55.0      190.6       47.4         25.0        72.4       20.0          7.5        27.5        450.0        251.6      701.6      100
7                            55            65        59          30             22        27          11          10          10         4             3          6            100          100        100
1968  CortIal Depart.at             141.7          97.6      239.3       132.6          53.7     186.3        47.4        25.4        72.8        18.2         8.0        26.2         339.9        186.7     524.6       70
Hor-tg*a  D.part_.t            54 9           _         54.9         8.2           3.4      11.6         5.9         3.8         9.7         0.3         0.4         0.7          69.3          7.6      76.9       10
kvral Cr.dtr Departurnt        46.5          91.4      137.9         -              -         -           -          -                        -             -        -            46.5         91.4     137.9       19
Cop.ttitv  Deepart_.t           5.2           1.5        6.7         -              -         -                      -                  -                  - _  _5.2                            1.5       6.7        1
Total                      248.3         190.5      438.8       140.8         57.1      197.9       53.3         29.2        82.5       18.5          8.4        26.9         460.9        285.2     746.!      I00
7                           54            67        34          30             20        26          12           10         11         4             3          4            100          100          t00
1969  Co_rc-dal Departent           156.2         113.4      269.6       127.1          62.7     189.8        53.3        33.0        86.3        16.8         10.7       27.5         353.4        219.8      573.2      76
Hortgx.¡e D.porttent           63.4           -         63.4         8.3           3.1      11.4         5.5         3.9         9.4         0.3          0.6        0.9          77.5          7.8       n5.!      al
Rorel Credit Deprt_.nt         42.5         103.4      145.9         -              -         _           _     -                  -          -             -        -            42.5        103.4      145.9      18
Coe,rat1te Depart_nt            5.0           1.5        6 5         -              -         -           -          -             -          -             -                      5.0          1.5        6.5       1
Total                      267 1         218.3      485.4       135.4         65.8      201.2        58.8        36.9        95.7        17.1         11.3       28.4         478.4        332.3    n8.07       100
7                           56            66        60           28            20        25          12            11         12         4              3        3            100          100 1t0               -
1970  C -  {1l D.p.rt-nt            203.0         127.1      330.3       148.4         82.0      230.4        62.8         34.5       97.3        26.8         16.4       45.2         441.0        262.2      703.2      73
Morstgag  Departaet            62.1            -        62.1         7.4          3.3       10.6         5.4          3.9        9.3         0.3          0.5        0.8          75.2          7.7       82.9       9
flral Cr.dit Depart.eot        43.9         116.7       160.6         .                       -           -            -                      -            -          -           43.9        116.7      160.6      17
Cooperativa Departeen-          5.4           1.3        6.7          -            -          -           -            -                      -            -           -           5.4          1.3        6.7       1
Total                      314.4         245.3      559.7       155.8        85.3       241.0        68.2        38.4       i06.6        27.1         18.9       46.0         565.5        387.9      955.4     100
X.                          56            63         59          27            22        25          12          10          11           S            5          5          '°°            100       100
October 21. 1971



Sitat C     rtol         b _otiflol±  8stlibuLtd *~dsa    to T~
(a of r.rb~r 31, 1967. 1968, 1969 & 1970)
(e iNillior)
-  1967 ----------------    --         ---       1968-1---- -----           - --'------ ------  -64-----------------         ------    ------ 1970 -
fhr .i3  end         Other, -    Total    Short Ter        and       Othre a     Totc1    Sbort ter-    cd           Otierg       Total  8bot T~         ad           Oter.  -      Tot.1
i'_ L  Tr.4/                                    J                          -                      -                                                  Te
B6423( NAC :7,IAL DC COSTA RICA
(Ce. . is  "tp4rtwent                16<.0       160.4          52.3      374.7       194.4       146.0         51.3      391.7       214.0       166.2         50.4       430.6      257.3        201.2         59.9         518.4
Rura! Credtt Depoítuort               16.9       118.6           3.9      139.4        14.4       122.9         3.6       140.9        14.6       132.6          4.0        151.2      19.0        145.4          4.1         168.5
178.9       279.0          56.2      514.1       208.a       268.9        54.9       532.6       228.6       296.8        54.4        581.8      276.3        346.6          ..          696.6
Cooperativw tep&Tteo,< -                          35.2                     35.2                    38.5                    38.5                    36.4                     36.4                    37.8                       37.8
OKM~c ME 001aRY 6 C
Co-rc-141 Dep.rt.et                  141.8       164.3          39.7      345.8       150.7       16891          36.0     354.8       150.3       173.8        33.2         357.3     210.6        194.6         23.5         428.7
SAICO S!iw ~CO~tIR IClEIS
Co_-r-1al De0rtiot                   91.6         60.8           8.7      161.1        94.2        65.6          10.2      87O x--7.9              94.0         10.3        202.1      106.7       119.0          9.6         235.1
i1AICO C1ÉDIT0  AdI7COLA CARTAGO
Corertaíl Depurt nt                   19.2        27 1           1.7       49.0        19.2        27.0           1.0      46.2        19.5        27.8          0.7         44.0       34.0       35.6           2.1          71.
?otor 9.-a24' 3org,.gt, bep.rrw.e.t  _2            211.3           _-    2.1.3          _           225.9 Y_   22 .9                       _        233.2          _          23. .2                259. __50__.0
TOtAL OTATE CtRi IL. BiS            431.5        777,7         106.3    1,315,5       471.9       794.0         102.1   1,368.0       4ff.2       864.0        9g.6       1,458.8      627.6      983.6          99.2       1,710,4
13%         S,9'b          n1      1Ot           351       Sl              72      100%         347        381            71        ion          371        577,           67         lOOt
1/  Include .1e-141 lo.- tade by BRCR *nd iCR'- c~rfal  dAp*ortimos to ot. 6r tb      p.1i6té.
2/  I.a-s of theoe depx,t . toA-  --- otb-divided *oc0rVog to the ter..  By oáitre they *Yre il4o.- h md qot-t.ao  la~.
3; 8p  -o one >er,
4i  <'ore Chan one je-ar Co E loe ye0rv edloth ret  - toro Ie tn S -ro tr6ot-  t¿r.
NoveoO.r 19/ 1971



ANNEZ 3
Table 5
COSTA RICA
SESCOND AGRICULTU1U   CREDIT PROJEDT
Agricultural Loans Approved br the Four State Comercial Banks and BNCR's
Rural Credlt D2artment
1967          1968          1969         1970
Agriculture
1. Rice                            22.3     4     24.0     4    20.3    4    24.4   4
2. Cotton                           8.6     2    14.4      3     7.2    1    2.0
3. Banana                          18.7     4     13.2    3    23.7    4    14.7   3
4. Cocoa                            0.7     -      1.7     -    2.2    -      1.6
5. Coffee                         311.7   60   330.7    62  337.6  62  468.9  82
6. Sugar cane                      13.2     3     13.3     2   15.8    3    27.6   5
7. Beans                            0.7     -      0.8     -    0.3    -      1.7   -
8. Corn                             4.7     1      4.0     1    3.3    1    2.3   1
9. Tobacco                          1.7     -      2.1     -     1.4    -    3.0   1
10. Othera                        137.4   26   130.5   24  129.7  24   24.2   4
519.7  100    534.7  100  541.5  100  570.4 loo
Livestock
1. Beef cattle                     86.1   67   111.7   80    NA             173.4
2. Dairy cattle                     9.9     8      9.9     7    NA           NA
3. Others                          32.1   25    18.1   13    NA              NA
128.1  100    139.7  100   177.6*        184.8*
Total Approved               647.8          674.4         719.1        755.2
*Breakdown not available
9turce: Central Bank.
April 6, 1972



COOTA RICA
SECOND 4RIC(UL1'L CREDIT PROJECT
Axricultural Loans Disburaed atd Collected bv the State Caamercial Banks
During 1968 1969 and 1970
(O Míllian )
Balance           Loans Disbursed    Loans Collected               Balance           Loans Diabursed    Loana Collected              Balance
s of Dece*er 31. 1968         durina 1969         during 1969      as of Deceber 31. 1969        duríns 1970         durinpg 1970    as of December 31 __197
An~urnt         7.       Auount       %      Arnount      %        Afount          %      A~ount          %      Awount       7    Aanunt            %
BANCO NACIOKNAL DF C<~A RICA 
Agriculture                                 248,3           33      245.5         43    226.7        45       267.1           33      334.6          48     287.3        52      314.4          33
Livestock                                   190.6           25      102.7         18     75.0        15       218.3           27      103.0          15      76.0        13     245.3          26
438.9          58       348.2         61    301.7        60       485.4           60      437.6          63     363.3        65     559.7           59
BANCO DE COSTA RICA
Agriculture                                 140.8           19       88.9         16     94.3        19        135.4          17      101.8          14       81.4       15      155.8          16
Livestock                                    57.'            8       34.5          6     25.8         5        65.8            8       44.3           7      26.8.        5       85.3           9
i97.9          27       123.4         22    120.1        24       201.2           25      148.1          21     108.2        20     241.1          25
BANCO ANGLO COSTARRICENSE
Agriculture                                  53.2            7       48.5          9     42.9         8         58.8            7      54.9           8      45.5         8       68.2           7
Livestock                                    29.2            4       26.4          5     18.7         4         36.9           5       18.3           2       16.8        3       38.4           4
82.4          11        74.9         14     61.6        12        95.7           12       73.2          10      62.3        11      106.6          11
BANCO CREDITO KRIC9UM C4IAOO
Agriculture                                  18.5            3       13.0          2     14.4         3         17.1            2      21:7           4       16.7        3       27.1           3
Livestock                                     8.4            1        6.3          1      3.4         1         11.3            1      11.9           2       4.3         1   _  18.9_           2
26.9           4        19.3          3     17.8         4        28.4            3       38.6           6      21.0       _ 4      41¾0           5
TOTAL STATE COtlMERCIAL 3AH.                746.]          IC)     565.8        100    501.2       11S0      810.7          lco      697.5         10      55h.8       100      953.4         100
Loans collected as % of loans disbursed                                                  8w7.                                                                 80%
October 21, 1971                                                                                                                                                                                  e
él!



COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Arrears and Outstanding Portfolio of Commercial Departments of the State Comercial Bariks
(As of December 31, 1970)
(1 Million)
Banco Nacional        Banco de        Banco Anglo-        Banco de Credíto
Arrears                 de Costa Rica        Costa Rica      Costarricense       Agricola de Cartago          Total
~~c      7.0               7        0          %0                       7%          O 
From 1 to 30 days              45.2        8.7      50.4   11.7    30.2         12.8    12.1             16.9      137.9   11.0
From 31 to 60 days             17.3        3.3      14.6    3.4    15.0          6.4      3.8              5.3       50.7    4.0
From 61'to 90 days             11.6         2.2     13.8    3.2       6.9        2.9      4.4              6.1.      36.7    2.9
From 91 to 180 days            28.2        5.4      11.4    2.7    14.1          6.0      4.7              6.5       58.4    4.7
From 181 days to 1 year        14.8        2.9      20.0    4.7       8.1        3.4      2.3              3.2       45.2    3.6
More than 1 year                 9.6       1.9       23.1    5.4    12.6         5.4      1o               1J4       46 3    3.7
Total Arrears:        126.7       24.4    133.3   31.1    86.9         36.9    28.3              39.4      375.2   29.9
Loans not yet due   391.8         75.6    295.3   68.9   148.[         63.1    43.5              60.6      879.0  21.L1
Total Portfolio _f  518.5        100.0    428.6  100.0   235.3        100.0    71.8             100.0   12254.2  100.0
1/  These figures represent 70% of the total loan portfolio as shown in Annex 3, Table 4.
Information was not available for the remaining 30% (Mortgage Department, Cooperation
Department and Rural Credit Department)
April 6, 1972                                                                                                                   O >



COSTA RICA
SBEOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Consolidated Statement of Eam i!8 and e nditures of the Four State Comrcial Banks
(for the lears Ended Decenibr 31, 1967, 1968  196   i        Y970
(g' MíUJJon)
1967    %             1968                  1969                  1970
Interest                      90.7         82         100.5       80       111.1       80       126.1          80
Fbreígn Ecchange                1.1         1          1.9         1         2.7        2         3.4           2
C«missions                     11.6        10          14.6       12        16.3       12        18.3          12
Other earnings                  7.5         7          8.4         7         8.9        6         9.7           6
110.9       100        *125.4      100       139.0      100       157 5         100
D"pndi tures
Interest paíd                  28.0        29         30.9        28        35.4       29        37.7          27
Comiissions                     1.3         1           1.3        1         1.3        1          1.4          1
Board of Directors' fees        1.0         1           1.0        1          1.1       1          1.0          1
Staff Salary                   38.4        40         43.0        39        48.9       40        57.6          42
Loanrs Servicing                1.3         1           1.3        1         1.2        1          1.2          1
Other Administrative Expenses 11.8         13         13.5        12        15.1       12        16.5          12
Provision for depreciat on      9.7        10          13.9       13        13.6       11        16.6          12
Various expenses                5.2         5           5.3        5         6.3        5          6.2          4
96.7       100         110.2      100       122.9      100       138.2         100
14.2                   15.2                  16.1                 19.3
Incorne Tax                    4.4                      3.5                  3.0                  5. 2
Net Earni2a a.fter Tax 1/         9.8                    11.7                  13.1                 14.1
1/  Allocated to Staff Retirement FVurds, BNCR's Cooprative Departent, and  legal reserve,
November 24, 1971



ANNEX 4
Page 1
COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Livestock
Cattle Production
1.        Accordlng to the 1968 agricultural census, the cattle population
in Costa Rica totalled some 1.4 million animals, indicating an increase of
50% in the last decade. This high growth rate has been the result of an in-
creased domestic consumption by the growing population (3.3% per annum) and
an expanding export market for boneless beef in the United States. About
one-quarter of 1970's total agricultural output was livestock products,
US$69 million out of a total of US$219 míllion. Total llvestock production
In 1960 was valued at US$28 million and total agricultural output at US$136
million. The value of beef exporta has increased about ten times in the
last decade, from US$2 million in 1960 to about US$20 million in 1970. The
1970 total values represent about 53,500 tons of carcaso beef and 215,000 tono
of milk.
2.        About 90% of the cattle are classified as beef-type animals and
10% as dairy type. Some 75% of the beef cattle are located in the Dry Trop-
ic8, 20% in the Wet Tropics, and 5% in the Central Plateau. The Dry Tropics
supply the bulk of the meat for export as well as for domestic consumption.
Cattle of the apecialized dairy breeds total 140,000 head and are concen-
trated in the Central Plateau and peripheral areas. This 18 also the area
in which more than half the country's population i8 located. These herds
supply about two-thirds of the country's milk requirementa, particularly
those of the cities of San Jose and Cartago. The other third is produced
in the tropics by about 200,000 beef-type cows.
Breeds
3.        The beef cattle in the Wet and Dry Tropics are predominantly
cebu and crosses with descendants of Spanish introductions during the early
days of colonization. They are hardy and resistant to endemic diseases but
their beef potential could be markedly increased by better feeding and
management as well as by breed *Improvement. To this end, Brahman, Santa
Gertrudis, and Charolais bulls are now being introduced, with commercial
beef producets favot'ing crossing the br"eds. Brown Swias croases are
preferred for tropical milk production. In the Central Plateau, Hereford
and Aberdeen Angus are being brought in to upgrade beef herds, while the
Friesian breed accounts for over 50% of the dairy-type animals. The
remainder comprises Guernseys, Jerseys, Ayrshires, and their crosses.
Grading up to Friesians ia accelerating through the use of artificial
insemination.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Pastures
4.        Out of a country total of 5 míllíon ha, grazing land occupies
¿around 1.4 million ha although a high proportion of farms have areas of
forest or secondary growth tlhat could be developed into suitable pastures.
lle Atlantíc Wet Tropics partlcularly has vast areas of native forest,
covering about 1.2 million ha, a substantial part of which could be con-
verted to pasture. By doing this and also improvlng exísting pastures,
bcef production could be greatly expanded. In the Dry Tropics, Jaragua
(IUyparrhenía Rufa) is the dominant grass.  Although protein levels of
pastures are low (7%) because of the lack of legumes and the uncontrolled
";razing conditions brought about by insufficient subdivisional fencing,
many ranchers have small areas of their farms in improved grasses such as
Pangola, Guinea and Africian Star, which are usually fertilized with
nitrogenous fertilizer and used as fattening pastures.
5.        Natural pastures and fertilized improved pastures carry about
one and two animal units per ha, respectively. A drought period lasting
up to 5 months (Dec-April), however, imposes nutritional stress on all
stock, especially as there is little attempt to conserve surplus grass as
hiay or silage. In the Wet Tropics, Guinea and Elephant grass are the
dlominant species and cattle performance ls more affected during the heavieii
raínfall montlhs (May July) than during the short dry period (March and April).
In the dairy area of the Central Plateau, pasture management has been
uindergoing radlcal changes during the last 10 to 15 years. Where previout¡ly
elephant grass (Pennisetum purpureum) and imperial grasa (Axonopus scopatius)
were cut and fed indoors, now many farmers are developing kikuyu (Pennulsetum
clandestinum) and wild clover grazing pastures. This change has lowered
operating costs and improved milk yields through higher feed quality. As
most solls are phosphate-deficient, low fertility species such as Sporobulus
and íolcus Lanatus also predominate.
6.        Until recently, increasing production per uuít area ín Costa
Rica as a whole had not been very important because of the undeveloped
areas available on many beef ranchers.  Now, however, farma are becvolrg
aware of production responses when nitrogenous fertilixers are used,
largely through the efforts of the local nitrogen oased fertilizer indus-
try. On the other hand, they are aware thit the cheapest form of grasa
production is through legume gras3 associations with phosphatic fertilizera.
rIany legumes exist in Costa Rica, such as Calopogonium and Desuodium
specles, as well as white dlover, but their real value remaíns unexploited.
Beef Production
7.        Commercial offtake has averaged about 14% since 1960.  Over the
same perlod, the national beef herd has been increasing at the rate of 5Z
per annum. The inadequacles in animal hiusbandry, nutrition and disease
control, however, result in a calvíng rate of about 60%, which could be
Increased to 75Z and a slaughter age of between 2-1/2 to 3 years. Steers for
export as boneless beef are of reasorable qua J.ity and average 440 kg
liveweight, but stock for domestic cons&nption, particularly cull cows,
are of indifferent quallty, averaging 360 kg liveweight. "Altamira,"



ANNEX 4
Page 3
a Project Participating Ranch in the Wet Tropics, 18 an outstanding
example of what could be achieved by extending improved techinology, as
envisaged in the second loan. The ranich has good farm building8, corral,
dip and cattle scale, and there is adequate subdivision of pastures and
access roads, with machinery and implements for bush clearance, pasture
sowing and renewal. The herd has been upgraded and good veterinary
practices are used. Altamira has excellent legume pastures, comprising
mixtures of kudzu (Pueraria Phaoseolides) wlth the grasses para and
Echinochloa polystachya (Aleman). Seasonal calving and controlled grazing
are practiced resulting ín an effective calving rate of 90% and a slaughter
age for steers of around 2 years. Likewise, "La Pacífica" ranch is a good
example of efficient beef production obtained by a similar development
program applied to the ecologically different Dry Tropics. This ranch is
beginning to obtain gainS of more than 1 kg of liveweight per day, grazing
young steers (10 to 20 months old) on legume-grass mixtures (Centrosema-
Pangola and Siratro-african star).
Dar1y Production
8.        Milk production on the high value land of the Central Plateau
has been very dependent upon large amounts of concentrate feedstuffs (1 kg
meal/2 kg milk) to supplement the poor pastures. On average, only 60% of
the cows are in milk, and daíly production te low at around 5 kg per cow,
although most have a high production potential.  Calving ratea are about
70%, and calves are reared indoors at high cost. On small portions of some
farms, farmers apply heavy applications of nitrogenous fertilizers, with
intensive subdivision of kikuyu pastures and carry three to five milking
cows per ha. Daíly milk productíon per cow under such circumstances aver-
ages 14 kg under reduced levels of concentrate feeding (1 kg meal/4 kg
milk). In the zones where kikuyu is lese dominant, legume-based (white
clover and Desmodiums) pastures fertilized with phosphates could achieve
simllar stocking and production levels at even lower coste of production.
Animal Health
9.        The country is free of foot and mouth disease and, to avoid in-
troduction, enforces preventive measúres at all pointe of entry. This is
vital to the continuation and expansion of beef exports to the United
States. Internal parasites and tick infestation affect animal performance,
particularly that of young cattle, duying periode of nutritional stress.
Anthrax and blackleg are present, and cow fertility i8 lowered by the pres-
ence of brucellosis, trichomoníasis and vibriosis.  Mastitis and tubercu-
losis occur in dairy herds.  Nutritional diseases have been insufficiently
investin,ate(1.  14hile claims are made that animals suffer from deficiencies
of protein, minerals and vitamins, with the exception of tuberculosis,
most anima]. diseases found on Costa Rican farms can be prevented by modern
veterinary control measures, such as vaccination, spraying, drenching
and artificial breeding.  Improving the nutritional status of animals would
reduce ticir vulnerability to some of these diseases.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Livestock Services
10.       Government services to the livestock industry are administered
¡nainl.y through the Research Department or the Extension Department of the
Ministry of Agriculture. The Research Department includes the Division for
Livestock Research, while the Extension Department has the Veterinary Serv-
ices Branch and the Livestock Extension Division. A11 these services
operate well.
Research
11.       The Division of Livestock Research maintains research stationa
at El Alto near San Jose to service the Central Plateau, Los Diamantes
near Guapiles for the Wet Tropics, and Tobago near Canas for the Dry Trop-
ícs. The El Alto station maintaina a small dairy herd, but has too small
an area of grazing land to undertake dairy research. Los Diamantes and
Tobago stations personnel have been collaborating with the Uníversity of
Florida's staff to identify adaptable legume 9pecie8 and conduct grazing
and seed production trials. Livestock management trials are also in
progress.  Research needs improvement.  The U. S. AID has program8 with
the Minis,try of Agriculture and the University of Costa Rica for expansion
and improvement of research (Annex 2, para 4).
12.       The University of San Jose is at present negotiactng with the
Ministry of Agriculture to play a more active role in animal production
research. Applied demonstration-type field studies on pasture development
and livestock management are also being conducted by fertilizer companies.
Extension
13.       The Livestock Extension Division covera the fielda of animal nu-
trition, pasture management, milk hygiene, breed registrti9x  reproduc-
tion and on-farm demonstrations and meetings.  It Qoh1aborates with the
Project Development Program, controls the entry of hIvest9çk a4 fp;en
semen into the country and the export of live cattle by gr;nting lic~n es,
.m11d administers an artificial breeding service.  These servicçs are under
¿1anned expansion for seven regional centers, with financial and technical
assístance througlh AID.
Ve ten nary
14.       In 1968, the Veterinary Services Branch was reorganized ínto
four sections -- animal health, quarantine, diagnostic and weat tnspection.
Animal health projects for the control of brucellosis and tuberculosi9 are
about to be assisted through an IDB loan, extendling over 4 to 5 years.
Quarantine control is established at ports, airportg And bordera to prevent
tie entry of foot and mouth disease and other exotic diseases. Piagostic
.111d investigation laboratories are located at the E1 Alto researcb station
to service the regional veterinaríans and meat inspection is concentrated
largely on animal and plant hygiene at tlhe five export meat p;clcing planta.
tlliese plants are also subject to U.S. inspection and fcensiwxg for beef ex-
ports.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Education
15.       Costa Rica's university, the University of San Jose, has an
agricultural but no veterinary faculty. It annually graduates more than
100 agricultural students but they lack suifficient training in animal pro-
duction. Many Costa Ricans have been graduated by overseas universities,
mainly in the United States, while others have received advanced training
abroad, mainly at the University of Florida in the departments of agronomy
and animal production. Some students have received a 2-year practical
course at the agricultural techuical achool (Zamorano), located in Honduras,
for Central American students.
16.       The headquarters of the Inter-American Institute of Agricultural
Sciences (IICA) was established at Turrialba in 1942 and has provided post-
graduate agriculture training up to a masterls degree to selected atudents
from all Central and South Amerícan countries. Few Costa Ricans, however,
have specialized in the animal production field. The role of IICA ia at
present undergoing reorganization and, while ita future role will be
Central-American orientated, it ia expected to become more identified as a
national institution. With its excellent facilities, it is the logical
site for the agricultural faculty of the University of San Jose.
April 5, 1972






COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ESTlMATES OF PROPOSED INVESTHENT PROGRAM
LIVESTOCK
-------------PROPOSED TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS (COLONES'000)------------                  ------(US$ '000)-------
Investment                         BEEF CATTLE               DAIRY CATTLE                     TOTAL            Sub-                                Estimated Foreign
Invetmegoíe                Dry-      Wet-       Central    Dry-        Wet-     Central                    Borrowers'   Lendiag        Total       Exchange Component
Categories                Tropics   Tropica   Plateau   Tropics   Tropics   Plateau   (Amount) (%)   Investment   Program   Investment    (7.)               (Amount)
1.  Land & Pasture Develooment          7984       2281       1141       190        190       1519       13305   28         402        1608         2010         68       1375;0
New pasture                         3780       1080        540         -          -          -        5400   11         164         656          820         65        533.0
Pasture renovation                  1890        540        270        15         15        120        2850    6          86         344          430         65        279.5
Road construction                    882        252        126        30         30        240        1560    3          48         192          240         65        156.0
Fertilizer                           756        216        108       105        105        840        2130    5          64         256          320         85        272.0
Pesticides                             -          -          -        23         23        179         225    1           6          24           30         80         24.0
Others                               676        193         97        17         17        140        1140    2          34         136          170         65        110.5
2.  Machinery & Eauiíment               6461       1862        980       143        143        1100      10689   23         322        1288         1610         70       1127.0
Tractor                            4410       1260        630         -          -           -       6300   13         190         760          950         70        665.0
Mover                               504        144         72         -          -           -        720    2          22          88          110         70         77.0
Bailer                              504        144         72         -          -           -        720    2          22          88          110         70         77.0
Milking equipment                   504        144         72       120        120        960        1920    4          58         232          290         70        203.0
Dairy equipment                       -          -          -        10         10          80        100    -           2           8           10         70          7.0
Scales                               30         10         10         -          -          -         50      -          2           6            8         70          5.6
Others                              509        160        124        13         13          60        879    2          26         106          132         70         92.4
3.  Constructions & Installations       6183       1766        883       154        154        1230       10370   22        314        1256         1570         50        785.0
Implement shed & workshop           630        180         90         -          -          -         900    2          28         112          140         50         70.0
Farm buildinga                     1134        324        162        35         35        280        1970    4          60         240          300         50        150.0
Working corrals                     378        108         54         -          -           -        540    1          16          64           80         50         40.0
Dips                                378        108         54         -          -           -        540    1          16          64           80         50         40.0
Fencing                            1134        324        162        50         50        400        2120    5          64         256          320         50        160.0
Scale site                          630        180         90         -          -           -        900    2          28         112          140         50         70.0
Well pump & pipe                   1260        360        180        15         15         120        1950    4         58         232          290         50        145.0
Water Reservoir                       -          -          -        25         25         200         250    -          8          32           40         50         20.0
Troughs                             126         36         18        15         15         120         330    1         10          40           50         50         25.0
Others                              513        146         73        14         14        110         870    2          26         104          130         50         65.0
4.  Planting Material & Breeding
Stock                               6883       1967        9              308             2461        12910   2Z         90        15           1295         la       1017.0
Breeding age females                4032       1152        576       200        200        1600        7760   17        234         936         1170         50        585.0
Breeding age males                  2268        648        324         -          -           -        3240    7         98         392          490         50        245.'J
Semen                                   -         -          -        80         80         635         795    1         24          96          120         85        102.0
Others                               583        167         83        28         28         226        1115    2         34         136          170         50         85.0
GRAND TOTAL                    27511       7876       3987       795        795       6310       47274  100        1428        5712          140                  4304.0
% of Total Investment Cost:           58         17          8         2          2          13         100              20           80          leo                    60
April 6, 1972



COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FARM NODELS
LIVESTOCK
AREA             YIELD p.a.      Live w.  Gross Production    Production Cost    Net Production    Incremental
In Hectares      Live w. kg/ha    Price    Value p.a. e           p.a. in e           value p.a. ¢         Net value p.a.
Without   With    Without   With   e/kg       Without      With    Without    With    Without   With
Project            Project                     Project            Project              Project
)ODEL         Beef cattle
PAEM SIZZ:    300 ha.
IUVESTI   s   Land & Hbrd Development
USEUL tIFE:  20 yeara.
Beef Meat                                200       300      88.4      303.8   2.6     46,000      237,000   30,000   73,000   16,000   164,000    148,000
Carrying capacity AU/ha II               1.2       2.1
I«DZL          Dalry cattle
FARM SIZZ:     40 ha
IVESTMNBT:    Land & Herd Developnent
USEFUL LIDE:   20 years
Beef Neat                                 40        40      77.5     295.0   2.6       8,000       31,000  )
) 69,000  131,000   70,000  163,000       93,900
Milk                                      40        40    3,722       7,471   0.88   131,000      263,000  )
139,000     294,000
Carrying capacity AU/ha 1/               1.8          3    3,722/    7,471 2/1
1/  Animal unita per hectare. (Cow and Calfl.                                                                                                                          0'
2/ These yielda correspond to 1500 kg/cow (vithout project) and 3000 kg/cow (vith project).
ADril 6, 1972



COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ESTIMATES OF PROPOSED INVESTMENT PROGRAM 1/
CROPS
PROPOSED TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS (CWLONES',qq0                                         us$'000
Investment                    ANNUAL CROPS           Bananas/         FRUIT TREES   PINEAPPLES   TOTAL              Sub-                              Estiíated Foreien
Categories               Dry       Wet    Central   Plantains        Dry    Central  Central                     borrowers'  Lending    Total         Exchange Component
Tropics  Tropics  Plateau  Wet Tropics  Tropics  Plateau  Plateau  (Amount) (%)  Investment  Program  Investment    (%)    (Amnount'
1.  Land and Crop Development    1050          525       175       15547         674    1530       2625      22126   59         668        2672        3340        40         1323
Feasibility study                  -         -         -         400           -        -         -        400    1          12         48           60        00           00
Land Clearing                    144        72        24         950          11       25        10       1236    3          38        152          190        65         124
Farm Drainage                    162        81        27        2000           -        -         -       2270    6          68        272          340        65         221
On-Farm irrigation works           -         -         -           -         108      252         -        360    1          10         40           50        35           18
Soil erosion control             180        90        30           -           -        -         -        300    1          10         40           50        60           30
Flood control                    144        72        24           -           -        -         -        240    1           8         32           40        60           24
Road construction                216       108        36        1100          22       53        15       1550    4          46         184         230        65          150
Fíeld crop establishment           -         -         -         700          44      100       400       1244    3          38        152          190        20           38
Pre-production                     -         -         -        9380         440    1000       1965      12785   34         386       1544         1930        30          579
Fertilizer 2/                    108        54        18           -           -        -         -         180    1           6         24          30        80           24
Others                            96        48        16        1017          49      100       235       1561    4          46         184         230        50          115
2.  Mgchinery & Equipment            990       495       165        3745           48      113       656       6212   16         188        752         940         70         658
Tractors                         315       158        52         350           -        -       350       1225    3          36         144         180        70          126
Ploughs                           36        18         6          60           -        -        60         180    1           6         24          30        70           21
Harrows                           36        18         6          40           -        -        40         140    -          4          1E          20        70           14
Drainage equipment               360       180        60         200            -        -         -        800    2          24         96         120         70          84
Trailers                          45        22         8          50           -        -        50         175    -           6         24          30        70           21
Spraying equipment                45        22         8         120          45      105       100         445    1          14         56          70         70          49
Others                           153        77        25        2925           3        8        56       3247    9           98        392         490         70         343
3.  Constructions & Installations 790          390       135        1820          207      484       700       4526   12         136        544          680        48         325
Farm buildirgs                   360       180        60        1200           90     210        100       2200    6          66        264         330         50         165
Fencing                          390       195        63          80          44      100         90        962    3          30        120          150        50          75
Workshops                          -         -         -         300            -        -       250        550    1          16         64           80        50          40
Windbreaks                         -         -                   100           58     134        100        392    1          12         48           60        20          12
WeIl, Pumps & Pipe                 -         -         -          40            -        -       100        140    -           4         16           20        65          13
Others                            40        15        12         100           15      40         60        282    1           8         32           40        50          20
4.  Planting Material                150        75         25        3117         156      363       984       4870   13         148        592          740        13           94
Improved seeds                   140        70        20           -            -        -         -        230    -           8         32          40         50          20
Plante & Cuttings                  -                   -        3000         144      336        900       4380   12         132        528          660        10-         66
Others                            10         5         5         117          12       27        84        260    1            8         32          40         20           8
TOTAL                     2980      1485       500       24229         1085    2490       4965      37734  100        1140       4560         5700        42         2400
Perrer.tage of Total Investnent Costs 8          4          1          64           3        7        13        100               20          80         100          -          42
1/ Figures are rounded.
2/ Fertilizer for fruits, bananas and pineapples are included in pre-production costs.                                                           Januaziy 26, 1971



COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FARM MODELS
CROPS
Area                  Yield                        Gross Production      Production Cost       Net Production
In Hectares       in M.T. Per Hectare    Price           Value in ¢               ín ¢              Value in e         Incremental
Without   With        Without    With       </M.T.      Without   With       Without    With       Without   With        Net Value
Prolect                Project                          Projert                Project              Pro_ect                _
NODEL          Annual Crops
FARM SIZE:    50 Hectares
INVESTMENT:   Land & Crop Development
USEFUL LIFZ:  10 years
Maize (First crop)                 -        35           -         3.6     517             -     65,142
Rice (Second crop)                40        35          1.8        3       738         53,136   77,490  ) 40,000         101,500   13,136  41,132        27,996
Woodland                          10         -           -          -        -            -
53,136  142,632
MODEL          Bananas/plantains
FARM SIZE:    300 Hectares
INVESTMENT:   Development of a Unit
USEFUL LIFE:  15 years
Bananas/Plantains                100       300         32        38        450      1,440,000 5,130,°0.   1,350,000   4, 5%,000   90,000 630,000    540,000
Woodland                         200
MODEL         Fruit trees
FARM SIZE:    15 Hectares
INVESTMENT:   Development of an Orchard
USEFULL LIFE: 25 years
Avocados                           1         5         11         21       800          8,800   84,000  )
Citrus                             2         5         15        28        400         12,000   56,000  )  15,000          60,000   15,400 138,500   123,10
Mangos                             2         5         16         29       300          9,600   43,500  )
Intercrop                          -        10         1.2       1.5      1000             -    15,000  )
Woodland & Fallow                 10         -          -          -          -        30,400  198,500
MODEL          Pineapples
FARM SIZE:    100 Hectares
INVESTMENT:   Basic infrastructure on 100 ha and
development of a 50 ha unit
USEFUL LIFE:  15 years
Pineapples                        50       100         12        30        310        186,000  930,000    175,000         650,000   11,000 280,000   269,000
Bushland & Fallow                 50         -          -          -         -           -         -                  -         _       .        _
January 27, 1971



COSTA RICA
SEOND AGRICULrTRA1CgRDIT  JECT
ESTITES OF PROPOSED IVESTHU(T ROGRAM
FORBSTRY
PROPOSED TOTAL INVEST<ENT COSTS (COLONES'OOO)                                    (u$03,00)
Investent                                                 Central       Total         Sub-borrowera'    Lending       Total        Ectimted Foreign
Categoriea                D]r-Tropica    Wet-Tropics    Plateau    (Aount) (%)          Investment       Prograz    Inveat.mt    Eoh%ange Coont
1. Land & Tree Develoent                  171            1190          591        2352   44            71             284
Feasibility studles                    35              75           40          150    3            5              18          23          50         12
Rad Construction                      185             385          200         770   14            23              93         116          65         75
Forest tree eastabliahment            135             270          135         540   10            16              65           81         20          16
Pre-Production                        180             360          180         720   14            22              87         0og          30         33
Otheru                                 36             100           36          172    3            5              21           26         60          16
2. Machine!  & EQ2!ent                    430            1125          656        2211   42            67             267         33           70         23
Tractora                              310             775          465         1550   29           47             187          234         70         164
4-wheel drive vehicles                 70             175          105          350    7           11              42           53         70          37
Motor-saus                              114            35           21           70    1             2              9           11         70           8
Tools & Implesrta                      16              40           24           80    2            2              10           12         70           8
Others                                 20             100           41          161    3            5              19           24         70          17
3. Coxutructiona & Inmtalationa           139             327          181          647   12           19              z9 28                   LO          49
Fam bufldinga                           20            50            30          100    2             3             12           15         50           7
Fencing                                45             90             45         180    3            5              22           27         50          14
Workshopai                              60           150            90          300    6             9             37           46         50          23
Well, Pwp & Pipes                        4            10             6           20    -             1              2            3         50           1
Othera                                  10            27            10           47    1             1              6            7         50           4
4. Planting Material                        17            44             25          86    2             3              10          13         40
Forest Nurseries                       16             40            24           80    2             3              9           12         40           5
Otheru                                   1             4              1           6    -             .              1            1         40           -
TOTAL                           1157           2686          1453         5296  loo           160            640          800         55         440
Percentage of Total 7nve2tent Costa        22             51             27         100                 20             80          100                      55
Arsril 6, 1972



COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FARM !DDEL
EORESTRY
Area              Production                              Gross Production       Production Cost      Net Production
In Hectares         M3 of Sawn Wood             Price            Value in ¢               ín e               Value in e          Ir.cremer,tal
Without   With       Without   With               97            Without   With        Without   With        Without With          Net Value
Prolect               Proiect                                   Pro1ect                                                            e
MDEL          Woodland
FARM SIZE:   1,000 Hectares
INVESTMENT: Basic infrastructure for
rational use of forest
resources
USEFUL LIFE: 50 years
Woodland under Use              200    1,000        11,000  41,250               12           132,000   495,000   100,000  285,000        32,000   210,000       178,000
Woodland under Reserve          800
&pril 6, 1972
1F'
o



COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ESTIMATES OF PROPOSED INVESTMENT PROGRAM
AGRO-INDUSTRIES
--------------------------PROPOSED TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS (COLONES'000)--------------------------   - - -(US $ '000\-
ínvestment           Slaughter-  Milk Plants  Mixíng Plants  Grain Storage  Fruit                   Agro-        Saw-                       Sub-    Lend-           EstiLate0
Investment                                                                               Mills         Total ~~~~~~Pant    AiatonBorrowers'  ing   Total  F.z.reigi~
Categories             houses       V'entral   Central Platealu  Dry-Tropics  Packing Plants   Aviation          MilToa                  Brows'ng              otlF-ix
Wet-Tropics   Plateau                                        Wet-   Central Countryside Country- (Amount) (%> Investment Pro-  Invest-  xchaiie
2            1              1                 1       Tropics Plateau         2         side                      3%         07          (Y)  CnAmount)
1.  Machinery & Equipment        90          814           440              304        1,180       46       396          700       3970    61    180         420   600   70       420
Slaughter equipment
Office equipment
2.  Construction &
Installations              94          625            280              560        806         75        40          100       2580      39   117        273   390   52       202
Buildings
Installations
TOTAL                  184         1439            720              864       1,986       121        436        800       6550      100  297         693   990   63       622
April 6, 1972
H~



CO'.TA RICA
,SECO"1 AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Technical Services
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3       Total          Local        Foreign        Total
( -          (000 Colones) -----('00- ------------( 0  S$)-------------
Consultants and
short-term staff 1/  200          300        460         960             36           109           145
Vehicles 2/             405         153         105        663              -           100            100
Fellowships 2/          275         275        275         825             -            125           125
Total       880         728         840      2 448              36           334           370
1/  Foreign technical staff by wav of short-term assignments and
foreign consulting firms.
/ 25 four-wheel-drive vehicles for C'3 and P3s.
3/ Up to one-year fellowship for 15 trainees during the 3-year project: 2 for forestry,
3 for falm management/agricultural credit, 5 for agro-industries, 2 for livestock and
3 for marketing. Per diem allowances of US$20 plus travel exbenses and insurance.
Trainees would be professionals of the participating banks or Central Bank.
April 6, 1972



COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PROJECT COST
(COLONES '000)                                      (US$'000)                   Percentage        Foreign Exchange
of Total            Component
Local      Foreign       Total                   Local       Foreign       Total       Project Cost                %
A.  LENDING PROGRAM
1.  LIVESTOCK                                  18782        28492         47274                   2836        4304          7'lb0         43                     60
Land and pasture develooment                4203         9102         13305                    635       1375           2010          12                     68
Machinery & implements                      3228         7461         10689                    483        1127          1610          10                     70
Construction & Installations                5173         5197         10370                    785         785          1570           9                     50
Planting material & Breeding Stock          6178         6732         12910                    933       1017           1950          12                     52
2.  CROpS                                      21846        15888         37734                   3300        2400          5700          35                     42
Land and crop development                  13368         8758         22126                   2017        13a3          3340           2!                    40
Machinery & equipment                       1856         4356          6212                    282         658           940            6                    70
Construction & Installations                2374         2152          4526                    355         325           680            5                    48
Planting material                           4248          622          4870                    646          94           740            4                    13
3.  FORESTRY                                    2383         2913         5296                     360         440           800             5                    55
Land and tree development                   1346         1006         2352                     203         152           355            2                    43
Machinery & equipment                        662         1549         2211                     100         234           334             2                   70
Constructions & Installations                32           32           647                      49          49            98            -                    50
Planting material                             53           33           86                       8           5            13            -                    40
4.  COMPLEMENTARY DEVELOPMENT -/                3972         5958         9930                     600         900          1500             9                    60
5.  AGROINDUSTRIES                              2432         4118         6550                     368         622           990             6                    63
Machinery & equipment                       1190         2780         3970                     180         420           600             4                    70
Construction & Installations                1242         1338         2580                     188         202           390             2                    52
Sub-Total                             49415       57369         106784                   7464        8666         16130           98                    54
B.  TECHNICAL SERVICES                                 237        2211          2448                     36         334           370            2                    90
Consultant and short-te-m staff              237          7?            ghn                     36         109            145            1                    85
Vehicles and equipment                         -          hb3           663                      -         100            100            -                   100
Fellowships                                    -          825           825                      -         125           125             1                   100
GRAND TOTAL                                49652        59580       109232                    7500        9000          16500          100                    55
_/ Complemnentary Development costs have been included in Livestock and Crops in para 4.15
ADr¡! 6, 1'7,



CWTA RICA
SECa8D AhRICULTURAL CREDIT PR08ECT
nOJECT CASH FLW OF PARTICIPATING &AUXS
(o '000)
Year               1         2          3         4          5         6          7         8          9        10         11        12         13        14          15           16       Total
LhPLCU
DR.D ln  for On-Lending                          13,339    17,522    18,129      8,379                                                                                                                                       57,369
Loan Principal Revadd by Sub-4orrors               -          -        1,726     4,210      6,628     8,153      9,253    10,385    10,337      9,050      7,660     6,e49      5,495      3,795     1.670        360         85,491
Loan Intereot Paid by Sub-Borrors (9-3/41)          967     3.217      5.639     7.155      7.122     6.336      5.442     4.440      3,418     2.542      1.795     1.129        600        213        53         34         50.106
TOTAL IUFlLOi            14,306    20,739    25,494    19,744    13,750    14,489    14,695    14,825    13,755    11,572          9,455      7,978     6,095      3,950     1.725        394        192,966
OUTFLOW
Loan. to Sub-borrovers                           19,825    26,213    26,991    12.462                              a09                                                                                                        85,491
Pr palRepayint to CB                               -         -         1,158     2,825     4,448      5,471     6,209      6,969      6,936     6,060      5,141     4,595      3,688     2.307      1,121        241        57,369
Comitmnt Feas Paid to IBRD thru CB                  395       276        137         33      -         -          -          -         -               -         -          -          -         -           -                   641
Inter.at Paid to CB at 7-1/41                       484     1,601      2,892     3,852      4,157     4,157      3,863     3.547      3,207     2,842      2,450     2,028      1,575      1,087       563                    38,305
PBe* Project Adin6.tratlvv  Cost                    100        500       800        800       500      __0         300        200        80       -         -                                                                  3 .780
TOrAL WTFLCW             21,004    28,590    31,978    19,972       9,105     9,928    10,372    10,716    10,223       8.902      7,591      6,623     5,263      5,994      1,684       241        185,786
*                                                                                    - -     . . .      - - -      . . .     .                                              ___
Annual Cash Surplu (Definit)                     (6,698)   (7,851)   (6,484)       (228)    4,645     4.561      4.323     4,109      3,532      2,670     1,864      1,535        832       356         41       153          7.180
C,^Itlve Cash Surpl.o  (Defltcí)                 (6,698)  (14,549)  (21,033)  (21,261)  (16,616)  (12,055)   (7,732)   (3,623)          (91)    2,579      4,443      5,798     6,630      6,986     7,027      7,180
April 6, 1972



ANNEX 15
COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cuuulative Disbursement
_tend_of Quarter
IBRD Fiscal Year & Quarter                           (U5$'000)
1971/ 72
June 30, 1972/
1972/73
September 30, 1972/
December 31, 1972                                       500
March 31, 1973,                                        1,000
June 30, 1973                                         1,500
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                    2,000
Deceiber 31, 1973                                     2,500
March 31, 1974                                         3,000
June 30, 1974                                          3,500
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                    4,000
December 31, 1974                                     4,700
March 31, 1975                                         5,400
Jure 30, 1975                                         6,100
1975/76
September 30, 197 3                                   6,800
December 31, 1975-                                    7,300
March 31, 1976                                         7,800
June 30, 1976                                         8,300
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                    8,700
December 31, 1976/h                                    9,000
/1   Estimated Date of Signing.
/2   Estimated Date of Effectivenese.
/3   Estimated Project Completion.
/4   Closing Date.
April 5, 1972



l ~  A RI Ca
SECCUND ,.P:   R  C' 3IT P.OJES'l
Estimated Increase in Utilized Area and Production
Incremental Production
Área Develod               _    Production                 at Full Development
Before     lfter         Bofore             After                 (1981)
(ha)         (ha)       Metric tons        Metric tone          Metric Tons
B*e*                            369000       54,9000       3,182              16oUO5                13,222
Daíry¡
>1k                           2,000         2,000       7,744              14,942                  7,198
Besf                          2,000        2,000          155                 590                   435
Crop .&
Muize                            -          2,100          -                7,560                 7,560
Rice                          2.,400        2,100       4,320               6,300                 1,980
Banana/Plantain                  1,000        3,000       32,000             114,000                82,000
P±neapple                          500        1,000        6,000              30,000                24,000
Fru±t treso
Avocados                         30           150         330               3,150                 2,820
Citru                            60          150          900              4J,200                 3,300
Mangos                           60           150         960               4,350                 3,390
Intercrop i                         -            300          -                  450                   450
Porestry                         1,000       10,000           22                 410                   388
a/ Maize is planted as the first crp and rice as the second.  Intercrops are planted on the area planted
to fruit trees before the plantations reach full development.
b/ Million M3 timber.
December 6, 1971



ANNEX 17
Paae 1
COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Markets and Marketing
Bananas
1.        Facilities for export and marketíng to foreign consuming countries
is probably the most crucial factor in the production of bananas for ex-
port. This is because the fruit is highly perishable and apecial handling
techníques and facilities are required to preserve the quality of the fruit
when it is being transported to the consuming markets.  Arrangements to
speed delivery to the consumer as well as the handling of large supplies
are also necessary for an effícient marketing system. These characteristics
have led to the virtual domination of the international trade in bananas
by a few firms, principally United Fruit and Standard Fruit.
2.        During the most recent 3-year period, 1967-69, four producer-
exporter fírms accounted for an estimated 97% of Costa Rica's export of
bananas, with United Fruit and Standard Fruit the two largest, accounting
for 51% and 37%, respectively. The remaining 9% was accounted for by
Afrikanische, a firm that exports to the European markets, and Bandeco, a
subsidiary of Del Monte. In addítíon to their own production, United
Fruít buys from four independent producers without export facilities,
Standard Fruit from 18, Afrikanische from 12, and Bandeco from 21. The
independent producer or producing unit, which ís mainly locally owned,
usually enters into a 10-year contract to sell its output at agreed
prices to one of the exporting fírms. Though the contracted prices are
agreed to in advance, they are, however, subject to re-negotiation whenever
there are significant departures from the normal movements in world market
prices and production costs.  Some of the exporting firms also supply
tec'lnical assistance and certain production inputs to independent producers,
so th.at the contracted purchase prices vary among the exporting firms
accor,iing to the value of the inputs supplied.   It ís estimated that the
averae* export unit value was 30 to 35% higher than the price paid to the
producer in recent years.  The high cost of domestie transportation
(about onie hal f of thie margin) is certainly an important contributory
[actor to the relatively high margin between producer and export prices.
Prices paid to banana growers are as follows:



ANNEX 1 7
Page 2
PRICES OF BANANA - FOB PUERTO LIMON
(US7Ibox - 42 pounds Mínimum)
Standard Fruit/       Cobal       Bandeco
First class               1.05             1.53         1.53
Second class               .80             1.49         1.03
Third class                .60
/1   Standard Fruit Co. prices do not include servíces
rendered by the company to the grower. Technical
assistance, bulk purchasing of inputs, lower trans--
portation costs, increase the prices received by
farmers considerably.
3.        Costa Rican banana exports more than doubled between 1966 and 1970,
increasing from 359,000 tons to about 889,000 tons. Due to market preference
the Cavendish variety, attractive in appearance and of good keeping quality,
have mnade significant inroads into the market for the Gros Michel variety
in recent years. Costa Rica has placed increasing emphasis on the produc-
tion of the desirable Cavendish variety as well as on the supply of good
quality fruit. These factors have reportedly been responsible for the
significant inroads made by Costa Rican exports into certain European markets
at the expense of other South American suppliers. The geographic position
of Costa Rica represents an added advantage to the country's exports to the
maín consuming markets. Therefore banana production by independent growers
can be a profitable enterprise in Costa Rica. However, due to the nature of the
r.irketing process it is necessary to overcome certain limitations in order
to operate efficiently. Some independent banana growers are having finanicial
problenis due to a profit squeeze. Yields have been hampered by unusually bad
w7eather in the last couple of years while costs have risen for those growers
marketing through Bandeco and Cobal. Those growers marketing througlh
'tandard Fruit have not been affected significantly because their costs
¿ere lowered by technical assistance, bulk purchasing of inputs, packing
materials, and equipment, and lower transportation costs which are provided
by the mnarketing firm. A Banana Growers Association is being considered
in order to attempt to deal with the two basic elements in a profitable
operation: high level technical assistance, and bulk purchasing of inputs.
Beef Cattle
4.        The sale of beef cattle for both domestic consumption and export
rose from about 158,000 head in 1966 to an estimated 208,000 head in 1970,
or an increase of about 32%. Sales for domestic consumption, however, in-
creased by less than 2%, from about 117,000 to 119,000 head, while sales
for export, mostly as boneless beef, more than doubled, increasing from
41,000 to an estimated 89,000 head. The share of the export market,
therefore, rose from 26% to 43% during the period concerned.  The negligible



ANNEX 17
Page 3
increase in domestic consumption has led to a decline in per capita consump-
tion from 19 kg in 1966 to an estimated 16 kg in 1970.  Strong externa!
demand and rising price levels have been the main contributory £actors.
5.        Individual producers annually submit their estimates of the nurn-
ber of aniinals that would be available for sale durIng the coming year to
the Consejo Nacional de la Produccion (CNP) or National Productíon Counc:i,
an autonomous Government corporation responsible for allocatin, quotas for
export and domestic consumption of cattle.  CNP estimates of total avaíla-
bilities are based on these submissions by producers. From the total avail-
able supply, CNP deducts what it estimates would be required for domestic
consuniption, and the residual is taken as the amount available for export.
The latter has, however, no practical significance, since the anc-nts ex-
ported would depend mainly on external demand, principally the quotas on ex--
ports to tlie U.S. market established annually by the U.S. Goverrnent.
Distribution of the export quotas among producers is based on their respec-
tive capacities. Each producer receives from the CNP individual certífi-
cates corresponding to the number of animals represented in the quota al-
lotted to him. When the producer sells his animals for export to a meat
packing company, he surrenders the relevant certificates to the company,
which records the details of the sale on the certificates. This is an ef-
fective device for CNP to use in checking the meat packing companies' ex-
ports to the U.S. though domestic prices are free, they are influenced by
export prices.
6.        Six companies handle beef exports, shipping mainly to Miami and
Puerto Rico. There are four packing plants operating only for the export
market and one (Montecillos) for both export and domestic consumption.
All plants are modern in design and have good standards of hygiene as well
as facilities for processing by-products. Two packing plants (Colorado and
Barranca) are located in the main cattle province of Guanacaste (Dry Trop-
ics); the others are in the Central Plateau close to the capital city, San
Jose. The Montecillos plant also handles about 45% (53,000 head) of the
cattle slaughtered for domestic consumption (119,000 head).  Though the
packing plants have sufflcient capacity or are planning additions to service
increased killings, not all cattle producing areas have easy access to
these plants, e.g. the Atlantic region, which appears to be of increasing
importance as a cattle producing area, has no slaughter and packing facility
for export and would, consequently, require the establishment of one in the
very near ftuture unless the present poor transport system in the area is
greatly improved.  Municipal slaughterhouses exist in the larger towns but
havo a low thiroughput.
7.        The Alajuela salesyard, alongside the Montecillos packing plant,
is the only central livestock market In Costa Rica for domestic cattle
sales. Market facilities are owned by the municipality of Alajuela. which
receives a yarding and weighing fee of US$0.60 (04.00) per head. Becatuse
of poor roads, cattle trucked long distances lose condition and are subject
to bruising. Transport costs are high.



ANNEX 17
Page 4
8.        From 1965 to 1969, an increase of approximately 30% in export
prices stimulated the expansion of boneless beef exports. This price in-
crease has been largely passed on to the producer because competition for
cattle increased as more export packinr plants were built. The present
price is about US$0.39 (0 2.60) per kg liveweight.  Producers have responded
by inereasing herd numbers at the rate of 5% per annum, while maintaining
a 14% extraction rate.
9.        The export packing plants adjust tlheir buying prices weekly,
according to the Chicago market price for cutter cow grade boreless beef.
Ia effect, the Costa Rican producer receives about 18% leas than the Chicago
boneless beef price, which represents a price differential of around
US$0.10 per pound.  In contrast to Australia aud New Zealand, which supply
70% of the U.S. boneless beef imports, obtained mainly from cutter qual4ty
cows, Costa Rica exports a higher grade from fat steers but has received no
price premium. Recently, producers have been offered prices up to 40%
higher than ruling rates for beef from European breeds as exporters intend
supplying a higher grade market.
10.       Donestic producer beef prices have paralleled export prices but be-
cause of lower quality, particularly for cows, domestic prices have averaged
about 80% of export prices. Project cattle prices (US$0.39 per kg live-
weight) are based on a composite of the present export and domestic prices.
Milk
11.       Nillc production in Costa Rica in the last decade lhas increased
at the rate of 4% per annum to the 1969 level of 165,000 tons of milk.
It is estimated that about 70% is eonsumed as fluid milk ind the remainder
¡s processed into butter, cheese, milk powder, and other dairy products.
There is virtually only one milk processing company (Dos Pinos). Ir han-
¿les approximately one-third of the country's milk production, pasteurizes
25,' of consumed milk and processes about 55% for manufacturing purposes.
M11k produced in the tropical areas from beef-type cows is generally con-
sum'ed as raw milk within neighboring rowns.  This milk ¡s retailed by ln-
ter,mediaries under unhygienic conditions.
12.       Tite Dos Pinos factory has enforced high standards for inílk qualí-
tv, but raw milk sold through other intermediaries is ot 1i different qual-
ity.  Government has stated that when more pasteurization plants are ín
operation, it will prohibit the sale cf raw milk.  Present annual consump-
tion level of all milk products is about 97 kg per capita, of which 68 kg
represents fluid ;nilk consumption.  Ir is estimated that the growth of the
dlairy indtustry in Costa Rica will closely follow the -rcwth of the popula-
tion and GNP.
13.       For fluid milk consuniptIon, the prices paid ro producers by Dos
Pinos anml the retail prices of its pasteurized milk are regulated by the
Government through the Mini.stry of Commerce.  Untll a few months ago, pro-
ducers were paid US13.97 cents per kg for that parr of cheir irilk sales
thaE would go intu fluid Tmlilk consuwmlt-on and U. S. 72.41 c'nts per kg



ANNEX 17
Page 5
for milk that would be processed into dairy products. The blended price
averaged US13.31 cents per kg and a butter fat content of 4% minimum was
required. The retail price of milk with a 3% butter fat content was
US19.95 cents per kg.
14.       Recently, the Ministry of Commerce allowed Dos Pinos to increase
the retall price to US22.15 cents, but directed that the whole of the
price increase be passed on to producers, who are now, therefore, getting a
blended price of US15.51 cents a kg 1/. Don Pinos requested the price
increase on the claim that production costo had increased. Since it was not
able to share in the price increase, it decided to lover the butter fat
content of ite milk sales from 3 to 2.5% in order to obtain some of the
benefit.
Basic Grains
15.       CNP i8 an autonomous institution set up by legislation in 1956.
Its objectives are to: (a) promote agricultural and industrial production
and development; (b) achieve price stabilization of food products consumed
domestically and raw materials required by local industry in the interest
of both producers and consumere. To achieve the latter objective, one of
its function is to regulate the price of basic grains. CNP regulates the
domestic prices of the basic grains, rice, corn, and beans, by (a) establish-
ing minimum support prices for these commodities at the begiuning of each
crop year; (b) the príces it charges for its sales of the grains at the
retail level; and (c) the monopoly it has on the importa of these grains
from countries outside the Central American Comnon Market. Once established,
the minimum support prices cannot be revised downwards during the period
of the crop year, although a revision upwards is permissible.
16.       Mínimum support príces are for grains of good quality (specified
minimum levels of dirt and moisture content) and delivered to CNP ware-
houses in San Jose. Prices actually received by producers are therefore,
lower than the support prices, due to differentials for transportation,
moisture content, and generally lower quality of the grains brought in by
producers. The minimum support prices for the seven crop years, 1964-65 to
1970-71, are shown below:
1/   Producers whose milk output is sold to íntermediaries other than Dos
Pinos receive an average of US13.3 cento per kg.



ANNEX 17
Page 6
CNP:  _upkort Prices
for Rice, Corn, and Beans,
1964-65 to 1970-71
(in US cents per kg)
Support Prices
Crop Year            Rice            Corn            Beans
1964-65             22.59            7.63            18.28
1965-66             22.59            8.32            18.28
1966-67             20.94            8.32            14.96
1967-68             22.59            8.32            19.93
1968-69             22.59            8.65            21.60
1969-70             19.62            9.85            18.55
1970-71             19.70             n.a.           24.60
Source: Consejo Nacional de la Produccion (CNP).
For the period under consideration, support prices for rice, corn, and
beans averaged 28, 11 and 11% higher than respective prices paid to pro-
ducers. The higher margin for rice can be attributed to milling charges
(from padi to rice) and to higher moisture content.
17.       The CNP operates a chain of stores to sell basic grains at the
retail level. The unit value of its annual retail sales for rice averaged
about 15% higher than the average annual unit price paid to producers in
the period 1965-69.  For corn and beans, respective margina were 20 and 21¡J.
This shows tliat Costa Rican production of basic grains, which is relatively
high cost, has been paid for directly by the consumer in the form of high
domestic prices.
18.       The purpose of the price support scheme ¡8 to provide mínimum
orice guarantees to producers for their basic grains. Thus, though CNP
would be obliged to buy from the producer at the minimum support price
levels, the producer, in turn, need not sell to the CNP. He can, instead,
deposit bis grain wíth any one of several storage facilities and use it as
collateral for a loan from the storage facility.
19.       The storage facilities or almacenes de deposito are warehouses
which not only store goods, but also make loans against these goods.
There are six principal operators -- the four state-owned commercial
banks and two private companies. The conditions of credit are the same
for all operators because of legal requirements. Loans granted would
normally not exceed 75% of the value of the goods deposited. Tle normal
loan term is 6 months, but extensions of up to 2 years are given. The
annual interest rate is 8% but there are additional charges for storage,
insurance, handling and the like that may amount to another 87. In the
event of a default, the stored goods concerned may be sold to recover the
loan.



ANNEX 17
Paga 7
20.       Originally established to help stabllize grain prices over the
crop year, the storage facilities have since been expanded to store all
kinds of goods, including imported products. The value of loans against
agricultural comnmodities has been relatively small (about US$2 million an-
nually in recent years). Moreover, it has gone prímarily to marketing
intermediaries and a few large producers. However, the importance of such
credit should not be overlocked, especially insofar as it serves to facili-
tate the marketing function. The warehouse storage of agrícultural prod-
ucts would be difficult for many marketing agente if this type of financing
were not available. In fact, there ¡8 room for expansion in this area, in-
cluding extension of the facilities to small and medlum sized as well as
large farmers.
April 5, 1972






COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN TO THE ENTERPRISE
(COLONES)
Y E A R S
1          2         3         4         5         6        7       8        9       10       11-14       15
LIVESTOCK
BEEF CATTLE - 300 ha farm.  Investment on 100 ha: Land and Herd Development
Incremental Sales                                       2500       7200       9200    39500    68400        96800  121500  134800  170700  191600  191600   191600
Incremental Expenses                                    4000      12200      20100    23500    35600        37100   39600   41500   42500   42800   42800    42800
Net Value                                               (1500)     (5000)   (10900)   16000    32800        59700   81900   93300  128200  148800  148800   148800
Capital Investment                                    134000      51000      33500       -         -            -      -      47000      -        -        -         -
Increase in Herd Value                                   -           -         -         -         -           -       -        -        -        -        -      393000
Net Investmental Flow                                (135500)    (56000)   (44400)   16000    32800         59700   81900   46300  128200  148800  148800   541800
Financial rate of return:  23%
Dairy Cattle - 40 ha Investment: Land and Herd Development
Incremental Sales                                       8600    26900        28900    29600    80900        92400  129600  153900  153900  153900  153900   153900
Incremental Expenses                                    6500      2300       26000    27500    44300        51900   57100   61100   61100   61100   6110C    6110C
Net Value                                               2100    24600          2900     2100    36600       40500   72500   92800   92800   92800   92800    ,2800
Capital Investment                                     79000    59200        20700       -         -            -       -     26000      -         -       -         -
Increase in Herd Value                                   -         -           -         -         -            -      -        -        -         -       -      103200
Net Incremental Flow                                   (76900)  (34600)    (17800)    2100    96600         40500   72500   66800   92800   92800   92800   196000
Financial rate of return:  27%
CROPS
Annual Crops - 50 ha. Investment: Land and Crop Development_
Incremental Sales                                      22374    44748        67122    89496    89496        89496   89496   89496   89496   89496
Incremental Expenses                                   15375    30750        46125    61500    61500        61500   61500   61500   61500   61500
Net Value                                                6999    13998        20997    27996    27996       27996   27996   27996   27996   27996
Capital Investment                                     47050    17600         18100       -        -           -        -     40000       -       -
Net Incremental Flow                                   (40051)   (3602)        2897    27996    27996        27996   27996  (12004)  27996   27996
Financial rate of return:  29 T/                                                                                                     10-20
Bananas/Plantains - 300 ha. Investment:  Development of a Unit
Incremental Sales                                    1845000   2767500   3690000  3505500  3505500   3505500 3505500 3505500 3505500 3505500                              x
Tncremental Expenses                                 1575000   2362500   3150000  3150000  3150000   3150000 3150000 3150000 3150000 3150000
Net Value                                             270000    405000    540000   355500   355500    355500  355500  355500  355500  35s500
Capital Investment                                   1530000    892920          -         -         -          -        -    100000       -        -
Net Incremental Flow                                (1260000)  (487920)   540000   355500   355500    355500  355500  255500  355500  355500
Financial rate of return:   18%
February 7, 1972



COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN TO TIIE ENTERPRISE
(COLONES)
Y E A R S                                              10-15
1        2       3        4       5        6       7        8        9       & 17-23      16 & 24       9  U,
Fruit Trees - 15 ha Investment: Development of an Orchard
Incremental Sales                               20240      23480    25720   32305   38890   51580   76960  103340  127720         153100       15.10s      1i53100
Incremental Expenses                            15200      16400    17600   15800   17000   20200   23400   26600   29800          33000        33000        330n,
Net Value                                        5040       7080     8120   16505   21890   31380   53560   76740   97920         120100       120100       12010(
Capital Investment                              63700      23160    16150   16150      -        -       -       5000      -          -           5000          -
Net Incremental Flow                            (56660)   (16080)   (8030)    355   21890   31380   53560   717U0   97920         120100       115100       120I00
Financial rate of return:  347¾                                                                                         10
Pineapsles - 100 ha  Investment:  Basic Infrastructure on 100 ha  and Development of a 50 ha  Unit
Incremental sales                                 -       356500   744000  744000   744000 744000  744000  744000  744000         744000
Incremental Expenses                           142500    285000   475000  475000   475000 475000  475000  475000  475000          475000
Net Value                                     (142500)    71500   269000  269000   269000 269000  269000  269000  269000          269000
Capital Investment                             292500    204000        -      -        -       -        -       -         -         -
Net Ii,cremental Flow                         (435000)  (132500)  269000  269000   269000 269000  269000  269000  269000          269000
Financial rate of return: 34%
FORESTRY                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11.13-14,
F.ORESTRY                                                                                                                                 i0 li   17 ar< 1      12     15
Woodland -,1000 ha  Investment:  Basic Infrastructure for Rational Use of Forest Resources
Incremental Sales                               90750    181500   272250  363000   363000 363000  363000  363000  363000          363000   363000       363000 363000
Incremental Expenses                            46250      92500   138750  185000   185000 185000  185000  185000  185000         185000   185000      185?00 185000
Net Value                                       44500      89000   133500  178000   178000 178000  178000  178000  178000         178000   178000       178000 178000
Capital Investment                             320000      62700    96500    7200    10700  45700    ?200  167200    7200          10700      -          38500   3500
Net Incremental Flow                           (275500)    26300    37000  170800   167300 132300  170800   10800  170800         167300   178000       139500 174500
16        18         20
Incremental Sales                              363000    363000   363000                                                                                         M
Incremental Expenses                           185000    185000   185000                                                                                         (D
Net Value                                       178000    178000   178000
Capital Investment                             160000      38500      3500
Net Incremental Flow                             18000    139500   174500
Financial rate of return:  35%
1/ Replacement of machinery and equipment included in years 10 to 20 as required.
January 27, 1971



ANNEX 19
Page 1
COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The ratea of return from the Project to the economy have been
calculated, as shown in table below. These have been made on the following
aasumptlons:
(a)  Inputs:  Operating costs as well as investment costo were
calculated at present market prices. Investment costo
ínclude a contingency of 10%.
(b) Outputs: The. maín production to be generated by the Project
would be beef, mílk, banana, rice and corn. Projected world
market prices, 1/ adjusted for Costa Rica, have been used in
estimating the benefita. In the case of milk, it is envisaged
that the incremental milk produced would all be consumed
domestically. Present producer prices have been used for
calculating the economic rate of return for milk and timber,
while values for annual crope, bananas, fruits and pineapples
have been adjusted downward where appropriate according to
world market projectiona given below. Por beef, the forecasted
higher price has also been taken into account.
1975 Projected CIF World
Present Price                  Market Price AdJusted for
Costa Rica                          Costa Rica
Beef              390.00                                410.00
Banana             68.00                                 60.00
Rice              170.00                                153.00
Corn               78.00                                 70.00 2/
(c) Financial net benefits have been adjusted for import, export,
lncome and excise taxes.
1/   Price projections are based on estimates of the Trade Policíes and
Export Projectione Division of the Bank's Economics Departmact.
2/   The ocean frelght ratee for grain used in estimating these CIP prices
were those prevailing for importe from North America to Atlantic coaet
ports. The source used was the Central American Porte Study by
Transportation and Publíc Utilities Division of the Bank's Economics
Department, October 1, 1971 (Economic Staff working paper No. 117).



ANNEX 19
Page 2
2.        Based on the above, the economic rate of return of the Project,
over the life of the enterprises la 25% for beef; 27% for dairy; 20% for
annual crops; 21% for bananas/plantains; 32% for fruit trees, 28% for pine-
apples and 37% for timber. The sensitivity of the Project was tested by
¿.siuming that the net incremental value of production would be 10% below the
estimates used and the results still ahowed an adequate rate of return
ranging from 14 to 35%. For further details, see table on page 3.
April 5, 1972



C03TA ROla
230074D AGRIC00TURL  CRt0 T 7907CT
550N011} RATK OF RETS Ts THI IYTBPRISE
(Coly esA
856 RS
1          2          3                  5 S        6         7         8          9         10        11-7.      15
Ras!e Sattls - 300 6. aro; Oovostl.nt so ''Y  9a; too4 sol ilsod Oeoeloa,ot
Dor.entai S.0..                               2,590        7,200     9,2-    3, b 77    71,820   101,63O   727,570   13,530   179,230   291,189   2071 80   201,780
tuoreastafrpsee                               3,960       12,080    19,900    23,260    35,2bO    36,730    39,200    h1,080    b2,070    42,370    b2,370    42,370
N.t Value                                    (17,3603    l,,893  (71',7003      8,21D    36.580   6U,910    88.370   100,460   137,160   158,810   158,810   158,810
COpitu 1 na0tsst                            130,650       39,720    32,660        __       __                            45,820       _   --              --         --
inansas La lord Vala-                          --           --         .-         --       --         _-        --         --        --         --        --
Net O--r- OntAi 1fico                     (132,110)     (5,,600)  (b3,360)    18,210    36,580    62,913   868,370    5,640   137,160   153,810   18,871i  1586,80
ZLcngel  R.ta of Ratarns  253
D.ír3  Cattle - 39 ha* Oov-elat  ;ind sd  Herd  .s.elooPmnt
Iscruiasta). Sales                            8,600       26,900    28,900    24,600    80.909    92,400   129,600   153,00   153,900   153,900   153,900   153,200
aoz,e. ntel RonsE ea-'                        6.30         2,280    2S,7bo    27.229    L33860    51,380    56,530    60,4iO    60,390    60.490    60,490    60,90
Viet Value                                     2,170      2b,620      3,160     2,38i    37,900    b7,020    73,070    93,0    93,410    93,bl0    03,319    93,410
Cqita1 Iavs1 ts,t                            77,020      57,720    20,180       ,_        --                   --       25,350       __ -                 --        --
¡¡son fa. a 8aMd Valu                          __ --                   __        _-         _                   --         --       -_          --         --     103,200
reot in-rse- ta  Vi o                       (7b,850)    (33,100)  (170.203      2,380    37,03O    07 ,O20    73,070    68,060    93,70o   93,37O    93,bl0   196,610
Soasaste R t1 of Retorn 27%
2ws
lanosO  Cr-P. - 50 bs; 3D ¡ent   Lod sd Crop Dé-elopdi nt                                                                                           10
1n-r-- itna  3ale.                           22,370       33,750    67.120    80,550    80,550    80,55       80,55o    80,550    80,550    80,550
aor.esta, EtnR..                             15,220       30,b3O    b5,660    60,980    60,880    60,880    60,880    60,880    60,880    60,980
860 Value                                      7.159      73,310    271,60    1,670    1.,670    109,670    178670    19,670    79.670    19,670
Capital ¡nos.t¿sent                           .5.870      177160    17,6        --        _- --                --       39,000       --        --
rst ls.ne..tsl Fo-                         (38,720)      (2,850)      3,810    19.670    19,670    19,670    19,670  (19,3393)    10,67    17 ,670
EopNoo-  Rau of Retor,  205                                                                                                            10.29
B . ../PlI.o~a    - 3cO h.; Opveot,  De-r1ePeot of a U.t,
ICor.waeotal Salas                         7.S1. ,009   2,767,500 3,690,000 3.505,530 3,505,500 3.505,500 3.50, 590 3.505,500 3,50S,500 3,505,500
,a,resst.a OUpe-ses                       1.5S9,250   7. 338,870 3 118,500 3,71 8,50C 3.118, cn  3.118,500 3,118,500 3.118,500 3,18,50s  3.118,500
74. V.luo                                    285,757     b28,630   571 ,500    87,00O   387,000   387,900   387,000   387.300   387,000   387,000
2.6O al nses,t¿seno                       7.7 b91 703    P70,600     -- --                --         --        --        97,500      --        -.
Net  cr---etal frle                      (1 .9,90"    3 3L1,070)   S71 ,S20   397.i00   387,9r9   387,000   387,000   789,500   387,5s0   387.500
Foouolsie Rato of Returo   211                                                                                                         1-175
F-ujo frese.. - 78 6; Iotes nt .r eeepn-t.t     of a; 3 OrehafO f7-23                                                                                          76-3       27-30
Coersenntal Sales                            20,29       273,h80    25,720    29.070    1Se,e      b6,320    69,260    93,910   13 ,050   137,79%   137,790   1 37,790
loeree;stal Sotanees                         7. 350      76,20    177.230    í5,63n    16,830    20,000    23.170    26,330    290500    32,670    32,670    32,670
Net Valu                                       5, 99,      7,2O    8,303'    3,2,30    18,70    26,420    46,030    66,680    85,450   705,120   135,17  105,129
Capital lonsta.ot                            62,71        2 72,580    15,053    75,750      --                   --       4.870       --         -_       h,870       --
NRt In6re,ssota  fleo                        06,2) (23   O,0)   37,oO"3   39,320) 3         ,tl -   7,h20   13,090   65,8,-    85,40   1709,120    412,070   17n0,120
8congo Rc ato of Rettrn, 338
P~eaples - 7O ha;  oe.aest      Boato  nfrastroetore u7 100 ad Dee sios-et -f a 50 ho Unt                                                            13
Inorsmesotal Solee               _-                       56,5'9 7L3.'0~   6695,00.    669,600   669,60o   669,6o0   669,600   6¿9.600   669.600 |
n-------ntal E¡oeoses                        u1l,77      782,150   (79,00, ,179,2S'  17','50   370,250   370,250   37n0,50   b7,3250   h70 250
85t Valuo                                   17 1 ,-27)    7b3.59   273,75'    í9.35      1 0,350  179,350   7199,935    1 9,350   7 s,3C3   199,359
Capital  -vest-.ent                         795,7 -      1 4,9   . .-            -                    -- _       __         _          _
NVt Zooros,e1ntaO Fleo                    (326,26D)   3193, 503   271,7S^   749 35    14- 3, 0   17:,350    1,350   199,350   149,350  179,350
REoneSto Rato of Retoo:  71d
11, 13-7h,
k00aod - 1,330 oJ;C h.   -s--etp  Buole l-fraatruco:e  1,: Ratiocel Uso ,r 540007 R-oog,toa                                                         19%      77 9 73      12        75         16                    208 20
Coerupeoleal Sales                            4,759       97,591,    ?72.2    351, '3    3bl1 7    369,", 116 .0309  169,'792l   063,090   363,20        4 633.01   363,020   363 300   363,700      363,000   363,000
en1fo1senttl    .....nses                    bb,79            7      336       131       1    -' 7.1 5        , < ,o   103,759  '09,759  I73,75    19              j83ío   í83.9so   159, So            183 ,150
e07 ¿aloe6,3,6.                                           44,4599.5   1 17..                                       '590    i,'4     77 1,059   17 ,850   1774,59   174,59q   179,859   1771,050   779,850   179,880   179,850
Capital loee,lsso'                           31?,90.4      »:        9 M.  9    '"' 7      '.7,)    'o 1"D    bl.06'  '.9.?    5 77, 20 l,7"0    l,o         -       37,5b7     3,310   106,00o    37,530       3,310
dt ncoreoooouI Fleo                        ,'67,3         o          ,,',       1                    93 o  7.0?    1'20?3"    16,59'   170,990   16.3L?0   17.,5053    b,379    76.3bO    23,950   742,310   176,j,n3
Econt--  Rote of Reuro   3'
1.Reolaceodnt 00 s40i445097- ucd 0q910050  :00nc 0  17e 3n 0 e   1ç -:  fi' 71q_ 41.z7                                                                                               nr    ,






COSTA  RICA
SECOND   AGRICULTURAL   CREDIT   PROJECT
CENTRAL   BANK
ORGANIZATION CHART
| OARD  Of  DIRECTORS
NATIONL BANKS SYSTEM
GENERAL AUDITOR__
--  BANKS COORDINATING       BALANCE OF PAYMENTS     JURIDIC COMMISSION                 CREDIT PONICY         FISCAL COMMISSION         AGRICULTURE            BANKS fLEGATES
r  COMMISSION     COI~~~~~~~~~~ISSIOMISIONCOMMISSION                                            FISCL                           SSION ONTO =SRDO DIECL          E
g                                                                                                                                      C~~~~~~~~~CMISONCMISON   OFRECrR
i                                                                                                                                            SUf COMMITTEE
GENERAL    MANAGER                                                       BANANAS
BANWS                                                                                      JAJBRCO MAR _  ,_                TTTSCM
l  EANK'S                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURAL CREDIT DEPANTMEN1
¡L_______. COORDINATING COMMISSION                                                                                      ILTURAol C,.djl UnHR D EPoj.lT
EXECUJTIVE SECR ETARY                                                                              1ED  od AID Prn
GROUP                                                                                               SfECIAL RESEARCH
LEGAL A|VIO,                                                                        ORGANIZATION
|  f EGAL AmSOIIY   l                                         .            |       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AND METHODS  
AEPMINISTRATION                   SCEAYEEALCCUTNTREASURY                                                                               FOEC   OMRLECONOMIC STUOE
D|PARTMENT                                                          DEPARTMENT                        EARTMEN                           DEPARTMENT                         DEPARTMENT
IBRD-5536(2R)






COSTA RICA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
ORGANIZATION CHART
|MINI STER
PRESS
AND
PUBLICRELATIONS
VICE -MINISTER
_  NATIONAL AGRARIAN
ADVISERS        _                                t_______________«                        S COUNCIL 
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
GENERAL BUREAU
OF REGIONAL CENTERS
-PLANNING             ADMINISTPRATIVE UNIT
LEGAL OFFICE                                                                         AND COORDINATION    -        MINISTRY - IDB
OFFICE                    PROGRAM
ADMINISTRATION               LIVESTOCK              ANRICUE R|ES E                  UFORESTRY            GRICtATUREAU
BUJREAU                   BUJREAU                    "EUBUREAU                                             BUREAU
BUREAUS' MAIN DEPARTMENTS:
1 ANIMAL SANITATION, ANIMAL HUSBANDRY                 REGIONAL CENTERS                   3 NATIONAL PARKS, RESEARCH, FOREST
SERVICES, ANIMAL RESEARCH.                                                               EXPLOITATION, PROTECTION, FISH AND
2 AGRONOMY, COFFEE, PHYTOPATHOLOGY,                                                        WILDLIFE.                                 I
ENTOMOLOGY, ENGINEERING IRRIGATION                                                     4 EXTENSION AGENCIES, AGRICULTURAL
AND DRAINAGE, PLANT SANITATION,                        AGRICULTURE                       INFORMATION, FARMERS ORGANIZATIONS.
QUARANTINE ANO REGISTRATION,                       EXTENSION AGENCIES
METEOROLOGY, RESEARCH.                                                                                                     IBRD 5537






[Z6L U 3 LW~ DLO
r   -NoS9    :                      QZC 4-                                                                                                   QQ O)Oi
-     3X   W:                           S)INV9 NIVW  :0 NOIIV)01 GNV
1<V~ )                   i           49 i i d¡~SN0193d 35Sn ONV1-lVD19010D9
0 <  ¿ )   S  :    E   i»T         lO3gOdd    1lOT38            1V 110ID189V   INODS
X    -                    ; a        <g_                   D05 '~~~~~~~~~~~~wu  ---di -1 -- o o
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 1  9 _0J 3 oioo L 8~i                                    w             00.13 109
00004 Il~~        03004 1001 ~~~jjj jj0
0                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oc,o
hl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
N                                               00 Ln
_         =~~00003 =K_                                      VÑ VV I \                                                        o'8.io8iXna  ,Ne      -  



