                                        Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 26228

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (SCL-42400)

                                           ON A

                                           LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$25 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                      FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA

               FOR A SECOND PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                        June 30, 2003




Finance & Private Sector Development (ECSPF)
Europe & Central Asia Region (ECA)

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective March 26, 2003)

                  Currency Unit = Macedonian Denar (MKD)
                        1 MKD = US$ 0.0162
                         US$ 1 = MKD 61.6000

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1     December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

            FESAC     -     Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
            FESAL II -      Second Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
            MOF       -    Ministry of Finance
            NBM       -     National Bank of Macedonia
            PFI       -     Participating Financial Intermediaries
            PSD I     -     Private Sector Development Project
            PSD II    -     Second Private Sector Development Project
            SAL       -     Structural Adjustment Loan
            SME       -     Small and Medium Scale Enterprises
            SOE       -     Statement of Expenditures
            TA        -     Technical Assistance




                 Vice President:    Johannes F. Linn
      Country Manager/Director:     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
       Sector Manager/Director:     Paul Siegelbaum
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Jasminka Varnalieva

                  MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
                         Second Private Sector Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              6
6. Sustainability                                                                  7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   8
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       11
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23

Project ID: P034609                                                      Project Name: Second Private Sector Development
                                                                         Project
Team Leader: Jasminka Varnalieva                                         TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 30, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Second Private Sector Development Project                L/C/TF Number: SCL-42400
   Country/Department: FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF                                        Region: Europe and Central Asia
                            MACEDONIA                                                                Region

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (75%); General agriculture, fishing
                            and forestry sector (25%)
                  Theme: Other financial and private sector development (P); Regulation and
                            competition policy (P); Small and medium enterprise support (P)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    11/26/1996                                        Effective: 01/12/1997              10/02/1998
   Appraisal:    06/13/1997                                            MTR: 12/31/1999                09/17/1999
    Approval:    10/30/1997                                         Closing: 12/31/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia /National Bank of Macedonia
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Johannes F. Linn                               Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager:                 Paul J. Siegelbaum                             Lajos Bokros
Team Leader at ICR:             Jasminka Varnalieva                            Sonja Brajovic-Bratanovic
ICR Primary Author:             Marius Vismantas; Jasminka
                                Varnalieva


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The principal objectives of the PSD II, were to: (i) promote growth of the private sector and create
conditions for an effective supply response from viable private enterprises and farmers; (ii) facilitate the
transformation of the banking sector and its integration into international financial markets; (iii) stimulate
competition in the credit market. At the level of individual banks, the Project aimed at providing hands-on
assistance for institutional strengthening and the adoption of safe and sound banking practices.

These objectives have been clearly formulated and conformed with the overall objectives of the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) approved by the Board on May 16, 1995 and the subsequent CAS dated July
14, 1998 that focused on resumption of growth, reduction of unemployment, and a reversion of rising
poverty. Reference points for Bank support to the reform effort included to: (i) ensure private sector
environment conductive to growth of output, exports and employment; and (ii) improve financial system
safety, soundness, and performance standards.

The Development Objectives of the project need to be assessed taking into consideration the big picture,
i.e., the complex set of reforms and progress made in financial and private sector development during the
lifetime of the project. PSD II was prepared as a follow-up operation of the Private Sector Development
Project implemented in parallel with a comprehensive set of reforms in the financial and enterprise sectors
that were undertaken within the FESAC (Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit). These were
reforms that culminated with FESAL II (Second Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan) which
aimed to significantly accelerate private sector growth through: (i) strengthening the health of the banking
system and improving the quality of bank intermediation; (ii) improving the private sector
business-enabling environment; and (iii) resolving, through privatization/financial restructuring or closure,
the universe of large loss making enterprises that crowd out private sector growth.

PSD II was designed to support the reforms undertaken under the adjustment operation. While the FESAC
and FESAL II were addressing sector reforms, PSD II was aimed at the institutional development of the
Macedonian banking sector and increasing competition in the credit market, and supporting
post-privatization restructuring of enterprises and development of the emerging private sector.




3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not changed during implementation

3.3 Original Components:
The Project had one component, a credit line of US$25 million intermediated by a number of participating
financial intermediaries (PFIs). The PFIs had to meet pre-established criteria to qualify for the credit line,
including, capital adequacy and solid financial condition. These criteria were further fine-tuned and
quantified during the implementation of the project. The sub-loans under the credit line were provided for
investment and working capital finance of eligible private enterprises for eligible subprojects.

3.4 Revised Components:
N/A

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry was rated satisfactory. The project design was in line with the Bank 's CAS, and



                                                     - 2 -

responded to the Borrowers' development priorities.

The Project Implementation Unit (Apex Unit), originally established in the International Department of the
National Bank of Macedonia (NBM) for PSD I purposes, remained the implementation unit for the PSD II
project. The Apex was responsible for: (a) qualification and accreditation of the PFIs (Participating
Financial Intermediaries); (b) refinancing of PFI loans to final beneficiaries; (c) monitoring of the use of
Bank funds; (d) administration of the disbursements and collection (repayments) of funds advanced to
PFIs; (e) monitoring of the PFIs to ensure their continued qualification; and (f) reporting to the Bank on all
aspects of project implementation.

The Project was designed in response to a very high demand for long-term financing, proved by successful
implementation of PSD I in record time.

The weaknesses identified during the PSD I implementation, particularly with respect to the PFIs' eligibility
criteria that were not only broadly defined, but also defined only in qualitative terms, have been overcome
by determining a set of quantitative eligibility criteria and a mandatory compliance report prepared by the
supervision department of the NBM. In the meantime, the supervision department has been strengthened,
better staffed and trained, which resulted in an upgraded quality level of the supervision function. Sinergies
between the second PSD project and FESAL II in this area are obvious, since the FESAL reforms
incorporated a number of instruments related to strengthening NBM regulations (revised set of prudential
regulation) and strengthened enforcement actions, including preparation of a banking system-wide
compliance report.

Another issue related to project design was the lack of a technical assistance component focused on
financial appraisal of sub-projects for major participants: NBM, the Apex Unit, and the PFIs. This
component was not included in PSD I, nor at the design stage in PSD II; however, it was identified as a
problem during the implementation of the project and addressed by providing technical assistance after the
mid-term review conducted in 1999.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall rating of the project objectives is satisfactory, as 90 percent of the funds of the credit line have
been used and disbursed at a relatively fast pace given the challenges that occurred during the lifetime of
the project. Seventy-five private sector projects have been financed with long-term funding that was not
available from other sources. In addition to the long term maturity, the PSD II credit line financed larger
amounts (up to US$1.25 million per project) than were available by the other sources of financing. The
idea behind the project was to support prudent commercial banks which could comply with eligibility
criteria, defined in terms of capital adequacy ratio, minimum liquidity, open foreign exchange position,
return on assets, return on equity, credit exposure in risk categories, etc. The latest data on performance of
the entire banking system versus performance of the participating financial intermediaries, clearly indicate
that the six banks participating in the project have superior performance in all areas, including assets
growth, loan-to-asset ratio; non-performing loans, loans to enterprises/total loans, etc. While loans to
enterprises decreased for the banking system by 22 percent in the period 1998-2002, it grew by almost 70
percent in the 6 PFIs. In nominal terms, the growth of PFI's group of loans to enterprises was US$112.5
million, while the PSD II credit line disbursed almost US$21 million in the same period. (Tables and more
detailed information are available in section 10 - additional information.)

Summary of the effects on the beneficiaries (as measured by the results of the mini-survey) The



                                                       - 3 -

subprojects approved involved enterprises in 18 cities in the country and concerned nine industrial and
services sub-sectors. The results outlined bellow are largely based on the beneficiaries' survey.
Sub-borrowers consider that PSD II had substantial or relevant impact on increasing sale and profitability,
a large impact on improving the procurement procedures and better marketing and export promotion, with
marginal effects related to attraction of foreign partners, improving corporate strategy, accounting practices
and easier access to foreign markets.

For the companies that responded to the survey (22), the total increase of sales was more than Euro 60
million; however, the increase of exports has been modest. Effects on the increase of employment were
modest with 296 new jobs created in the companies that responded to the survey. However, according to
the statistics available through the PFIs, the total number of new jobs created in 63 enterprises reached
550, not counting the additional new seasonal jobs created in a number of enterprises. Additional direct
effects included new products, improved quality of final products, and access to working capital.

The great majority of surveyed companies stated that they would not have been able to develop their
investment project without the World Bank credit line.

Effects on PFIs. Six banks participated in the project as PFIs: Komercijalna Banka, Rado Banka, Invest
Banka, Tutunska Banka from Skopje, Stopanska Banka Bitola from Bitola, and Ohridska Banka from
Ohrid. The six PFIs used the experience gained during the implementation of the first Private Sector
Development project, and further developed and upgraded their knowledge and improved practices related
to long-term lending activities. By the end of PSD II project implementation, the quality of the subproject
appraisal documents was much higher than in the initial phases of implementation. The presence of large
and small regional banks enabled the credit line to reach a broad spectrum of large and small private sector
enterprises in different parts of the country.

The credit's most important contributions to the improvement of PFIs financial position and institutional
capacity include: (i) improved policies and procedures on credit risk management, collection of arrears, and
procurement methods; (ii) improvement in information technology and management information systems;
(iii) growth of total assets; (iv) improvement of the international visibility of the banks and access to new
foreign credit lines; (v) diversification of the customer base and opportunity to attract new clients; (vi)
development of long-term lending activity; (vii) improvement of balance sheets; and (viii) access to
technical assistance.

One of the PSD II objectives was to assist the participating financial intermediaries in institutional
strengthening and adopting of safe and sound banking practices, including encouraging a fairly rigorous
appraisal of client creditworthiness and project financial viability. In this respect, it is obvious that credit
risk assessment methods applied within the credit line have been very prudent, given that, as of December
31, 2002, 96.9 percent of all subloans were classified in categories A and B, 1.6 percent in category C, and
1.5 percent in categories D and E. Given that the appraisal methodology used in the project proved to be a
very successful tool, the banks have adopted this methodology in risk assessment for all their lending
activities. The PFI's overall non-performing loans portfolio was 7 percent of the total loans, versus 13
percent of NPLs in the banking system.

Finally, the PSD project aimed also at stimulating competition in the credit market. Bearing in mind the
fact that there are 20 active banks in the banking system of the country, it could be assumed that this is an
indicator of existing competition in the credit market. However, the situation is more complex, and in spite
of having such a large number of banks with foreign strategic investors in a couple of banks, this did not
translate into expected outcomes, such as higher intermediation level, higher quality and new products


                                                       - 4 -

offered, at a lower price. On the other hand, in order to get the real picture, the developments should be put
in a wider context, i.e., after several shocks at the beginning of the transition period, when the situation in
the country finally started to improve and showed the first encouraging results, in the spring of 2001 a
military conflict broke out inside the country broke up. All the positive trends have been reversed, and in
addition, in order to keep monetary stability, the NBM introduced instruments that had a negative impact
on the gradual downward trend of interest rates.

Nevertheless, two years after the conflict the situation is slowly getting back on track, so that positive
developments started to re-emerge. At this time, there is a core group of healthy, well-managed and
successful banks. One of the biggest banks that was most problematic bank several years ago was sold to
a Greek strategic partner, and went through a major restructuring, the results of which are expected at the
end of year 2003. All the banks have accepted prudent policies and procedures, and started implementing
them. In addition, the NBM relaxed some of the monetary instruments aimed at pulling the excess liquidity
from the system maintaining foreign exchange and monetary stability. There are several new products
offered to the corporate sector and households and after all, there is a gradual decline in interest rates.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The Project had a single component credit line of US$25 million for private sector development. Problems
identified during the first Private Sector Development project within the Private Farmers component led to
the introduction of only one component in the second PSD project. However, some of the participating
banks had a positive experience in lending to private farmers, so they continued to grant loans to farmers
within the second PSD project; thus 18 subprojects in total have been approved and disbursed to private
farmers.

The total amount committed and disbursed under the PSD II project is Euro 20.67 million for 75
subprojects. The average size of the sub-loans was Euro 275,600 with a weighted average maturity of 6.5
years. The funds were used to finance private enterprises from 18 cities in Macedonia. The private
enterprises were mostly industrial, coming from the food processing industry (meat processing, production
of juices, milk, edible oil, flour mill, bakeries, and confectionery), textile industry, graphic industry, wood
industry, electrical appliances industry, chemical and pharmaceutical industries, transport and tourism.
Their production was mostly aimed at the domestic market , i.e., to substitute for certain imported
products, especially in the food industry, with few enterprises having a clear export orientation. All
subprojects were implemented on schedule.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

In addition to significant improvements at the individual level in terms of capacity building of PFIs, the
project's overall institutional development impact on the banking system also proved to be considerable. In
spite of the fact that banks were exposed to major security and military shocks during the lifetime of the
project, they managed to keep a high level of stability and readiness to meet their clients' demands
including liquidity and borrowing needs. This, coupled with responsiveness to market requirements related
to the introduction of the Euro, and changes in the payment operations system, had a positive impact on
regaining the confidence of the public that the banks had lost at the beginning of the transition.



                                                        - 5 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Project implementation began in an unfavorable political and economic environment, both domestically and
in the Balkan region as a whole. Implementation continued to be very adversely affected by external and
internal shocks throughout the project's life: firstly, by the Kosovo crisis in 1999, then secondly by the
internal military conflict in 2001.

Both the Kosovo crisis and the domestic military conflict had the effect of destabilizing the economic
situation in the country and created increased uncertainties in the macroeconomic prospects. This caused
economic agents, including the PFIs and potential sub-borrowers, to take a conservative stance and largely
put on hold their business development plans. Original project disbursement estimates were significantly
affected by these developments - only US$5.1 million was disbursed during 1999-2000 (which includes the
peak and the aftermath of the Kosovo conflict), as opposed to the original disbursement estimate of
US$12.5 million. While the Kosovo crisis was rather short-lived and was followed by an upturn in
economic activities for Macedonian companies and banks (e.g., by Macedonian businesses providing
post-war reconstruction services, basic consumer goods, and payment services in Kosovo), the domestic
military conflict caused by ethnic conflicts had a more sustained negative impact on future economic
prospects. Only US$2.2 million were disbursed in 2001, the year of the conflict, as opposed to an already
reduced estimate of US$8 million. In the wake of the conflict, part of western Macedonia effectively
became a non-bankable territory and a significant part of bank loans extended to businesses operating there
became delinquent. Nevertheless, in 2002, despite virtually no real economic growth in the economy, credit
line disbursements were more than expected (US$5.7 million versus US$2 million), bringing the total level
of disbursements to almost 90 per cent of the Loan.

During the project's life, a few banks received foreign investments. Notably, Stopanska Banka, the largest
bank in the country, was purchased by National Bank of Greece (a commercial bank). Another Greek bank,
Alpha Bank, purchased the smaller Kreditna Banka. Tutunska Banka, the most active PFI of the Project,
was acquired by Nova Ljubljanska Banka, a leading Slovene bank. Although these investments impacted
the individual banks in terms of stronger capital base, funding sources, and operational policies, until
recently the aggregate foreign investments do not appear to have resulted in a marked increase in
competition in the banking sector.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Compared to the implementation of its predecessor project, PSD II benefited from improvements in the
banking system brought about by a strengthening of the supervisory capacity of the NBM and foreign bank
investments in the Macedonian banking system. However, poor performance of the judicial system
prevented a faster private enterprise sector development. The rather tight monetary policy of the NBM,
while appropriate to ensure price and exchange rate stability, further restrained the easing of interest rates.
Competition in the banking sector has been growing slowly--although real and nominal interest rates have
declined somewhat, they remain high, and banks have been slow to introduce new products and services.

Reforms supported by the Bank's FESAL II project, including strengthening banking supervision and
deposit insurance, and restructuring the payment system, have had a positive effect towards improving
performance of the financial sector. The Supervision Department of the NBM considerably strengthened
its off-site supervision capacity, established a Special Bank Unit (SBU) to deal with poorly performing
banks, and initiated and completed comprehensive corrective action programs with four major banks. Staff
of the Supervision department has been increased and further trained. ZPP, an old payment system, has
been restructured and this resulted in transferring corporate accounts management directly to the banks,



                                                       - 6 -

thus bringing the banks closer to their clients and making them better able to monitor their liquidity.

The monetary policy of the NBM has had an influence on bank credit available to the market as well as on
the interest rates levels. In the early stages of the project, the NBM has used credit ceilings as a policy
instrument, which was later abolished and substituted with indirect instruments. The policy has been
anchored to a stable MKD-euro exchange since 2000, with price stability as its ultimate goal. In the
absence of Treasury securities, NBM bills are the instrument of choice for the central bank to manage
monetary aggregates, with occasional interventions in the foreign exchange market to support the target
MKD-Euro level. The latter has been stable or the last three years, hovering at about 61 MKD per Euro,
contributing to decreasing levels of inflation (less than 2 percent per year in 2001-2002). During the same
period, the NBM annual yields of bills fluctuated widely in the range of 9 percent to 20 percent, which on
the one hand induced the banks to maintain high - and profitable - liquidity helping them to weather the
crises, but on the other hand crowded out bank lending to the private sector and maintained high real
lending rates. Nevertheless, the NBM started to relax these policy instruments recently, thus reducing the
discount rate of the NBM bills, which begun to result in a gradual decline of the commercial banks interest
rates. It is expected that this trend will continue if the political and macro stability remain steady.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Apex Unit of the NBM used its experience with the PSD I to administer the PSD II Project. The Unit
staff had developed strong procedural skills for the project management (including procurement), funds
flow tracking, and checking sub-project applications for their completeness. The Apex Unit staff, however,
lacked credit assessment and financial risk management skills. Technical assistance provided to the project
alleviated these shortcomings. The Unit remained a proactive procedural project administrator, leaving all
PFI and sub-project credit risk assessment and selection tasks to the Bank team. While there was no
expectation that the Apex Unit would fully undertake the latter tasks, its objective and professional
contribution to the PFI and sub-project credit risk evaluation would have been helpful to the Bank team's
work.

5.4 Costs and financing:
No specific cost issues were determined. The sub-borrowers contributed significantly from their own funds
to the sub-projects financed from the credit line, thus increasing the leverage effect of the credit line
towards private sector investments and activity.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, the project's sustainability is likely. PSD II provided a strong input to the credit market in
Macedonia. Importantly, it was a major factor in the long-term lending segment. It also softened the
impact of the decline of bank lending to the private sector - PFI lending to the private sector increased by
some US$110 million during 1998-2002, including the PSD II credit line disbursements, while
intermediation by the rest of the banking system declined by US$220 million. The less than 100 percent
disbursement record is due to the fact that political and economic uncertainties during the life of the project
led to a decrease in the number of bankable long-term subprojects which the PFIs would consider adequate
to meet the eligibility criteria for financing under the project.

The project provided a noticeable contribution in improving long-term credit risk analysis skills in the more
active PFIs. The quality of the sub-loan packages provided for the Bank's review got significantly better in
the second half of the project, which coincides with the technical assistance provided to the PFIs and the
Apex Unit. Furthermore, most of the PFIs are financially strong and well managed banks which can be


                                                        - 7 -

expected to retain the experience acquired throughout the project and continue improving their lending and
operational practices. These PFIs have largely complied with the NBMs prudential regulations
continuously during the project and, as a group, are the leading banks in Macedonia in all respects.

The likelihood of long-term sustainability is further improved by several factors: (i) since the effectiveness
of PSD II, several more foreign medium-to-long-term credit lines, at interest rates comparable to those of
the Bank funds, have been made available to private enterprises either through commercial banks, including
the project's PFIs, or through the Macedonian Development Bank; and (ii) the revolving funds from the
Bank's two credit lines are channeled back to the banking system with very long maturity for further
lending to the real sector.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project team believes that there is no immediate need for the Bank to arrange yet another long-term
credit line to the private sector. The other foreign credit lines available in Macedonia, the revolving funds
from PSD I and PSD II, and access by the banks, with foreign strategic investors, to low-cost funding from
their parent companies should ensure a continuous supply of funds in the medium-to-long-term segment of
the credit market. The PFIs and the NBM regulators are on the right track towards sustained strengthening
of the financial system (as a result of the Bank's FESAL II and PSD I/PSD II operations) which will result
in higher public confidence in the financial sector, a growing deposit base, and faster convergence of MKD
interest rates towards those of the anchor currency (the Euro). Sustainability of the project, however, could
be strengthened by the authorities' efforts in improving the business/investment climate and maintaining
cohesive fiscal, monetary, and structural reform policies. The new CAS currently under preparation will
determine the priority areas for the Bank's support to Macedonia's development agenda.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was satisfactory. The
project was requested by the Government once the fund utilization targets agreed under PSD I were met.
The project was prepared in a short time as a follow-up to PSD I. It was signed about two years before the
PSD I closing date. Such an early follow-up timing was based on an expected high future demand for
long-term, relatively low-cost Bank funds from the private sector. PSD II was basically a copy of PSD I in
terms of its objectives and operational structure, with some adjustments in the design of the credit line, such
as: (i) an increase in the upper limit of individual sub-loan from DEM 800,000 to DEM 2.25 million to
better correspond to the demand from private borrowers; and (ii) availability of PSD II funds to any private
enterprise engaged in productive economic activity, thus eliminating the pre-allocated farmer-lending
component of PSD I, which did not perform according to expectations. It should be noted, however, that
even without a pre-allocated component, PSD II successfully financed a number of small rural sub-projects
such as purchasing of cows by individual farmers. Furthermore, the increase in the upper limit of individual
sub-loans had a highly positive effect on the credit line disbursement: a quarter of all PSD II sub-loans
exceeded the old limit of DEM 800,000, while the total amount of sub-loans above the old limit was almost
13 million or over 62 percent of all disbursements.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision of PSD II in early stages of the project coincided with PSD I supervision, and was simplified
by the fact that both projects had the same PIU (Apex Unit of the NBM), the same PFIs, and the same
sub-project financing criteria. However, frequent changes in the Bank project team, the Kosovo crisis in
the first half of 1999, and the temporary suspension of Komercijalna Banka, the project's biggest PFIs, led
to long delays in obtaining Bank "no-objection" for proposed applications and reduction in feasible lending



                                                      - 8 -

opportunities until mid-1999. Supervision of the project was light and fragmented until the change in the
Bank project team leadership in the summer of 1999 and the statutory required mid-term review in
September 1999 (conducted by a new team after the initial period of less intensive supervision).

The new Bank team undertook a number of proactive measures. Following the mid-term review, the project
was downgraded from a satisfactory to an unsatisfactory rating to reflect several issues related to project
implementation that were affecting its performance. Also, a number of changes were implemented which
strengthened the structure and implementation of the project, specifically: (i) an amended and revised Loan
Agreement incorporating stricter quantitative eligibility criteria for the qualification of PFIs; the stricter
criteria resulted in disqualification of two PFIs and a later rejection of applications to become PFIs from
three other banks; (ii) signing of a Fiscal Agency Agreement between the MOF in its capacity as the
Borrower and the NBM in its capacity as the implementing agency, regulating the functions and operations
of the Apex Unit; (iii) preparation of new Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the NBM and the PFIs
which better explained the rights and obligations of the parties and reflected an increase in the onlending
margin from 100 to 325 basis points; (iv) agreement with the supervision department of the NBM
regarding the implementation arrangements for certification and monitoring of compliance of the PFIs with
a new set of eligibility criteria; (v) new guidelines for the preparation of the PFIs' annual audits; (vi) new
procedures for the project's financial management systems and reporting arrangements; and (vii)
enforcement of the Bank's environmental guidelines for credit line operations. At the same time,
arrangements for internal and external sources were made to provide formal training to the Apex Unit and
the PFIs on: (i) environmental screening and appraisal procedures; (ii) Bank procurement procedures; and
(iii) financial appraisal of the sub-projects. For the latter task, a CTF-funded long-term resident advisor
was placed in the Apex Unit at approximately mid-term of the Project. He delivered technical assistance to
the PFI and Apex Unit staff on credit and other lending risks analysis, and left behind a comprehensive
manual to be used as a reference for the technical assistance recipients.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Bank performance, although somewhat uneven in the early stages of the project, can be considered
satisfactory. Particularly since the mid-term review, the Bank team showed flexibility in its dialog with the
Borrower and proactivity in trying to promote adequate credit analysis standards, to discover
market-clearing, long-term interest rate levels, and to find ways to ensure continuation of the project's
objectives after its closure.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The PSD I credit line was implemented in a record time, and the Borrower showed a strong early interest in
a follow-up credit line that would keep open private companies' access to the Bank's long-term funding. It
requested a follow-up operation as soon as the funds disbursement target agreed under PSD I was met. The
Borrower provided quality contribution to the design of the PSD II by suggesting changes based on the
experience with PSD I (see para.7.1). The Borrower's contribution to project preparation is thus rated
satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance was satisfactory. The objectives of the project consistently
remained among the Government's priorities in the overall economic policy framework. Implementation by
the Macedonian authorities of certain banking sector reforms under the Bank's FESAL II helped to achieve
the project's objectives. However, due to a number of factors including the external and internal military
conflicts, the Government's efforts were less effective in ensuring a positive business and investment
climate in the country, privatizing old state-owned loss-making companies, and improving its judiciary



                                                       - 9 -

system which all had a depressing effect on the overall macroeconomic and, more specifically, private
enterprise development.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The International Department of the NBM, as the Apex Unit for PSD I, continued to perform the functions
of project coordinator/administrator under PSD II. The initial lack of specific technical assistance and
frequent changes in the Bank supervision teams placed certain burdens on the unit to perform to Bank
expectations. Overall, the unit satisfactorily performed its project administration duties (disbursement,
financial and project reporting, etc.); sub-project appraisal level was inadequate at the beginning of the
project, but improved after providing the Apex Unit with environmental and credit risk assessment and
procurement training. The unit was particularly instrumental in accelerating disbursement and project
implementation through close and constant contacts with the PFIs, timely approval of free-limit
sub-projects, and fast execution of disbursements.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower performance was satisfactory. A conservative approach to risk containment by the
NBM and the PFIs allowed the latter, and the entire banking system for that matter, to emerge from the
crises largely financially sound and operational, with few systemic pressures. NBM policies managed to
strengthen monetary stability, particularly the exchange rate, and banking system soundness. However, this
came at the expense of rather rigid interest rate structures and the corresponding stubbornly high interest
rate levels. The Government, for its part, could have contributed more to the success of the project by
ensuring a more stable macropolitical environment, e.g., forcefully resolving state-owned loss-making
enterprises, reducing perceptions of political corruption, and increasing positive expectations for the future
through a disciplined and transparent policy on improving business confidence and investment climate.

8. Lessons Learned

As in the PSD I Project, the main lessons learned from the PSD II relate to measures that could be adopted
at project design to strengthen project implementation. They include recommendations regarding: (i) the
inclusion of technical assistance components in credit lines approved in transition economies if long-term
lending skills are largely underdeveloped in their banking systems; (ii) the establishment of independent
implementation units with a formal agency arrangement; and (iii) choosing prudent banks capable of
offering their clients a range of good-quality products and services. The selection criteria should rely
largely on the sovereign prudential requirements as long as these have been deemed acceptable to the Bank.

All these points have been elaborated in this ICR. In addition to the above points, the following important
lessons merit consideration:

l The Bank should have a clear position on the level of interest rates to be offered to the financial
    intermediaries and final borrowers on its credit line funds. This position needs to take into account the
    fact that, in many countries which take out financial intermediary loans from the Bank, there are very
    few, if any, long-term funding sources in the financial system and no yield curves to speak of, thus
    rendering the pricing of such loans a discretional matter agreed between the Bank and the Borrower
    (usually the Ministry of Finance). As a development institution, the Bank should consider passing
    along its low borrowing costs, not only to the official Borrowers but as an incentive also to the private
    sector participants. Continued availability of these long-term funds would catalyze the provision of
    medium- and long-term credits to private sector enterprises at reasonable rates, which would contribute
    to private sector-led growth.




                                                     - 10 -

l Arrangements for usage of the repaid (revolving) funds after a project's formal closure should be
    agreed up front and ideally allow the funds to flow back into the PFIs without strict conditions
    attached. Allocation of the revolving funds could be done in proportion to the usage of the original
    credit line, or determined via auction to the highest qualified bidders. Channeling back the funds to
    financial intermediaries would act as an incentive for prudent utilization of funds and would ensure
    continuous maintenance of the original project objectives long into the future following the project's
    formal closure.

l With regard to the conditions for using the funds during the project, procurement procedures continue
    to be perceived as too cumbersome by private sector enterprises. To this end, although the Bank has
    made substantial progress in simplifying it's procurement guidelines for private sector beneficiaries,
    attempts should be made to further streamline these procedures for the private sector without
    undermining the fiduciary responsibilities of the Bank.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

In order to better understand the role and impact of the credit line, it is worthwhile to oversee developments
of the Macedonian banking system, and of the group of six PFIs, during the 1998-2002 period.

             Table 1: Macedonian Banking System - Selected Aggregate Results, 1998-2002
                                                                                                   % change
                              US$ mln.   1998     1999      2000        2001      2002             1998-2002
  Total Asets                            1,140.80 1,198.66  1,308.14   1,526.49  1,513.20              32.64%
  Liquid assets                            98.64   261.04    247.00       410.55   144.68              46.68%
  Total loans                             798.33   762.70    885.05       870.21 1,069.36              33.95%
                         Loans to banks   304.43   369.33    456.92       427.40   548.74              80.25%
                    Loans to enterprises  489.92   361.43    339.92       339.75   380.61             -22.31%
                  Non-performing loans     65.92   127.46    151.19       135.79   145.34            120.49%
  Non-bank deposits                       568.62   676.39    728.75    1,011.49    940.01              65.31%
  Capital                                 285.84   247.68    299.56       276.86   312.97               9.49%

                             Ratios, %
  Liquid assets/Total assets               8.65%  21.78%    18.88%       26.89%    9.56%
  Total loans/Total assets                69.98%  63.63%    67.66%       57.01%   70.67%
  Loans to enterprises/Total loans        61.37%  47.39%    38.41%       39.04%   35.59%
  NPLs/Total Loans                         8.26%  16.71%    17.08%       15.60%   13.59%
  Deposits/Total Loans                    71.23%  88.68%    82.34%     116.24%    87.90%
  Capital/Total assets                    25.06%  20.66%    22.90%       18.14%   20.68%

                              US$ mln.
  Assets in foreign banks                 277.30   321.25    369.52       299.48   488.40              76.12%
  Liabilities to foreign banks            150.81   133.45    119.08       112.24   123.54             -18.08%
  Net assets in foreign banks             126.49   187.80    250.44       187.24   364.86            188.44%



                                                      - 11 -

                   Table 2: PSD II PFIs - Selected Aggregate Results, 1998-2002
                                                                                                % change
                               US$ mln.  1998     1999       2000       2001     2002           1998-2002
   Total Asets                            409.24   447.86     517.89     665.15    770.74          88.33%
   Liquid assets                           35.54    58.69      65.81     208.09     69.24          94.81%
   Total loans                            319.74   344.01     410.03     409.27    625.11          95.51%
                         Loans to banks   132.21   169.57     178.48     161.31    301.87         128.32%
                    Loans to enterprises  160.75   135.62     179.56     213.15    272.69          69.64%
                  Non-performing loans     20.53    34.25      46.27      29.37     45.22         120.22%
   Non-bank deposits                      212.92   271.27     297.02     459.76    509.68         139.38%
   Capital                                111.12    98.66     105.16     107.54    124.58          12.11%

                              Ratios, %
   Liquid assets/Total assets             8.68%   13.11%      12.71%    31.29%     8.98%
   Total loans/Total assets              78.13%   76.81%      79.17%    61.53%    81.11%
   Loans to enterprises/Total loans      50.28%   39.42%      43.79%    52.08%    43.62%
   NPLs/Total Loans                       6.42%     9.96%     11.29%     7.18%     7.23%
   Deposits/Total Loans                  66.59%   78.86%      72.44%   112.34%    81.53%
   Capital/Total assets                  27.15%   22.03%      20.31%    16.17%    16.16%



                       Table 3: Share of the PFI Group in the Banking System
                                                                                            % change
                                  1998      1999     2000       2001      2002             1998-20002

       Total Asets                 35.87%   37.36%    39.59%    43.57%    50.93%             41.98%

       Liquid assets               36.03%   22.48%    26.64%    50.69%    47.86%             32.82%
       Total loans                 40.05%   45.10%    46.33%    47.03%    58.46%             45.96%

               Loans to banks      43.43%   45.91%    39.06%    37.74%    55.01%             26.67%
           Loans to enterprises    32.81%   37.52%    52.83%    62.74%    71.65%            118.36%

         Non-performing loans      31.15%   26.87%    30.61%    21.63%    31.11%             -0.12%
       Non-bank deposits           37.44%   40.11%    40.76%    45.45%    54.22%             44.80%

       Capital                     38.88%   39.83%    35.11%    38.84%    39.81%              2.39%



The tables above reveal an unambiguous picture of the superior performance of the PFI group compared to
the entire banking system. The PFI group grew much faster than the system, and had over half of the
system's assets, loans, and non-bank deposits at end-2002. The group's loan-to-asset ratio was 81 percent
versus 70 percent for the system. The group's non-performing loans grew at the same speed as those for
the entire system, but made only 7 percent of total loans in the PFI group versus 13 percent in the system.
As the group had 58 percent of the total system loans and only 31 percent of the non-performing loans, it
can be deduced that the level of NPLs in the rest of the system at end-2002 was around 22.5 percent.

The tables present indicators on lending to enterprises which are most relevant to the project. While the
assets of the PFI group as a share of total system assets grew to reach 51 percent at end-2002, loans to
enterprises as a share of the total such loans grew more than twice to reach 71.7 percent. These loans, in
nominal US dollar terms, grew by almost 70 percent in the PFI group, as opposed to a 22 percent decrease
for the system (the rest of the system decreased lending to enterprises by a whopping 67 percent during the



                                                    - 12 -

1998-2002 period). The absolute nominal growth in the PFI group's loans to enterprises in 1998-2002 was
US$112.5 million. In comparison, the PSD II credit line disbursed almost US$21 million during this time.
In addition, PSD I, the predecessor credit line, disbursed about US$9.5 million from the start of 1998 until
it closed at end-1999. Taking into account repayments of the credit lines into the revolving fund, the two
Bank credit lines contributed (net) approximately US$24.5 million, or over one fifth, to the total
enterprise-lending by the PFI group. As a substantial share of bank lending in Macedonia is short term, the
PSD II credit line, with a weighted-average maturity of 6.5 years, contributed very significantly to the
growth of long-term lending.

Another interesting aspect of the Macedonian banking system, which is also a phenomenon in the banking
systems of other transition economies of the Central and Easter Europe, is the levels of its claims and
liabilities vis-a-vis the foreign banks which are in mostly banks in developed countries (the Eurozone). as
can be seen in Table 1. Macedonian banks' assets in foreign banks grew considerably (by 76 percent)
during the observed period, while at the same time, its liabilities to the foreign banking sector declined by
18 percent. Net assets in foreign banks nearly tripled, growing by a nominal amount of about US$240
million, thus continuously keeping Macedonia, just like many other transition countries, a net creditor of
developed countries. At end-2002, net assets in foreign banks were around US$365 million - about one
third of all Macedonian bank lending and almost the size of the total system loans to Macedonian
enterprises. Among the reasons behind this phenomenon, the primary one has been the requirement of the
NBM to keep all foreign currency deposits in foreign banks. This requirement has been relaxed. Secondly,
during the last few years there has been a constant shortage of bankable private sector projects in
Macedonia, and the banks preferred unprofitable safety of their funds in foreign banks versus risky
placements in the country.




                                                     - 13 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                               Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
- Number of participating banks                  All Macedonian commercial banks were              Six banks which met the initial and revised
                                                 considered potential PFIs, subject to meeting eligibility requirements participated in the
                                                 eligibility criteria.                             project.
- Improved quality of loan portfolios of                                                           Quality of loan portfolio of the Macedonian
Macedonian banks                                                                                   banking system is gradually improving, after
                                                                                                   a peak of 41.3% registered NPLs in 1999,
                                                                                                   following the deterioration of the bank loan
                                                                                                   portfolio after the increased political instability
                                                                                                   due to the war in the neighboring country and
                                                                                                   huge refugee crises. After this extraordinary
                                                                                                   number, the NPL portfolio started to
                                                                                                   decrease, so in 2000 it was 34.8%, in 2001
                                                                                                   33.7% and in 2002 it reached 15.9% (using
                                                                                                   new methodology), or if the old methodology
                                                                                                   is used it would have been 27.4%.
- Improved risk profile of participating banks   The project intended to contribute to             Quality of the project sub-loans (only 1.5% of
                                                 strengthening the risk profile of the entire      the total sub-loans classified as
                                                 system and especially of the PFIs through         non-performing) has overperformed the
                                                 continuous enforcement of eligibility criteria    overall loan portfolios of the PFIs. Detailed
                                                 on the PFIs and exchanging views with the         Bank team analysis of the proposed
                                                 PFIs on private sector development and            sub-loans contributed to improvement of
                                                 lending practices.                                crediting skills of the PFI staff.
- Increasing institutional capacity of                                                             The PFIs which actively participated in the
participating banks                                                                                project have demonstrated improvements in
                                                                                                   lending practices by providing new credit
                                                                                                   products with longer maturities, and better
                                                                                                   managing their credit exposures better.
- Competitive pressures to improve financial     The project's objective was to provide            Due to an unstable macro environment and
services at reduced cost                         overwise scarce long-term funds at                the strict monetary policy of the NBM, denar
                                                 competitive terms to the PFIs and see the         lending interest rates remained steadily high
                                                 PFIs competing for the customers, thus            throughout the project. There was no
                                                 contributing to the overall reduction in interest apparent impact on the cost of financial
                                                 rate levels                                       products brought by the project.
- Improved correspondent banking                                                                   More banks, and especially the PFIs, became
relationships                                                                                      participants in other new credit lines available
                                                                                                   in Macedonia, and also established new
                                                                                                   relationships with foreign banks
- Increased access of qualified banks to                                                           The larger PFIs established access to new
international trade finance                                                                        foreign sources of (mostly trade) finance
                                                                                                   based on the strength of their balance sheet
                                                                                                   and prudent management of banking risks
- Commitments and speed of subproject
implementation
- Increase in profitability, sale, and exports of                                                  The biggest majority of respondents to the
private beneficiaries                                                                              beneficiaries' survey stated that the PSD II
                                                                                                   credit line had substantial or relevant impact
                                                                                                   on increase of profitability and sale, while
                                                                                                   modest effects on increase of exports.

- Positive spill-over in local environments                                                        Sub-projects were scattered in various parts
                                                                                                   of Macedonia, creating new jobs and bringing
                                                                                                   in new sales all across the country.
- Improved access to finance for the private                                                       The PSD II credit line provided an important
sector                                                                                             (untied) source of long-term funding to the
                                                                                                   best private sector companies which
                                                                                                   competed, to a certain extent, with other
                                                                                                   foreign credit lines due to a shortage of
                                                                                                   bankable projects in the country
- Improved availability and reduced cost of                                                        See above. With credit line funds offered to
financial services for the private sector                                                          the final borrowers at Libor plus 5-8 per cent
                                                                                                   for up to 10 years, the cost of PSD II funds
                                                                                                   has been attractive to the private borrowers,



                                                                      - 14 -

                                                        given the high economic and political risks,
                                                        especially if contrasted with the short term
                                                        denar lending rates of 18-21 per cent.


Output Indicators:
                                                   1
           Indicator/Matrix    Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                     - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Private Enterprise Finance                                  25.00          25.00              100


Total Baseline Cost                                         25.00          25.00
                         Total Project Costs                25.00          25.00
                   Total Financing Required                 25.00          25.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.00             0.00        50.00         0.00         50.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (25.00)        (0.00)      (25.00)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           0.00             0.00        50.00         0.00         50.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (25.00)        (0.00)      (25.00)




                                                - 16 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.21             0.00              0.21
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                1.62               0.00             19.63             0.00             21.25
                                          (1.16)             (0.00)           (19.63)            (0.00)           (20.79)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                1.62               0.00             19.84             0.00             21.46
                                          (1.16)             (0.00)           (19.63)            (0.00)           (20.79)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project; and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Private Sector Finance        25.00                                 20.79                               83.2




                                                          - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/1996


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/1997


 Supervision
              04/1998                   2    SR. FIN. SECT. SPEC. (1);        HS             HS
                                             SR. FIN. ANALYST (1)
              10/1998                   3    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              HS             HS
                                             (1); TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             SNR FIN ANALYST (1)
              09/1999                   6    MISSION LEADER (1);              U               U
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FIN MGMT SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PAS (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPCLST (1); PROGRAM
                                             OFFICER (1)
              02/2000                   6    MISSION LEADER (1);              U               U
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FIN MGMT SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PAS (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPCLST (1); PROGRAM
                                             OFFICER (1)
              06/2000                   4    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1); FIN MGMT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
              11/2000                   3    MISSION LEADER (1); FIN          S               S
                                             MGMT SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
              03/2001                   3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); FIN        S               S
                                             MGMT SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              01/2002                   2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
              06/2002                   2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)

 ICR
              03/2003                   2     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);           S               S
                                              CONSULTANT (1)



(b) Staff:



                                              - 19 -

    Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                              No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision
ICR
Total




                                         - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

PSD II Aide-Memoires and Back-to-Office Reports




                                              - 23 -

- 24 -

