Page  1
November 24, 1999 
Mr. Boris Stojmenov 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Gruev 14 91000 
Skopje 
Macedonia
Re:
Second Private Sector Development Project
(Loan No. 4240 MK)
Amended and Restated Loan Agreement        
Excellency:
We refer to a Loan Agreement (Second Private Sector Development Project) dated 
December 19, 1997, (the Loan), between the Borrower and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and to your letter dated October 4, 1999 
requesting certain amendments to the Loan Agreement. We hereby confirm the Bank’s 
agreement to the amended and restated Loan Agreement set out in the Annex to this 
letter. 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing, dating and 
returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter.  This amendment shall become 
effective upon the signature and entry into force of a Fiscal Agency Agreement (as 
defined in the amended and restated Loan Agreement) satisfactory to the Bank.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Ajay Chhibber 
Director 
Country Department VI  
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED: 
BORROWER
By /s/ Boris Stojmenov
Minister of Finance
Date: December 7, 1999
ANNEX
LOAN NUMBER 4240 MK
Amended and Restated
Loan Agreement
(Second Private Sector Development Project)
between
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (the Borrower)
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank)
Page  2
Dated December 19, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4240 MK
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 1997, between the Borrower and the  Bank, as 
amended and restated.
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
 (a)
“Apex Unit” means the unit established within NBM and referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)
“Beneficiary” means any eligible Private Enterprise (as hereinafter 
defined) duly established and operating under the laws and regulations of the 
Borrower, or eligible individual farmer to which a Participating Financial Institution 
(as hereinafter defined) proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(c)
 “Deutsche Mark” and “DEM” mean the lawful currency of Germany, but if 
such currency shall be replaced with the Euro, then “Deutsche Mark” and “DEM” shall be 
replaced by “Euro” for purposes of the Loan, at the ratio in effect as of the date of 
such replacement;
(d)
“Fiscal Agency Agreement” and “Fiscal Agent” mean, respectively, an 
agreement entered into by the Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance, and the NBM, 
pursuant to which the NBM shall act as a fiscal agent of the Borrower for the purposes 
of carrying out the Project, and the NBM acting as the fiscal agent of the Borrower in 
accordance with the terms of the Fiscal Agency Agreement.
(e)
“NBM” means the National Bank of the Borrower;
(f)
“Participating Financial Institutions” or “PFIs” means the banks and 
other financial institutions established and operating according to the applicable 
laws and regulations of the Borrower and approved by the Bank for participation in the 
Project, with which the Borrower, through the Apex Unit, has entered into a Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement;
(g)
 “Private Enterprise” means any commercial entity registered according to 
Page  3
the applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower, in which the management is not 
directly or indirectly controlled by the Borrower, and more than 50% of the 
proprietary interest therein is held by persons or entities other than the Borrower, 
the local authorities or any subdivision thereof, or entities controlled by the 
Borrower;
(h)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(i)
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by a PFI out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project;
(j)
“Sub-project” means a specific development project to be carried out by a 
Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan; and
(k) 
“Subsidiary Financing Agreement” and “Subsidiary Finance” mean, 
respectively, any agreement entered into or to be entered into between the Borrower, 
through the Apex Unit acting as Fiscal Agent of the Borrower in accordance with the 
Fiscal Agency Agreement, and a Participating Financial Institution pursuant to 
paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and any loan made pursuant to a 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
forty-five million  Deutsche Mark (DEM 45,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and works required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Deutsche Marks a special deposit account in a bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the LONDON 
Page  4
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Deutsche Marks 
for value the first day 
of such Interest Period (or, in the case of 
the initial Interest Period, for 
value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day 
of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one-half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) 
months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on 
the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said 
period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to 
the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable May 15 and November 15 
in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out or cause to be carried out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, banking, economic, financial and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall make 
available the equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan under Subsidiary Financing 
Agreements acceptable to the Bank to be entered into between the Borrower and each 
Participating Financial Institution, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, and which shall include, without limitation, those set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Fiscal Agency Agreement 
and any Subsidiary Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Fiscal Agency Agreement and any Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out or cause to be carried out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
Page  5
agree, Sub-loans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each  Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and 
the Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve 
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause NBM and the Apex unit to 
maintain separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project:
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or cause to be retained until at least one (1) year after 
the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out of the 
Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
Page  6
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, 
through the Apex Unit, in respect of any repayments of principal of Subsidiary 
Finances utilized in the making of Subloans:
(a)
open, by the date on which it shall receive the first such repayment, 
and, thereafter, maintain, in a bank, acceptable to the Bank, a separate account on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
upon receipt of each such repayment, credit the same to the said separate 
account. All amounts so credited shall be utilized, to the extent they are not yet 
required to meet the Borrower's repayment obligations under this Agreement, 
exclusively to finance, through the PFIs, specific Sub-projects on similar terms and 
conditions as those applicable to the Sub-loans.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01.  The following event is specified as an additional condition to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that at least two Subsidiary Finance Agreements under the 
Project have been duly executed on behalf of and are legally binding upon, the parties 
thereto in accordance with the terms thereof.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Dame Gruev 14
91000 Skopje
Telex:
51119
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  7
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE BORROWER
By /s/ L. Acevska 
Authorized Representative
THE BANK
By /s/ A. Chhibber
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
        Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
   DEM)          
to be Financed
(1)
Goods  
36,000,000       
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 
100% of local 
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local 
expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally
(2)
Works
7,000,000
80%
(3)
Unallocated
2,000,000
TOTAL
     45,000,000
     ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
Page  8
made:
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures (i) under Category (1) prior 
to the date of the Loan Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not 
to exceed DEM 4,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after May 1, 1997; and (ii) under Category (2) prior to the date 
of the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement except that withdrawals in an aggregate 
amount not to exceed DEM 2,557,403.53 may be made on account of payments made before 
that date but after February 10, 1998 provided that the Bank determines, following a 
case-by-case review of each individual contract to be carried out by the Bank after 
the date of this Amended and Restated Loan Agreement and notwithstanding any 
no-objection given by the Bank prior to the date of the Amended and Restated Loan 
Agreement, that such works have been procured in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; 
and
(b)
in respect of payments for expenditures under a Sub-loan unless the 
Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and works under contracts not 
exceeding DEM 1,500,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.”
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) promote the growth of the private 
sector, including private farmers, through financing such productive facilities and 
resources as will contribute to increase exports and improve enterprise productivity 
and competitiveness; and (ii) stimulate the development of competition in the credit 
market and the introduction of safe and sound banking practices.
The Project consists of the establishment and operation of a credit facility for 
the financing, through the provision of Sub-loans by PFIs to eligible private 
enterprises and private farmers, of Sub-projects, subject to such modifications as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Deutsche Mark)* 
May 15, 2003
1,155,000
November 15, 2003
1,175,000
May 15, 2004
1,195,000
November 15, 2004
1,220,000
May 15, 2005
1,240,000
November 15, 2005
1,260,000
May 15, 2006
1,280,000
November 15, 2006
1,305,000
May 15, 2007
1,325,000
November 15, 2007
1,350,000
May 15, 2008
1,375,000
November 15, 2008
1,395,000
May 15, 2009
1,420,000
November 15, 2009
1,445,000
May 15, 2010
1,470,000
November 15, 2010
1,495,000
May 15, 2011
1,520,000
Page  9
November 15, 2011
1,550,000
May 15, 2012
1,575,000
November 15, 2012
1,605,000
May 15, 2013
1,630,000
November 15, 2013
1,660,000
May 15, 2014
1,685,000
November 15, 2014
1,715,000
May 15, 2015
1,745,000
November 15, 2015
1,775,000
May 15, 2016
1,805,000
November 15, 2016
1,840,000
May 15, 2017
1,870,000
November 15, 2017
1,920,000
__________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Deutsche Mark to be repaid, 
except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped into 
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of DEM 1,500,000 or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost DEM 1,500,000 equivalent or less per contract and 
DEM 30,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than DEM 1,500,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed DEM 5,800,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Commercial Practices
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost less than DEM 150,000 
equivalent per contract and DEM 2,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate may be 
awarded in accordance with established commercial practices of the Beneficiary 
acceptable to the Bank.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
(a)
Works estimated to cost less than DEM 75,000 equivalent per contract, up 
Page  10
to an aggregate amount not to exceed DEM 1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
(3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
(b)
Works procured under paragraph 3 (a)(ii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
costing less than DEM 1,100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount ( in 
respect of seven contracts entered into as at the date of this Amended and Restated 
Loan Agreement) not to exceed DEM 3,200,000 equivalent, may be procured in accordance 
with paragraph C. 4 (a) above. 
5.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of proprietary nature may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of DEM 1,500,000 or more; (ii) the first three contracts for works awarded 
in accordance with Part C.2 of this Schedule and (iii) the first three contracts for 
goods awarded in accordance with Part C.3 of this Schedule (if awarded under 
competitive bidding procedures) to be financed by each PFI, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to:  (i) each contract for goods awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of Part C.5 of this Schedule; and (ii) the first three contracts for 
goods awarded in accordance with Parts C.1, C.3 (if awarded under shopping procedures) 
and C.4 of this Schedule, the following procedures shall apply:
 (i)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft 
contract; and
 (ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.”
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
1.
The Project shall be carried out by the Borrower with the assistance of the NBM.  
For this purpose, the Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained within NBM: 
(a) a separate unit (the Apex Unit), with staff and other resources and terms of 
Page  11
reference satisfactory to the Bank, responsible for the carrying out of the Project; 
and (b) arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with NBM, pursuant to which NBM shall 
continue to assist the Borrower in determining the compliance by PFIs with the 
conditions set forth in Part B of the Annex to this Schedule.
2.
For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, through the 
Apex Unit:
(a)
relend to the PFIs the equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan under 
Subsidiary Financing Agreements entered into or to be entered into between the 
Borrower acting through the NBM as its Fiscal Agent and each such PFI, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, and which shall include, 
without limitation, those set forth in the Annex to this Schedule;
(b)
monitor the overall execution of the Project and the carrying out by the 
PFIs of obligations under their respective Subsidiary Financing Agreements in 
accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate on its part 
to enable the PFIs to perform in accordance with the provisions of their respective 
Subsidiary Financing Agreements all the obligations of the PFIs therein set forth, and 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
(b)
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about March 31, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 1999, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5
Principal Terms and Conditions of the 
Subsidiary Financing Agreements
The principal terms and conditions set forth in this Schedule shall apply for 
the purposes of paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
A.
Terms:
1.
The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the loan to a PFI under 
its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall be: (a) denominated in Deutsche 
Marks in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower; and (b) 
the equivalent of the aggregate amount of the principal of all Sub-loans made by the 
PFI out of the proceeds thereof.
2.
The Subsidiary Finance shall be: (a) charged, on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest, during each three-month period 
of each calendar year, at a rate equal to the rate specified in Section 2.05 (a) of 
this Agreement plus a margin, calculated on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank; and (b) repaid in accordance with an amortization schedule pursuant to which 
each portion thereof utilized in the making of a Sub-loan shall have a maturity 
calculated to conform to the amortization schedule applicable to such Sub-loan.
Page  12
3.
The right of a PFI to use the proceeds of its respective Subsidiary Finance may 
be: (a) suspended, in whole or in part, upon failure of such PFI to perform any of its 
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement, to continue to be in 
compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements applicable to its operations or 
to meet any of the requirements set forth in Section B.1 of this Annex to Schedule 5; 
and (b) terminated if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to subparagraph 
(a) hereof for a continuous period of ninety (90) days.
B.
Conditions:
1.
A Subsidiary Financing Agreement may be entered into with a banking institution, 
duly established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, which the Borrower, 
with the assistance of NBM pursuant to the arrangements referred to in paragraph 2 (b) 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, shall have determined, and the Bank shall have 
agreed, that such banking institution:
(a)
has provided a quarterly certificate of compliance from NBM stating that 
the PFI is in general compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements applicable 
to its operations;
(b)
has presented an acceptable audit report prepared by an internationally 
recognized audit firm in accordance with International Accounting Standards ("IAS") 
which (i) covers two full years of operations, (ii) incorporates a loan and investment 
portfolio review, and (iii) certifies the PFI’s compliance with the prudential 
requirements of the NBM and those required by the Bank relating to capital adequacy, 
large exposures, connected lending and foreign currency exposures;
(c)
has been in existence and has produced operating results for a minimum of 
two years;
(d)
has minimum share capital (as required by the NBM) equivalent to DEM 15 
million by end September 1999, DEM 18 million by end April 2000, and DEM 21 million by 
end April 2001;
(e)
has a minimum risk-weighted capital adequacy ratio (as defined by the 
Basle Committee on Banking Supervision) of at least 8 percent of its capital base;
(f)
has exposure to any one borrower or group of connected borrowers (as 
defined below) as a percent of its equity capital of no more than 40 percent by 
year-end 1999, 35 percent by year-end 2000, and 30 percent by year-end 2001;
(g)
has aggregate exposure to insiders (defined as Council members, members 
of the Management Board, employees in a management position and shareholders with 
voting rights in excess of 3 percent) of no more than 80 percent of equity capital as 
of year-end 1999, 60 percent as of year-end 2000 and 40 percent as of year-end 2001; 
(h)
has, at any time, aggregate net foreign currency exposure (defined as the 
difference between total foreign currency assets and total foreign currency 
liabilities) of not more than 25 per cent of its equity capital;
(i)
has, at any time, aggregate exposure to all single borrowers to which 
individually its exposure exceeds 10 per cent of its equity capital, of not more than 
300 per cent of its equity capital;
(j)
is operating pursuant to investment and lending policies and procedures 
which the Bank and NBM pursuant to paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement 
shall have judged acceptable, and has undertaken to maintain said policies and 
procedures;  
(k)
has a satisfactory financial structure, determined, inter alia, on the 
basis of risk-based capital adequacy criteria satisfactory to the Bank, policies and 
performance, and the organization, management, staff and other resources required for 
the efficient carrying out of its operations, including its activities to be 
undertaken under the Project; 
(l)
has established a credit committee and a technical unit in accordance 
Page  13
with, and for the purposes set forth in paragraph 2 (c) hereof; 
(m)
for the purposes of this sub-section I.B.1, the term "International 
Accounting Standards" or "IAS" means the accounting standards issued or endorsed by 
the International Accounting Standards Committee and the term "equity capital" or 
"capital" or "net worth" has the meaning set forth in the Basle Capital Accord of the 
Bank for International Settlements; and
(n)
for the purposes of this sub-section I.B.1, the term “connected borrower” 
means two or more natural or legal persons who constitute a single risk to such 
banking institution as (A) one of them, directly or indirectly, has control over the 
other(s); or (B) they are so interconnected that, if one of them were to experience 
financial problems, the other(s) would be likely to encounter repayment difficulties.
2.
Each Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to which 
the respective PFI shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out its activities under the Project and conduct its operations and 
affairs in accordance with appropriate financial standards and practices, with 
qualified management and staff in adequate numbers, and in conformity with the 
investment and lending policies and procedures referred to in paragraph 1 (b) hereof, 
and to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the purpose;
(b)
(i) make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the Attachment to this Annex; (ii) exercise its rights in relation to each such 
Sub-loan in such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank, comply with its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement and achieve the purposes of the Project; (iii) not assign, amend, abrogate 
or waive any of its agreements providing for Sub-loans, or any provision thereof, 
without prior approval of the Apex Unit; and (iv) appraise Sub-projects and supervise, 
monitor and report on the carrying out by Beneficiaries of Sub-projects, in accordance 
with criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower;
(c)
maintain, with staff and other resources and terms of reference, 
satisfactory to the Bank and the Apex Unit: (i) a credit committee to be responsible 
for the evaluation and approval of Sub-loan applications; and (ii) a technical unit to 
be responsible for the appraisal and supervision of the carrying out of Sub-projects;
(d)
(i) exchange views with, and furnish all such information to the Bank or 
the Apex Unit, as may be reasonably requested by the Bank, the Borrower, or the Apex 
Unit, with regard to the progress of its activities under the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Project; and (ii) promptly inform the Bank and 
the Apex Unit of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the 
progress of its activities under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and
(e) 
(i) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, its operations and financial condition; (ii) have its 
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (iii) 
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six (6) 
months after the end of each such year, certified copies of said financial statements 
and accounts for such year as so audited, and the report of such audit by said 
auditors in such scope and detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iv) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records, accounts and 
financial statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ATTACHMENT TO THE ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5
Terms and Conditions of the Sub-loans
The provisions of this Attachment shall apply for the purposes of paragraph 2 
(b) (i) of Part B of the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement:
Page  14
1.
The principal amount of each Sub-loan made out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall: (a) be denominated in Deutsche Marks, in accordance with the applicable laws 
and regulations of the Borrower; (b) be the equivalent in Deutsche Marks (determined 
as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out 
of the Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or 
paid out on account of the cost of goods and works financed out of such proceeds for 
the Sub-project; and (c) unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, not exceed the 
equivalent of DEM 2,250,000.
2.
Each Sub-loan shall be: (a) charged interest, on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate determined by the PFI making 
such Sub-loan in accordance with its investment and lending policies and practices 
referred to in paragraph 1 (h) of Part B of the Annex to Schedule 5 of this Agreement; 
and (b) made for a period determined pursuant to said policies and practices but which 
shall be not less than one (1) and not more than ten (10) years, inclusive of an 
appropriate grace period of  up to three (3) years.
3.
No expenditures for goods and works required for a Sub-project shall be eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the loan unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been approved by the Bank 
and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 180 days prior to the date 
on which the Bank shall have received the application and information required under 
paragraph 4 (a) of this Attachment in respect of such Sub-loan, or
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been a free-limit Sub-loan 
(as hereinafter defined) for which the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the 
Loan Account and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 180 days 
prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the request and information 
required under paragraph 4 (b) of this Attachment in respect of such free-limit 
Sub-loan. For the purposes hereof, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for a 
Sub-project to be made by each respective PFI in an amount to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan which (when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the proceeds of which have 
been or are being used for financing goods directly and materially related to such 
Sub-project) shall not exceed the maximum amount determined from time to time by the 
Bank and notified to the Borrower and each respective PFI.
4.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan, other than a free-limit Sub-loan to the Bank 
for approval, the PFI shall furnish to the Bank, through the Apex Unit, an 
application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the 
Beneficiary; (ii) the appraisal of the Sub-project, including a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (iii) the 
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization 
therefor; and (iv) any such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request for authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan Account 
in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the 
Beneficiary and the Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of 
the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or 
before June 30, 2001, or such later date as the Bank shall establish.
5.
Sub-loans shall be made to Beneficiaries who each shall have established to the 
satisfaction of the PFI making the Sub-loan, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank that:
(a)
in respect of a Beneficiary which is a private enterprise, it is 
creditworthy, and has a satisfactory financial structure and the organization, 
management, staff and financial and other resources required for the efficient 
carrying out of its operations; and
(b)
in respect of a Beneficiary which is a private farmer, it is 
creditworthy, and has satisfactory financial and other resources required for the 
Page  15
efficient carrying out of farming activities to be carried out under the Sub-project.
6.
Sub-loans shall be made for Sub-projects which are each determined, on the basis 
of an appraisal carried out in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, to 
be:
(a)
technically feasible and economically, financially and commercially 
viable, with expected financial rate of return of not less than 15%;
(b)
in conformity with the applicable environmental regulations and standards 
of the Borrower and the Bank’s policies on environmental assessment; and
(c)
operated in accordance with a satisfactory business plan, and a financing 
plan covering the necessary additional financing for the components not financed by a 
Sub-loan.
7.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the PFI making the Sub-loan shall 
obtain, by written contract or other appropriate means, rights adequate to protect its 
interest and those of the Borrower and the Bank, including the right to:
(a)
require the Beneficiary to carry out its Sub-project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, economical, financial and 
commercial practices, to maintain adequate records, and to provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities and other resources required for the purpose;
(b)
require that the goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan to be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, and use any such goods exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, or the 
Apex Unit on behalf of the Borrower, if the Bank, the Borrower, or the Apex Unit shall 
so request, the goods and the sites, works, plans and construction included in the 
Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain such insurance, 
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business 
practice, including such insurance to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
require each Beneficiary, other than private farmers,  to: (i) have its 
financial statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
PFI; and (ii) furnish to the PFI, as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such year, certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited, and the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the PFI shall have reasonably requested;
(f)
in respect of Beneficiaries require the Beneficiary to implement its 
business plan, referred to in paragraph 6 (c) of this Attachment with due diligence 
and efficiency and take all necessary action to achieve the objectives thereof, and 
carry out and operate the Sub-project in accordance with appropriate health, safety 
and environmental standards, satisfactory to the Bank;
(g)
obtain all such information as the Bank, the Borrower, or the Apex Unit 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be 
derived from the Sub-project; and
(h)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Sub-Loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations 
under its contract with the PFI.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
Page  16
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Category(ies)” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided, however, 
that notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, payments for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of free limit 
Sub-loans may be made out of the Special Account before the Bank shall have authorized 
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures, however, 
shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently authorize 
such withdrawals; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to DEM 
4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
Page  17
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Category, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 7
Modifications of General Conditions
1.
The words “the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled” set forth at the end 
of Section 6.03 of the General Conditions are deleted and the following is substituted 
therefor:
“or (f) by the date specified in paragraph 4 (c) of the Attachment to the 
Annex to 
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of any 
portion of the Loan: (i) 
have received no applications or requests under 
subparagraphs (a) or (b) of said paragraph; 
or (ii) have denied any such 
applications or requests, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower, terminate 
the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to 
make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or 
portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion of the 
Loan 
shall be canceled.”
2.
Section 6.03 of the General Conditions is modified to read:
Page  18
“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the Borrower 
to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty (30) days, or (b) 
at any time, the Bank 
determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or 
(c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or 
the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and 
appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or 
(d) at any time, the Bank determines that the  procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent 
with the procedures set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the 
amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of 
the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank 
shall have received 
notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with 
respect to an amount of the Loan, 
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and 
the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with 
respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, 
such amount of the Loan 
shall be canceled.
