Do_ent of
The World Bank
FOR  OF AL USE ONL
Repwt No. 12092
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DJIBOUTI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1232-DI)
JUNE 28, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12092
Type: PCR
Country Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
nbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by eipiets only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENIS
Currency Unit = Djibouti franc (DF)
US$1.00 = DF 177.72
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ICR                - Project Completion Report
TA                 - Technical Assistance
IDA               - International Development Association
UNDP              - United Nations Development Programme
FAC               - Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration
SDR               - Special Drawing Right
OECD              - Organization for Economic Ccoperation and Development
EEC               - European Economic Community
WEIGS ANDMEASES
Metric System
Metric                                      British/US EAuivalents
1 meter (m)                                       3.3 feet
1 hectare (ha)                                    2.47 acre
1 are (100 m2)                                    0.02 acres
1 kldometer (kn)                                  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)                          0.39 square mile (sq.mi)
I kilogram (kg)                                   2.2 pounds (lb)
I liter (1)                                       0.26 US gallon (gal)
022 British gallon (imp gal)
1 metric ton (m. ton)                             2,204 pounds (lb)
FCAL YEAR
Janualy 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
W"hington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Offles of Dirvctor.enoral
Operations Evaluaton
June 28, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO T,H1 EXECUTIVE DIRECMORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECr: Project Completion Report on Djibouti -
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1232-DI)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Djibouti - Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1232-DI) prepared by the Africa Resional Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The project objectives were: (i) to improve the Govemment's capabilities to assess the
county's resources; (ii) to formulate an appropriate development strategy, (iii) to prepare yearly
investment programs; (iv) to evaluate and prepare investment projects; and (v) to strengthen the
Djibouti Planning and Statistical Directorates.
With few exceptions (preparation of some useful project studies and improvements in the
Statistical Directorate), these objectives were not achieved. Both the Bank and the Borrower
conclude that the outcome was unsatisfactory, that the impact on institutional development was
negligible and that sustainability is unlikely.
The PCR provides a candid albeit sketchy discussion of project performance. The main flaw
in the design was excessive complexity. In addition, the Borrower considers it to havc been
fundamentally flawed by its blueprint approach, with "no effort ... made to adapt to [Djibouti'sj
specific situation." The main shortcomings in implementation were the Government's weak
commitment to project objectives and the lack of clear benchmarks (on the part of either the Bank
or the Government) for institutional capacity improvement.
The project may be audited.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the peFr ormancc- 'their official duties Its
wntents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCL41 USE ONLY
DJIBOUTi
PROJECr COMXPLEIgON REPORT
TECIENICAL ASSLrANCE PROJECT
(Cvet 1232-DI)
Table of
PREFACE         ..........................                    ....******4                  * *...    I
EVALlIATION SUMMARY   ......................................                             ....*...  iii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK"S PERSPECITVE
PROJECTTIDENTIR`Y   ..............................................   1
ONcRO i)UCe1ON   ...............................................    2
H.   THEZITnNG  ....................................  I
M].    lllE PRO.lECT   ..................................................   2
Objectives   .................... 0..............................   2
Compo sition   .....................................................   2
Concept and Design  .............................................    3
Benefits and Risks  ..............................................    3
iV.     11PLEfMIENTATION   **.... .*.... *. *.           4..... ....... 4.... *.*.        * ...*. *    4
Overal Performance   ............................ .... *  4
Disbursements  ................. .............444....*.... *....*                       5
Technical Assistance to Planning          . . .... ... .. .. .... .... .. .. .. .. . .... .  6
Technical Assistance to the Directorate of Statistics   ...  ..................   6
Studies Fund   ............................................... .
Documentation Center  ...........................................    7
Training Prograun   ............. ..................................   7
Government Performance   .........................................   8
Bank Management and Supervision    ........ ................................  O
Bank and UNDP Cooperation             . ................. *.. 0 ......... .........   9
V.     IMPACr   ...4.... ....             ...........       ...........................    9
Externaly.Financed Projects  ................... .......... . ....   9
InstitutionalImpact   ........ ....                ......           *.....      * 4.    9
VL      CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED   .............................  10
Concept and Design  ..................             4.4 44..................   10
Bank Performance  ...................                      ...................    10
Lessons Learned           ............................... .......   11
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   IINRODUCTION  . ............. *.......                                    .........           12
IL     PROJECT CONTEXTr  . ............................                                            12
This document has a restricted distribudon and may be used by tecipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont'd)
IIL    PROJECr EWPLEMEW ATION   ......................................   13
Worldliank Perorinance   ........ .........                                           14
UNDf  Performance   ............................................    14
PART m - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Credits   ............................*****ss                                15
Prc&d Timetable ..... ...................  .....................  15
Credit Dfsbursements .............. ...............                            ..         16
Project Implementation   .       ........ ................................    17
PseofBankResoums           ...and  .........................................   21



-i-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DIIBOUI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJBCr
(Credit 1232-DI)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Technical Assistance
Project in Djibouti, for which Credit 1232-DII in the amount of SDR 2.6 million was
approved on April 20, 1982. The credit became effective on September 22, 1982, and was
closed on June 30, 1989, three-and-a-half years behind schedule. The last disbursement
wvas on February 24, 1989, and a balance of SDR 843,005.03 was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division of the South-
Central and Indian Ocean Department (AF3CO). There was no completion mission. The
Borrower prepared Part II, which was received on June 3, 1992.
The PCR is based on the President's Report, the Credit Agreement,
reports by and correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank
memoranda, and interviews with Bank staff previously involved with the project



-iii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DJIBOUTI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCED PROJECT
(Credit 1232-DI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The main objectives of the project were to improve Djibouti's capacity to
formulate an appropriate development strategy, to coordinate development efforts, and to
prepare and analyze sound development projects (see para. 5).
Implementation Emprience
Overall, project performance was unsatisfactory. Implementation problems
arose early on due to weaknesses in public administration and a weak Government
commitment to project objectives. The project's main component (assistance to the
planning function) was redesigned about six months following effectiveness. However, the
redesign focussed on short-term solutions and was not based on clear benchmarks related
to institutional development. One of the main objectives of the project was to strengthen
the planning function in Djibouti through direct support of a technical assistance (TA)
team to the Planning Directorate. Foilowing the redesign of tuiis component, the TA
team was assigned to an "Oversight Committee (established in February 1984 under the
aegis of the Minister of Fmance), to follow-up, inter alia on the recommendations of a
donors'conference held in November 1983. While the Committee succeeded in preparing
a public investment program and several feasibility studies (under the Studies Fund) which
were subsequently financed by donors, the Planning Directorate was marginalized in the
process. On the other hand, the component providing support to the Statistics
Directorate was fully functional following the resolution of difficulties in its start-up phase.
(See paras. 13-18.)
Results
Even though the main objectives of the planning component (formulation
of an appropriate development strategy and strengthening of the planning function) were
not achieved, the project, nevertheless, provided valuable support during its
implementation in the improvement of the economic and financial management of the
country a portfolio of projects was prepared and submitted to a donors conference (held
in 1983) resulting in the financing of several of these projects. This was followed by the
preparation of the 1984-88 Public Investment Program. Modest results were achieved
under the other components. (See paras. 21-25.)



-iV-
Sustainability
Given the lack of a sound permanent institutional framework for planning
during project implementation, the objective of improving institutional capacity in the
planning function was not achieved. The statistics component produced satisfactory
results, and the need for accurate and timely data seems to have been internalized well.
The sustainability of the documentation center appears unlikely given the lack of
systematic use of these facilities, as well as lack of discipline in its maintenance. (See
paras. 35-37.)
Findings and Lessons Learned
Although the project's concept was good, its original design was over-
dimensioned for a first Bank-financed operation in such a small and complex country as
Djibouti The project's redesign in mid-course should have been based on a more clearly
defined long-term institution building concept. In retrospect, Government requests for
closing date extensions should not have been readily accommodated in the absence of a
clear Government commitment to the project objectives.



DJIBOUtl
PROJECr COMPLEInON REPORT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(ffl 1232DI)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BAUNS PERSPECTIV
Project Idenfti
Name                     Technical Assistance Project
Credit Number            1232-DI
RVP Unit                 Africa Region
countty                  Djibouti
Sector                   Technical Assistance
L INTRODUCrION
1.    This project, for which an IDA credit of SDR 2.6 million was approved on April
20, 12, was the first operation financed by the Bank Group in Djibouti
IL THE SETIING
2.     he Republic of Djibouti, is a small country of 23,200 sq. km. located strategicaLly
in the Horn of Africa. Two-thirds of its 450,000 1/ inhabitants live in the capital,
Djibouti City. Djibouti has received some 80,000 refugees and immigrants since the 1980S
from Ethiopia and Somalia, at great economic and social cost. According to the UN
classification, Djibouti belongs to the Least Developed Countries group. (However, based
on Bank estimates of national accounts, the GNP per capita is estimated at between
US$740-US$900 in 1990.)
3.    Djibouti's economic development constraints are substantial; they are those of a
dualistic economy with skewed income distribution between a smal modern sector based
on a relatively well-developed infrastructure and on expatriate skills, and a larger
traditional society close to a subsistence level. The tertiary sector dominates the economy
by contrbuting nearly 70 percent of GDP and providing the bulk of foreign exchange
earnings. Its mainstay are services provided to the French military personnel stationed in
the country (about 30 percent of GDP), and other services related to the role of Djibouti
as a regional center due to its port facilities, private banidng and telecommunications services.
l/ Official estimates. Bank estimatcs-prepared in the contest of the 1991 CEM-put the
population in the 450,000-500,000 range.



-2-
4.    Folowing Djibouti's independence in 1977, the Government sought external
assistance to support the country's emerging development strategy. However, the
institutional framework necessary for the design and implementation of a coherent
development strategy was lacking. A preliminary request for technical assistance suppoIt
from the Bank to strengthen the Government's capacity to prepare and implement an
appropriate development strategy, was made by the Minister of Finance during the 1980
Annual Meetings. A formal detailed request was received from the President's office in
February 1981, and the project was appraised in November 1981; the UNDP agreed to
cofinance it on a parallel basis. The Bank's rationale for involvement was based on the
premise that upon development of such a strategy a pipeline of "bankable" projects would
emerge.
IIL THE PROJECT
Objectives
S.    The objectives set out in the President's Report were: (i) to improve the
CGovernment's capabilities to assess the countrys natural and human resources, to
formulate an appropriate development strategy, to prepare yearly investment programs
(1983-1986), and to prepare and analyze appropriate de-velopment projects, including
those suitable for submission to outside donors; and (ii) to strengthen the staff of the
Planning and Statistical Directorates.
Composition
6.    The project, cofinanced with UNDP on a parallel basis, included the provision of
the following servics and equipment:
(i)   three advisers: a macro-economist and a project economist/financial
analyst in the Planning Directorate, and a statistician in the
Statistical Directorate;
(ii)  three UN Volunteers: two statistical assistants in the Statistical
Directorate and a documentalist in the Planning Directorate;
(iii) a Project Preparation and Sector Studies Fund (Studies Fund) to
finance sector, prefeasibility, and feasibility studies (140 staff-
months) as wcll as the equipment needed for these studies and for
appropriate pilot schemes;
(iv)   a training program in statistics (data collection, general statistics,
national accounts), planning (macroeconomic and sector work), and
prcject work ('dentification, preparation, appraisal, monitoring), as
well as the necessary pedagogical material;
(v)   improveniont and extension of the Planning Directorate offices, to
provide spacc for the advisers, the national staff, and a
documentation center;



-3-
(vi)  equipment for the Planning and Statistical Directorates; and,
(vii) two four-wheel drive vehicles.
Concept and Design
7.    In the early 1980s, the Government began addressing the institutional weaknesses
which were hindering the country's ability to define an appropriate development strategy
and prepare suitable investment projects. In September 1980, the Government created
the Planning Directorate and assigned to it the responsibility for coordinating the
preparation of the first ITree-Year Development Plan. To strengthen the planning
process further, the Government also created in April 1981 a National Programming
Commission, which included representatives of all ministries. The Commission's mandate
was to help the Planning Directorate to elaborate sectoral policies and the Developruent
Plan. Because of the lack of reliable statistical data, in August 1981 the Government
established the National Directorate of Statistics.
&     The TA project, which was prepared in collaboration with the UNDP, was
designed to strengthen the Planning Directorate and the Statistical Directorate.
Specifically, the project would address the three main weaknesses of the two agencies: (i)
shortage of skilled personnel; (ii) lack of coordination; and (iii) lack of fully prepared
projects and of the statistical base necessary for planning and project work. TA personnel
(advisers, etc.) were to be financed by UNDP, with IDA qmancing equipment and
feasibility and sector studies.
9.   T1wo of the three long-term experts would help to organize the work of the
Planning Directorate, assist in supervising the preparation and implementation of the
Three-Year Plan, advise and assist in managing the Studies Fund, and provide general
assistance in analysis and management of development projects. The third would help
design and carry out surveys, and publish periodic statistics on the: economy. Besides on-
the-job training of the experts' counterparts and of staff working with consultants financed
by the Studies Fund, the project would provide training through scholarships for seminars
in Djibouti overseas courses, and study tous
10.  TMe Studies Fund would finance background studies necessary to elaborate a
development strategy and feasibility studies for specific projects making up coherent
investment programs. Eperience gained in managing the Fund (especially in the area of
inter-ministerial coordination) would help to establish and consolidate the planning
process. To help encourage coordination, detailed procedures were agreed and included
in the legal documents for the credit.
Benefits and Risks
11.   \ccording to the President's Report (PR), a number of benefits were expected
from the project First, it would help Djibouti to elaborate a development strategy and
increase the number of adequately prepared project proposals to be submitted for external
financing. &cond, application by all concerned government agencies of uniform criteria
for project preparation and implementation would improve inter-agency coordination.
Third, the project would contribute to establishing administrative procedures through the
design and implementation of a workable planning process. Fnally, as a result of the



-4 -
above, planning, policy analsis, and decision-making capabilities of key institutions would
be strengthened and this would in turn help In better coordination of foreign assistance.
12.   The PR highlighted inter alia the risk associated with the Government's ability to
strengthen the Planning Directorate while solving coordination problems. However, it was
stated that "as planning work progresses, these risks are expected to diminish as
responsibilities are sorted out and institutional mechanisms established". It was also
exp'-ted that close supervision by the Association and the detailed specification of the
p.ocedures for managing the Studies Fund and selecting candidates for training should
help alleviate the risks.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION
Overall Performance
13.   Overall performance on the project was unsatisfactory. The credit became
effective in September 1982 (after a three-month delay) and almost from the outset it
became evident that major difficulties would arise in its implementation. This was due to
two main factors: (i) the country's weak public administration, including the lack of
qualified nationals as well as poor coordination among ministries and agencies; and (ii)
lack of coordination among donors providing technical assistance and lack of the donors'
faniliarity with their respective procedures. Since this was the first operation financed by
the Bank Group in the country, it was agreed that a period of a few months of
familiarzation was needed.
14.   Following this initial period of familiarization, the project component providing
assistance to the National Statistics Directorate was functioning satisfactorily. The
Directorate's work program emphasized the need to improve collection and analysis of
pertinent statistical data and with the expertise of the technical assistance team assigned to
the Directorate work was undertaken to inter alia prepare a list of public and private
enterprises, bi-annual bulletins, directory of statistics, trade statistics, etc.
15.   On the other hand, the project component providing assistance to the Planning
Directorate, which was also responsible for managing the Studies Fund, continued to
encounter major implementation difficulties. Upon its arrival in Djibouti, the TA team
prepared an action plan (approved by the Government, UNDP, and the Bank) for the
implementation of the project's objectives. Witbin this framework, one of the first tasks
of the team was to assess the mechanics of the planning process in DJibouti, as well as the
functions and responsibilities of the Planning Directorate, so as to put in place the
administrative framework necessary for the planning process. This assessment led to the
realization that although the functions and resoonsibilities of the Planning Directorate as
well as the required administrative framework were defined in several legislation and
administrative directives, the Directorate functioned in an isolated manner without
coordinating with the technical ministries. It was also ascertained that the Directorate was
thinly staffed and that the existing staff were not qualified to carry out planning functions.
These shortcomings reduced the Directorate's effectiveness.



-  -
16.   A case in point was the Donors Conference, which the Planning Directorate was
originally given the responsibility to prepare. The Planning Director proposed to use the
Studies Fund to hire consulting firms for the preparation of projects for submission to the
Conference, but failed to coordinate with the Bank on substance and procedures
(procurement rules were not respected, leading to the Bank's refusal to finance
consultants hired by the Director). To provide further assistance to the Planning
Directorate, an experienced Bank staff member was sent to Djibouti at the request of the
President of Djibouti, to assist with the preparation of the conference, but Bank staff
advice was also not followed. As a result, the Govemment kept postponing the
Conference (it was finally held in November 1983) and appointed an Interministerial
Committee, chaired by the Minister of Fnance, to organize the Conference and prepare
its background documentation. The project was an important instrument in helping the
committee in its task.
17.   Mid-term review. Following the Donors Conference, responsibility for the follow-
up on the Conference's results was given to an Oversight Committee, chaired by the
Minister of Fnance. Given the inability of the Planning Directorate to function within
the existing institutional framework, the Tripartire Review meeting (between the
Government, UNDP, and the Bank) in February 1984 decided that: (a) effective March
1, 1984, the project activities pertaining to strategy formulation and project preparation
would revert to the Ministry of Finance; and (b) the technical assistance component for
planning would be moved to the office of the Minister of Finance, as a 'Secr6tariat
Technique" of the Oversight Committee.
18.   The project's planning component was thus redesigned to provide inter alia
assistance to the Oversight Committee in the coordination and implementation of the
projects being financed by the donors. In addition, one of the main assignments of the
TA team was to prepare the 1984-88 Public Investment Program (see para. 21).
Disbursements
19.   By the original closing date (December 31, 1985), 53% of the credit had been
disbursed, mainly from the funds allocated to the Studies Fund. The credit was then
extended to June 30, 1986, to allow the Government time to complete the project as well
as for the Bank to continue as executing agency for the UNDP following the prolongation
of the latter's program. A second extension (to December 31, 1987) was approved by the
Bank to provide funds for technical assistance to the Education project (approved in
February 1985), as well as to finance the long-term development study. This study was
carded out with assistance from France (FAC) but the Government rejected its findings.
In November 1987, the Government requested a third extension of the closing date to u-e
the remaining funds (about SDR 900,000 or 35% of approved credit amount) under this
credit to prepare a similar study on long-term development possibilities and to formulate
an action plan for the implementation of the findings of the study. This request was
approved and the crcdit was extended to June 30, 1989, with a clear indication to the
Government to providc the Bank with comprehensive proposals on the use of the
remaining funds. However, by early 1989, the Government had not presented any
proposals.
20.   In March 1989, the Government finally presented a proposal and requested a
fourth extension of the closing date. This was not accepted because tt} proposal and



-6-
terms of reference for the envisaged studies were not found fully satisfactory by the Bank.
As a result, the credit was closed on June 30, 1989, and the remaining funds of SDR
843,005.03, or 32% of the original credit amount, were cancelled.
Technical Assistince to Planning
21.   As mentioned above (para 17), this component was redesigned in February 1984,
when the TA team was reassigned to the new role of 1S6cretariat Technique' (ST) of the
Oversight Committee. In this capacity, one of the priority tasks of the ST was the
preparation of the 1984-88 Public investment Program (PIP). In addition to the projects
approved by the Donors Conference, the PIP included other projects, several of which
had secured financing. The 1984-88 PIP included 94 projects, 33 of which were under
implementation prior to the Donors Conference. The following were achieved under this
component:
(i)   Preparation of the 198488 PIP and follow-up on the
recommendations of the Donors Conference;
(ii)  Inventory of projects under implementation and projects with
secured financing, by sector, and by type of financing;
(iii)  Projected budgetary requirements for the PIP by sector, and rolling
PIP;
(iv)   Analysis of the public finances and of the financial status of public
enterprises;
(v)   Analysis of the macroeconomic impact of the PIP, mainly on
employment and recurrent costs;
(vi)   Recommendations on the linkage between the PIP and the budget
in order to ensure transparency;
(vii)  Assessment of the economic situation and long-term perspectives;
(viii)  Identification of studies to be financed under the Studies Fund, and
preparation of TORs for feasibility studies;
(ix)   Setting-up of a monitoring system of the public debt (external and
internal);
(x)   Organization of a seminar on the project cycle to facilitate the
preparation, updating, and implementation of the PIP.
Technical Assistance to the Directorate of Statistics
22.   The objectives of this component were to update and expand the statistical base,
and to ensure the reliability and timeliness of the data collected, as well as to train local
counterparts. Following difriculties during the start-up stage of implementation, the TA
team was subsequently fully integrated in the work program of the Directorate of



-7-
Statistics. However, the results achieved were not fully satisfactory due to: (i) lack of
awareness by the technical ministries of the importance of statistical data in the task of
economic development; (ii) lack of sufficient staff equipment and logistical space in the
Drectorste of Statistics; (iui) lack of coordination in the processing of data; and (iv) lack
of coordination between the Directorates of Statistics and Planning. Also, the TA teams
for planning and statistics were systematically excluded from statistical work relevant to the
planning function, such as preparation of the national accounts. The situation finally
improved, and work under the component helped in:
* the standardization of data collection;
* indexing of the public and private enterprises;
* coordination of statistics fo; social security,
* preparation of labor and public health statistics, as well as car registration;
* analysis of census statistics;
u training of local counterparts;
* analysis of foreign trade data.
Studies Fund
23.   The original objective of the Studies Fund, namely the preparation of sectoral
studies to elaborate a development strategy, was not met. However, following the
Tripartite Review of February 1984, the responsibility for this component reverted to the
Ministry of Finance, and it accomplished the following
- Feasibility study of the Balbala telecommunications project, as well as
supervision of the implementation of the project;
* Architectural and technical studies for the IDA-financed Urban
Development Project;
' Financing of the technical assistance component of the IDA-financed
Education Project;
• Feasibility study and implementation of the ccmputerization of the Treasury
and the Directorate of Statistics;
* Seminar on population statistics;
* Census of public and private enterprises.
Documentation Center
24.   A documentation center was created and several hundred documents collected.
The center received a donation of about 300 publications from various agencies in the UN
System, as well as the OECD and the EEC. The center also receives Government
publications although this is not done systematically. The impact of this component
appears to be rather limited mainly because its services are not being used systematically.
Training Program
25. Particular attention was given to this component given its importance in sustaining
the impact of the project through the provision of training to local counterpart  Even
though the Government did not succeed in nominating a Training Coordinator nor a
Selection Committee-as was called for in the Credit Agreement-the TA team,



-8-
nevertheless, proceeded to identify candidates for training in statistics. In addition to on-
the-job training, the following were also provided:
* four overseas scholarships, of three-year duration each, for statistician;
* three overseas scholarships, of two-year duration each, for assistant statistician;
* one overseas scholarship of three-year duration for national accounts;
* a few study-tours in the planning function.
Finally, two seminars were held in Djibouti: (i) one on demographic statistics sponsored
by the Census Bureau with experts from Cameroun, in September 1985; and, (ii) a
seminar on the project cycle, organized by the World Bank in November 1985.
Government Performance
26.   Overall, the Government did not demonstrate a full committment to the project's
objectives, namely the development of institutional capacity for project preparation and
background studies leading to design and implementation of a development strategy.
Specifically, the Government was unable to provide a sound and permanent institutional
framework for planning, including qualified staff and logistical space. In addition, inter-
agency disagreements made it difficult to achieve the needed coordination, which was one
of the major project objectives. Improvement in project performance in the later years
was clearly correlated with a change in institutional responsibilities and a different
leadership for project execution.
27.   Following the redesign of the project in February 1984, the Government realized
the valuable work done by the TA team in improving the country's economic and financial
management, through the preparation of the PIP as well as of terms of reference for
feasibility studies, and monitoring of external debt. The Government did not, however,
endeavor to institutionalize the proposed measures to ensure a lasting impact.
Bank Management and Supervision
28.   Bank performance on the project was mixed. Given the fact that this was the first
operation to be financed by the Bank in Djibouti, a considerable effort was made in
familiarizing the Djibouti authorities with Bank procedures. However, experience showed
that additional preparation was required for this complex project to succeed, or a less
complex project should have been considered.
29.   Intensive Bank supervision was required in the start-up phase with one mission
immediately after credit effectiveness, two missions in 1983 as well as participation in the
Donors Conference, followed by annual supervision missions during the 1984-1986 period,
with the last Bank supervision mission being in March 1986. Tripartite
UNDP/Bank/Government reviews were held annually from 1984 through 1986. With the
completion of the UNDP program and the departure of the TA team (June 1986), field
supervision of the project's only active component-the Studies Fund--was through the
Education project (para. 23). Moreover, other Bank economic or operational missions
followed-up on project status.
30.   Realizing the acute need for technical expertise in the important function of
planning in Djibouti, the Bank team made every effort to ensure that project



-9-
implementation would continue in such adverse circumstances. For example, the Bank
demonstrated flexibility and quick response in redesigning project objectives in light of
experience in the early stage of project implementation.
Bank and UNDP Cooperation
31.   The project was, in effect, an amalgam of two different projects--a UNDP
Technical Assistance project financing the three long-term advisers, the UN Volunteers,
and part of the training, equipment and vehicles components, and activities (mostly studies
and equipment) financed by IDA. As such, the two projects involved different kind of
documentation, administrative procedures, reporting and evaluation criteria. At times, this
contributed to some confusion among project authorities, who were not used to dealing
with international organizations, much less two of them, with different procedures, under
the same operation.
32.   UNDP's commitment to the objectives of the project varied with succeeding
resident representatives. Since the project had committed a sizeable portion of the
UNDP program in Djibouti, the resident representatives favorable to the project viewed it
as helping their program; those who were critics resented the fact that the project tied up
much of their resources in what was perceived as a problematic undertaking. UNDP
resident representatives played a key role in the day-to-day collaboration with both the
government and the TA team; neverthless, frequent supervision and in some cases direct
intervention by the Bank was needed to remove bottlenecks and ensure the continuation
of project activities.
V. IMPACT
Externally-Financed Projects
33.   The project's assistance was valuable in the preparation of projects presented to
the Donors Conference for financing. However, of the 70 projects presented to the
conference, 42 projects were accepted and received financing pledges. Of these, only 6
projects received full or partial financing. Moreover, given the constrained public finance
situation, the Government was not in a position to pay for operating costs once the
projects were completed.
34.   Of the several studies undertaken through the Studies Fund, two projects
(Education and Urban Development) have received IDA financing. In addition, a
telecommunications center, with five regional stations, has received external financing.
Institutional Impact
35.   The project did not achieve most of its objectives of improving institutional
capacity. The planning cor ,onent did not achieve its objectives due to: (i) the lack of a
sound permanent institutional framework for planning, and (ii) the Government's inability
to improve the situation in spite of repeated promises to the Bank to do so. The setting
up of an "Oversight Committee" is the only lasting institutional impact achieved by the
project in the planning area. Although this achievement is far below the original project



- 10-
objective, the Oversight Committee may, nevertheless, be an appropriate instrument in a
small but complex country like Djibouti
36.   On the other hand, the statistics component produced satisfactory results in the
collection and analysis of data, as well as in the training of counterparts to ensure
continuity. The need for acc irate and timely data seems to have been intemalized welL
37.   Most of the UNDP-financed advisers were effective in their specific assignments.
The Government, the UNDP, and the Bank all expressed their satisfaction with their
performance. However, their ability to contribute significantly to long-term institution-
building was limited given the weak institutional structure and the lack of qualified staff,
which was further compounded by the Government's inability to use the training activities
provided by the project.
VL CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
Concept and Design
38.   In retrospect, although the project's concept was good, its original design was over-
dimensioned for a first Bank-financed operation in such a small and complex country as
Djibouti
39.   During its implementation the project helped improve the country's economic and
financial management and the TA team made an effective contribution in providing timely
advice to the Minister of Fmance. However, these modest achievements fell short of the
main objective of the project, ie., make a lasting improvement in institutional capacity.
Moreover, the project's mid-course redesign was more in the way of finding short-term
solutions for the weaknesses in the Government's planning function, rather than
establishing the basis for long-term institutional capacity building for planning.
40.   The expected synergy of all the components of the project to produce an overall
institutional impact did not materialize. This was primarily due to: (i) the Government's
inability to adequately staff the planning institution with qualified personnel and use the
training activities of the project effectively, and (ii) inter-agencies disagreements within
Djibouti's administration.
Bank Performance
41.   Despite delays in implementation, which were directly linked to the institutional
climate in Djibouti, the Bank's performance including its role of executing agency for the
UNDP, was mixed. The Bank responded to the initial implementation problems through a
timely mid-course redesign of the project. However, this was not based on clear
benchmarks related to institutional capacity improvement. The Bank also closely
monitored the project implementation, especially in the first four years of the project's
life, providing the authorities with timely feed-back However, the Bank's efforts elicited
only partial action from Government which was limited to temporary measures.



- 11 -
Lessons Learned
42.   The principal lessons learned as a result of the experiences during project
implementation, are summarized below:
(a)   In a small country such as Djibouti, where donors have diverse interests, a project
of this nature (particularly if it is the Bank's first operation in the country) should
have a less ambitious design and more modest expectations;
(b)   redesign of a project in mid-course should have clearly c1efined long-term
institution building concept;
(c)   Government's inability to provide a sound and permanent institutional framework
thus jeopardizing a project's primary objectives, should not be readily acceptable,
and if despite repeated requests only partial action is taken, a project should be
canceiled in mid-course, or at least not extended beyond its original closing date;
(d)   extensions of closing dates should have been granted based on concrete proposals
from the Government, with clear benchmarks related to institutional capacity
improvement.



-12-
PART II - PROJECr REVIEW F ROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
L INTRODUCTION
1.    Virtually none of the local officials involved at the time of project implementation are still
working for the Planning Department. Consequently, it is difficult to accurately pinpoint the real
causes of the widely recognized inadequacies of the Technical Assistance Project (Credit No.
1232-DI).
2.    It should be stressed right away that the institutions involved in project implementation
are in no way to blame. Neither UNDP, which provided free assistance, despite the drain on its
meager budget, nor IDA, which mobilized substaitial resources to come to the aid of our young
Republic and give us a clear picture of hoped-for future developments, can be held at fault here.
3.    With the benefit of hindsight, and having come to realize just what the planning process
should have involved right from the outset, we now tend to believe that the project's shortcomings
were due partly to inadequate staffmg at the Planning Directorate, but also partly to the fact that
the experts' qualifications were not really relevant to the project objectives, which themselves
were overly ambitious.
IL PROJECT CONTEXr
4.    Beyond the description of the physical and human dimensions to be found at the
beginning of all reports on Djibouti (area, population, aridity of climate, etc.), the broad lines of
the project objectives look like carbon copies of those for a project in Senegal, Malawi or
Malaysia, for example:
-     strengthening of the country's planning and project preparation capacity
-     development of a system for the collection and analysis of statistical data
-     fimprovement of capacities for preparation and management of public investment
programs
-     preparation of a training program
-     strengthening of documentation center
-     seminars.
No effort was made to adapt !Q t'ur country's specific situation.
5.    However, in view of our country's size, the youthfulness of our emergent State, and its
guiding principle of making its political system consistent with economic liberalism, the project
designers should have come up with a more realistic dimensioning of the project objectives, which



-13-
were somewhat out of proportion to the country's real needs in terms of rationalizing economic
and budgetary options. The private sector, the keystone of Djibouti's economic system, was
completely excluded from the scope of the project, which in the end was nothing more than a
reproduction of central economic planning patterns.
6.    The institutional weaknesses that our young Government wanted to remedy were not well
understood, although everything pointed to its desire to avoid further bureaucratic padding and
cumbersome administrative procedures.
7.    From this standpoint, the project ran counter to the country's needs. It is true that the
Government was unable to provide better monitoring of the project activities because of the
limited capacities of its resources. But it was up to the project team to help it to see more clearly
in this area, and this was something it was not always able to do.
m. PROJECIT IMPLEMllTATION
8.    To descnbe project performance as unsatisfactory, as the Bank's PCR does in no
uncertain terms, is simply to state the obvious. However, it is not fair to say that all its
shortcomings derive from the weakness displayed by the public authorities in monitoring and
supervising the technical assistants. In reality:
(a)   Instead of seeking to demonstrate the benefits of macroeconomic consistency in
political decisions and initiating a process of decentralization of decision-making at
the economic level, the technical assistance team simply involved itself in the
budgeting of public investment operations.
(b)   The PlanDing Directorate was completely excluded from preparation of the Donors
Conference and subsequent follow-up, and the project was unable to prevent its
marginalization, even though the strengthening of its capacities was actually the
project's basic objective. The recent development of the Planning Directorate
proves, if any proof were needed, that this was a wrong approach on the part of
the technical assistance team.
9.    In terms of assistance in improving the planning process, the project was thus highly
unsatisfactory.
10.   But certain other project components fortunately did not meet the same fate.
11.   National Satistics Directorate. Although few actual results were produced, the project
contributed toward:
calling attention to the need to standardize data collection (format and regularity)
calling attention to the need for an index of enterprises
analy2ing foreign trade data.



1 4
Some studies on employmcnt statistics have been Completed.
12.   The social security statistics are still being prepared. A think tank has just been set up by
the CPS (Caisse des Pr6stations Sociales) with support from the FAC. If something was started
in this sector, there has not been much to show for it since project closing date.
13.   Studies Fund. The education and urban development studies carried out represent useful
reference documents which still serve as a basis for decisions in this area.
14.   A large-scale study was about to be carried out when the Government, in November 1989,
issued a request to reactivate the Studies Fund and to use the balance, estimated at SDR
843,005.03 as of October 31, 1989. However, this did not come about, since this balance was
canceled (see Monthly Disbursement Summary of August 1990).
World Bank Performance.
15.   Despite the technical limitations of the technical assistance team, the World Bank staff
provided effective support whenever it was able to do so, making it possible to adjust the project's
objectives and achieve what results were produced. More frequent Bank missions and more
intensive supervision of the technical assistance teams would undoubtedly have improved those
results.
UNDP Performance.
16.   Despite limited resources, UNDP provided substantial and effective support Its interest
in the project objectives was constantly oriented toward the effective strengthening of our
national capacities in the areas of planning and provision of advanced training for our staffs.



-15-
PART m - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Credits
Loan/Credit                                    Year of
Title                Purpose               Approval             Status                           Comments
None
2. ProMect Timetable
Oate              Date              Date
Item                              Planned           Revis              Actua
-  Identification                                                ---             02/25/81
(Executive Project Suunary)
-  Preparation                                 ...               ...               ...
A dppraisal Mission                         04/15/81              ---            06/20/81
*  Loan/Credit                              09/10/81             --*             01/04/82
Negotiations
-  Board Approval                            11/15/81            ---             04/20/82
-  Loan/Credit                                  ---              --              05/21/82
Signature
-  Loan/Credit                              07/21/82             ---             09/22/82
Effectiveness
-  Loan/Credit Closing                      12/3i/85             .--             06/30/89
-  Loan/Credit Completion                   06/30/85             *--             06/30/86
-  Last Disbursement                           ---               ---             02/24/89



-16-
3. Credit Disburements
Disbursements (in S Nitlion)
Credit 123Z-DJI
Bank Fiscal Year                                Estimated         Actuat        Actual % of
And Quarter                                   Cumutatlve     Cumulative       Estimated
1982/83    1                                     .10                            0
2                                     .30           -                0
3                                     .50            .47             16.5
4                                     .70            .53             18.8
1933/84    1                                     .95            .53            18.8
2                                    1.20            .55             19.4
3                                    1.45            .55             19.4
4                                    1.70            .55             19.4
1984/85    1                                    1.95            .62            21.9
2                                    2.20            .67             23.7
3                                    2.45           1.01            37.0
4                                    2.70           1.11            41.0
1985/86    1                                    2.85           1.24            45.8
2                                    3.00           1.43             52.7
3                                                   1.43             52.7
4                                    .              1.43             52.7
1986/87    1                                    .              1.43            52.7
2                                    -              1.51            55.3
3                                    .              1.71             61.3
4                                    -              1.75             62.5
1987/88    1                                                  1.83            64.8
2                                    -              1.83            64.8
3                                    -              1.84             65.2
4                                    -              1.88            66.3
1988/89    1                                    -              1.91            67.2
2                                    -              1.91            67.2
3                                    .              1.92 /           67.6 2/
1/ The credit 1232-DJI was in the amount of SDR 2.6 million (US$3.0 million equivalent).
At closing date (06/30/9), SDR 843,005.03 were cancelled; the last disbursement was made
on 02/24/89.
gI For accuracy and due $/SDR exchange rate fluctuations, SDR figures have been used in
calculating percentage disbursed.



-17-
4. lroject Implementstlion
President Report          Actual /or
indicators                               Estimates              PCR estimates
1.   Long-term advisors (financed by UNDP) and UN                                        Early fall
volunteers in field                                       Summer 1982                1982
2.   Assignment of  local support staff  (clerical,
drivers, etc.) and provision of office furniture          Septenber 1982                1/
and vehicles, made available in
3.    Facilities for the Documentation Center would be
provided by                                              November 1983             March 1984
4.    Preparation   of   documentation   for   Donors'          February 1983            November 1983
Conference to be completed by
5.   Nomination by Goverrnent of Training Coordinator
and Selection Committee                                  September 1982                V
6.   Project is expected to be completed by                     June 30, 1986            June 1988
J/    Following Goverrment delays in assigning local support staff and providing necessary office furniture and
vehicles, project expert were force to hire required staff and purchase necessary equipment from project
funds.
2/    Neither a Selection Committee nor a Training Coordinator were nominated.
5. rjt Cogts andi
A. Prolect Costs
Foreign Exchange
Local       Forei          Total          Comaonents
(USS thousands equivalent)              (percent)
Long-term advisors              90            770         860                90
UN Volunteers                   30            200         230                 87
Studies Fund                   230          2.000       2,230                90
Training                        30            480         510                94
Office Space                    80             70         150                 48
Equipment                                     140         140                100
Vehicles and Maintenance        20             40          60                 67
contingencies:  Physical        30             20          50                 40
Price           90           660          750                88
Total  1/                600         4.
1t Texes included in project costs are negligible as all items would be exempt from
import duties and local taxes.



-18-
S. Project Financing
IDA
UNOP  Planned  Actuals   Government Total
Long-term advisors  860                    -        *         860
UN Volunteers        230                   -        -         230
Stud-es Fund           -    2,000      1,803      230       2,230
Training             120       370       96        20         510
Office Space           -         -         -      150         150
Vehictes & Maint.    20         20        16       20          60
Contingencies        200       500         -      100         800
.. . ..........          ....      ... .. .
Total             1,460    3,000                 520       4,980
in X            (29.3X)  (60.3%)             (10.4X)      (100X)
Actuals           1,275               1,915      n/a
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                    Amoraisal                      Closina Date         At Full Develooment
1. Indicative  list  of    Number of studies to be    Due project redesign in    nfa
Studies  needed  to       undertaken    was   not      February    19 8 4,
outline a development    specified;   however,    development strategy did
strategy and identify     sectors covered would be:    not    material ize.
new projects.             s o c i a l   sectors,       However, in preparation
agriculture  and  rural      for  donors'  conference
devetopment,   urban,    held  in Nov. 1983, 14
industry/finance/            studies were undertaken
comsnerce,    parastatal     in the following sectors:
enterprises, statistics,     telecommunications,
roads, mineral resources,    education, infrastructure
and tourism.                 (port   and   airport),
agriculture,    and
industry.      Moreover,
following  the  Donors,
Conference, the 1984-88
PIP was prepared.
2. Training Seminars         Two  cycles  during  the    2 seminars were held for    nrs
project  period.    Each     a  total  of  24  days
cycle covering  a nine-      altogether.   The total
month period.                number of participants is
52.
3. Scholarships   and        UNDP  would  finance  3       4 three-year scholarships    3
Study Tours              three-year  scholarships      for statisticians; 3 two-
in statistics and 7 two-    year  scholarships  for
year  scholarships  for    assist.statistician;   1
statistical  assistants;     three-year scholarship in
IDA  would  finance  4       national   accounts;   2
three-year  scholarships     study tours in planning
for graduate studies in    function; I study tour
planning. Study tours of    for documentalist.
maxiv. 30 days each for
20  civil  servants  to
review    planming   and
project preparation.



-19-
S.  Studies
LIST OF STUDIES FINANCED BY THE STUDY FUNDS
Financing       Results/
Studies                                   iTne         by Prolect       External financirm
(cost in USS)
1.  Urban infrastructure                Preparation      234,619        IDA Urban Project
2.  Tetecommunications Center Balbala   Feasibility      150,000        Found; proJ.completed
3.  Education                            Preparation     490,000         IDA Education Project
4.  Computerization of Treasury &        Feasibility         n/a        Proj.completed
Directorate of Statistics
5.  Seminar on Population Statistics    Preparation          n/a        Completed
6.  Census of public and private         Preparation         n/a        Completed
enterprises
C. Seminars
ON PiREPARATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF PROJECTS
Number of    Number of
Seminars                                            Date             days          participants
1. Seminar on poputation statistics                 Sept. 1985       I5            30
2.  Seminar on project cycle                        Nov. 1985         9            22
Total:                                                    24            52



-20-
7. Status of Covenants
Credit Asreement              Sublect                      R tin            status
Section 3.01 (a)              Ptsming Directorate                           Not satisfied; upon
as impLementing agency                       redesign, TA team assigned
to OC.
(b)              Funds made avaitable                         Satisfied
to UNDP (Categ. 3)
Section 3.02 (a)              Consultant hiring procedures                  Satisfied
(b)             Hiring tong-term experts                      Satisfied
(c)             Procedures for hiring                         Satisfied
tong-term experts
(d)             Cooperation with tong-                        Not satisfied white
term experts; avaitability                   TA team was with Planning
of required docuuantation                    Directorate; upon
reassignment, situation
highty improved
(e)             Rules of emptoyment of
consultants                                  Satisfied
section 3.03 (a)              Coordination of statistical                   Fotlowing project
work between Planning                        redesign, Planning Dir.
and Statistical Directorates                 marginalized
(b)             Use of statisticat work by                    Not satisfied; project
Planning Directorate                         redesioned
Section 3.04                  Assigruent of counterpart                    Non-qualified and
staff                                        insufficient staff
Section 3.05 (a)              Coordination of Training                      Not satisfied
cb)              IDA approval in training                     Satisfied in the sense
candidate selection                          that TA team took direct
initiative in nonination
(c)             Assigruent of Training                        Not satisfied
Coordinator
Section 3.06 (a)              Selection of studies                          Satisfied
(b)             AnnuaL program of studies                     Partially satisfied
Section 3.07                  Procurement insurance                         Satisfactory
Procurement
Section 3.08                  Provision of documentation                    Satisfactory
maintenance of records
Publicity
Completion Report                            Completed
Section 4.01                  Accounts and Audits           Annually        Not satisfactory



-21-
K Use of Bank Resources
A.   Staff Inputs
(in Staff week from MIS)
Stape of Prolect Ccle                   Plan         Revised       final I/           Comments
Through Appraisal                               --                  3.7                  --
Appraisal through Board Approval                --                  4.4
Board Approval through Effectiveness                                0.4 --
Supervision                               --           --          30.3                  --
Project completion report                              --           7.0
Total                                                              45.8
B.  Miessons
Month/   N. of    Days        Specialization              Performance
stase of ProJect Cycle   Year       Persons   in Fietd  ReCresented S               Ratins Status It
Through Appraisal       July 1981      3         12      1 planning expert
1 loan officer
I architect (cons.)
Appraisal through Board Approval       none
Board Approval through Effectiveness  none
Supervisions I/ :                                                                  OS   PDO CLC PMP AOF
#1                  December 1982   1         6                                  2         -   2   -
#2                  June 1983        1        6                                  3    2   3   3   2
#3                  February 1984   1         8                                  3    2   2   2   2
#4                  December 1984   1         7                                  n/a
#5                  March 1985       3        5                                  2    2 ---
#6                  November 1985   2        15                                  2    2   1  2   1
#7                  March 1986       1        4                                  2    2   -   2   1
n/ Key to specialization
1/ Records of some missions may be missinig.
g/ OS = Overall Status
PDO a Project Development Objectives
CLC a Compliance with Legal Covenants
PMP a Project Management Performance
AOF * Availability of Funds



