Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3257-DI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
April 5, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Djibouti Franc (DF)
(The DF is fully convertible into US Dollars at US$1.00 = DF177.72)
Exchange Rate
Calendar 1980      March 1982
US$1                              DF177.72         DF177.72
DF1,000                            US$5.63          US$5.63
DF1,OOO,OOO                       US$5,627         US$5,627
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
FAC       -  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (Fund for Aid and
Cooperation of France)
ISERST    -  Institut Superieur d'Etudes et de Recherches
Scientifiques et Techniques
MTTT      -  Ministere du Commerce, Transport, et Tourisme
(Ministry of Trade, Transport, and Tourism)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DJIBOUTI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Republic of Djibouti
Beneficiary:     The Planning Directorate, the National Directorate of
Statistics, and Other Government Agencies
Amount:           SDR 2,600,000 equivalent to US$3.0 million.
Terms:            IDA terms for projects negotiated prior to January 5, 1982.
Project
Description:    (a)  Objectives:  The objectives of the project are to
improve the Government's capabilities to formulate an
appropriate development strategy, to coordinate devel-
opment efforts and to engage in planning, project
preparation and monitoring. It would strengthen the
Planning Directorate in the Presidency of the Republic,
and the National Directorate of Statistics in the Ministry
of Trade, Transport and Tourism. It would also provide
training in planning, statistics, and project preparation
and monitoring for qualified officials in these and other
Government agencies.
(b) Major components: (i) Provision of three long-term
advisers: a macroeconomist and a financial analyst in the
Planning Directorate, and a statistician in the Statistics
Directorate; (ii) provision of three UN Volunteers: two
statistical assistants in the Statistics Directorate and a
documentalist in the Planning Directorate; (iii) provision
of a Project Preparation and Sector Studies Fund (Studies
Fund) to finance sector, prefeasibility, and feasibility
studies, including related equipment and appropriate pilot
schemes; (iv) a training program in statistics, planning
and project work; (v) improvement of and equipment for the
offices of the Planning and Statistics Directorates.
(c) Benefits: Improvement of planning, policy-analysis
and decision-making capabilities in the Government.
This should help in identifying suitable development
strategies and projects for outside financing, and in
better coordinating foreign assistance. The efficiency
of various aid programs received by the Republic of
Djibouti should thus be improved.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(d) Risks: Usual risks associated with handling of first
Bank Group project; and Government's ability to
strengthen the Planning Directorate while solving
coordination problems. Implementation delays could
accompany the recruitment of experts, the establishment
of procedures to manage the Studies Fund and the
selection of candidates for training.
Estimated Project Costs:
$ thousands equivalent
Local     Foreign      Total
Long-term Advisers                               90         770        860
UN Volunteers                                    30         200        230
Studies Fund                                    230      2,000       2,230
Training                                         30         480        510
Office Space                                     80          70        150
Equipment                                        -          140        140
Vehicles and maintenance                         20          40         60
Contingencies:  Physical                         30          20         50
Price                           90        660         750
Total Project Cost, net of taxes 1/             600      4,380       4,980
Financing Plan:
$ thousands equivalent
Local   Foreign   Total   Percent
IDA                                               -     3,000    3,000        60
UNDP                                             80     1,380    1,460        29
Government                                      520       -         520       11
Total                                           600     4,380    4,980       100
Estimated Disbursements:
$ thousands equivalent
IDA FY                                        1983      1984      1985    1986
Annual                                         700      1,000    1,000       300
Cumulative                                     700      1,700    2,700   3,000
Staff Appraisal Report: None
Rate of Return: n.a.
Map:   IBRD 14324R Djibouti
1/   Taxes included in project costs are negligible, as all items would be
exempt from import duties and local taxes.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Djibouti for SDR 2,600,000 (US$3.0
million equivalent) on IDA terms applicable to projects negotiated prior to
January 5, 1982 to help finance a technical assistance project. The project
would be cofinanced with a parallel contribution of $1.46 million equivalent
from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The UNDP Project Docu-
ment was signed by the Government, the UNDP, and the World Bank as Executing
Agency, on May 25, 1981, and revised in March 1982.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Djibouti Economic Memorandum" (Report No. 3016-DJI)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 3, 1980. An updated
summary of the conclusions is set out below. Country data sheets are provided
in Annex I.
3.        The Republic of Djibouti, a small country of 22,000 sq. km. located
at the mouth of the Red Sea, became independent in June 1977. The country,
characterized by a rugged topography similar to the adjoining desert areas of
Ethiopia and Somalia, is arid and hot. An estimated two-thirds of its
indigenous population of about 325,000 people (1979) live in the city of
Djibouti, the capital. There are a few small towns, but otherwise most
Djiboutians in rural areas are semi-nomadic pastoralists. The country's
economy is service oriented and consists of three economic sub-units: the
city of Djibouti with its port/railway terminal and airport, and Government
services; a French military base, the country's largest single source of
economic and commercial activity; and the sparsely populated hinterland
whose accessibility is difficult and which has little contact with the first
two sub-units.
4.        The country's limited known natural resources have prevented the
development of any sizeable primary activity. It is estimated that no more
than 50 hectares of the total land area of Djibouti are cultivated. Culti-
vation consists mostly of fruit and vegetables grown on a few irrigated plots
near towns. Practically all food is imported. Nomadic herders raise cattle,
sheep and camels in the hinterland. There is no permanent fresh water course
above ground and Djibouti is dependent on subterranean aquifers. There is
some artisanal fishing, but there is no local tradition of fishing or sea-
going. Manufacturing industries are few and the small-scale industry sub-
sector is not extensive.
5.        In addition to the indigenous population of around 325,000, about
30,000 foreigners live in Djibouti, including large communities of Yemeni and
French origin. In addition to these temporary or permanent migrants, Djibouti
has over 40,000 refugees from neighboring countries. Population is believed
to be growing very rapidly, at a natural rate of about 3 percent per annum.



- 2 -
Life expectancy is 45 and, although probably higher than in neighboring
Ethiopia and Somalia, is slightly below the average for middle-income African
countries. 1/ Malnutrition is severe and the incidence of pulmonary tuber-
culosis is high  (believed to affect about 15 percent of the population).
Health services, provided essentially by aid agencies, are mostly curative.
There is an acute need to focus on preventive-care medicine.
6.        Djibouti depends heavily on expatriates for administrative and tech-
nical skills (see para. 22). This situation is aggravated by the inadequacy of
the education system. The sustained inflow of migrants makes it hard to keep
up with potential demand, and provision of education to nomads is a serious
challenge.  Education is in French, with Arabic as the second language taught in
schools. The adult literacy rate, below 15 percent, is low for a country that
is geared to a service economy with two-thirds of its population urban. The
primary school enrollment rate was about 36 percent in the mid-1970s (10,000
pupils in 1976-77 and 15,000 in 1980-81). In 1980-81, 950 pupils were enrolled
in the country's only vocational school (Lycee d'Enseignement Professionnel) and
3,700 pupils attended public secondary schools (3,200 nationals and 500 expa-
triates). A primary teacher college has recently been opened, but Djibouti
continues to rely on expatriate teachers. In 1980-81, the country had 375
primary school teachers (221 nationals, 87 French, and 67 Tunisian) and 240
secondary school teachers (27 nationals, 195 French, 17 Tunisian, and one
Egyptian). Djibouti has no university, but 150 Djiboutians had fellowships to
study abroad in 1980-81.
7.        Per capita income levels are difficult to estimate, because of
inadequate statistics and of wide differences in income between expatriates
and Djiboutians. A preliminary figure of $420 per annum (1979) has been
established by the Bank, but other estimates exist. For example, a 1980
French mission estimated that 8 percent of the national population earns
about $4,000 yearly, 45 percent about $450, and 47 percent about $85. The
$420 level is higher than that of neighboring countries ($130 for Ethiopia),
but it is not evident that the standard of living in Djibouti is substantially
different, especially in the hinterland where sources of income are limited
and poverty extreme. Even though the minimum wage in the formal sector is
high for the region ($900 per year), unemployment is severe, so that few
people benefit from the minimum wage. The extremely poor living conditions
in the hinterland were aggravated by drought in 1978-80, and the limited
resources have been further strained by the refugees whose presence has
exacerbated the demand for water. Prices for basic goods are very high,
and standards of living in most of Djibouti very low.
8.        Djibouti-s economy is based on service activities related to the
military base, the port and railway to Ethiopia, and the international, com-
mercial and financial establishments operating in the capital. Thus its
1/   Demographic data are estimates and their reliability remains to be estab-
lished. The UN Fund for Population Activities is in the early stages of
taking a population census, with UNDP financing.



- 3 -
fortune depends greatly on the demand for these services. In the recent past,
demand for port services by Ethiopia has declined with the opening of the
Ethiopian port of Assab. Most of the railway is in Ethiopia but contributes to
much needed revenue for Djibouti and employment for Djiboutians. In 1979, the
tertiary sector dominated in providing 69 percent of GDP, including 32 percent
from commerce, hotels, etcetera, seven percent from transport and communications
and 23 percent from public administration. In contrast, agriculture, livestock,
fisheries and industry together accounted for only 17 percent of GDP.  The
military base's direct and indirect purchases of goods and services accounted
for about a quarter of GDP.
9.        From 1970 to 1976 real GDP increased at an annual average rate of
about 6 percent, half the growth coming from construction of roads, schools
and other public buildings. The economy has fluctuated since 1976 for
four main reasons: (a) the closing of the railway line from March 1977 to
June 1978 induced a reduction in service activities; (b) public capital
expenditures slowed down after 1977; (c) a reduction in the number of French
military personnel; and (d) private investment failed to come forward in part
because of instability in the Horn of Africa, and, in part, because of
uncertainties associated with the prospects of independence, even though
transition to independence was peaceful. Since 1976, capital formation has
remained fairly low, about eight percent of GDP, while in the first half of
the seventies, it accounted for more than 20 percent of GDP. In 1980, the
economy can be expected to have regained its 1976 level of activity as a
consequence mainly of about $25 million of construction work financed by the
public sector.
10.       Djibouti has in recent years maintained surpluses on its balance
of payments, so that its foreign assets were equivalent to $140 million at end
December 1981, or nearly nine months of imports. This situation, however, is
highly precarious: (i) this build-up accompanied low investment rates in the
1976-79 period, which may be increased in the near future; (ii) current and
capital grants from friendly countries followed the first years of inde-
pendence but may not continue at the same level; and (iii) there are virtually
no domestic merchandise exports, and net earnings of the port, railway and
airport together account for less than $6 million. The heavily negative
balance of trade ($86 million) has for many years been compensated in part
by a positive balance on services ($70 million in 1979) in which a large
portion corresponds to spending on services by non-residents, including
personnel of the military base. On the other hand, the import figure is
inflated by goods used especially by the hotel and restaurant trade, in
generating these service sector earnings.
11.       In the first two years after independence in June 1977, the Govern-
ment maintained a budgetary surplus due to relatively large external assistance,
to conservative management of its ordinary budget, and to the low level of
development expenditure which it has been able to undertake. Government
current and capital expenditure together amounted to about 22 percent of GDP
in 1979, and current outlays on social services were about 40 percent of the
total. Most capital expenditure of the public sector is financed from extra-
budgetary sources, so that the 20 percent of government spending devoted to



- 4 -
capital expenditure understates the actual level of public sector investment
which in 1978 accounted for about 60 percent of gross capital formation. The
increased need for financial resources has been met by raising tax rates and
mobilizing more external assistance. Ordinary government revenue receipts
reached 23 percent of GDP in 1979 against 17 percent in 1976. In 1980,
two-thirds of revenue came from taxes on goods and services. Income tax,
first introduced in 1975 and levied on salaries, professional earnings and
profits of enterprises provides about 17 percent of recurrent revenue.
12.       Since Independence, France has remained the major source of aid
through technical assistance (550 technical and advisory staff), FAC grants
and budgetary aid. Direct budgetary aid in the form of grants amounted to
about $8 million in 1978 and $7 million in 1979. The French civilian aid
program has been mostly in the form of technical assistance. Aid is geared
towards health, education, telecommunications and pilot irrigation schemes.
Presently, budgetary aid is through income taxes paid by French troops and
technical assistance personnel, through indirect consumption taxes levied on
imported goods purchased by households paid by France, and through indirect
financing of Djibouti's armed forces by France.
13.       Djibouti is a newly independent country and is therefore just
starting to develop and diversify its aid relationships. Initial results are
fairly encouraging. Saudi Arabia is the second largest aid donor for Djibouti.
In 1978, it gave a $60 million loan for specific sectors and to compensate for
oil price increases, with project disbursals to occur as viable projects were
implemented. Other sources of Arab assistance include the Arab Fund, the
Arab League, which provides teachers, Abu Dhabi, Oman, Iraq, Bahrain, Morocco
and Libya. USAID has an annual aid program of $5 million. It has carried
out agricultural studies and is implementing technical education and small-
scale fisheries projects. West Germany had a program for 1979-81 of about
$5 million, including in particular financing a water resources inventory.
KfW will join the Kuwait Fund in financing the container terminal in the
port. UNDP is starting to develop a program with $2.2 million available
in 1980-81: its first efforts were directed toward geothermal development.
The 1982-86 UNDP program is for about $5.0 million, mostly for planning,
social infrastructure, and energy. ADF will finance sewerage in Djibouti city
and assist in maintenance and repairs of the port. The EEC is financing a
master plan for development of the city, urgent rehabilitation needs of the
railway, and a small pilot agriculture project; it is ready to finance projects
in these sectors.                                                                           a
14.       Djibouti has thus far maintained a prudent policy about borrowing.
Most assistance has been in the form of grants and, as Djibouti has practi-
cally no external debt, the debt service will probably remain low in the near
future. Djibouti has deposits with commercial banks in Djibouti and the French
American Banking Coporation in New York, and the interest earned on these funds
has been a useful source of budget revenue. Although needs for concessionary
finance still remain important, the country must in priority take measures to
establish greater absorptive capacity in terms of appropriate projects and
satisfactory implementation capability. The Government recognizes this need,
and it seeks assistance to develop its economic management capabilities, and to
design and to implement a development strategy.



- 5 -
15.       The Government intends to prepare a three-year development plan
during 1982, but little work has been done to date. Work on the plan should
provide Government with the opportunity to define specific long-term goals
(desired level of per-capita income, growth rates, sectoral composition of
the economy), to identify a series of graduated intermediate objectives, and
to design yearly investment programs capable of reaching these intermediate
objectives by making maximum use of domestic resources and foreign assistance.
In designing its development strategy, Government is likely to maintain the
type of liberal economy necessary for an international trading and financial
center.
16.       The administrative machinery and the skilled personnel necessary to
design and implement an appropriate development strategy are, however, lacking
(Part III). Technical assistance and training are necessary to help the
Government outline an overall strategy and prepare yearly investment programs
designed to implement it. Such a strategy would have to balance development
between modern and traditional sectors, to build on available natural re-
sources (geothermal energy and mineral deposits if they prove suitable for
exploitation), to strengthen infrastructure (including the railway and the
port), and to develop industrial activities capable of generating employment
and foreign exchange.   Emphasis would also be placed on low-cost housing and
on basic needs, especially of the poor population living in shanty-towns
around the capital and in the hinterland. Bank Group operations are planned
to help Djibouti design and implement such a development strategy and to
complement the assistance of other donors.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN DJIBOUTI
17.       Djibouti joined the Bank and the Association on October 2, 1980.  In
preparation, the first economic mission visited the country in March 1979; its
report (referred to in paragraph 2 above) was circulated to the Executive
Directors on November 3, 1980. Our initial strategy aims at strengthening the
country's economic management and development institutions, at infrastructure
development, and at improving provision of the basic needs of the poorest parts
of the population. Where possible, it would also allow for productive projects
to generate income and to increase export earnings.
18.       The proposed technical assistance project would be the first Bank
Group operation in the country. In addition, the Bank acted as Executing
Agency for a UNDP-financed road maintenance study, in preparation for a road
maintenance project, which was appraised in November 1981 and is likely to be
negotiated shortly. In August 1981, IDA advanced $0.5 million from the Bank-s
Project Preparation Facility for preparation of an urban development project,
which would include components for institution building, infrastructure
development and maintenance, employment and income generation, and the provi-
sion of shelter and basic urban services to the poorer segments of the popula-
tion. Government has asked for Bank assistance in the education sector, while
the Bank is prepared, should need arise, to consider assistance to the port
and railways to supplement assistance at present provided by other agencies.



- 6 -
The European Economic Community is financing a study of the longer term
development requirements of the Djibouti-Addis railway, which is likely to
involve heavy investment in years to come.
19.       In order to assist the Government in coordinating assistance offered
and in response to a resolution of the UN General Assembly, the UNDP is orga-
nizing a "Donors Conference", to be held in Djibouti probably in 1983. The
Bank participated in the preparatory "Round Table" held by UNDP and the
Government in February 1981 and will assist in the conference as called for in
the resolution. During the "Round Table" several project proposals and ideas
were put forward by Government, but further work was needed before financing
could be sought for them.  The present project includes the strengthening of
the Government's project preparation capabilities as one of its main objectives.
PART III - SECTOR BACKGROUND: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
AND THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
20.       Weak public administration hinders government decision-making in
Djibouti. The administrative structures established under French rule remain,
but a severe shortage of skilled nationals and poor coordination among minis-
tries and agencies represent two important obstacles to their efficient func-
tioning. As a result, Djibouti is experiencing difficulties in defining an
appropriate economic development strategy and in submitting well prepared
projects for outside financing.
Shortage of Skilled Personnel
21.       Fifteen Ministries, including the Presidency, the Prime Minister's
Office and the services attached to them, employed about 6,000 Djiboutians in
1981, of which about 1,700 are permanent civil servants. Technical and
administrative skills are seriously lacking essentialy at the upper and middle
levels. This situation results from the current state of the educational
system 1/ (para. 6) and has been aggravated by the necessity, following
independence, to replace departed expatriate personnel by national managers who
need time and training to adjust to their new responsibilities.
22.       Many higher-level civil servants are assisted by foreign experts,
most of them French. As of February 1981, the French Government was funding
221 technical assistance positions (teachers excluded). Of these, 198 were
actually filled, and about 150 represented higher-level posts while there are
about 230 Djiboutian civil servants at the highest level. French experts
sometimes act as department heads. For example, they perform essential
1/   Trained Djiboutians are lacking at all levels.  At the end of the 1980-81
school year, only 84 Djiboutians were enrolled in the highest grade of
secondary education, and only 38 passed the graduation exam. In 1980-81,
150 Djiboutians were enrolled in foreign universities, under various
fellowships.



- 7 -
management and decision-making functions in the Ministries of Finance, Public
Works, Public Health, Trade, Transport and Tourism. The role played by
French assistance in Djiboutian public administration is likely to continue
in the future. Djibouti is, however, encouraging a diversification of the
sources of technical assistance, and in this context, the Bank's support
has been sought (para. 33).
23.       Allocation of foreign aid personnel is administered by the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, and national civil servants by the Public
Administration Ministry. This division of responsibilities may have led to
some misallocations of human resources.  New arrangements to rationalize
personnel administration should not, however, be proposed until the Government
carries out a comprehensive survey of the staff and training needs of Djibouti-s
public administration and assesses the policy implications of the survey results.
French technical assistance is helping Government conduct a survey which would
help to define a long-term training program and to plan the gradual replacement
of expatriates by national personnel. ILO and UNDP are prepared to assist in
implementing the survey's recommendations.
Lack of Coordination
24.       Newly independent, the Republic of Djibouti is still building and
rationalizing its institutions. The lack of skilled personnel (paras. 21-22)
and the need to carry out tasks formerly performed by the French administra-
tion are making this a slow and difficult process, complicated by the lingering
consequences of prior institutional arrangements. In particular, lines of
institutional responsibilities are not always clearly drawn. Consequently,
delays, duplications, and inefficiencies are created as different agencies work
on similar aspects of development activities (generation of new project ideas,
data collection, contacts with foreign donors) without proper coordination.
Sometimes, key agencies, such as the Ministry of Finance, are not kept informed
of the results of negotiations which concern them (para 29).
25.       Government has begun to take measures to improve interagency coordi-
nation. Some of these measures, however, will be slow to implement since they
may involve a redistribution of authority in a Government where power and
influence are carefully balanced. Nevertheless, the President of the Republic
has committed his administration to prepare and to implement a Three-Year
Development Plan. The President attaches importance to the planning process.
This process, which would be a slow one because of the lack of skilled
Djiboutians, should serve as a catalyst to coordinate public decision-making
and to improve public administration.
26.       The Planning Directorate is responsible for coordinating the prepara-
tion of the First Plan. Created by a September 16, 1980 law, the Planning
Directorate is attached to the Office of the President and constitutes its
economic and technical arm. A Presidential Decree (October 30, 1980) specifies
its responsibilities as follows:
(i) to gather and to analyse economic and social data,
(ii) to program on-going and future development operations,



- 8 -
(iii) to elaborate sector policies, in collaboration with technical
Ministries,
(iv) to coordinate economic activities,
(v) to establish a coherent program of projects and priorities
among them,
(vi) to prepare the basic economic strategy ("loi d'orientation
economique") for adoption by the Council of Ministers,
(vii) to comment and to advise on all development projects, and
(viii)  to be kept informed of all bilateral and multilateral aid
and assistance.
27.       Physically located within the Presidential compound, the Planning
Directorate was staffed, in March 1982, by two Djiboutians (the Director and
a planning officer with sectoral responsibilities) and two expatriate advisers
(a French civil engineer and a Moroccan planner). The professional staff was
supported by one secretary. Existing offices need to be enlarged and improved,
and the office equipment upgraded and completed to allow the Planning Directorate
to operate efficiently. Little documentation is available, and what exists is
not easily retrievable.
28.       To strengthen the planning process further, the Government has also
created a National Programming Commission (Presidential Decree of April 19,
1981). Chaired by the Planning Director, the Commission has 28 members repre-
senting the Prime Minister's office, the Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank,
the Treasury, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, technical Ministries (including
education, public works, health, agriculture, labor, industry, and trade), the
port, the airport, the National Institute for Scientific and Technical Research
(ISERST), and the administrators of the country's four regional Districts.
The Commission's mandate is to help the Planning Directorate to elaborate
sectoral policies and the Development Plan. To study specific questions, the
Commission may organize ad-hoc committees or sub-committees, which report to
the entire body.
29.       Before a project can be officially submitted to potential donors by
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, standard clearance procedures established by
a recent directive from the Prime Minister, must be followed. The clearance
procedures include the Planning Directorate, but not the Ministry of Finance.
This oversight is being corrected. The enforcement of clearance procedures
constitute an important step toward satisfactory coordination.
30.       Besides improved coordination, the success of planning and invest-
ment programming efforts will depend on the availability and reliability of
statistical data. Until August 1981, statistics (essentially on modern sector
prices and foreign trade) were prepared by a small statistical unit in the
Ministry of Trade, Transport, and Tourism (MTTT). Staffed by one French
adviser and a Djiboutian with no prior statistical background, this unit



produced insufficient and unreliable data for three essential reasons: (i) lack
of skilled personnel; (ii) inadequate material and financial resources; and
(iii) lack of authority over, and poor coordination with, other ministries
possessing useful sources of information. In particular, no basic surveys
(consumption, industrial firms, traditional sector prices) were undertaken and
no macroeconomic data were kept on a regular basis.
31.       In August 1981, to try to remedy the situation, Government estab-
lished the National Directorate of Statistics in MTTT and is seeking assistance
to strengthen it. The new Directorate has been given proper authority to
obtain the information it needs, a French national accounts specialist has been
seconded to it in addition to the expatriate statistician already there, and new
Djiboutian staff has been assigned. This centralization of statistics, though a
bit premature in view of the current lack of skilled personnel, clarifies lines
of responsibilities for data collection. It constitutes a further step in
improving institutions in charge of managing development activities. To become
fully operational, the Directorate needs strengthening to enable it to undertake
a comprehensive program of basic statistical surveys and to publish up-to-date
information.
The Lack of Well Prepared Projects
32.       Governmental efforts, so far, have been largely directed toward
institutional design. The country, however, also needs to improve the quality
of preparation of development projects it wishes to submit to donors. Many
financial sources are willing and ready to help Djibouti (paras. 12, 13), but
they are often unable to find projects backed by properly prepared studies.
The UNDP "Round Table" highlighted this fact. Over ninety projects were
presented, but, with only a few exceptions, their viability had not been
established by any kind of study.
The Need for Technical Assistance
33.       Until more Djiboutians are trained and acquire professional expe-
rience, technical assistance will remain necessary. France will, most likely,
continue to provide the bulk of it, but a diversification of the sources of
assistance would be welcomed. In particular, the Government is interested in
obtaining multilateral assistance. UNDP plans to emphasize meeting the
country's training and technical assistance needs and wishes to cooperate
closely with the Bank. The project proposed here, designed in collaboration
with UNDP, addresses the three main weaknesses of the agencies responsible for
the design and implementation of a strategy for economic and social development:
(i) shortage of skilled personnel, (ii) lack of coordination, and (iii) lack
of fully prepared projects and of the statistical base necessary for planning
and project work. Because of the essential functions assigned to the Planning
Directorate in the design and implementation of the country's first Three-Year
Plan, the project focusses on strengthening the planning agency. To ensure that
the Planning Directorate can have access to the necessary data, assistance would
also be provided to the Statistical Directorate. Of necessity, in a small
country like Djibouti, the staff of the Planning Directorate would have to
remain small and composed mostly of generalists. The project proposes mixing
local and foreign expertise to ensure that a technically and financially
viable development strategy is elaborated and implemented over the next three
years.



- 10 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
34.       The Project presented here would be the first Bank Group operation
in Djibouti. The Minister of Finance requested technical assistance in project
preparation and monitoring in October 1980.  The project was identified in
November 1980 and UNDP agreed to co-finance it, on a parallel basis. The UNDP
Project Document, prepared in February 1981, was signed by all parties on May
25, 1981, and revised in March 1982. Appraisal took place in June-July 1981.
Negotiations were started in Washington from January 4 to 11, 1982, with a
Djiboutian delegation led by H.E. Saleh Hadji Farah, Ambassador to the United
Nations and the United States. They were completed, following another mission
to Djibouti, in March 1982. A Credit and Project Summary is provided at the
beginning of this report. Supplementary data on the project are contained in
Annex III. There is no appraisal report. A map of Djibouti is attached.
Project Objectives
35.       The project objectives would be:
(i) to improve the Government's capabilities to assess the
country's natural and human resources, to formulate an
appropriate development strategy, to prepare yearly
investment programs (1983-1986), and to prepare and to
analyse appropriate development projects, including
those suitable for submission to outside donors; and
(ii) to strengthen the staff of the Planning and Statistical
Directorates.
Project Description
36.       Specifically, the project, cofinanced with UNDP on a parallel basis,
would provide the following, over three years:
(i) three advisers: a macro-economist and a financial
analyst in the Planning Directorate, and a statistician
in the Statistical Directorate; these experts would be
financed by UNDP;
(ii) three UN Volunteers: two statistical assistants in the
Statistical Directorate and a documentalist in the
Planning Directorate; they would be financed by UNDP;
(iii) a Project Preparation and Sector Studies Fund (Studies Fund)
to finance sector, prefeasibility, and feasibility studies
(140 staff-months) as well as the equipment needed for these
studies and for appropriate pilot schemes. An indicative
list of needed surveys and sector and project related studies
is provided in Annex IV;



- 11 -
(iv)  a training program in statistics (data collection, general
statistics, national accounts), planning (macroeconomic and
sector work), and project work (indentification, preparation,
appraisal, monitoring), as well as the necessary pedagogical
material;
(v) improvement and extension of the Planning Directorate offices,
m                   to provide space for the advisers, the national staff, and a
documentation center;
(vi) equipment for the Planning and Statistical Directorates; and,
(vii) two four-wheel drive vehicles.
37.       The UNDP-financed part of the project would be executed by the
World Bank.
Detailed Features
A.   Long-term experts:
38.       The macroeconomist would help to organize the work of the Planning
Directorate and assist in supervising the preparation and implementation of
the Three-Year Plan. The financial analyst would advise and assist in manag-
ing the Studies Fund (para. 40) and would provide general assistance in
analysis and management of development projects. The statistician would help
to design and to carry out surveys, and to publish periodic statistics on the
economy.
39.       French technical assistance will provide two additional experts to
the Planning Directorate. One is already in Djibouti (para. 27), the other,
a social sector planning specialist, is expected to arrive in 1983. These
experts would work under the authority of the Planning Director, but would not
be formally integrated into the project team.
B.   Project-Preparation and Sector Studies Fund (Studies Fund)
40.       The Studies Fund would finance background studies necessary to
elaborate a development strategy and feasibility studies for specific projects
making up coherent investment programs. Experience gained in managing the
Fund would help to establish and consolidate the planning process. In the
long-run, procedures set up to manage the Studies Fund would lead to invest-
ment programming and help implement the intersectoral and intrasectoral
priorities chosen by the Government. The management procedures to be followed
are specified in Schedule 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreement, and are
set out in Annex V.



- 12 -
C.   Training Program
41.       Besides on-the-job training of the experts  counterparts and of
staff working with consultants financed by the Studies Fund, the project would
provide training through scholarships for overseas courses, seminars in
Djibouti, and study tours:
(i) scholarships: UNDP would finance three three-year scholar-
ships to train three statisticians, and seven two-year                           6
scholarships to train six statistical assistants and one
documentalist; IDA would finance four three-year scholarships
for graduate studies in planning;
(ii) seminars in Djibouti: addressed to civil servants responsible
for sector and project preparation work in the Planning
Directorate and in technical ministries, the seminars would
cover the various phases of the project cycle: sector work
(two weeks), project identification and preparation (two
weeks), project appraisal (five weeks), project implementation
(three weeks). The entire cycle would be given twice during
the project (total of 48 instructor-weeks). Each cycle would
take place over a six- to nine-month period. Necessary peda-
gogical material would be financed by the project; and,
(iii) study tours: the project would finance study tours of a
maximum of 30 days each, for about 20 civil servants. The
tours would enable carefully selected participants to comple-
ment their seminar training by studying various solutions to
problems similar to those faced by Djibouti. The participants
would review planning and project preparation methods used by
other developing countries, by consulting firms, and by
international organizations.
D.   Offices for the Planning Directorate
42.       The existing offices of the Planning Directorate are cramped, and
new staff and a documentation center need to be accommodated. Although
office space could be rented outside the Presidential compound, the institu-
tional advantages of keeping the Planning Directorate physically close to the
Presidential Palace have led the Government to propose the improvement of
existing offices. The Government, accordingly, has decided to rehabilitate
offices at present used by the Planning Directorate, ind to build a new
building which would provide, inter alia, about 135 m  of new office space.
When the new offices are completed, the full needs of the project for office
space would be met.



- 13 -
E.   Equipment for Planning and Statistical Work
43.       The project would finance equipment needed to help carry out surveys
and studies. In particular, it is likely that two or three micro-computers
might be needed during the course of the project (including the needs of the
Statistical and Planning Directorates and of the census undertaken by the UN Fund
for Population Activities). The project would finance micro-computers, up to
$50,000 equivalent, with the understanding that procurement of this equipment
*          would take place only after a study had been carried out of the Government's
computer needs, and of the best means of meeting these needs. The Association
would be given the opportunity to comment on the results and recommendations
X          of the study.  Its approval of these recommendations would be required before
computer equipment could be procured (Schedule 1, paragraph 4-ii of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). In addition to micro-computers, the project
would finance office equipment for the Statistical and Planning Directorates.
Project Implementation
44.       The experts would be assigned to the Planning and Statistical
Directorates; they would arrive in Djibouti only after the UNDP Resident
Representative has informed the Association that the rehabilitation of offices
has been completed and that adequate office space is available. The presence
of the advisers in Djibouti would be a condition of disbursement for the
proceeds of the Studies Fund (Schedule 1, paragraph 4-iii, of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
45.       The Government would assign national professional and support staff
in sufficient number to enable the Planning and Statistical Directorates to
meet their responsibilities (Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). In addition, Government would organize the statistical work and
statistical surveys necessary for the implementation of the project, so that
they are coordinated by the Planning Directorate and the Statistical Directorate
(Section 3.03(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government
would also ensure that statistical data are made available to all users, and
especially to the Planning Directorate (Section 3.03(b) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
46.       The experts would help the Planning Directorate to manage the
Project Preparation and Sector Studies Fund. Terms of reference for the
studies and experts financed by the Fund would be established in consultation
with IDA. The Association's prior approval would be necessary to begin the
selection of consultants which would be in accordance with the Association's
"Guidelines on the Use of Consultants" (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). Because information on qualified consulting firms or
experts is not readily available in Djibouti, the Association would consider
assisting the Government, at its request, in identifying suitable experts and
firms. Final selection would be made by the Government from lists approved by
the Association.
47.       The selection of candidates for the training program would be the
joint responsibility of the Planning Directorate, the Statistics Directorate,
the Ministry of National Education, and the Ministry of Public Administration



- 14 -
(when civil servants are involved). Candidates selected by Government for the
training program would be submitted to the Association, which could reject
applicants deemed unqualified (Section 3.05(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The project's training activities in Djibouti would be coordinated
by a designated Government official (Section 3.05(c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Djibouti lacks contacts and experience in dealing with
training institutions in different parts of the world, and its administration
is weak. Hence, to alleviate the administrative burden of managing the
financial aspects of the training program, IDA funds for training would be                   0
channeled through UNDP by a cost-sharing arrangement. The Association would
waive its administrative fee on the amount corresponding to the cost-sharing.
In its capacity as executing agency, the Bank would, in collaboration with
Government and UNDP, identify suitable training institutions in developed and
developing countries, place candidates, administer fellowships, and organize
study-tours and in-country seminars. These seminars would be set up with the
advice and assistance of the Economic Development Institute and would focus on
the specific needs of small African countries.
48.       The Ministry of Public Works would be responsible for renovation
and extension of the Planning Directorate offices (drawings, tender, and
supervision of all necessary work). It is adequately staffed for this purpose.
Project Cost
49.       Total cost of the project has been estimated at about $5.0 million
equivalent of which about $4.4 million equivalent or 88 percent are foreign
costs. The costs are summarized in the Credit and Project Summary.
50.       Project costs have been estimated as follows:
(i) the Studies Fund would finance about 140 staff-months of
expatriate consultants. An indicative distribution over the
three years of the project would be as follows: 40 staff-
months the first year, 50 the second, and 50 the third.
Base costs for compensation and travel have been estimated
at an average of $12,000 per staff-month. Subsistence costs
have been estimated at $100 per day spent in Djibouti. The
Studies Fund would also finance about $130,000 of equipment
needed for studies and pilot schemes;
(ii) the training program would finance: (a) fellowships for
training three statisticians, four planners, six statistical
assistants and one documentalist. Fellowship costs have
been estimated, using UNDP Guidelines, at about $240,000;
(b) study-tours estimated at about $100,000; (c) in-country
seminars (48 weeks of instructor time estimated at about
$150,000); and (d) pedagogical material estimated at about
$20,000; and



- 15 -
(iii) construction costs for the building that would house the new
offices of the Planning Directorate have been estimated at
about $150,000, following the Ministry of Public Works
methodology.
51.       Contingencies for the UNDP part of the Project have been estimated
using UNDP Guidelines. For the IDA-financed component, contingencies have
been estimated as follows:
(i) price contingencies of 8.5 percent for 1982 and 7.5 percent
*                    annually for 1983-1985 for foreign expenditures;
(ii) price contingencies of 15 percent annually for local expenditures,
estimated on the basis of available data and Ministry of Public
Works methodology;
(iii) physical contingencies of 10 percent for equipment and
vehicles; and
(iv) physical contingencies of 10 percent and cost escalation
of 20 percent for the construction of new offices (Ministry
of Public Works figures).
Financing Plan
52.       The financing plan proposed for the project is summarized in the
Credit and Project Summary. IDA would finance about $3.0 million equivalent,
almost entirely foreign costs; UNDP would finance about $1.38 million equi-
valent of foreign costs and about $80,000 equivalent of local costs for a
total of $1.46 million equivalent. The Government would provide $520,000
equivalent. A detailed financing plan, by component, is provided below:
$ thousands equivalent
UNDP        IDA         Government
Long-term Advisers                           860           -
UN Volunteers                                230           -
Studies Fund                                   -       2,000          230
*           Training                                     120         370            20
Office Space                                   -           -           150
Equipment                                     30         110             -
Vehicles and Maintenance                      20          20            20
Contingencies                                200         500           100
Total                                      1,460       3,000           520



- 16 -
Procurement
53.       The employment of long-term experts and consultants would be made
in accordance with the Association's August 1981 Guidelines on the use of con-
sultants. Vehicles and equipment would be purchased after quotations had
been obtained from at least two suppliers represented in Djibouti who offer
adequate guarantees of service and spare parts. Civil works for the Planning
Directorate offices would be undertaken in accordance with local competitive
bidding procedures which are satisfactory. Qualified local contractors are
available in Djibouti.
Disbursements
54.       Funds from the IDA credit would be disbursed over three years on
the following basis:
(i)  100 percent of foreign and 60 percent of local expenditures
for the consultants financed by the Studies Fund;
(ii)  100 percent of foreign and 80 percent of local expenditures
for vehicles and equipment; and
(iii)  100 percent of foreign and 50 percent of local expenditures
for the training program.
Work Programs
55.       The UNDP-financed expert designated as team leader would prepare a
work program for the international personnel, in collaboration with the
Planning and Statistical Directorates. This work program would be submitted
to the Association's and UNDP's approval. It would be regularly updated and
constitute the terms of reference of the work expected of the long-term
advisers.
Project Implementation Schedule
56.       The proposed credit is expected to become effective in September
1982. The advisers would arrive after rehabilitation of the Planning
Directorate offices has been completed.  Training seminars would start in
January 1983 for the first cycle, and twelve months later for the second.
The project is expected to be completed by June 1985. The closing date is
December 31, 1985.
Benefits and Risks
57.       The proposed project would help Djibouti to elaborate a development
strategy and increase the number of fully prepared projects to be submitted
for outside financing. Application by all concerned government agencies of
uniform criteria for project preparation and implementation would improve
inter-agency coordination. The project would also contribute to establishing
administrative procedures through the design and implementation of a workable
planning process. As a result, planning, policy analysis, and decision-



- 17 -
making capabilities in key governmental institutions would be strengthened.
This would help in better coordinating foreign assistance and in increasing
the efficiency of various aid programs received by the Republic of Djibouti.
58.       The risks associated with the proposed project include the usual
need for familiarization to be expected for a first Bank Group operation.
They may result in delays in implementation linked with the recruitment of
experts, the establishment of procedures to manage the Studies Fund, and the
selection of candidates for the training program. Other risks, specific to
the project, are associated with the ability of Government to strengthen the
Planning Directorate while solving coordination problems. The latter risks
*           are likely to be initially high, until the Directorate has had the opportunity
to prove its usefulness. As planning work progresses, these risks are expected
to diminish as responsibilities are sorted out and institutional mechanisms
established. Close supervision by the Association and the detailed specifica-
tion of the procedures for managing the Fund and selecting candidates for
training which has been agreed should help alleviate risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Djibouti and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
60.       Special Conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of Annex
III of this report.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
p.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 5, 1982



-18-                                                                   ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4
TABLE 3A
DJIBOUTI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
DJIBOUTI                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVl.RAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. RKM.)                                                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TUTAL              22.0                                  MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL        2.5               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US)                       ..        350.0     420.0                  794.2                    1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       291.7       330.6      298.0                  707.5                   1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    81.0          160.0     325.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT UF TOTAL)   ..             ..      71.0                   27.7                     64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          0.6
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                        ..                      .
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                          3.7          7.3      14.8                   55.0                     34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       33.1         65.3     122.4                  130.7                     94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             ..           ..        ..                   46.0                     40.7
15-64 YRS.                             ..           ..        ..                  51.2                      55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      ..           ..        ..                    2.8                      4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.7          6.8       7.9/c                  2.8                      2.4
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                    5.1                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         ..           ..        ..                   46.9                     31.4
CRUDE OEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         ..           ..        ..                   15.8                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..          3.3       3.1                    3.2                      2.3
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)              ..          ..         ..                  89.9                     108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                       ..          ..         ..                  92.3                     107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              ..           ..        ..                   52.8                     65.8
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..           ..        ..                   16.1                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       23.0        16.0       10.0                   20.2                      7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        ..          ..       45.0/d                50.8                      64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             69.1        32.6       30.0/d                   ..                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..                  27.4                      65.7
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                  74.3                      79.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                   12.6                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCKETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..                     ..                     59.9
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                    ..                      75.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                     ..                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                            ..    4296.9                13844.1                    1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                        ..     908.7                2898.6                    1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                             ..      261.9                1028.4                     471.2
URBAN                                ..                      ..                 423.0                     558.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..           ..       7.0
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PEE ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ACCESS To ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TUTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..



-19-                                                         ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
TABLE 3A
DJIBOUTI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
DJIBOUTI                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-akE
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIHARY:    TOTAL                   ..          ..        ..                    73.7                   101.7
MALE                   ..          ..        ..                    96.8                   103.0
FEMALE                 ..          ..        ..                    79.0                   101.5
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                   ..          ..        ..                    16.2                    35.3
MALE                   ..          ..        ..                    25.3                    34.9
FEMALE                 ..          ..        ..                    14.8                    35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (E OF SECONDARY)   ..         44.0       16.0                    5.3                    30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             ..        36.0      39.0                    36.2                    29.6
SECONDARY                           ..          ..       14.0/e                 23.6                    15.7
ADtLT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         ..          ..       14.0                     ..                    80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..        48.7      42.9                    32.3                    42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..        43.8      58.2                    69.0                   215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         6.3      12.7                    8.0                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..          ..        ..                    20.2                    62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        ..                     0.7                     3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    ..          ..        ..                    36.7                    22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               ..          ..        ..                    56.6                    35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  ..          ..        ..                   17.5                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..        ..                    37.2                    31.8
HALE                                  ..          ..        ..                    47.1                    49.0
FEMALE                                ..          ..        ..                    27.5                    14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               ..          ..        ..                     1.3                     1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                   381.2
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                   156.2                   187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                  334.3                    513.9
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                   137.6                   362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c  This high rate reflects steady immigration from neighboring countries;  /d UNICEF data; /e 1975.
May, 1981



ANNE I
-20-                                                                                               Page 3 of 4
DFOINITlItON OF SOCIAL 1001 CATOF
Not.: hlobouh the data are doooo from sorcs  onraly lodgod the  -oesooiao.ad reliable  It oh                           1-aa  be co-d chat chap ay ac  be IItar-
ootioalpcopsoblobeeu   o  te  ak of otoL,dari-d doftitions. sod concpts osed by differentl coIa .               s. c cllc tg  h  de-.  The data  ea I.o....
theleso, useful  odesceihe oodteof aegetoude,ildioont lr-da, and ohacot.. s  erai  njo  lf trances hoto                 llr.
The nefotcagup  ant 1~1) the osn  co ltygru  of the tub Set  cutr  a                  Id COl  oconcoy troop oth  -oooba  highor ararog %ocoo  that th. o--to  ercr
of ci  u  tt  oor   tooefr''ete   uplue Oil tPiporeet  droa                     cea"Middle tIocn forth AfPr cretod rddle  atl           acoo h.c. aa.      f  tr--a
totccotos  aft.Ilsl Ic ibecIfarnoc  goEl                dt  tho   l     .l .  onaro  e te  pouainwIhe   a etcoao  o   nitdttordtotcl   bt-
asotpo bt   ocrt   cgophsdote foe ti.t indictorl.  Shot- h  oa,,                 se  f oartseatcectrtr   oed   rcoaolblt   fdt
Tnsl -Tnl  eric  arfro l   -ope isint lcd area ocd Oclocdea-ea-b,'I, -cd partS) doo1tdrdh  nice  crorc  Oco roae ohepal  beds
1971, end 1970 dat.                                                                        ocdlculoeeIacec ,  -orue,faldoifa hotr.   hc   fe   tn-pariloa-fce-
GNP01 PER   horltPE CITA-daotcccrco   fbocctl  ocy(co                                               ta  popeo  oa Ioeplnal E           Itoclodo  Wilt prcPel/iecra  hoeplyInala.
70eo  dopo79ct -c. Oidhee (hotIIIl- a o  Jly  ;  910  170iai  179                            l- -O
data.Y -AoereaeIE   &PT-                        ,i                                                .l   -to  of." doahljyao -9c c.uf  cd-                  tto.ura.  ndrrs1
hooPpuuieCorcc  fccll-RtI   dob ct  ttlppoelc;Ibuohl   'rtr   f     ropot                                  ttoduc  h   hReliggots
acd.cagoute;190170  ad17Ide.th   iaoh It.rau  etclpuyoo
PotYtnt  erlI      ura    ccacc   rjolr   r  ao   c10                                         e  of'I  Seacnper noon- hpi-l eI-- ora. cdcl rurly ooccpledce to
meneet for feenclttyreto  alto _)- AI  ha onibro   t 1960a s 1ur0c dctde tt7    IOfUSI,N         ra,so   catdolerorctey
ac9fn   lp  i ode for pooocco  poYcac  ..                                         alfobatidytfeddlaere                                  h.etot
t rtocrm      rrlliclotacloryppo.lo   boht  0   r...ioaPrsc                                                        tona - eattla    doocl    -Y Iroo  icYl  -sl  and f1edd
th 1trhrta.  byqa   c  I   et  rota, co  alao th  ago atruecr  ro                          cclat   faloraa   t   rndyloin  pretgsofrson
P1Nitononsuen.Tho  Aoahoo   cl   ro   atlc-rredilcAopluyscolaopplolo;or  lrccoa   ildt   gdbl
ofooncrplo     lteol  -ool.1  IIsutcr                duaiatooaioctaec    rcoolaoacnerlectspeoe   1   scr
eshucdontetat  c   bapocia  caarotttecfco  ooenc                                     soeae    upt  uobaec  uoo   oofiil  cedae
toroy P- I1   o   h   tt   fdcloo   eflcprertrpae                                      eodr   cto   tnl   acadfal-fsoo    saaa   scdr
ant  l"o.P                                                                                  nd-Ytocoqcroabicos  iur  asa fhoprcodpn.sr  rsirone
tanctceotee  oculutoc  o rcc od -Ihoyou  tior aIuc ioary   p.p..o.rodo   coa    oeiou,o   erhrtaotcsruta    o   ot
Oioa baa heocrouchnd.                                                   ~~~~~~~~~A---.l. l- .....17r. ac  ao   orareec  cuseae  easl
Ptoolaniac laealiy                                                                 occluded.~~d I
he  --m. IA. ethu-ot  la9d  -    Ioe,td  Pca           P,or  fo . ogicocnlltgol c-cdortct  i   uod--l lttot
rnl;  91. 177ad 107  dec.                                                              Pul--eYcbe  eti  -peesuy.-o Ieooer-Ta,-,hhass  arol    i
'onh'ttot hu   tcr    drore            th -Ch ldn  70d-1- er)   ikn-g    I-ptuyudocooylol   ile   ytoaeo  rahohra In clo
hlacan-11,I   17,sd17  dare.                                                                  heult-1titYepuo litto   -- (rrcI 7h -  ictartoaI-c   (ubt.. en- redsof   ris
pearpapoartca fo  195-WI,1961-70  uod 1970-79.                        t                  .- ..1.~                                                h.
heoon   for  2951-, -196h-70- end 1d7-I9lasna   a                                                           PCcrhua.  ouarol-Pasgrcaacsra   e
Crole itrb tate (c thacear) - uncol lica btih  per  h huac  ofY--eu              cr       b-tn    a  tu   tb pdr-ccl Focllas . s            ildleas  bot.d  end1
popolaneca; lghi, 1977, aud 0979 Isec.                                ntlOOsryoehiclea.:I11,1 III l.                          1.1 ir1ty 1-Itf:l
CueDahRt(oP ohcoeanll I-h - kno  dTch.   cort ch-aa-cd  of.  .t..ea                  Radio te-icar (-op nicosod ..r III_ e  -ll          tetPfre-eaef                p aio.
poulrtn;191,170. ad 1979 do.bracen00gerlulIpr toonatp cf populato;toos   a
Irs Errdotoc  _an.Inar-o _ohe Io daob-aroeocooa 111- hear  -cllart  receresIc cooe  an-                                          c  er  omrgir-no    f  ai
970yeosuaal   fteyard        oagtedt1i9i7890  al179                                    oo doonrir  ahLshel ltceosite
foll   laIa-ieroo.ucu9-nito.d)-  ona-roono  corarn                                           T rctor  bor-"I o  oclaicl-Pcceeoeafa   rodasr
ofhen-oEro   ore   oo   oete   feto                faatChildootcgprogo14                  geonralQ pubic  e :ticto    ooait   e  oe.aipea                   Ver er
IaliPaoc  -Rea(aroto   andoen)-Pretg  o   oea                                                counuac   oyao   bnrgarauno  '  orasl   fet
nonoc of  bild-te ,lg 9ie (it-u    ar)eo00brbc,cc   aier                                 oaae   iclci - PI,Y. lr.. I.. oaa           y ocelatc l -Sosteacaao
is 0  calndaryearhoa 6. fosaodllo'itopc.,ygodele.  ogrrc                                 al      blecOa
IIIcl  rng  pooe 19506    co196070 gA19o;_ IRh-S  1070, ccl 1979 demCONSUMPabOrN                      oc   tcneo      cnnclysuepeoe   old
orgEqorLent  f..e fc-d eup i-n urilahe ctc_ rerh pe  capit                              ocoto   opIIco  ofoIro   letoIto..o..                    toao...i    r
put- lI-y  1o9ah60      ty, tartcce 1c9oo0c poldccoo79tpcdceInnsNoccocyneblc  1960,-107  "P' 197  dtts.
eaparD:tha, atd      t  ----d -hacgon t   di-ch.  t - ocpp ... corlod  sota fed-y. soaPs I           oell,  e  - Pel    hlao pfoPre atprrrc           f  cold-o   are
Phouaohild 1960t; 19701-Wt  1970, ad-07   au                                                  1970 and  IO  duil
allcatcocf h  0rae  fcora  prinic.l,d, pa  lp  n  20grmsi       ,9te  ant90   90   o   99dc. f boao are Y-aed  bcIt'spoecionorae
poleeprocit. o  ehlh 10grananbo,ld h  eatnl prteIo  Thsaad                    elctnbg-r   tucoec   h   tolto.edln  n                               ft isdi.
a"I   arlonernnic             -  -....afaalrotttlgeno                                         faei...r.fccattloccs
ChIbld-aa1-01111  t-l ..lc-Rae  io  ibcaod -tj. unuldeoopr  hcad  t                           Procer          rihi ..r...   (both Iclceorn        hc)-)cecdhttba
.ggop-     ..s .  .ncllnccctcagcp   forondaolotooo--I- perc                                        lic Pth,l   ac,r   cel    lpcetadorekere
inns aur  lorcoedfrom Ott  tho;I      h.1 1070 a7 -197  daaIf uhlle. .                                          yl,
didifi                                                                               poocoft rooltl bOOrS~~F  1
FOfO gepe aAND         lo hUTrchION                                                              Pbslocai. po-ercy c ,ico   ,rly IsIhnOcs   eo   ee   ttbaasla
jaarerscpf  c  (icd odoore       II eufroto9o6          cruodhtucnarnrd                       Ltnaa   eaie oeo    caIton   CI  c  ata  -                           Irocsdroa 
eatenai" t1 no l f-et  IoP-tdt-bcbcr,occg,cltatoyodn"nrps.oeio    oe                                                     tisabre   I  oc-tird cfaeogh            o  rpn
if l-.   -hlcoeeip7odito - pcpiulp.-cdurucr                   d f- pbIcd                peroorl.  Icode of the ryn-.Ira   lea   a  eiadfo  do  afs
foocttcootacdoit  ocotd 000l noo  t...co20ntc   to0hoocyh plete .    ..                       blocc  aducrc   o  bio    oo   fcisn  urbi -,ra
coaudooda Ahoog -iric  eoIcl   ccnIf  ethcItc'oo   oooalue,It-ffdProatc    b   holr  roroloaohee   pecn)d    ro
Naahr o    petyl   (tna,  rho,ec   upl)sece  h   occd dapeao
dAr Onetallectoon.h-  l                                                             AmRay 1091I.
Pculitt ierPhoI'dcb  FA Porleloc dIte bly.  gt1 ouni      III  -_ rotion  Coi-f                                                                           99d
rtanaI  bclttell -d Iron     oir I acolat'coola lcl
naeadfeaoaad cacol96,-5,190 loro .d rr9c 7 dca  cueoo  erFti



- 21 -
11                             ANNEX I
ECONOMIC INDrcATORs-                                Page 4 of 4
GROSS DOMESTIC   PRODUCT IN 197gi/
Annual Rate of Grovtbz'
USI Mlx       2      1970-75    1975-78
GDP at market prices                 264.7      100.0       5.4       -1.4
Gross domestic investment             20.9        7.9       3.3      -18.1
Gross domestic saving                  3.6        1.4      28.7       -2.0
Exports of goods, n.f.e.              99.5       37.6       5.8       -8.5
Imports of goods, n.f.a.             116.7       44.1       8.0       -8.5
4I
OUTPUT IN 1978                      Value Added-/
-                         US$Mln      X
Agriculture                           7.6      2.9
Industry                             38.9    14.7
Services                            182.4    68.9
Unallocated                          35.8&.' 13.5
264.7   100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                  DP Mln                       X of GDP
1978                   1978    1976-76
Current revenue                     10556                    22.4      20.2
Current expenditure                  8281                    17.6      17.2
Current surplus                      2275                     4.8       3.0
Capital expenditure                  1459                     3.1       2.9
External assistance                  1419                     3.0       1.8
GDP DEFLATOR
1976    1977    1978
Index (1975:1OO)                109.8   134.5   156.6
Annual percentage change          9.8    22.5    16.5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS IN 1976-:                       KERCHANDISE EXIRTS
US$Mln      See note 7
US$Mln          M    o 
Exports of goods, n.f.s.             85.6
Imports of goods, n.f.s.             91.9
Resource gap                         -6.3
Current transfers (net)              -4.5
Current account balance             _10.8
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Official capital transfers (net)   15.9             1976-1979                  IBRD/IDA LENDING
Net errors and omissions              5.8
Change in reserves                  -10.9           US$1.0 * DF177.721
(tncrease= -)                                       DFP.O  - US$0.005627       - None
NOTE: -All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchag2e
rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/ In view of the absence of an agreed concept of "nationality" in Djibouti,
all data relating to this concept or that of resident are highly speculative.
This affects national product, income, savings and to a large extent
hampers the establishment of a balance of payments.
2/ Data for 1979 are very tentative.
3/ In 1970 prices.
4/ At market prices.
5/ Net indirect taxes.
6/ The most recent balance of payments is available for 1976 only.
7/ When ree.xports are deducted from total exports of goods and services, net
exports account for less than 2 percent of GD?, consisting mainly of tbh
value of the services exported by the port, since there are virtually no
domestic merchandise exports. The only traceable exports are live animals
and hides and skins.



- 22 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN DJIBOUTI
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1981)
None
B.  Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1981)
None
C. Projects in Execution (as of September 30, 1981)
None



- 23 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
DJIBOUTI
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Technical Assistance Project
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Origin of Project:         Request by H.E. Minister of Finance,
October 1980
(b)  Identification mission:   November 1980
(c)  Appraisal mission:         June-July, 1981
(d)  Negotiations:              January 4-11, 1982
(e) Planned Date of
Effectiveness:             September 1982
(f) Signature of UNDP Project
Document:                  May 25, 1981 (revised in March 1982)
II. Special Implementation Action:
The World Bank, in its capacity as Executing Agency for the UNDP
component, would send the long-term experts to Djibouti only
after completion of rehabilitation of the Planning Directorate
offices (para. 44).
III. Special Conditions
(a) The presence in Djibouti of the UNDP-financed experts is
a condition of disbursement for the proceeds of the Project
Preparation and Sector Studies Fund (para. 44).
(b) Government would ensure coordination of statistical work
between the Planning and Statistical Directorates (para. 45).
(c) Government would make basic statistical data available to
all national users, and essentially the Planning Directorate
(para. 45).



- 24 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) The Government would assign national and professional staff
in sufficient number to enable the Planning and Statistical
Directorates to meet their responsibilities (para. 45).
(e) Terms of reference for all activities financed by the
Studies Fund would receive approval of the Association
prior to commencing the selection of consultants (para. 46).
(f) The Association would have the right to review candidates
for the training program and to reject those deemed
unqualified (para. 47).
(g) The Government would designate a coordinator for the training
program (para. 47).
(h) The Association would comment and review the recommendations
of a study on the Government's computer needs and its approval
of these recommendations would be needed before computers can
be financed by the project (para. 43).



- 25 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4
LIST OF STUDIES NEEDED TO OUTLINE A DEVELOPMENT
STRATEGY AND IDENTIFY NEW PROJECTS
The following list, based on interviews with Government officials
and multilateral and bilateral donors, is provided as an illustration of
Djibouti's needs over the next three to five years. It comprises background
studies, sector surveys, and, when identifiable, project feasibility studies.
All the studies listed below would not be financed by the Studies Fund and
total or partial financing has already been secured for some of them.
I.   EDUCATION, TRAINING, HEALTH
I - 1)    Education sector:  to revise and update school mappings survey, and
to use it to define an education strategy (6 man-months, plus equipment,
printing, etc.).
I - 2)    Training in public administration:  to survey and summarize all
existing reports; to establish needs for training in public administration;
to recommend and to prepare appropriate seminars and a time table for
"Djiboutisation"; (3-12 months).
I - 3)    Education and health construction standards:  to establish standards
appropriate to needs and resources of Djibouti for construction and equipment
of schools and rural dispensaries, with pilot schemes (12 man-months, and
pilot schemes).
I - 4)    Accountancy and auditing:  to revise facilities for training in
accountancy and auditing procedures, prepare revised courses and seminars as
appropriate (3 man-months).
I - 5)    Nomad education:  to study education needs of nomads and to prepare
a project to provide basic education (both) for children (and adults) (12
man-months).
I - 6)    Health sector strategy:  studies to elaborate the health strategy
already defined by the Ministry of Health with an emphasis on providing basic
preventive and curative health services, including family planning services,
throughout the country (4 man-months).
I - 7)    Population policy:  Development of population policy and of measures
to encourage family planning for health reasons (4 man-months).



- 26 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4
II. AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
II - 1)   Rural development strategy:  to make an inventory of rural resources
based mainly on information available including German Hydrogeological survey,
to survey the basic needs of the population of the interior of the country,
including the nomads, and to define a strategy of rural development, estab-
lishing priorities for different types of rural development projects (15 man-
months plus some small pilot activities).
II - 2)   Marketing of fruits and vegetables:  to advise on the most appro-
priate methods for marketing produce of small producers in different parts
of the country and to prepare a project if appropriate (4 man-months).
II - 3)   Animal resources:  to carry out a census of livestock resources,
including an analysis of animal health and to design a project to improve
animal health standards (12 man-months plus aerial photography, laboratory
work, etc.).
II - 4)   Projects:  to prepare small agriculture projects with emphasis on
training extension workers (12 man-months plus equipment).
III. URBAN SECTOR
III - 1) Small projects: preparation of small projects for housing and
urban development in different parts of the country including the interior
(24 man-months plus local survey work, etc.).
III - 2) Construction materials: identification of appropriate, locally
available, construction materials and building methods for low-cost housing,
primary schools, and rural health facilities, using such methods, including
building prototypes and training labor (12 man-months plus pilot construction).
IV.  INDUSTRY, FINANCE, NON-FORMAL SECTOR, COMMERCE
IV - 1)   Non-Formal sector:  to analyse the scale and content of artisanal
and non-formal economic activities, and to recommend means of supporting such
activities where appropriate (6 man-months plus survey team).
IV - 2)   Industry projects:  to prepare pre-feasibility studies for industrial
projects (6-12 man-months).
IV - 3)   Renewable Energy:  survey of possibilities for local use of renew-
able energy sources and pilot schemes.



- 27 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4
IV - 4)   Investment Code:  to review the investment code and to prepare a
revised draft appropriate to the needs in Djibouti (2 man-months).
IV - 5)   Financial sector:  to analyse the facilities and services provided
by the financial sector in Djibouti, the needs of industry and commerce, both
domestic and international, for financial sector services, and the appro-
priateness of financial policies for maximizing the benefits the sector can
bring to Djibouti (3 man-months).
IV - 6)   Price policy:  to analyse the economic costs and benefits of the
present policy of price control, and to recommend any changes that may seem
appropriate (3 man-months).
V.   PARASTATAL ENTERPRISES
V - 1)    Electricity Master plan:  to plan development and tariff policy
for the power sector (6 man-months).
V - 2)    Power generating capacity:  pre-feasibility studies for plant
expansion (4 man-months).
V - 3)    Power Distribution:  pre-feasibility studies for distribution
system (4 man-months).
V - 4)    Water supply:  pre-feasibility studies for specific projects
especially in the towns of the hinterland (12 man-months).
V - 5)    Water and sewerage tariffs:  to prepare appropriate tariff systems
for water supply and sewerage (4 man-months).
V - 6)    Sewerage:  pre-feasibility studies to improve the sewerage system
in Djibouti to complement studies financed by the European Development Fund;
studies to recommend appropriate methods of sewerage disposal in other parts
of the country (6 man-months and some pilot schemes).
V - 7)    Computerization:  to assess the needs of the public sector for
computer services, to recommend how these might best be met, and to assist
in computerisation of appropriate services (6 man-months - 12 man-months).



- 28 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4
VI. STATISTICS
VI - 1)   Consultancy for Statistics Directorate:  (3 man-months).
VI - 2)   Surveys:  assistance in carrying out surveys of local consumption.
VII. ROADS
VII - 1) Tadjourah - Obock road: feasibility study
VII - 2) Other Roads: Feasibility studies and designs for secondary roads.
VIII. OTHER STUDIES
VIII - 1) Mineral Resources: pre-feasibility studies for exploitation of
mineral resources.
VIII - 2) Perlite: proving study.
VIII - 3) Tourism Sector: to review possibilities of developing tourism,
and to conduct (pre)feasibility studies for tourism sector projects (6 man-
months).
la



- 29 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES FOR THE PROJECT PREPARATION
AND SECTOR STUDIES FUND
The management procedures below would be followed (Schedule 4 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement):
(i) technical ministries would, periodically but no less than
twice yearly, submit proposals for projects and sector
studies to the Planning Directorate;
(ii) these proposals would be discussed among concerned ministries
meeting as an ad hoc sub-committee of the National Programming
Commission (para. 28); these meetings, chaired by the Planning
Director, would always include representatives of the Ministries
of Finance, and Foreign Affairs and Cooperation;
(iii) proposals would be selected for further study based on the
following criteria:
(a) studies necessary for preparation of a development
strategy (including basic economic and statistical
surveys, human and natural resources studies) would be
accorded first priority until the strategy is elaborated;
(b) studies for preparing projects for submission to the
Bank and other foreign donors would need to be in
accordance with the Government's development strategy.
Special attention would be paid to criteria stressing
employment creation, foreign exchange earning potential,
sectoral distribution, and satisfaction of basic needs;
and
(c) in order to allow a reasonable number or variety of
studies to be financed by the Studies Fund, studies
selected for funding would be relatively small. Unless
the Association agrees otherwise, no more than $250,000
would be contributed by the Fund toward the cost
of any single study, although cofinancing would be
possible;
(iv) terms of reference would be prepared by technical ministries
with the assistance of the Planning Directorate. The Planning
Directorate would transmit all terms of reference to the Asso-
ciation for its approval, prior to the selection of consultants
(Section 3.02(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement);



- 30 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
(v)  the Studies Fund would finance individual consultants,
consulting firms, equipment needed to conduct studies
as well as pilot schemes when necessary;
(vi)  final selection of consultants would be made by the concerned
agency and the Planning Directorate on the basis of the Guide-
lines for the Use of Consultants published by the Association
in August 1981; the Planning Directorate would submit the
particulars of the selected consultants to the Association
for its concurrence (section 3.02(c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement); and
(vii)  contracts with consultants would be signed by the concerned
minister, after clearance by the Planning Directorate, which
would assist in the execution and supervision of studies.
AL



rg   &   . "                                                                     ^   j .s        >         9  ps : ::                   f                  -       AUCU.r fYS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  R  132 
<j-Ee / e __.-7, g '-4' > : ' ., i 08 > S 0 fl E ,> S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- < 0    E ;& i   i &}: i  ) : b .  2, f T n 
f f C X X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,                                                             -------- .s rMf 
j   oi \.o,\j  C.    .-,-                               SS    0                           Wv                                              .n'6  . ~~~~~~+ES,:t-, 0:J
<tet 4,z -!   tu  58  zz & EE: S0 A  7S0:  0 Ez                >X                                         o2    --~~~~-- + 4     e                           [ i- /
Z   <   fi :   >   2 *Qv4_ : s92g0aig3>1+g1 0: i \ .|- f t: uv / '' g; -\ w 0 ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-g                                              ail
a i r > , < >t&tit4Bi$Ep )( )) i C i X  k ( 0 k 2 tNUt ,/ t - D 
L                                                                    ;   \     N    \:                    f   ii2;\ :    ;S         :i>     ;i              ; \         



