Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rqert No. P-4061-EGT
U.
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$68 MILLION
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
FIFTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
-
May 7, 1985
This docunent bhs a restricted ditibuion and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
thei offkiAl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed widthu World Bank sathorization.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Currency Equivalents
Egypt has multiple exchange rates:
USt 1.00 - Egyptian Pound (LE) 0.70 (official rate)
LE 1.00    US$I.428
US$ 1.00 - LE 0.82 (official incentive rate)
LE 1.00  = US$1.22
Since January 1985, a floating rate has been introduced, which is
adjusted daily. This rate is currently about:
US$ 1.00 = LE 1.25
LE 1.00  = US$ 0.80
Weights and Measures
1 hectare       = 2.379 feddans
1 feddan (fed.) = 1.038 acres
1 acre   *      - = 0.963 feddan
1 sq. kilometer = 238 feddans
Egyptian Fiscal Year
July 1 to June 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFDB  =  African Development Bank
AFDF  =  African Development Fund
CMP   =  Channel Maintenance Plan
DRI   =  Drainage Research Institute
EPADP = Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects
GOE   =  Government of Egypt
M&E   =  Monitoring and Evaluation
MED   =  Mechanical and Electrical Department, Ministry of
Irrigation
MOA   = Ministry of Agriculture
MOI   =  Ministry of Irrigation
O&M   =  Operation and Maintenance
PPAR  =  Project Performance Audit Report



FOR OMCIAL US ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FIFTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summsry
Borrower:               Arab Republic of Egypt.
Amount:                  US$68 million equivalent.
Terms:                   20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project Objectives       The project's objectives are to increase farm
and Description:       production by reversing the deteriorating salt and
water balance in 465,000 feddans (482,670 acres), and
to strengthen the Egypti.n Public Authority for
Drainage Projects (EPADP) to improve standards of
implementation, quality control, mainr-nance and
monitoring. The project works would include
(i) the remodelling of existing surface drains;
(ii) the installation of collectors and field drains
for subsurface drainage; (iii) the production of
corrugated PVC pipes for field drains; (iv) the
maintenance of surface and subsurface drains by
construction of maintenance centers and subcenters,
provision of maintenance equipment, and maintenance of
completed drainage works during the project
implementation period;.(v) the training and technical
assistance for EPADP and the Drainage Research
Institute; (vi) a monitoring and evaluation program to
oversee the project's implementation progress and
study the impact of drainage on depth to water table,
etc.; and (vii) the provision of equipment to measure
flow rates in canals. The project would benefic some
120,000 farm families, and increase the value of
agricultural production by LE 55 million/year at full
development. Project risks are minimal.
Estimated
Project Costs:
Local      Foreign      Total
---------US$ million-----
Surface Drains                    15.3          7.4        22.7
Subsurface Drains                 51.0        62.5        113.5
Maintenance                        7.6          6.0        13.6
Technical Assistance, and
Monitoring & Evaluation          0.3          0.8         1.1
Base Cost                         74-2         76.7       150.9
Physical Contingencies             7.4          7.5        14.9
Price Contingencies               19.5         12.8        32.3
Total Project Costs              101.1         97.0       198.1
Total Cost Excluding Taxes
and Duties                      78.7        97.0        175.7
I    hisdocument asaresticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the peformance
oftheir officia duties Is contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Financing Plan:                        Local       Foreign       Total
xiU Nillion---   ---
IBRD                         -           68.0         68.0
Cofinanciers                 -           28.0         28.0
Government of Egypt        101.1          1.0        102.1
Total                      101.1         97.0        198.1
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
-=-   - US$  Hillion-        --
Annual                     2.0   5.0  19.0  20.0  15.0   7.0
Cumulative                 2.0   7.0  26.0  46.0  61.0  68.0
Economic Rate of Return: 23Z
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 5475-EGT, dated May 7, 1985.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A FIFTH DRAINAGE PROJECT
1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to
the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of US$68 million to help finance
a Fifth Drainage Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including
five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
*                                      PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.    A report on "Current Economic Situation and Growth Prospects" (Report
No. 4498-EGT) was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 20, 1983.
An economic mission visited Egypt in October and November 1984; this section
is based on the findings of that mission. Country data sheets and
macroeconomic accounts are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.    Following an extended period of inward-looking and centralized economic
policies, the Government in 1974 began to gradually introduce an "Open Door"
policy with the aim of accelerating development by liberalizing the economy
and stimulating foreign and domestic private investment. Supported by large
external capital inflows, the economy grew faster during the next two years.
Concomitantly, a rapid rise in foreign exchange earnings helped narrow the
current account deficit in spte of growing imports. During the following
five years, increased petroleum exports at favorable prices, swelling
remittances from Egyptian workers abroad, revenues from the reopening of the
Suez Canal, and rising tourist receipts facilitated this process. Between
1974 and 1980, earnings from these sources grew by 40% per annum in US
dollars, accounting for over 70% of export earnings by 1980. The resulting
increase in income stimulated the economy, which grew by more than 92 per
annum during this period.
4.    The combination of rapid inflation abroad and fixed prices at home
created growing distortions in the domestic economy. Controlled prices for
consumer goods, energy, transport, rents, public sector wages and foreign
exchange lagged far behind international or economic prices and domestic
prices for many of the same goods in the uncontrolled parts of the economy,
resulting in a severe duality in the economic system. Although the fixed
prices avoided stressful adjustments in the living standards of those with
access to controlled goods and services, they created major distortions and
inefficiencies in domestic production.
1/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
P-4060-EGT (Second Agricultural Development Project) dated May 7, 1985.



-2-
5.       Investment, production and employment in the private sector have
grown faster than in the public sector; however, the latter still accounts for
401 of total employment, 54Z of value added, 601 of total expenditure and 70%
of total investment. The public sector finances have generally been in the
red; the overall deficit has been around 20% of GDP. Although foreign
resources and private saving have financed a considerable portion of this,
between 301 and 501 has been financed by borrowing from the banking system.
6.       Egypt's population, estimated at 45 million, is already large
relative to its quite limited arable land, with an average density higher than
that of Bangladesh or Indonesia. And this population is growing rapidly, by
2.62 per annum, or by over one million people every year. Almost half of this
growth is concentrated in the greater Cairo area. The family planning
programs have been weak, but a recent decree has strengthened the program's
structure within the Government. The rapid economic growth of recent years
has been stimulated by external circumstances and has had only limited impact
on agriculture, industry and services which in the end are the sectors where
productive gains are needed to meet the needs of the economy and provide the
necessary jobs. For example, the Suez Canal and the petroleum sector account
for over 201 of GDP but only 1% of employment. While tourism and employment
abroad absorb considerably more Egyptians, their levels of activity have been
determined by external factors.
Recent Developments
7.       A reversal in Egypt's economy started in 1980, triggered by the fall
in the price of oil. In 1981/82, key macroeconomic variables took a turn for
the worse, with the reappearance of large deficits in the public budget and
the balance of payments and the rapid growth of both domestic borrowing from
the banking system and short-term borrowing from abroad. During 1982i83, the
Government took several important measures to redress the short-term
situation, even though it did not make much progress in tackling the more
fundamental items on Egypt's long agenda of pressing policy reforms. It
curbed imports and public expenditure, raised additional fiscal revenues,
reduced the growth of credit and retired some short-term debt. Both the
budget and balance of payments deficits were reduced. The one longer-term
issue addressed was export policy, which was greatly improved in ways that
will have quite favorable long-term consequences.
8.       During 1983/84, the deterioration continued.  The elections held in
May 1984 inhibited any further measures to curb domestic expenditure, raise
additional revenues or dampen imports, particularly of consumption goods.
Although the rise in domestic credit was a bit faster than in 1982/83 (20% in
1983/84 versus 16X in 1982/83), the Government did restrain the growth of the
money supply, which fell from 28% to 20% in 1983/84, thus helping to reduce
inflation pressures somewhat. Petroleum exports rose 9%, in value terms, due
to a significant rise in volume; but they were still below their dollar value
in 1980/81. Suez Canal revenues were constant at just below US$1 billion and
tourism receipts remained at the previous year's level of about US$0.5
billion. An unexpected rise in imports by 14% criused the current account
deficit to increase from $2.7 billion (11% of GDP) in 1982/83 to $3.3 billion
(12% of GDP) in 1983/84, despite a sharp jump in workers' remittances of
almost $800 million. Net longer-term capital inflows did not rise by as much



-3-
due to rising debt service obligations. The debt service ratio rose from
28.5Z in 1982/83 to 30.1% in 1983/84. As a result, short-term external debt
grew by about US$700 million and now constitutes 24% of overall civilian
debt. These are all well-known symptoms of an unsustainable external
situation pointing to the need for structural adjustments.
9.       The 1984/85 budget, delayed due to the May election, was presented to
the new People's Assembly only in September 1984. Several taxes have been
raised and, through the sale of a higher-priced loaf of bread, food subsidies
are expected to fall. Although opposition to this move in some quarters
caused its temporary roll-back, the higher-priced bread is slowly replacing
the lower-priced one and was about 80X implemented at the beginning of 1985.
The price of electricity was raised in November 1984--for the fifth time since
April 1982, and another rise is expected in the Spring of 1985. These rises
have kept the price of electricity from falling in real terms over the last
three years, arresting the steady fall over the previous decade. A subsidy on
cigarettes (about LE 170 million per annum) has been eliminated. Price
increases have also been authorized for some products manufactured by the
public sector. These measures are encouraging as first steps and are expected
to reduce the budget deficit from 23% of GDP in 1983/84 to an estimated 19Z of
GDP in 1984/85, a level which is still much too large to be sustainable.
10.      The balance of payments deficit is likely to prove troublesome in
1984/85. The price of oil has fallen so that the large increase expected in
export volume is unlikely to result in higher dollar earnings. Reflecting
slower activity in the Gulf and turbulence in the foreign exchange markets,
workers' remittances are expected to decline. Non-oil commodity exports
(i.e., manufactured and agricultural products), which rose by over 50X in
volume terms from 1981/82 to 1983/84, are the one bright spot. Although these
are projected to increase substantially, they will not translate into major
increases in total dollar export earnings, as the base is small and commodity
prices in dollars have fallen sharply. The result of the above forces is that
foreign exchange is scarce. The Government has begun to cut overall imports
by raising prices and extending import controls. In January 1985 the
Government introduced a flexible and depreciated rate for use in the
commercial banks, initially set at LE 1.25/US$, while it abolished the own
exchange import system (on licensed imports financed by the sale of foreign
exchange deposits between private individuals). This means all imports now
require a license from the Import Rationalization Committee. As a result, all
commercial bank transactions which previously had occurred at LE l.l2/US$, and
those which had occurred in the free market at a rate which has fluctuated
between LE 1.30/US$ and LE 1.40/US$, are now to be conducted at the flexible
commercial bank rate.
11.      While the introduction of a flexible, unified and more depreciated
rate for foreign exchange is to be welcomed, the extension of the import
control system is harmful to improving the competitive efficiency of an
already overly-protected, high-cost domestic productive structure. Egypt
needs to adopt policies (reduce subsidies further, raise publicly controlled
prices, cut the budget deficit, raise interest rates and rationalize
investment) to improve allocative efficiency and, in this way, manage more
effectively the demand for foreign exchange.



--!~~~-4
Development Potential and Constraints
12.      The external resource position facing Egypt during the l980s
inevitably will be less favorable than in the 1970s. Nevertheless, given
appropriate policies, Egypt has the potential for sustained economic growth
and development. Its population constitutes a large domestic market, and the
Nile River provides ample and reliable irrigation to the country's
agricultural land. Favorable year-round growing conditions suggest that
considerably higher yields are possible. Egypt has a key geographical
location, a relatively skilled labor force, somewhat varied raw materials and
major reserves of energy; these would allow a substantial degree of
industrialization and trade in manufactured goods.
13.      Egypt has been making some of the needed policy adjustments, even if
at a slow pace. For the past three years the Bank and the International
Monetary Fund have been advising the Government to accelerate the process of
policy reform. Perhaps the most important of these is to increase energy
prices to international levels and to rationalize domestic energy
consumption. Curbing the growth of demand for energy and substituting natural
gas for petroleum fuels would encourage more efficient use of Egypt's energy
resources and would add to the exportable surplus of petroleu=. There have
been some petroleum price rises to selected industries and, as stated, power
rate adjustments. But these have stopped short of the substantial and
comprehensive actions needed to rationalize energy use and reduce the high
implicit economic subsidy to users (on average, domestic energy prices are at
15% to 20% of international prices). The growth of consumer subsidies also
needs to be contained by price increases and improved targeting to low income
groups. This would ease the burden on the government budget, curb the
consequent inflationary pressure and reduce the growth of imports of basic
consumption goods.
14.      There is considerable scope to increase value added in agr;,ulture by
shifting to a more intensive pattern of higher value crop productic.n and by
motivating farmers to raise yields. Farmgate prices have increased for most
crops over the past three years, and government procurement prices, except for
cotton, are close to world market prices. Loopholes and tax exemptions should
be drastically reduced to help improve Government finances. The foreign
exchange system should be further simplified and maintained flexible,
reflecting the value of foreign exchange to the economy, both to stimulate
exports and ration funds for imports. Inprovements in the structure and
operations of industrial production through export promotion, exchange rate
movements, more liberal pricing and production control policy, a carefully
designed investment program and greater autonomy in the management of public
sector enterprises would have a substantial impact on industrial productivity,
employment and foreign exchange availability. In addition to improving the
efficiency with which resources are used in the economy, most of these changes
would hav,e a favorable impact on the mobilization of public savings and
foreign resources to help reduce the public budgec deficit and restore
macroeconomic balance. Additions to the country's infrastructure would also
help reduce rising economic costs.
15.      The medium-term outlook will depend on the pace and magnitude of
essential policy reforms. Clearly it would be unrealistic to expect rapid



-5-
adjustments on all fronts, and in some cases it might even be counter-
productive co make sweeping changes. But adjustment with deliberate speed
across a broad spectrum is required to lay the base for sustained growth at
rates close to those which can be achieved, given the resources available to
the economy. Assuming reasonable progress in the policy area, Egypt could
maintain growth of 5Z to 6X per annum in the medium term. Although the public
sector budget and current account deficits will still remain high, both should
improve over the period; and savings and investment can grow at rates that
provide for longer-term growth on a stable basis. Oil exports and Suez Canal
revenues are not likely to rise as rapidly as in the past but non-oil exports
have the capacity to compensate for this. With sound policies, Egypt could
finance needed imports by additional export earnings and continued success in
attracting private foreign investment and official aid transfers.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
16.      At mid-1984, Egypt's publicly guaranteed non-military medium- and
long-term external debt was estimated at US$16 billion. Private
non-guaranteed debt has been assessed at about US$700 million. In addition,
other banking system obligations, including short-term debt, not reported in
the Debt Reporting System (DRS), are estimated to be US$7.4 billion; so that
Egypt's total identified civilian debt is about US$24.1 billion (82Z of GDP).
Egypt's military debt is reported to be US$5.7 billion (excluding an estimated
US$3 billion military debt to the eastern block countries, which is not being
serviced). Total civilian debt service payments in 1983/84 are estimated to
be about US$3.4 billion, giving a debt service ratio of 30.1% as against 28.5Z
in 1982/83.
17.      The volume and structure of Egypt's medium- and long-term external
debt is dominated by large borrowing from official sources. Loans from
bilateral sources comprised 60% of medium- and long-term non-bank debt
outstanding at June 30, 1984, and those from multilateral institutions 23Z
(the Bank Group by itself is 1OZ). The United States was Egypt's foremost
bilateral creditor (47Z of outstanding bilateral loans) followed by Kuwait
(12%), Saudi Arabia (10X), Japan (9%) and Germany (6%).
18.      Given Egypt's immense development needs and growing resource gap,
gross external capital requirements are projected to remain sizeable. Even if
these were reduced to keep the debt service more manageable by curtailing the
growth of imports, appropriate macroeconomic policy adjustment would still
remain critical.  Without this, external debt service could become
unsustainable in the medium term. The Government recognizes the urgency of
the matter and, as stated, has begun to take some measures. It is also
negotiating a possible standby arrangement with the International Monetary
Fund and is trying to obtain additional bilateral aid. This support, together
with appropriate policy actions, should enable Egypt to manage its medium-term
growth on a sustainable basis.



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT _/
19.      As of March 31, 1985 the World Bank Group had approved 41 loans and
31 credits to Egypt. Total commitments as of that date amounted to US$2844.1
million, of which US$1897.0 million had been disbursed.2/ About 341 of
approved operations finances projects in the industrial sector, while 18%
supports agriculture, 18% transport and telecommunications, 181 power and
energy, and 10% the social sectors (including education, population, urban
development and water supply and sewerage). Annex II contains a summary of
Bank loans and IDA credits as of March 31, 1985.
20.      The strategy underlying Bank activ:.ties in Egypt during the 1970's
and early 1980's aimed at rehabilitating damaged capacity, improving
maintenance practices, eliminating critical deficiencies and bottlenecks to
development, and helping the setting up and strengthening of institutions. To
achieve these goals, the Bank supported development in a wide spectrum of
sectors and served not only as provider of direct financing but also as a
catalyst for bilateraL and multilateral aid to Egypt.
21.      In support of this strategy, the Bank helped the Government
rehabilitate the Suez Canal, and assisted in maintaining the productive
capacity of the railways and of the agriculture sector. Bottlenecks in the
transportation sector (particularly ports) and in the power sector were also
addressed with Bank financing. Attention was also given to the provision of
productive inputs, with special emphasis on imported materials and energy.
Deficiencies in the areas of cement production, textiles, agricultural
productivity and skilled manpower were eased through projects in the
respective subsectors. Most projects included important technical assistance
components aimed at strengthening the implementing agencies and other sector
institutions. The Egyptian Electricity Authority, the Development Industrial
Bank and the Suez Canal Authority are good examples of Bank efforts to promote
institution building in Egypt.
22.      The Bank strategy for the future will focus on helping the country
restore macroeconomic balance through improved investment allocation, resource
mobilization, export promotion and employment policies. To do this, efforts
will concentrate on projects that raise output, exports and employment in
agriculture and industry. Other projects planned to be financed would support
economic development by providing the necessary transport and urban
infrabtructure, as well as skilled manpower. The Bank's past experience in
these sectors is being supported by substantial economic and sector work to
enhance cur policy advice to the Government.
23.      Continued dialogue is proceeding on macroeconomic and sector policy
issues, including energy pricing, agricultural incentives, and fiscal
1/ Part II is substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report
P-4060-EGT (Second Agricultural Development Project) dated May 7, 1985.
2/ These numbers exclude a $100 million loan for a Construction Industry
Project, a $170 million loan for a Small and Medium Scale Industry
Project, and a $125 million loan for an Export Industries Development
Project, approved by the Board, but not yet signed, and a $59 million loan
for a Power III Project, which is not yet effective.



- 7 -
disequilibria among others. The dialogue would hopefully lead to agreement on
some important policy actions that currently preclude Bank cooperation in
energy and related activities that would be good candidates for Bank
assistance. These include power generation, energy conservation, industrial
restructuring, fertilizer production, gas development and coal terminals.
Progress in this area would also facilitate the reactivation of cofinanciers
meetings to help finance an important share of Egypt's resource gap.
24.      Bank and IDA disbursements in FY84 represented 11% of Egypt's medium-
and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total external debt
outstanding and disbursed (excluding military debt) were about 4Z and 3Z,
respectively, as of June 30, 1984. These shares are expected to remain at the
same level in FY86 and FY87.  It is estimated that in FY86, debt service
payments to the Bank and IDA will be about 5% and 0.2%, respectively, of
Egypt's external debt service payments. Disbursements have shown a rising
trend in the last three fiscal years, and reached US$347 in FY84, up from
US$252 million in FY83 and US$190 million in FY82. This trend is the result
of improvements in overall project implementation and of better knowledge of
the Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures by the Egyptian
authorities.
IFC
25.      IFC's equity participations and lending commitments for projects in
Egypt as of March 31, 1985, totalled US$102.47 million. Most of the
Corporation's activities have been lending operations. The most important
projects financed are a project for an agricultural complex primarily for
sugar beet, a building materials project in Suez and a reinforcing bar project
at El Dikheila. IFC has provided technical assistance in the design of
incentives to private sector investments and in the development of the capital
market. IFC is considering several other private sector and joint venture
projects. A summary of IFC operations in Egypt is given in Annex II.
PART III - THE DRAINAGE SUBSECTOR
Background
26.      Egypt has a total area of one million square kilometers (km2) or
238 million feddans (fed), of which only about 3X is agriculturally
*       productive.  This arable area of some 6.4 million fed. (6.6 million acres)
amounts to only 0.14 fed per capita. The productivity of this limited land
resource depends upon irrigation. Following the completion of the High Aswan
Dam and the introduction of perennial supplies to all irrigated areas,
cropping intensities and water use per unit of area have increased sharply. A
consequence of intensified irrigation has been a rising groundwater table, and
increased problems of waterlogging and salinity. In response to this
challenge, the Government of Egypt (GOE) has attached high priority to
preventing the rise of groundwater to harmful levels on existing lands by
installing tile drainage (subsurface drainage) systems. This work has been
supported by the Bank Group since 1970 through four projects (with
Credits/Loans totalling US$178 million), for tile drainage in 1,350,000 fed.
in the Nile Delta, and 800,000 fed. in Upper Egypt (see Map 18733).



-8-
Drainage Subsector and its Problems
27.      The drainage system for removing excess water from cultivated lands
consists of open drains, tile drains and pump stations. The open drain
system, built mostly between the early 1900s and 1965, serves almost 5.5
million fed. (mostly old lands) and consists of 16,200 km of open channels.
Since the late 1960s, GOE has initiated a series of tile drainage projects to
relieve Egypt's waterlogging and salinity problems.
28.      In accordance with an agreement reached with IDA, a Presidential
Decree issued in 1973 established the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage
Projects (EPADP) as a single, centrally controlled enterprise under the
jurisdiction of the Hinistry of Irrigation (MOI), with responsibility for
executing all drainage works in Egypt. The EPADP is structured along
functional and regional lines. It is headed by a Chairman and has one
Under-icretary in charge of planning, field investigation, design and
follow-up, and two Undersecretaries for implementation -- one for the Delta
and one for Upper Egypt. Field supervision of drainage works is the
responsibility of five Directorates in the Delta and seven Directorates in
Upper Egypt, each headed by a General Director.
29.      With continuing support from the Bank, the rate of drainage
development has increased and EPADP has become one of the strongest
institutions in the agricultural sector.   As of June 1984, some 2.6 million
fed. have been provided with subsurface drainage and improved open drain
systems. This figure is increasing annually at about 170,000 to 200,000 fed.
The drainage operation requires pump stations at various locations. There are
currently 73 main and 23 minor pump stations devoted to pumping drainage
effluent.
30.      In areas where tile drains have been installed, EPADP is responsible
for maintaining both surface (excepting main drains) and subsurface drains.
Open drains in other areas and all main drains are maintained by the
Irrigation Sector on the same basis as irrigation canals. Similarly, all
drainage pump stations operate under the responsibility of the Mechanical and
Electrical Department (MED), MOI.
31.      In non-tiled areas, open drains still operate and help keep the water
level 1.5 m below the ground surface. The restrictive design and the absence
of field drains limit their capability to have a significant effect on
controlling the rising water table. A pre-drainage survey carried out in 1984
showed that waterlogging is widespread throughout the northern parts of the
Delta and is a problem in some scattered areas in Upper Egypt. Thus, GOE is
continuing to give high priority to investments in drainage and the current
five-year plan (1982/83-1986/87) has allocated LE 512 million for this purpose.
32.      The most pressing problems confronting Egypt's canal system are
limited control proxided by structures, many of which are only partially
functional, and inadequate system operation. The lack of maintenance of
canals and open drains, the size of the system and the agro-climatic
conditions which encourage profuse weed growth in open channels have been
aggravating the situation. MOI, with assistance from the U.S. Agency for



9-
International Development (USAID), has deployed intenaive efforts to overcome
these problems. It is also improving maintenance standards and techniques. A
supporting Irrigation and Drain Maintenance Project is being prepared, with
assistance from FAO/CP, for possible Bank financing in FY87.
Previous Bank Involvement with Drainage
33.      The Bank Group's involvement with drainage in Egypt was initiated in
December 1970 under the Nile Delta Drainage I Project (Credit 181-UAR) and
covered the improvement of drainage on 950,000 fed. Subsequently, three more
projects were approved for drainage improvement: the Upper Egypt I (Credit
393-UAR), the Upper Egypt II (Credit/Loan 63711285-EGT), and the Nile Delta II
(Credit/Loan 719/1439-40-EGT). In total, IDA has allocated US$129 million for
the drainage program and, the Bank US$49 million. The total area covered by
the Bank Group supported projects is 2.56 million fed. (47X of old lands) for
open drains, and 2.15 million fed. (40Z of old lands) for tile drains. In
addition, these projects provided for the construction of 22 new pump stations
and rehabilitation of two existing stations.
34.      The IDA/Bank participation in drainage has helped attract other
donors such as USAID (US$30 million for the Upper Egypt II Project) and the
Federal Republic of Germany (US$24 million for the Nile Delta II Project).
The Dutch bilateral program has contributed over US$4 million for technical
assistance and for establishing a tile drainage project on 40,000 fed. The
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) has reached an agreement with
GOE to finarnce an Integrated Soil and Water Improvement Project in the Gharbia
Governorate. The Hamoul Drainage Project, assisted by the European Economic
Commiunity, covers 65,000 fed. reclaimed from Lake Burullus in the early
sixties.
35.      Implementation delays of three to four years have been common to all
of the Bank Group-supported drainage projects. The earlier projects were
affected by the 1973 war and its aftermath. Additionally, late start-ups,
management problems and ill-defined work programs slowed down project
execution. The Nile Delta Drainage II Project is about 75% completed and the
remaining works are expected to be finished by June 1986. In the case of the
Upper Egypt Drainage II Project, which is about 55% completed, the remaining
works will be concluded by June 1987. Despite the long delays, the
post-evaluation of the first two drainage projects has estimated an economic
rate of return of 17-25%, compared to the appraisal estimate of 18%.
36.      The above experience, together with the findings of the Project
Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) of the first two projects, have been taken
into account in formulating the proposed project.  To help ensure greater
project success, the following measures have been included in the project:
(a) the introduction of technical criteria for the selection of areas most in
need of drainage; (b) the spacing of field drains in accordance with
site-specific conditions; (c) improvements in technical designs, including a
modified layout for rice areas; (d) an agreement on more realistic
implementation goals, based on recent experience; (e) increased attention to
construction management and quality control; (f) effective monitoring of the
impact of drainage on water table; and (g) more effective maintenance of
project faciiities.



- 10 -
The Drainage Program and the Proposed Project
37.      The proposed project would form a part of EPADP's 10-year Investment
Program of drainage works, initiated in 1985, which covers a gross (total
physical) area of 1.33 million fed. (1.38 million acres) at a total cost of LE
628 million (US$502 million). The areas encompassed by the Program are
located in four governorates in the Delta (Sharkiya, Daqahliya, Kafr El Sheikh
and Beheira) and four governorates in Upper Egypt (Giza, Beni Suef, Fayoum and
Minya). The project area comprises 465,000 gross fed. (482,670 acres), of
which the major part, 381,000 fed. (82X), is located in 11 drainage basins in
the east, west and central parts of the Delta. The remaining 84,000 fed. are
distributed in Upper Egypt, extending from Giza near Cairo to Minya, about 200
km south.
38.      About 530,000 farms are planned to be covered by the Program.  Of
these, about 139,000 farms would derive benefit during the project period.
The total farm population involved in the whole Program is estimated to be 2.6
million, and about 0.8 million of the rural population would directly benefit
from the project. In the proposed project area, the average net farm size is
3.1 fed. in the Delta and 2.1 fed. in Upper Egypt.
39.      The main objectives of the Drainage Program at full development would
be: (a) to increase agricultural productivity on 1.12 million fed. (1.16
million acres) net area by providing adequate drainage infrastructure for the
area to improve its drainability; and (b) to transport excess water and salt
out of the area, thus reversing deterioration of the land resource base.
These objectives would be achieved by: (a) lowering the water table through
the installation of subsurface field and collector drains; (b) improving the
open drains disposal system for removal of drainage effluent; and (c) ensuring
that the drainage pump stations are of adequate capacity and are efficiently
operated and maintained. Concurrently, the Program provides for the
strengthening of EPADP to improve design, supervision, and management
activities, with particular emphasis on improvement of monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) and operation and maintenance (O&M).
40.      The Program has been formulated taking into account a feasible rate
of implementation, of which the EPADP's current implementation capability of
about 200,000 fed./year was the main consideration. Allowance for the demand
from other projects reduced the expected implementation rate for the Program
in its early years to about 170,000 gross fed./year. Most areas selected for
the first part of the Program are those which had already been provided with
remodelled open drains. This approach would ensure that benefits from
investments already made would not be delayed. Further, a suitable
combination of drainage contracts was planned to ensure that the letting of
contracts would be economically consistent with the provision of construction
equipment. Other main considerations were that: (a) completion of ongoing
projects should not conflict with the Program objectives; (b) the existing
pump stations should be fully operational; (c) under the ongoing programs,
construction of new and rehabilitation of existing pump stations should take
place; and (d) where necessary, prior remodelling of open drains should be
carried out in a cost effective manner.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.      The proposed project, which was prepared with the assistance of the
Bank in August 1984, was appraised in October 1984. Negotiations were held in
Washington in April 1985. Dr. Shafey, First Under Secretary for International
Finance, led the Egyptian delegation at negotiations. A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Drainage V Project" (No. 5475-EGT dated May 7, 1985), is
being distributed separately. The main features of the project are summarized
in the Loan and Project Summary and the special conditions of the loan are
summarized in Annex III. Map IBRD 18733 is attached.
Project Objectives and Rationale
42.       The objectives of the project are to increase agricultural production
by reversing the deteriorating salt and water balance and to strengthen the
EPADP so as to improve standards of project implementation, quality control,
maintenance and monitoring of the drainage network. These improvements would
significantly enhance the cost effectiveness and the quality of Egypt's
drainage program, which is the second largest element in agricultural
investment after land reclamation in the current five-year plan (1982/83 -
1986/87).
43.      Within the context of drainage of the remaining over 2 million fed.
in Egypt in general, and for the 10-year Program in particular (para. 37),
these improvements are timely. The works proposed under the project would be
undertaken in areas where water table and soil stability conditions are far
more difficult than previously encountered, and hence the improved design,
construction and quality control standards are essential. Furthermore, as
Egypt's budgetary situation is becoming increasingly tight, the selectivity
proposed under the project would ensure a more carefully determined allocation
of resources.
Project Scope
44.      The proposed project would finance the first time-slice of GOE's
10-year Drainage Program. The drainage works would include: (a) the
remodelling of open main and branch drains on 280,000 fed.; and (b) instal-
lation of a subsurface drainage system to provide relief for 465,000 fed.
gross. Other project components include improvements to ensure more effective
M&E, adequate O&M of project facilities, and training and technical
assistance. The project would also provide equipment for automatic
measurement of flow rates in canals.
Summary Description
45.       The project works would include:
(i)    Surface Drainage:  remodelling of about 668 km of existing
surface drains;
(ii)    Subsurface Drainage:  (a) installation of about 3,900 km of
collectors and 46,200 km of field drains with associated field
and outfall structures for subsurface drainage of about 416,000
fed. net; and (b) production of about 50,600 km of 80 -
corrugated PVC pipes for field drains;



- 12 -
(iii)    Maintenance of Surface and Subsurface Drains:  (a) construction
of nine maintenance centers and 90 subcenters; (b) provision of
maintenance equipment for both surface and subsurface drains and
of special weed-cutting plant for intensive testing; and (c)
maintenance of completed drainage works during the project
implementation period; and
(iv)    Other Components.
(a) Training and Technical Assistance would include short-term
expatriate consultants, and local consultants to assist in
establishing a monitoring and evaluation system in EPADP,
and 43 man-months of practical training of EPADP engineers
in countries with comparable drainage facilities;
(b) Strengthening of the Drainage Research Institute (DRI) for
assisting EPADP in determining normative discharge for the
design of field drains in areas having upward seepage and
for developing relationships between yield, water table and
soil salinity;
(c) Monitoring and Evaluation Program for overseeing the
project's implementation progress and studying the impact of
field drainage on water table, etc.; and
(d) Provision of Equipment for measurement of flow rates in
canals.
Surface Drainage
46.      To provide for efficient outflow from field drains, the project would
deepen and widen 343 km of open drains in Upper Egypt and 325 km ir the Delta
in order to maintain a water level at not less than 2.5 m below ground
surface. The project would also rebuild and/or extend a total of 481 bridges,
L5 siphons and 96 escapes or aquaducts. About 637 fed. of land would be
acquired to accommodate the widening of open drains. As in the past,
acquisition of land is not expected to pose any problem.
47.      Project costs include provision for required EPADP staff, and related
funding for managing this component as well as for the planning, design and
supervision of surface drainage works. In order to complete the remodelling
of open drains in a four-year period, the project would provide draglines,
hydraulic excavators, low-bed loaders for transport of equipment, and required
spare parts.
48.      The renovation and effective operation of 11 pump stations devoted to
evacLuting drainage water from the project area is crucial to the success of
the tile drainage. It has been agreed that the pumping stations would be
renovated according to the schedule required by the implementation of drainage
works under the proposed project. Following renovation of the pumping
stations, the MED would design and implement an effective inspection and O&M
program (under Loan 2270-EGT) for maintaining operational efficiency of these
pumping stations over the long-term.



- 13 -
Subsurface Drainage
49.      Groundwater in the project area would be controlled at safe levels by
installing subsurface drains. The areas selected for tile drainage are those
in most urgent need of drainage. No land, easements or right of way would be
purchased for the installation of subsurface drains, which is the generally
accepted practice. However, as was done under the previous drainage projects,
compensation would be paid to farmers for crop loss during construction.
Besides providing for administration and equipment costs, the estimated cost
also includes a lump-sum provision for administration in respect of the
production of PVC pipes. The project would provide the required pipe laying
machines and support equipment, vehicles and spare parts.
50.      For ongoing projects, PVC pipe is produced by EPADP using 11
extruding units. It was agreed with EPADP to maintain the existing
arrangement for the proposed project. To facilitate project execution, the
project would rehabilitate production lines in two areas in Upper Egypt and
two areas in the Delta and would provide additional equipment and spare parts
for production lines, and 15,500 tons of PVC compound and purge powder.
Technical assistance and training would include four man-months of expatriate
specialist time and training of two of EPADP's engineers in pipe production,
each for a period of two months, by suppliers of production equipment.
Maintenance
51.      The Project Preparation Department (PPD) in MOI is preparing a
Channel Maintenance Plan (CMP). This plan for maintenance of irrigation and
drainage channels will be submitted to the Bank by December 1985 (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.04). Adequate provision is included in this project for
outlays pertaining to the project area.
52.      The project would provide nine maintenance centers and 90 subcenters
for subsurface drains and four offices for mobile task force groups for the
maintenance of open drains. Each center would service about 50,000 fed. and
each subcenter about 5,000 fed. of tile-drained area. The estimated cost
includes provision for land acquisition for these buildings. Equipment would
be provided for maintaining both surface and subsurface drains. The equipment
for open drains would be operated by a mechanized company of MOI and
maintained at its existing facilities. The project would also provide
equipment to improve the application of herbicides. Also, adequate transport
and office furniture would be provided for each center and subcenter. Four
man-months of expatriate consultant time and six man-months of local
consultancy services to assist in setting up trials for integrated weed
control using special plant and chemical applications and in evaluating
results would be included. Two engineers of EPADP would receive practical
training overseas to facilitate efficient and proper 0&M of completed drainage
works. The annual cost of adequate OM for surface drains has been
tentatively estimated at about LE 3.0/fed. at current prices. The present
budgetary allocation averages about LE 1.75/fed. The project would provide
funds to correct the deficiency in maintaining surface drains on: (a) 381,000
fed. which, though already remodelled, require tile drainage which the project
would provide; and (b) areas where open drains are remodelled as a part of the



- 14 -
project. The costs of the required maintenance of structures and staff for
maintaining and operating mobile task force groups (para. 71) would be
provided. Currently, the maintenance of subsurface drains is carried out by
technicians and labor employed by EPADP. The project would support
progressive extension of this system to the project facilities by providing
the required staff for each center and subcenter and related funding.
Other Components
53.      Improvement in Construction Management and Design Standards.  EPADP's
current efforts to improve construction management and design standards would
be supported by the project. This support would include seven man-months of
expatriate specialist and nine man-months of local expert time to assist
EPADP's Planning and Follow-up Unit in overall planning and monitoring of
project implementation and in upgrading design standards.  Nine engineers of
EPADP would receive overseas training in these areas.
54.      Strengthening Research.  The project would provide field allowanc:;
for the existing staff of DRI and required equipment and transport to
strengthen its ongoing activities in: (a) the investigation of upward seepage
in the Delta areas for establishing the normative discharge for the design of
field drains; and (b) drainage technology and the linkage between depth of
water table, soil salinity and crop yield in pilot areas.
55.      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Three separate but coordinated M&E
activities would be carried out during the project development period: (a)
day-to-day monitoring of physical and financial progress; (b) monitoring of
depth to water table, drain discharge, etc.; and (c) impact on crop yield.
The project would provide two computers and software, transport and equipment,
field allowances for existing staff and the costs of monitoring the depth of
the water table. Technical assistance and training would include three
man-months of an expatriate specialist's time, eight man-months of local
experts' time and six man-months for overseas training of two employees of
EPADP.
56.      Flow Measurement Equipment for Irrigation Network.  The project would
provide equipment for use in conjunction with the USAID-assisted telemetry
system for providing flow rates data from 200 points located throughout the
canal system. The MOl would use the data collected from the system to improve
operational efficiency of the canals.
Environmental Impact
57.      The project would have a favorable impact on the environment.
Providing subsurface field drains, remodelling of open drains and improved
maintenance of open drains would result in lowering the water table in the
project area, and lessening the incidence of stagnant water. Moreover, the
maintenance and cleaning of surface drains, which serve as waste disposal
systems for the villages, would improve both the general environment and rural
health conditions.



- 15 -
Cost Estimates and Financing
58.      Final design and draft tender documents for tile drainage have been
completed for 102,000 fed. in the Delta. By September 1985, EPADP expects to
complete the designs and preparation of tender documents for tile drains
covering 150,000 fed. (35% of the project area) and for open drains covering
about 120,000 fed. (43% of the project area).
59.      Total project cost is estimated at about LE 247.6 million (US$198.1
million equivalent), including US$14.9 million for physical contingencies, and
US$32.3 million for price contingencies. -Foreign exchange costs are estimated
to be about US$97.0 million, or about 49% of total project costs. Unit costs
have been adjusted to accommodate project conditions and to reflect April 1985
cost levels. Physical contingencies are assumed to be 1OZ of the projects
base cost. Domestic price contingencies are estimated as follows: 1985,
7.9%; 1986, 12.9%, 1987, 9.9Z; 1988, 10.5%; 1989, 10.5%; and 1990, 10.1%; and
international inflation has been estimated as 5% for 1985, 7.5% for 1986 and
1987, and 8.O per annum thereafter.
60.      The proposed Bank loan of US$68 million, together with proposed
cofinancing of US$28 million by the African Development Bank (AFDB) and the
African Development Fund (AFDF), would be used to meet the project's foreign
exchange costs. The proposed cofinancing would be under parallel financing
arrangements and would cover the foreign exchange costs of all project works
in Upper Egypt, open drain remodelling in the Delta, and equipment required
for maintenance of open drains in both areas. The signing of the cofinanciers
loans would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan (Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01). Government allocations would provide the balance of US$102.1
million, including $1 million in foreign exchange, and the custom duties and
taxes estimated at US$22.4 million.
Procurement
61.      Procurement for all items under the project would be carried out by
EPADP. The required equipment for open drains and maintenance, vehicles, PVC
compound and civil works for subsurface drainage would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB), according to Bank Guidelines and AFDB
Guidelines. Together these items represent about US$119.4 million equivalent,
or about 68% of project costs net of taxes and duties. Local manufacturers
would be allowed a 15% margin or the actual custom duty, whichever is lower,
on ICB equipment and material contracts financed by the Bank. Spare parts
costing about US$8.0 million would be required during the implementation
period of the project. These spare parts, required for repair and maintenance
of construction and PVC pipe making equipment, would be procured directly from
the original manufacturers, on the basis of negotiated prices. Excepted from
ICB procedures would be small items costing less than US$100,000, to be
procured following local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank. The total value of items procured in
this manner would not exceed US$1.3 million. Also, small contracts of up to
US$50,000 equivalent for office and survey equipment may be awarded after
quotations have been obtained from at least three such suppliers. The
aggregate amount of such locally procured goods would not exceed US$500,000
equivalent.



- 16 -
62.      Earthworks for remodelling surface drains, and civil works for
structures in open drains and for maintenance centers and subcenters (financed
mostly by che Government) are not suitable for ICB because they are small and
scattered throughout the area, and planned to be implemented in small parcels
during the whole project construction period. These works, amounting to
USS15.8 million, would be procured following local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures. LCB procedures are generally consistent with the need for economy
and efficiency in the execution of the project.   Since some of the LCB
procedures are inconsistent with Bank procurement guidelines, agreement was
reached on changes needed to make the LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
ICB       LCB         Other    Total
-US$ M Equivalent---------
Civil Works &                              86.4     12.9         15.0    114.3
Machinery                                 (39.7)    (0.5)        (4.7)
[11.31    [2.4]        [1.31
Equipment, Vehicles                         9.9      1.3          3.9      15.1
and Spare Parts                            (1.8)    (0.4)        (0.2)
[7.41    [0.91        [0.51
PVC Pipe Production                        20.8                   4.2      25.0
Equipment, Spares                         (16.0)                 (1.0)
and Materials                              [3.51                 [0.71
Flow Measuring Equipment                    2.3                   0.3       2.6
(2.3)
Engineering, Land                                    4.4         36.9      41.1
Acquisition, Crop Compensation, Etc.                (1.0)        (0.4)
Total                                119.4      18.6         60.3 3/ 198.1
(Bank) 1/                      (59.8)    (1.9)        (6.3)    68.0
[AFDF/AFDB1 2/                 [22.21    [3.31        [2-51    28.0
1/  Covering:  Construction and maintenance of subsurface drainage in the
Delta; flow measuring equipment and technical support.
2/  Covering: Remodelling and maintenance of surface drains throughout the
project; construction and maintenance of subsurface drains in Upper
Egypt.
3/  Includes $22.4 million for taxes and customs duties.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank and figures in
square brackets are amounts expected to be financed by the AFDB/AFDF.



- 17 -
Disbursements
63.      Disbursements of the Bank loan would be made for:
(a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost or the domestic ex-factory
cost of equipment and spare parts, vehicles, PVC compound,
purge powder, and other materials or 70% of such items if
they are locally procured (US50 million);
(b) 30% of the cost of civil works for the subsurface drainage
works and maintenance centers and subcenters (US$10.5
million);
(c) 100% of the cost of foreign expenditures for technical
assistance and overseas training (USg0.3 million); and
(d) Unallocated (US$7.2 million).
A special account in an amount of US$2 million may be established to
facilitate timely disbursements.
64.      The closing date of the loan would be June 30, 1991, about one year
after the scheduled physical completion of the prcject. The proposed
disbursement period of six years is considerably shorter than the country
sectoral average of about nine years and the estimated average of eight years
for the two ongoing drainage projects. The main considerations supporting
this proposal are that (i) the project implementing agency has long experience
in tendering under ICB procedures; (ii) most of the Bank loan would be used
for the procurement of equipment, vehicles, and PVC compound, items which are
generally disbursed rapidly; and (iii) targets set for subsurface drainage
under the proposed project (peak rate of about 150,000 fed./year) are based on
implementation rates recently achieved rather than on overoptimistic
assumptions made for previous drainage projects (peak rate of 340,000
fed./year).
Auditing and Accounts
65.      A new accounting system was established for EPADP in 1980 by an
Egyptian firm of chartered accountants for the current IDA/Bank-financed
drainage projects. This system is now operating satisfactorily and would also
be used for the proposed project. The Central Audit Organization (CAO), an
independent auditing agency, would continue to be responsible for auditing the
accounts of EPADP including those of the proposed project on a continuous
basis. Assurances were obtained that: (a) EPADP would maintain separate
project accounts; (b) the project accounts would be audited annually by an
independent auditor satisfactory to Bank; (c) certified copies of the audited
annual project accounts and of the final auditor's report would be sent to the
Bank for review no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year;
and (d) the auditor's report would include, inter alia, a statement that the
funds advanced for the special account and against statements of expenditure
were used for the purpose for which they were provided (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.01).



- 18 -
Project Implementation
66.      EPADP would be responsible for most aspects of project
implementation, including field investigations, planning, design,
procurement, construction and OEM. Although the general organizational set up
of EPADP is satisfactory, itr performance indicates weaknesses in construction
planning and follow-up. Other major problems with respect to ongoing projects
include: the shortage of staff, particularly at field level; the frequent
turnover of staff; and the need for training and career advancement, and
incentives for technical staff at all levels. The proposed project would
strengthen EPADP's ongoing programs in resolving some of these problems.
67.      Project implementation would require an increase in the number of
technical staff of EPADP. Recruitment at entry level (excepting agricultural
engineers) has been difficult in the past because of low public sector wages,
unattractive field conditions, and the availability of more highly paid work
in the private sector and in neighboring countries. Assurances were obtained
from GOE and EPADP that: (a) EPADP would review with the Bank, not later than
six months before the start of each of its fiscal years and until completion
of the project, the technical staff requirements of the project during the
following fiscal year, for effective implementation and quality control of
project works and for O&M, and that the required additional number of civil
and agricultural engineers would be provided on a timely basis, and (b) EPADP
would fulfill such requirements through the provision of necessary resources
and facilities, including financial incentives for the recruitment and
retention of the staff (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03).
68.      In order to strengthen the capability of EPADP to implement drainage
works more effectively, the project would provide selective technical
assistance and training. The present level of participation by EPADP
personnel in bilateral and local training programs is close to the maximum
that can be assimilated, and consequently assistance is focussed on in-service
training and developing improved working methods-
69.      The schedule for constructing drainage works has been derived from
past experience as summarized in PPAR's, demands of ongoing works, and
scheduled new works under other projects. To ensure that any changes in the
total program are properly reflected in revised resource allocations to EPADP,
assurances were obtained from GOE that until the completion of the project,
MOI and EPADP would provide to the Bank for its comments (a) not later than
three months before the start of the GOE's fiscal year, EPADP's annual
implementation plan, indicating work status, budgetary, equipment and staffing
resources required and available, and allocations in MOI's budget for drainage
projects, and (b) the proposals for MOI's investment program in the drainage
and irrigation subsector (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02).
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
70.      EPADP would be responsible for the O0M of all completed drainage
works both during the implementation period and after completion of the
project. However, during construction and for one year following completion
of a contract unit, the contractor would be responsible for the maintenance of



- 19 -
the subsurface drains. Maintenance of drainage works in Egypt has, in the
past, not been up to a satisfactory standard due mainly to extremely difficult
environmental conditions (which result in very rapid weed growth in open
drains), staffing limitations and technical shortcomings. While EPADP has in
the last few years restructured and enlarged its maintenance organization to
make it a more viable concern, further improvement is required, and the
project O&M component has been designed accordingly.
71.      The project would provide adequate funds for at least one cycle of
open drains clearance each year in place of the current two-year cycle.  As a
new cost-effective feature in open drains maintenance, the project allows for
the establishment of four mobile task force groups, three in the Delta and one
in Upper Egypt. These units would be directed to particular parts of the
drainage system where blockag:,s are occurring. Assurances were obtained that
GOE would (a) provide sufficient funding annually to EPADP for the proper
operation and maintenance of drainage facilities under the project, based upon
the estimated cost; (b) prepare, with the assistance of experts, and provide
to the Bank, by June 30, 1986, a plan for the implementation of the weed
control trials utilizing special plants, together with controlled use of
chemicals; (c) carry out such plan, taking into account the Bank's comments
thereon, and (d) perform a review of the results of the trials, using the
specialists group responsible for planning the trials (Loan Agreement,
Sections 3.05 and 4.02).
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
72.      EPADP would staff the Implementation Monitoring Unit adequately to be
able to plan, coordinate and monitor progress of the project thoroughly. To
assist in meeting these objectives, an expatriate short-term consultant and
local consultants would be recruited to help in training, setting up the
implementation monitoring system and identifying staff and equipment needs.
It was agreed that EPADP would: (a) adequately staff its Implementation
Monitoring Unit so as to enable it to plan, coordinate, and monitor the
activities under the project and promptly make available to it the services of
consultants in implementation planning and monitoring; (b) prepare by June 30,
1986, with the assistance of such consultants, and provide to the Bank, for
its comments, a plan for monitoring the implementation of the project, and (c)
promptly carry out such plan, taking into account the Bank's comments (Loan
Agreement, Sections 3.05 and 3.06). This unit would also be responsible for
-      preparing quarterly progress reports.
73.      In order to help determine crop yield differences due to drainage,
the project provides foc monitoring the physical impact of field drainage by
EPADP. An expatriate expert and a local expert would be recruited on a
short-term basis to help in setting up the program for M&E of the impact of
drainage on the water table. Assurances were obtained that (a) not later than
December 31, 1985, the EPADP would prepare, with the assistance of an expert,
and provide to the Bank a detailed program for monitoring and evaluation of
the impact of drainage on the water table and on such other aspects as may be
appropriate, and (b) EPADP would carry out such program in consultation with
the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06). In addition to determining the
impact of drainage on physical parameters, EPADP maintenance units would
monitor flows in collectors and collect data for assessing drainage
performance.



- 20 -
Cost Recovery
74.      Egyptian law provides for the direct and full recovery of the cost of
field drainage over a 20-year period, without interest, beginning within one
year of project completion. Provision is also made for the indirect recovery
of maintenance costs through the revision of the annual land tax following
introduction of drainage. Incremental annual payments for the proposed
project would average LE 20/fed., or almost 20Z of incremental farm income at
full development. This includes both capital cost recovery and maintenance
charges. Increased income would more than cover these costs in every year
following completion of drainage works. Given the implicit taxation on
agriculture resulting from low, controlled prices of farm produce, and the
relative poverty of most beneficiaries, GOE'S cost recovery rules are
satisfactory, despite the element of subsidy implicit in the interest-free
recovery pattern. GOE has recently revised the cost recovery procedures and
introduced an incentive system for the village-level tax collector. This is
expected to improve the rate of cost recovery. Assurances were obtained that
GOE would make arrangements to achieve the cost recovery and, to this end, it
would cause EPADP, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance: (a) to
provide to the Bank, by December 31, 1986, an outline of the measures and
procedures to be adopted to improve the collection of field drainage costs,
indicating an estimate of the expected annual collection; (b) to take into
account the comments which the Bank may offer on the methods and procedures to
be implemented for improving collection, and (c) to provide annually to the
Bank a report reviewing the progress made in such collection and, if
necessary, to make proposals for its further improvement (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.03).
Project Benefits and Risks
75.      The proposed project would address a major constraint to production
in some of Egypt's rich agricultural lands, namely, the high and ri.ing water
table and soil salinity. Easing the drainage constraint is essential if a
progressive decline in yields is to be arrested and significant increases in
agricultural production are to be achieved in the future. The direct impact
on which project benefits are calculated has been assessed only on the basis
of the limited changes in yield which are expected without any change n
agricultural practices. The incremental yields are expected to be less in
Upper Egypt than in the Delta areas, since soil salinity conditious in Upper
Egypt are relatively better, and soils are generally more free-draining.
76.      Net incremental economic benefits per feddan range from LE96 in Upper
Egypt to LE172 in West Delta. Without the project, yields are assumed to
decline linearly over a ten-year period; with the project, incremental yields
are assumed to develop over a four-year period following completion of surface
and subsurface drainage works. The rate of return for the overall project is
estimated at 23%, falling to a still acceptable 17% with a 1OZ increase in
costs or decrease in benefits.
77.      Under these circumstances, the risks associated  with the project are
generally limited: in the Delta areas, only very substantial increases in
project costs, or declines in incremental production value would cause an



- 21 -
unacceptable economic rate of return. For the areas in Upper Egypt, however,
the margin is relatively lower. However, the data already available regarding
the existing high water table, and the improved design staneards accepted for
this project, ensure an acceptably low risk of sub-marginal economic returns
in Upper Egypt.
PART V   LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
78.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Arab Republic of
Egypt and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
79.      Features of the project which are of special interest are listed in
Section III of Annex III. The signing of cofinanciers loan agreements would
be a condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 7, 1985



-22-                                                   Annex I
Page 1 of 6
T ALK I  A 
TOTAL                              1001.4     1001.4      1001.4
A QKICLUA                           24.6        284         26.4
_~~~~~~X Il c
m  ma cona Clue)      160.0       170.0      00.0   4/a         iaag.afiquMI           2106.4an    AER
-m mvm mac
CtKaGRAI  OF OIL ZQUTYALKC)        196.0       213.0      44LO               622.1                  ns.s
somarm mm vnL lUT
POVULATIO.*D3-UAR CtHUSANDS)   2532.0   32053.0    44315.0
OoMa   MPOATTOU CZO TOTAL)          37.9        42.2        ".7   d/           4s.2i
POPULATION PCOECTIONS
POPULATION IO MM 200  (HIL)                              62.6
STATIONAR  POPULATIOHLL)                                 114.2                  .                      .
POULATIO  11101                                            1.8
SSQ. at.                          23.8        33.0        43.2               36.3                   35.7
sQ. 1.L AQL LAS                 1041.2     1162.6      1513.6              461.7                   92.&
POPULATION AG UCrURE CT)
0-14 YUs                          42.2       41.4        39.2               43.6                   39.9
15-6  TM                          54.7        54.9       57.1                53.1                   56.0
65 AN AD80                          3.1        3.2         3.6                3.3                    4.1
POPUZATW OMWT RAnZ (l)
TOTAL                               2.6        2.5         2.4  dI            2.6                    2.4
3Ul3m                              4.1         3.5         2.9  -             4.5                    3.6
CRUIS liK lUAT  (E  Tom]35          44.3        38.5       34.5                40.4                   31.3
Canr   DRM RAn CPU THOUS)           20.2        17.2        11.2               11.5
aloSS EEMOUJCTLON RATE               3.0        2.9         2.3                2.8                     2.0
FAMILY PULIIING
ACCEUTS. tAna T(IIS)                ..       2D6.0       357.0
USERS (K or MAII WOME)              ..  .        .        24.0               22.2                   40.3
tIDX OF FOOD PRD. PQ CarA
01969-71-100)                       96.0        99.0       85.0                97.3                  114.3
PM CAP1XA SUPPLY ort
CALORIES CE Or aE-rfl3EUTS)       109.0      105.0       116.0              110.8                  110.6
PROTEUS (GACtS PE DAY)           78.0        Y3.0        78.0               70.1                   67.3
OF WIICH AmIAL AMD PULSE         19.0       17.0        19.0 Ic            17.8                   34.1
can. (ACGs 1-4) WAIM RATE           23.0        20.0        14.0               14.6                    5.7
LIFE MXPECT. AT BIaR CTZ3           46.4        49.5       57.2                57.5                   64.7
INFANT MORT. RATE CPR TOM)         128.0       120.0      104.0               101.5                   60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATE CUP0P)
TOTAL                                ..         ..        44.0 /d            59.7                   65. 
3333U1                            39.5          ..        U8.07;             64.5                   73.1
RURAIL                              ..          ..        50.0 7             38.4                   46.2
ACCESS TO EflEA DISPOSAL
(2 OF 7OP0LATO)
TOTAL                                 .         ....52.9
URBAN                                            .                                                  67.0
RURAL                               ..          ..          ..                 ..                   24.5
POPULATION PER PITSICTAN          2550.0      1900.0      970.0 /I           4345.1                 1917.7
POP. PU NORSDCG P5OII              1930.0 /ef 1620.0 /.  ISM00.071l1l.1                              815.8
POP. PU  NOPIAL MD
TOTAL               -             440.0      460.0       49Q.632.9                                 367.2
URBNI                             510.0 If   360.0       680.0 Id           545.5                  411.5
RURAL                            2190.0 Tr  2180.0      2410.0 d           2513.5                 2636.3
ADEISSIONS FE  OSPITAL BEO            ..          ..        30.8 /d            26.2                   27.3
AvEai sm  or ummesciLD
TOTAL                                ..         ..         5.2 /d
033*5                              4.8          ..         5.0 d
RURAL                   ..          ..        5.5Sd[...
A  13. U'Oi PERSOUS/bJOQ1...                             L
mAn                                 1.6rs/boat ,1.8 /d
ama1.6..                                           .                   ..
ACCESS TO  LCrr. (a or DLLISS)
TOTAL                                                     457                462
;-3*3                             37.8          ..        76.9               77.7
EAL                                 ..          ..        8a.6 #            16.1
'7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



23-                                               Annex I
Page 2 of 6
TAI IA
BOYD?. U,AS 331. 0?    - SOOTAL ZNDIATO   DATA SU
ErS, AhU8 511. o3                    *PZPZIIU 5       (rEZGUT3D AVEIAURS) {l
NST                 (NM St    UIT uTn) lb
19601k    19701k    ESrTEIk   v. AFRICA   NED US           I-AT. AMZU  A CMB
ADJUSTED EIOLRNT RATUOS        -
152tlXfs  TOTAL                    66.0       72.0        76.0               E8.3                   103.4
HALE                    80.0       U.O          9.0               102.5                  106.3
FMALU                   52.0       5i6.0       3.0                73.6                  104.5
SECONDATs  TOTAL                   16.C       34.0        52.0                43.0                   43.2
ILwZ                    23.0        U.0        64.0                5.23                   42.3
rIRALS                   9.0       22.0        39.0                33.0                   44.5
VOC*XInOAL (C Of SECOZDRt)           22.0       19.0        21.6                10.3                   33.6
PUh7.-?ECSE   hTo
lUPllABY                           39.0       36.0        28.0                30.3                   30.1
SE~UDAuX                           16.0       25.0        24.0                23.1                   16.6
ADLT LIEAMC LU   ()                  25.          ..        44.0                43.5                   79.5
PASSENGCER CAESfllUOSiD  POP          2.8        4.0        10.2                17.6                   46.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/1DUSAND PoP          58.1      133.1       141.9               13286                  225.6
TV RMEIZVERS/TOItSAND POP             1.9       16.0        33.L                46.1                  107.2
ESPAPIR M UALY CENEAL
Iir)RESr) CIEDMATIOM
PER T    lOSAJD OATIO                ..       22.5        60.4 /b             31.2                   63.5
CXNEMA AMNUAL AETIUDABE/CAPM          2.6        2.0         1.3 7Y              1.7                    2.6
TOML LABOR TORC CTWM)              7453.0     9241.a    12332.0
ERALU (PEC )                        7.3        7.2         8.1                10.6                   23.2
ACUICULTCEZ (?M=M)                 58.0       54.0        50.0                42.4                   31.5
nDuSTE! (CERCMUT)                  12.0       19.0        30.0                27.9                   23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              28.9       21.0        27.8                26.2                   32.2
BALE                               53.2       51.5        50.7                46.4                   49.3
FiALE                               4.2        4.1         4.5                 5.6                   15.2
EcoSuC DEPEMDUCt RAT                  1.6        1.6         1.5                 1.S                    1.4
SiIE m         usRmiz
,ERCUT OF PRIATZ ISCE
REEVED 5!
EIMGST 501! O OUBDLS               17.5       17.4 /j    22.0
RISER'? 202 1F HOUSUEOLDS          44A T      427.0       4920.
LOUEST 2OZ o I7US0LDS                                      5.1
LOVETY 402 01 NOIUDLDS            17.5 /      18.7 JD     14.8..
LOWES AM or l l C Q7
ESTIMATED ABSOLUT POVETR? IUCMU
LEVEL CUSS PE CAPITA)
U0*                                  ..         ..       131.0 /b            274.5                  288.2
URAL                                 ..         ..        9.07i              177.2                  184.0
ESTEMED REAM        WEVRt! TES
LEVL (USS PER CAPI)
UNBAR                                ..         ..       180.0 /b            402.6                  522.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       116.07              264.9                  372.4
ESTIDM    POP. -'I ABSOLUTZ
PDOVER! ICE LEVEL (2)
RB..                                            ..        21.0 L4
_                  RDRAL                               ..          ..        25.0
- OT AVAnLASE
IIOT APPLLCL
NOTESS
/a  Tbe group sYrae  for each indicator are popalatian-Imlchted aritmtic meam. Coversg  of countries   n  the
indicators depead  on av.labLity of data  d b not   ioam.
/b tUleam otherwis noted, Data for 1960' refer to m_ year batwen 1959 and 1961; -vta for 1970 betumn L969 and
1971; 04 data Eor Boat Rcat Estlaata b.tee  136 and 1962.
Ic  1977; / 1976; la leg.eared. not a*l practIcin In the comtesI. If 32;    m1970; /b 1979; /1 1975; L  RurvA
azpe-ditnr.; /U1365;  Na tioal. for 1974-75.
/d Latest data (1985 World Bank Atlas):  1983 population 45364 thousands,
1983 GNP per capita $700, population growzh rate 2.6%.
June 1984



AnrnexlX
-24-                                                                Page 3 of 6
415am   Aillstet  sit. dM. mu" -trm   (tammurrn ,am,si   I .11  t         atmml.lss an          psitahle  is sanld aim 1 ielood ohm  shy nM           i. tociaelm8lmiiy
lmptia iaaassma at lb  kai .1 satdadmpdanad  mIisa lama    . defniinlf" ers  ::Mo     in .almi.alelmb feem. To. aemwan. nmemsit...am moel1
aela e a. af .agslsdoa. sUms..1. andEs, No earmaeml a ePS               indtame         iesagnss at   emmetia.
aIiasss.Ia lb.mtaa.as  gmek  ass  ai smae" e1a paaaimla magirldd attsiale "ane fta  eMN lmihecm  so atma amII An majriemofy                         b m act m ma to aa
e    Sp  e   dmc  Ia' teIlwl lse 1kr. 1    iam . maims at atpti" emm  lbo Iklwalmmts  dpamdm  M ate mrmlte1isy 1 dint. aS  line  adt..   mesa ass b-
=O      0  4'111         it         tdn           ow%r             o.   -..O        I              M fllaeUSSIlMh,  ifw    mpailmda. dltcdb a em-mthtei ppmscugq
au    Toe.  meas.  ape  Ivttss   m   sla  aM s'iemd maces I"O.                                                            -&:.imdllit5samdc  sdaalla ae Nmineato Ideam.
dhI    a1su1 dam.                                                                      fl      Iin                          Iodin e h* t.msan dled by nrCt 41PicakIet
ademeslptlass  or seflmcmftm.t  demmSN seeesl, at sa p-Maaca                            dm a  1d1Wdsa   aS  masmsag .                     a, gsaeloa  amseo  ad
l m Pa.WsaMt. -et.e  apt %esse  ea gs,tmm    ace Si. Icilmi 114..                      an"iqg mmallstats.                                                 t -I
SONa med aina ass.                                                                        M  e:sjul.s:t    sc16i0sF,ica.(a  m
mrmmewcvflell     MP WIr mat e.5m asas-te    a  ...nm   met.s poae.                        ae..sst  Nmoab. Wead        .R ilss geatw  Nad epamlamea hmaacl ad
.~.IUU~    a,artS.ae -IN     mal V.L       se6A.. (aaA.t t.al.l,                      rSmtelsasi. t g.mim. Nbmpela el.  acabil1.knmia           paimamccl  celled
sta0, sol0, Ial Shlam Sass.                                                                          I..a me a -   al.mscaa. imaa11tblcmet. jo-sfidL  plteealmnty  allefisam
e r, en    c -saimdad.  traM  bapillsi. b~eat   lmmdm Immceb ad
man.,psacaImle  al reUn -  sses  aaarea ..eacreses asmamatsai           mdtss  ra...sa  pare.smaam  .5. ld by, * Plieal-t (iam  by * -dL-ai
pp4eysa.jy~m ala.Lleac..   asts... asaeS m   sadleysa. .a.am                 a.eaaal.   ala.   Nt1f. mea)"l iSC fr    AP Sla  S-padeaamadaudams  ad
ad  eeaeb    l *t.aaiy . &Ilaga.  .1 .11 sa.5asaa  as. .emm                   .                P= .p.ata.al esmtte    atr .maceam  psmtass. -
jit.. a: sm tints.                                                                           Mpftfb jA5bfma    ar.  adalealman cm-   Itmaetam.
"O  ml. 1, 1%0. 19-1. -0 lwi ~~em.actimral  e.
ditlatast.tisasaa  at ara are .  at mime asse I ee. pat.. maa15sar:a..s.aiata                                              ee.a e           mi   aasm
flnithittaJiiii                 r4..tetrd141me 9 d                                   -   aemarf mmm  mr m. -I.    olw  nomm detrial. d  me nra   mr.tq. salisy
iie wrtIisIlow. ioa. ass as11s tes..aelm.              atre'alee.teasai. 4--aseit-,a. at.m'pessesrtarea
erct Paas- it.1 teed  -m        We se I. mmamme*edatee   e'.                               eamcma   .ai.   meat asmmtrlaleren-Ind 'a  casm  qaendr -   atm.ata
_as.. .   paraste t r reliprt -             la.  te_e  tire. mett                         mlsa. -a  amrmtmlsaamcaam
:-I.tasses     patmair. e.  mamst I.0 Ida astse  at L. b-m". slam
mmoe.earamaP.ma      ..c - m em   m ats. tdean     .    '-I-Isad i.s".pa.ilt aiaend .~tSTtf .iIZ3erasses   F-Pot. cms   ss                                    tl
PI-18 pocoa-     are .6 a t ta. ptia.   _48d W a  mm.aatts   *esSa                      ae  ae       a aa             tti               mmsm.  ttama
nsa.as   ca.msaaaal  maes   m  aemma    et "I       ra 0 e-trssa  mtmsc-aa  aameacaeALSuim  ea_am ca.l. tme. aga  a-ew
rsatam5a   rasal).i .mk m  epatatse  atetin  = .I. ma as-a- r  .am  djascd ta- tmmerss  i.the at Prt..,ucai.itn
be    t i  pastm   tlaastcle  a         tai   paaeams  eati  fa                   -e aty. maiea -&-aoaeiss r4-indtem   b.pca  a-P labe   a
dnls -s.s   .ae           - I.easma.rtrymaa  eta.tO        i  me   at  trata  ma-m.1 - astsmaas astaittsaSlg  smrmmas
tresS  sImaa     rpstae -tassi4             h.t itic  te   te. srcmsa  scmpys   s.t   t5 e  tpats   gtmra.swdma  Iatt. -p-da
Ia. usesleet im sue  setadielas tes ta. eariad  seer.    a%mautrmil maina-ed
a5 a  5  ay.iesu  ma  su tat   asassitede.sttta5ba       meaisaam  etassssaer.t-aa  ataaaaeri  tas4 ss  isesi-asc.-is
sitise.amsssaii  apamels e  st  raalaisaIs  im  ast3.  tat         tabe  atcsre, e.Iaatis,  a ats,tta.maaim   mytay
aim  sasias mteslane5mm.as-a. s  t.aea .. .aa .....   mas .                    maadti   ra   mstama  sadt  ssmtaa
kilo ut em                                                                           ma.esittem-mi.y  .sdt-   ettmm                         kmatat scrIsa  gs
taa.tsrist seautrartat. lttaasti - cbciata ti-It cas.atIa-mtiI.e-met1It.  latedimI.
cc  ant   a   estS  ci ase sd ati-  et.atat a aataa     teaamerta  ist te.            sasiaWei -tmaa -st  amasaptbs ase
Fatpyitesieaarse   t-M    .   Io-i                                                         et I  caRatm 6"ar sa"asa   mtasaa   - i   rysa   atsnis  e
rtaatnt5m.i,,ts.eai    aslema ial'.  tassaa  st                                                  as --   stem        .daale    ecpat aptisie .r..sem-
patpcFaia   li.Ia.mdIa   ss                                                               .ete    ilsetmrate
tna    F-t at(a  sassl-sas   aas  .  imtd.   a-as                                          eatastsaass   ssaml.T  saiasm  tstm 
::tamP   tieais    -       op~tt.stst;t.. aa tI.  . ea.... .asta   .ai.                       pa. me -d m , aitl   UMIpaaa  i-    tAr cII-..   mt
tame- "Plans  - ias  seas    'ataa    sa             -artaa  a   .,ptiatscs
-  ats e..astaeseast. er  tte,-sIe  at Itatas .                                r.-mtaanse
practttt.se  .a rats .5 ..aiastapaisain.. elI astmtd-su.   Per"e lane  Ate-
eepd-ala  as  at essslaamas sa-   Sct  sttsact-  a..         ama  as.    5ealmmassaaa   stastatst  reas  as. a  .sspcajet
eamttsas ..aaataaeteta .saas ma ss.ttaj pat seta  ada et-..~.  Parus wit ssmsaiera be eatlatlse  essautam.. 555.5. Wcr.. .sastms
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fwvt~ssltem       i   es    ctaae    satsm    tte    t   s
pet   mIsfa                                                                                neaWitit.lPtad-It ca
!aas  at sestp.st ta  ts  tsrcs   iss5-51iitl -  ies  .r   e'at.s  ala  tatraci- F..a.sasu  teas -paarsWea at .e.s saet ttea
sama  a...pmmaSa.  t-   .matps. Pads'e   asldsaa e-1.Z~as      ee   sr   .  sSe   us.    es 
teat s.d es m s..asaat  aet sass..   tasdiaa   sss  yta'asd   ss                     ata   sptms1            c atca   mitmaa  scaisdt
setea   aaada  aapimtm.er  edsa  e  naiaat ese   s..laa5t   matmc    lsmrtnsm sae.ttsaam                                                          srstt 
ete -casta  sldt.taama  tradariss  a    es  si                                          stere,-a                -a   atsess   se   srata    a.i
tea  sPasa.mit amtasadoa    ats.eat acn,ae.edttstMldt.
aZa. =mtmrsatesemea stta-it   sas.  si. Fe tPt,                                                                                                      nu'mcpata
P~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-    atsmme   '~irs   etaea  t,lsatt-Cssad'a                                                                 asm.rii   e  aqrde  as.ss,a    ss   as  ar   a



- 25 -
EgYPT - ECOOMISC 110205mm
populatien: 45.4 dllion (mid 1963)                                                                                                      ANM 1
W pew capitas US $700 ai (1963 dollars)                                                                                                 Pq  s4 of 6
U  at current                                 ANNUALROWTW  RATES 29                 ,
prices)                       ACTUAL                           UT.               PROJ2CT2D
1962/83      197J   1971          1       / MN-MM2 v u                193/435   L94516    l6/67   1957/8
KAnAeAL A
fars Om_etl  Product ei         27036.0        6.0    9.7       0.7       6.7        5.9       53         5.0        5.4       5.2        4.1
Agriculture                   5067.0        S.*    4.2       3.5       3.0        3.0       2.1        2.4        2.5        2.7       2.7
Indstry _1                    5359.0        11.0    7.9      7.4        7.3       7.5       5.2        5.4        5.5        5.3       4.4
Petrolem                      3413.0        22.0   10.3    16.9         6.1       7.1       9.9        5.2        9.5        9.9       4.7
S3,vica di'                  ID70.0        6.0   13.2    10.2          9.9       6.1       4.3        5.6        5.2        4.3       4.2
Coeu.tioa                       21434.0        4.4    9.3    10.7         7.5        5.5       3.0        3.8        5.6       6.2        3.5
*     Gross Investmnt                   6296.0       10.5   10.5       2.9      10.9        1.5      -4.5        3.5        1.9       2.3        1.3
orts of AWE                      7M55.0        3.1    0.6       9.5      10.1        4.3       9.1        5.5        7.7       6.1        5.3
Imports of GlM                  I1541.0        4.3   15.3       9.4       9.0        5.1      1U.7       -2.1        3.2       3.5        3.4
Gre. Nstioml heving              5555.0       23.4   -3.4    -4.6         4.1        -                    -          -         -
CDP Dufl-er                                   57.;.4   0.3    65.1       92.2      tO0         -          -          -         -          -
amcs   KRate d/                                 1.65    1.43    1.35       1.23      1.1       -          -          -         -
share of CP -at m*rket Prices (C)                            l e. (S) at Costat Price
'-t eirmc  c. 1                              1975 Priem   I913  PriU  e   1962163 Pric
1975  1979  196/   1931/2  1923  193I   19s7/33                 1970-1975      U75-V7          m3-m
Grosr Do-metic Product
- Agricultur                23.2  t9.9    19.2    16.5    16.7    15.9    17.9                  5.1            2.0            2.5
- tuduetry S Petroem  cl   26.6  34.1    35.1    33.4    32.5    31.3    34.5                   2.6           11.3            6.3
- services di'              42.7  41.2    40.3    42.7    43.4    44.3    46.9                  4.4           11.             4.9
C umptioen                  67.7  85.5    63.9    55.7    63.0    67.5    35.6                  J.0            7.7            5.3
eoe   v._t_                 33.4  32.3    29.3    30.4    30.7    26.2    23.6                  4.2            7.9            1.3
rXport of GCl               20.2  29.7    33.4    32.0    Z9.1    26.6    29.9                 22.3           10.2            7.1
Import of aws              41.3  46.3    46.6    46.3    42.7    44.          40.1             13.5           3.9             5.0
Cros. u._iel S.viu          13.2  21.6    19.2    15.3    20.5    17.0    13.4                  17.2          27.0
an S of cDa
1975   197S    t9i6I  1961Jt2               1963/35   1967/ U
7U6UC FINAMC
current _nevne               22.2   22.1      27.0      26.1      26.3     25.6      24.2
Current Ef_eiture           40.5    35.8      39.2      40.6      41.9     42.0      37.3
Curt Surplus (.) or
Deficit (-1               -13.3  -13.7    -12. Z    -14.5    -15.1    -16.4    -13.6
Zneet_L Eoedite              17.2   20.0      21.7      23.1     21.6      19.5      15.3
foreign Fiumacig              5.9    6.9       6.4       5.0       5.9      5.6       3.7
1970-75  1975-30 rF13-F16-
011a  IIDICAltS-
GW  Croch -ate (2)              5.0     11.5     4.3
CM per capitarouth
rat  (2)                      2.7     6.7      2.2
Euergy ceesmtiou growth
rate (2)                      5.3    13.6      3.5
ICOR                            -        3.f     3.1
erginhtl Saviq* note            -        0.46    0.12
Import cIeeLicity               1.7     0.9      0.9
*1  SBsed on WDVrd Book Attes methodology (tbre year -era,ge exch-age rate).
b  CP for 19WS/53 at current prices is valued at mrket price.  Suctoral shares and rerun of Xreoba camern CDG  at factor coat.
el mneufacLuring and MiLing. Ellecricity and Coa,trection.
Z dl  Distribetion mid Service Sector..
el weighted avrege of all current account itm  including transactioos. under the free mrket rate.
April 1985



- 26 -
ANNE I
WVPT  UW[TXRAL TNWX
Population- 45.4 million Caid 1963)
GNP per capitac 1867005C1983 dollars)
woisnt IMilliom)                 Annual Growth Iae (I) at Constant 1982153 Prices
018 at crant
p2rice.)                 ACTUAL                         SST.            P0 J        o CT
1982/83    1978    1979    10 u1 1/8          um/1    6lU    ~is        ai        m6187   877
OUTMlE TRAD
Nerehandise Exports            5251       o.6    19.2        7.6    12.2    -8.8       17.3      5.6      8.5      8.9      5.0
Primr y                     473      -30.6   -17.7    -15.2    15.2   -16.7    37.0           1.0      3.3      3.2     3.9
-   amanufccure s/             612       24.6    40.3    -16.7        1.9    13.8    20.4        7.0      7.0      7.0     7.0
-  Ptrolm El                  4166       21.9    71.2       16.6    13.4   -10.4    14.6         5.7      9.4      9.9     4.9
Harchandis  Imports            9651        7.1    14.8      10.6      5.2    -6.7    18.6    -2.9         3.1      3.5      3.2
- Food                        2395       27.6      2.2      21.0      4.1   -10.4    23.1   -13.8        4.0      4.0      3.8
-  Petroleum                   493        0.6    43.7       13.7    58.0    -2.2       11.0      7.2      7.1     6.7      5.9
- Nachinery and Equipment    3132        -2.6    27.2        9.1   -12.1    -1.1    -4.1         3.0     1.7      1.3      1.2
- Others                      3631        5.5    10.4        5.2    19.5    -9.4    29.2    -0.4         3.0      4.1      3.8
Prices
Export Price  ndoex                      66.4    86.8    109.5   100.4   100.0    96.4    91.S    94.8   103.8   113.8
Import Price lrdex                       51.4    92.4    105.0    100.3   100.0    9S.7    95.9    102.1   110.0   118.9
Terms of Trane Index                     81.6    93.9    104.3   l00.1   100.0    99.7    95.8    92.9    94.3    95.7
Composition of Narchandis- Trade (Z)   Average Annual Increase (2)
(at curremt prices)           at constent 1982/83 price.
1979   80/81   82/83   83/B&  87/U         78/F133    T83/1Ft8
Exports                                                                          7.1      8.9
urinary                        13.7      9.6    9.0   11.2    9.4          -10.2       8.9
NanufActureab/                  15.4    10.5   11.7   12.4   12.6           -U.7       9.6
PetroLetuJ                     70.9    79.9   79.3   76.5   78.0             19.1       8.8
Impars                                                                         b6.2      4.9
Food                           22.8    27.0   27.0   28.Z   24.7              5.4      3.6
Petroleum                       3.1      3.2    5.1    4.6    5.3            24.6       7.6
Machinery                      37.4    36.6   32.4   26.2   26.8              5.3      0.6
Others                         36.7    34.1   37.6   41.0   43.2              5.8      7.4
Share of Trade with        Share of Trade with                 Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (S)   Deueloping Countries (Z)         Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (S)
I_65  1970  1975  1981    1965  1970  1975  1981             1965    1970    1975   1981
DoiECrFiO  OF TUEM
Exports                  27.0  17.0  14.0  52.0   18.0  22.0  10.0  36.0                 1.0     1.0       4.0    3.0
Primary               Z9.0  19.0  18.0    -       17.0  22.0  11.0    -               -       1.0       3.0    -
Hanufactures           19.0  12.0   3.0    -      23.0  23.0   9.0    -              4.0      3.0       5.0     -
Imports                  55.0  42.0  65.0  75.0   18.0  25.0  14.0  13.0                 -        -        4.0    1.0
a/  lasd on ilorld lank Atlas mthodology (three year average exchange rote).
J/ Mot including oil and oil products.
c/  Includes foreign oil coanies' export.
Ainz1
April 19B5



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Pegs 6 of 6
ECGPT - IANCE OP PAIITS  EXTErNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
omillion USS at current price.)
~~~~~P  11 0 J E C T E D
1978   1979   19o01i   198U        1992  9B3/83     1983/84    19341J5    1985/86   1986/87    1987/tJ
NAANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of CGeds and lIbo-Factor
services                               4099    5401    7803      7962         7853       8487       8748        9788      11433      13052
- of which merchandise f.o.b.            255B    3987    5617      5779         5251       5935        5961       6674       7958       91b2
Imports of Goods and lon-Factor
Services                              -6612   -8781  -11404   -1166S        -11548     -13141      -12800     -14069    -15699      -17530
- of which merchandise c.i.f.           -5998   -7817  -10334   -10380         -9651     -11060      -10658    -11692    -13040    -14543
let Factor Income                         1098    1376    1190       [Si         952        1329        855        727        786        902
Net Private Trnsfers                       54       89      63        51          26         26          29         31         35         38
Current Accosnt Balance                  -1361  -1915   -2348    -3501         -2715      -3299       -3168      -3523      -3445      -3537
Private Direct Inestmnt                   387    1516    1036       1325         966        897        1014       1097       1182       1270
ItLT Loans end Crants (Net)               1141    1011    124        985        1546       2032        2091       2332       2347       2476
- official loans and grants               1028     749    1020      945         1257        1762       1762       1414       102        1914
- private                                 113      Z6Z     224       45          Z89        269         329        488        545        562
Other NLT Financing 3/                    305    -305      -e2       576          63        -17         -80        -70       -250      -370
Overall Balance 21                       -472    -307      150       615         140        389         143         164       166        161
Internatinal Reserves 23                 1504    1090    1697      2313         2381       2687         -          --        --          -
- of which gold                            104     104     103      775          578        757         --         -         -           -
Reserves as Months Imports Y              3.0      1.7     2.0      2.7          0.6        O.j         0.6        0.8       0.9        -
EXTUXUAL CAPITAL AND DES
Gross Disbursements                      Z758    2291    259f      3082         329        4164       4354        5052      533         5732
official Crants 51                     291       72     279      395          400        900        1000       1100       15         1175
Cancessional Loans                    1600     996    1301      W36           941        862         751        793       963        1091
- DMC                                  799     833    1103       900          785        697         621        641       779        871
- OPEC                                  93      43       69       28            0          0           7          0         0          0
- IDA                                   45       55      73       8S          136        142          72         53        35         24
- Others                               663      65       56        18          20         23          51         99        149        196
Plon-Concessional Loans                867    1223    W15       1653         1958       2402       2603        3159      3Z00        3466
- official export credits               44       50      83      185          146        162         14        135        8         63
- TUSD                                  57      lIo     154       111         120        204         196        248       2R6         330
- other multilateral                    18        5       4        la          19         17          16         10         14        19
- private                              748    1050      774     1339         1673       2037        ZZ47       2766      2811       3054
External Debt 6/
Debt outstanding and disbursed           9995   11596   13389    14730         15612      16672
- official                            8507    9554   10927    11932         12383      13273
- private                             1488    2042    Z462      2797         3229       3399
Undisbursed Debt                         4390    4629    5951      5013        4612        4327
Debt Service
Total Service Paywent                    1190    1246    Z081      2371         2890       3414
- interest (official KILT)             415     428      759      912        108        1180
- payment as 7 exports 7/             21.5    17.3    21.3      26.3         28.5       30.1
Average Interest Rate on lNe  LoEans      4.6     6.4      6.5      7.3          7.5        8.0
Average Maturity of New Loans (years)   27.9    24.5    19.5       16.9         14.4       14.7
1/ Ienluding special balance of payments financing and unallocated item.
2/   inus (-) indicates Accumulation of foreign assets.
3/ Foreign assets of Central Dnk.
6/ Merchandise only.
I/ ncluding speciat balsea of payments grants.
-1/ Excludes some banking system liabilities.
-/ Exports of goods end services (including worker's remittances) but not foreign oil compnies exports.
-';:               April 1985



P      e -of 2
TE SDW5 CF SAW aOw aGUwngE iN r,
A. D7TEKr OF PK LMU AND MA C.EMTS L/
(As of Matdc 1L, 19853
Am'ure w mil.ln US dollars
l.ouCrwlit    Approved      BwMNr        pburpa                                  (L41G caMneluati01s)
%mbers                                                                     DarBok    M%    Lb1isbUsed
32  _I"   andCtedics &ully diJiawd 21                                       603.4   358.0        -
Lu W239           76          APA        Alacari Port                        .5.0      -         8.8
Lu 2276-T 3/      76          ARE         nurit an Vegetable Omy.            50.0      -         10.8
Cr 637            76          ARE        Uppe Egypt IDcpe I           I        -     40.0         0.7
Ln 1285           76          ARE       tlp   Egypt Drhinqe II               10.0      -         6.1
EA 1369           77          AK         Aluxii Ibter Suply                  53.2      -         4.1
Cr 71g            77          ARE         Mile Dltau    u    it                -      27.0        0.8
Eat 1439          77          AU         Nile Delta Draine II                27.0      -          6.9
EIn 140-T 3Y      77          AUE       lMile Delta Dcaian    U1             12.0      -          3.0
Or 830            78          AE         Agricultuia Delcm                     -      32.0        1.3
Cr 831            78          AE         lbn Dewtp :                           -      14.0        2.5
Cr 850            79          AIx        Poaflaioa II                          -      25.0        9.6
Cr 868            79          ARE        Fduatix 11                            -     S0.U         7.8
LA S-14           79          AE         tbw VaLley Rw.ihte Ezgineriq
an Tedunjal Assistame            ILO       -         3.2
Cr 909            79          Am         lbwuim                                -     32.5        17.9
Cr 935            79          AURE       .9ioujxwhE1 Rhej  11rmalPw            -      37.0        2.1
Lu 1733           79           A         9-ub1sh El Uiea niml Par 4/  102.0            -        27.7
Cr 98S            80          ARE        Agrizxssuies                          -     45.0         7.2
Ln 1804 5/       80           D1B        DeWlapit lzxAsstlial Bz* IV         38A       -         0.5
Ln1842S/          80          ARE        NDD                                 28.9      -         17.3
La nI9           80           ARE        PulpaidPap                          50.0      -         13.2
La 1886           80          EA         POk   III                            7.0      -          3.4
Cr 1052           80          EU         POert ll                              -     120.0        9.2
Cr 369            81          AE         Ficatumn rI  1                        -     30.0        17.8
Cr 1083           81          ARE        [w LAd Dlavliqt 5/                    -     60.4        36.1
Cr1111            81          AU         Fish Faneii 1z51                    -        10.9        7.0
La 2002          81           HAMSaJ   Hldisolb lihabili'tUNi                64.0      -         58.0
Cr 15            81           ARE        Bleira Iter Supply 5/                 -     45.7        32.6
Cr 1162           8i          ARE        Tecdmical Asitre                      -      5.7         b.7
Eu 2041          82           AUE        Teleccamunications III              64.0      -         57.5
Li 2374           82          DEB        Dhplqpwt ImAtrial  1k V            120.0      -         32.4
Ein 2103         82           EaC        Abu Oir Cas Dvel t                  90.0      -        28.4
Ln 2176          82           AUE        Crer Cairn kHn DBevelIt            59.0      -        52.2
La 2183          83           AE         El Dikdeia Par                     132.0      -        129.9
La MO43          83           AUE        Agwoindnsries It                    81.2      -        69.8
La 2264          83           AU         'Iccatioug Triz                     38.0      -         37.5
LA 2270          83           ARE        Irrigation  piu  nCaion liub.    41.5         -        39.4
Lo 2280          83           AUE        El   hila Peidmc=i  nor            165.3      -        151.8
Lo 2330          83           AUE        Road  aintenane                     24.0      -        23.9
Li 2352          84           AlE         kter SxppLy ..d Sew.mge Mg.         4.0      -           .0
La 2458 6/       84           AUE        9_11Jbed. S1e kd.                 170.0      -
ii 2459 6/       84          Ah         bpt ltduatieo ltv.                 125.0      -
La 2460 6/       84           ARE        Conscruction  rtry                 100.0      -
La 1m8m  /        8.          EEA        Po.Wr II                            50.0      -
btals  em:aluliri 6/ & 7/)                                                1.920.9   923.2       967.1
Of which has bem mpsiud                                                     197.0     4.2
Tatal iu outstaoding                                                      1.723.9   919.0
Asii  sold                                      7.5
Of uh  ha been  paid                            7.5                                          *
Total ww held by Bark ml MR                                               1,723.9   919.0
ly e ststus of the Proects listed in Part A is described in a seuare report n all Bll?Az      finaned projects
in  COtion. whidh is updated tuice yearly and cietUted to the Butcui'e Dixetrt an April 30 and Orteber 31.
2/ 8rcbxd  3 credits fw ergi eirg 'Aidc were   Ae"xly zefimwed, ad a Ual1 tillion FM advawe ScEed
for tbe Ctumaer Caixn Urban Dawelq   Projct.
3/ trd WiaIdow LL
41 tbt ui luded is EC SpeialL Acrion Credit 20 of E*35.0 million equivelent.
51 Cedit _mted in M1ta    n    dhma is M  equivalea at tme of negocitims fer the MA amc                 and lEs
eivalent at Marth 31, J984 fo die undisbured a     .
61 Not uigad as of 3/31.85.
7/ Not effective.
4ril 29. 1985



- 29 -
AtNEX II
Fage Z of 2
EGYPT
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal
Year    Obligor                  Type of Business                  Loan     EquitynTotaL
76, 82  Arab Ceramic Company     Ceramic Industry                  6.63      1.11      7.74
78    Nile Clothing Company    Ready-Made Garment Industry       0.43     0.16       0.59
78    Delta Sugar Company      Agricultural Production,         20.00      3.51     23.51
mainly sugar
79, 83  Ismailia Misr Poultry    Food and Food Processing         12.07      2.29     14.36
Company
80, 81  Ismailia Fish            Food and Food Processing          3.45      1.05      4.50
Farming Company
80    Suez Cement Company      Building Materials               30.00        -      30.00
84    El-Dikheila              Iron and Steel                   95.20      7.20    102.40
81    Luxor Hotel              Crocodile Tourist Project         4.41     0.72       5.13
Total gross commitments                                          172.19    16.04    188.23
Less: Cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                             85.76      -       85.76
Total commitments now held by IFC                                 86.43    16.04    102.47
Total Undisbursed                                                 99.13     9.60    108.73
(including participants portion)



- 30 -
ANNEX III
(Page 1 of 2)
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
DRAINAGE V PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by agency to prepare project:       About 2 years
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:           Project Planning Department
and Drainage Authority with
assistance from FAO/CP.
(c)  First presentation to World Bank:              January 1984
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:                October 1984
Ce)  Completion of Negotiations:                    April 1985
(f)  Planned Effectiveness:                         October 1985
Section II - Special Bank Implementatinn Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) (i) Technical staff required for effective implementation and quality
control of project works and for O&M would be agreed with the Bank at
least six months in advance of each fiscal year and the required
additional number of civil and agricultural engineers would be provided
on a timely basis, and (ii) EPADP would fulfill such requirements through
the provision of necessary resources and facilities, including financial
incentives for the recruitement and retention of the staff (para. 67).
(b) Until the completion of the project, MOI and EPADP would provide to the
Bank for its comments (i) noL later than three months before the start of
the GOE's fiscal year, EPADP's annual implementation plan, indicating
work status, budgetary, equipment and staffing resources required and
available, and allocations in MOI's budget for drainage projects, and
(ii) the proposals for MOI's investment program in the drainage and
irrigation subsector (para. 69).
(c) GOE would (i) provide sufficient funding based upon the estimated cost
annually to EPADP for the proper operation and maintenance of drainage
facilities under the project, (ii) prepare, with the assistance of
experts, and provide to the Bank, by June 30, 1986, a plan for the
implementation of weed control trials, utilizing special plant, together
with controlled use of chemicals, and (iii) perform review of the results
of the trials (para. 71).



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) GOE would cause EPADP, in cooperation with its Ministry of Finance {i) to
provide to the Bank by December 31, 1986, an outline of the measures and
procedures to be adopted to improve the collection of field drainage
costs, indicating an estimate of the expected annual collection, (ii) to
take into account the comments which the Dank may offer on the methods
and procedures to be implemented for improving collection, and (iii) to
provide annually to the Bank a report reviewing progress made in such
collection and, if necessary, to make proposals for its further
improvement (para. 74).
b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



Alexandria                    Lok                        ,ra1                        1.5 
-                              -- -- P,                                                                        --~~~~~~~~~~-          r
7,,
-SErw ~ ~    ~      ~     ~      - 
lan@Ia  -:I
- Main DrainsDOM                                                                                             EVnra.   luWU 9
31.~~-                                                                                                                                                                             31 |D'myt
ARAa  REPUBai C OF  EGYPT               T                                                                                                         R   REPUBU.
GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT 10 YEAR PROGRAM \\11--s9}/>   
AND DRAINAGE V PROJECT                                  W5                       /!                                                                                ,i,  o
L O W E R   E G Y P T _ _ _                                                      ,     R                                                        r  G Y   _
Areas Cowted by 10 Y Ou ProgrOrami S                                             Q    ./ *-
ArkKs Covredir  by 0fainoge V Fro;K   ec\) PS  tflC    
_IkKsi Cowedo by Nile Delta I PrOject (IDA Project)               X\)        >      \,  /         
|kAeosCrrowebyNile Delta 11 Proliie tIDAuB kProjett) ' \   gC                                                                                                                       As 
t    Artos ProvedA wfith rie Dtrairsge wtith Govtnmmenl's own Rnourcn   i<\        V )          \        V- <itka 
keos tCovered by Integra ted Sail oel Water Improvemnent ProecKt                                                                                          32      .               & < v1JXtbtd
Drainage ono Soil Improvernent Prolecd (EEC Prol}1                      ssA 7c                  >>j)t
Drdiroge Basin Boundories   a 0       Towns antl Cities                                                              mo M i>\//trwttetr MM pvpt  *-
-  oi MdnhivootrCOSz          ,,,%_,o9'cwz7;tiel                                                                     rrbidettbr%Stacet                                     \    7
- -Main Drains                                                                                                        N$dk mI As G_WW hV* AV ft
Bornoges                                                                                'hm VW- of +                 *   Bt d     Ar W*                                          SAMi,   a
O Pumpir g Stations               M\WM   OCccuplod T nritevy}                                                            Cmpmkn  Tim dw   A                      IAR
7  on twr dont V    rm MMj  ARAB REPUBLIC
apest                    2lt tuzes                                                        , - CAlRO              rt,,"~,,,tttXttYs*ttb          =l    OF EGrF Cpp  OEY
.3 r                 o         0o   io      i KILOM^ETERS                                                                              WV et styw               30! of*  
|                                                                                ,-> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.heaL2                           x,,3
 tO' _ ~~~.0                                                                             3     O^Nr.-10



