Documenit of
The World Bank
FOR O0F1!aAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6030-BAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BARBADOS
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 27, 1987
Projeets Department
Latin America and the Carribean Regional Office
This docment hs a rstdcted disbuon and may be used by recipients only In the performnce of
thdr oflic dutes. Its ontes may not otberwise be d-xiesed without World Bank autoriaon.



CURRENCY mRUIVALENT
Currency Unit   Barbados Dollar (BDS$)
US$1.00                BDS$ 2.00
US$0.50     -          BD$$ 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASUkES
1 hectare (ha)            =      2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)          =      0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)  -      0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1, 000 kg --- (metric) ton -     0.98 l-ong-ton  - 1.-10 short ton
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATCO     -     Agricultural Trading Company Ltd.
BADC     -     Barbados Agricultural Development Corporation
BAS      -     Barbados Agricultural Society
BASIS    -     Barbados Agricultural Statistical Information System
BDB      -     Barbados Development Bank
BMC      -     Barbados Marketing Corporation
BNB      -     Barbados National Bank
BSIL     -     Barbados Sugar Industries Ltd.
CARDI    -     Caribbean Agricultural Research and Development Institute
CATCO    -     Caribbean Agricultural Trading Company
CBB      -     Central Bank of Barbados
CFC      -     Caribbean Food Corporation
EDF      -     European Development Fund
EEC      -     European Economic Community
FAD      -     Food and Agriculture Organization
ICF      -     Industrial Credit Fund (of the Central Bank)
IDB      -     Inter-American Development Bank
IICA     -     Inter-American Institute for Agricultural Cooperation
ISA      -     International Sugar Agreement
MAFF     -     Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries
MOFP     -     Ministry of Finance and Planning
USAID    -     United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF BARBADOS
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR O0MCIAL USE ONLY'
BARBADOSFD   m^USQN-
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   LOAN AND PROJECT SUMARY..................................              1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR......................                           4
Production Patterns.................   *                               4
Trends in the Agricultural Sector,**,,,,,,,, .............. .  4
Agricultural Potential and Constraints..........................  5
Institutional Support for Agriculture.-                                6
Government Objectives and Role i-n the Agricultural Sector.....*,,  7
The Bank's Strategy and Role in the Agricultural Sector..........   7
lIII  THE PROJECT* ......... 
Project Objectives .................         .                         8
Project   Dsrpin                                                       9
A.  Agricultural Sector Study...............                         9
B.  Development of Non-Sugar Cr                 o      p      s      9
Status of Project Preparation and Phasing...s           i ng......*........  10
Projeet Coet..............                                            1Q
Disbursement....b        u     r    s     e     m     e    nt.......... .............. ... .............. 12
Implementation ................ .                                     13
Accounts and Audit .........14
Progress Reporting .....14
Project Justification and Beee                    f    i    t    s   14
Environmental Impact....                                              15
Project Rssks     15
IV.  AGREEMENTS OBTAINED AND RECOMMENDATIONQ.........                      16
ANNEXES
P* THE PROJECT............oo..o.......o.o......................o.  18
Development of Non-Sugar                                              is..................................... -  18
(a)  Research, Extension and Marketingr k e t i ng.......o....o....... 19
(b)  Agro-Industries...r..- Idsr..oe...... o ...... o...... o...  o...    22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that
visited Barbados during September/October 1985.  The mission comprised
Messrs.: Hing (Leader), Haile-Mariam (Agricultural Economist), Marko
(Agriculturist) and Ms. Mitchell (Operations Assistant).
This document has a restrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Gontents (Cont.)
Page No.
Appendix 1:  The Agricultural Sector ...........................,.  25
Climate and Resource Base                                             25
Land Holdings and Use ...............                                 25
The Sugar Subsectoru....                                              26
Non-Sugar Sabsector .....                                             31
Institutional Framework                                               36
Appendix 2:
Terms of Reference - Agricultural Sector Study*......,.........  41
Appendix3.r.
A.  Terms of Reference - Technical Assistance for Research,
Extension and  M      a    r    k    e    t    i    n     g    43
B.  Terms of Reference - Agro-Industry Consultantsul.tant......   47
Appendix 4:
Table 1:  Project Ctst                                                48
Table 2:  Cost of Equipment and Other Inputs...................  49
Table 3:  Estimated Disbursement Schedule......,...........    50
2.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT.............                        51
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries (MAFF)AFF).......  51
The Industrial Credit       Fund                                      53
Appendix 1:  Industrial Credit Fund - Statement of Policies......  57
Appendix 2:  Industrial Credit Fund - Operating Proceduresooo....  59
3.   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS......................               62
The Bank's Development Strategy for Baboados    62
Justification for the Proposed P        r o j e c t    63
Benefits ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~64
4.   SELECTED DOCUWENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE ........  65
MLP: IBRD-20365.



BARBADOS
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Barbados.
Beneficiaries: (i) Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries (MAFF); and
(ii)  Industrial Credit Fund (ICF) in the Central Bank of
Barbados (CBB), and, through ICF, participating
financial intermediaries.
Amount:         US$4.00 million equivalent.
Terms:           15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:         The Borrower would make US$2.4 million of the Bank loan pro-
ceeds available as an equity contribution to CBB/ICF, which
would use it to discount loans for agro-industrial
sub-projects made by participating financial intermediaries.
Project:        (a)  Objectives:  The proposed project is designed to improve
the viability of Barbados' agricultural sector and help
diversify it away from sugar by: (i) assisting the
Government to define and implement a technically,
financially and economically sound agricultural sector
development strategy; and (ii) helping to increase
production of, and incomes from, non-sugar crops.
(b) Description: The proposed project would support the
production, processing and marketing of non-sugar crops
with proven commercial potential. It would build on
research concerning the technical and economic feasibi-
lity of non-sugar crops and extension efforts begun
under the Bank's FY82 Technical Assistance Project
(Loan 2115-BAR). More specifically, the proposed
project would provide 67 man-months of consultants'
services, overseas fellowships, equipment and materials
to strengthen MAFF's research and extension activities
and provide credit funds for agro-industrial ventures.
It would also provide for an agricultural sector study
involving both the sugar and non-sugar subsectors, and
crop diversification policies.



(c)  Benefits:  The proposed project, over the medium to long
term, would lead tu improvements in farmers' incomes,
together with gains in Barbados' balance of trade.  The
main direct project beneficiaries, due to the country's
present agricultural structure, would be the larger
farmers who already produce sugarcane and can produce
tradeable surpluses in potential alternative crops,
including cotton, onions, vegetables, peanuts and
flowers. However, smaller growers of these crops would
also be assisted through dissemination of appropriate
production technology-and marketing support.
(d)   Risks:  The main project risks are:  (i) the inherent
- diffTiculties in attempting to diversify out of sugar in
an economy where sugar has been predominant for many
years; (ii) constraints associated with attracting pri-
vate investment into non-sugar crops and agro-indus-
tries, and with developing profitable markets for their
output, domestically or overseas; and (iii) a danger of
pests for expanded cotton production. These areas would
be a focus of the proposed project consultants' work.



-3-
Project C0ot:                                     Local      Foreign   Total
-  -(USS  mlllion)-Z-
Agricultural Sector Study                          -           0.2      0.2
Development of Non-Sugar Crops
Technical Assistance & Associsted Inputs           0.4         1.3       1.7
Agro-Industrial Credit                             1.3         2.4      3.7
Base Cost                                     1.7        3.9       5.6
Contingencies                                0.1-        0.1       0.2
Total Project Cost                            1.8        4.0       5.8
Financing Plan:
Government                                    0.          -        0.5
Proposed Bank Loan                             -         4.0       4.0
Financial Intermediaries                     0.3          -        0.3
Contribution by Subborrowers                  1.0         -        1.0
Total                                         1.8        4.0       5.8
=M_                    _
Estimated
Disbursements:                           Bank Fiscal Year
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993   1994
- 5~~US$ million)-                           - 
Annual               0.5   0.6   0.8   0.7   0.7   0.4   0.2    0.1
Cumulative           0.5   1.1   1.9   2.6   3.3   3.7   3.9    4.0
Economic Rate
of Return:   N.A. (ref. para. 3.21).
Appraisal
Report:   No. 6030-BAR, dated January 27, 1987.
Map: IBRD-20365.



-4
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Produ,-tion Patterns
2.01      Barbados is a coral island overlain by shallow soils that are prone
to erosion if not under permanent vegetative cover. It has a total area of
about 430 km2 and a cultivable area of about 24,000 ha; around 19,000 ha are
currently cultivated and the remaining 5,000 ha are either scrub or grazing
area. There are about 150 estates with holdings of over 10 ha-and another
150 holdings of 2-10 ha that are farmed full time. In addition, it is esti--
mated that 10,000 people farm mixed cash crop/subsistence areas of 2 ha or
less to supplement their income from other sources. Estates above 10 ha
account for about 80% of sugar production and over 70% of the total produc-
tion of non-sugar crops; farms of 2-10 ha produce about 5% of sugar and about
20% of non-sugar crops, and smallholders the remainder. Data on farm size,
areas planted and production should, however, be treated with caution,
because of the amount of land that has gone out of production since the last
census (1971) and the lack of systematic data collection, especially on
smallholder farming.
Trends in the Agricultural Sector
2.02      The relative weight of agriculture in the economy has declined over
recent years in terms of both its contribution to GDP and foreign exchange
earnings. The agricultural sector's share of GDP, about 10% in 1976,
declined to about 7% in 1983 and 1984. Within agriculture, the importance of
sugar has been declining, accounting for 60% of agricultural GDP in 1976 but
around 43% in 1983; in that year, non-sugar crops accounted for about 29% of
agricultural GDP, and livestock and fisheries 14% each. Likewise, agricul-
tural exports have declined from 48% of total exports in 1976 to 14% in 1984,
mainly due to a large increase in manufacturing exports and a fall in sugar
exports.  Exports of sugar and molasses, valued at US$30 million in 1984,
accounted for 10% of total exports in that year, down from 42% in 1976.
Other agricultural exports have remained at around 5% of total exports.
2.03      The agricultural sector employed an estimated 9,400 people in 1984
(or about 10% of the total labor force), down from 14,000 in 1970 and from
over 20,000 in the 1960s.  Young people are reluctant to seek employment in
agriculture, due to their perception of more attractive employment opportuni-
ties in the tourism and manufacturing industries. As a result, agricultural
labor has become scarce and expensive, despite the country's overall high
unemployment rate (20%). Moreover, the average age of the agricultural labor
force is high, with more than 60% over 50 years of age.
2.04      Although declining in importance, sugarcane remains Barbados'
single most important crop. The area harvested dropped from approximately
20,000 ha in the 1960s to about 14,000 ha in 1983/84. The corresponding
decline in sugar production has been from the record of over 200,000
tons p.a. during the 1960s to a low of about 86,000 tons in 1983, but reco-
vered to around 100,000 tons in 1984 and 1985. Cane yields have been satis-
factory, averaging 59 toQs per hectare over the past eight years, and sugar
yields good (averaging 11%).



2.05      The reduction in sugar production has not, however, translated into
corresponding increases in the area planted to non-sugar crops. The area
under such crops has in fact remained fairly steady at around 2,500-3,000 ha
over the past few years, but reached nearly 3,500 ha in 1985. The cropping
pattern is changing, however, with declil-ing production of root crops and
increased production of vegetables and cotton. This is partly in response to
changes in the local consumption pattern: consumption of traditional root
crops (yams and sweet potatoes) declined from 11,800 tons in 1980 to 7,460
tons in 1983, but imports of white potatoes have increased from a negligible
amount to about 9,000 tons a year. For other vegetables, mostly onions,
imports of over 2,300 tons in 1980 have declined to 1,600 tons in 1983.
Agricultural Potential and Constraints
2.06      The Sugar Subsector.  Despite its present difficulties, the sugar
subsector remains vital to Barbados. It still earns a significant amount of
foreign exchange. There is, moreover, no alternative large-scale crop suited
to local conditions of climate, soils and topography. The main issue for the
subsector is its declining profitability, caused by both external and
internal factors. External factori derive from the fact that most of the
sugar is exported (less than 13% is consumed locally) and the bulk is paid
for in sterling (going to the UK through its EEC quota). Since Barbados'
currency is tied to the US dollar, until recently revenues declined as
European currencies depreciated against the dollar. In 1985, the average
price for Caribbean sugar under the EEC quota was about US 16 cents per lb.
Moreover, the world price of sugar declined, from an average of US 8.3 cents
per lb in 1983 to around US 3.0 cents per lb in early 1985. It rebounded to
around US 8.0 cents per lb in early 1986. According to the Bank's Commodity
Division, the world price in 1990, in constant 1984 dollars, is forecast to
be around US 14 cents per lb. Production above the approximately 100,000
tons of sugar equivalent, required to meet Barbados' domestic demand and
preferential quotas, would be highly unprofitable if free market prices
continue near their present level. The main internal factor contributing to
declining profitability is the rising production costs, mainly the high cost
of labor. While there should be room for further mechanization, it is
constrained by problems of soil compaction and uneven terrain. Barbados is
now among the dozen most costly sugar producers in the world. The small
profit (US$25 equivalent) per ton ot sugar ir 1980 had turned into a large
loss (over US$200 equivalent) by 1983. The accumulated debts of both the
growers' association (Barbados Sugar Industries Limited, BSIL) and estate
owners had reached US$65 million equivalent by 1984, including about
US$10 million of bonds, underwritten by the Go .rnment, to finance a sugar
price support scheme.  In addition, the Government has recently made a grant
of US$5 million to the industry.
2.07      In the light of the above developments, there is an urgent need to
review the present and future status of the sugar subsector and determine its
most economic size; to recommend measures for dealing with the accumulated
debts of growers and BSIL; and to recommend crop rotations that can help
improve agricultural incomes. The review should examine the outlook for
sugar markets and prices while considering alternative production activities,
and would assist the Government in defining a balanced-agricultural strategy.



-6-
2.08.     The Non-Sugar Subsector.  Barbados is seekirfg to increase the
variety of non-sugar crops and to raise production, both by expanding the
area planted and by Increasing yields., It is focusing on crops such as
cotton, vegetables and flowers for which export tarkets may be found, and
import substitution crops such as onions and peanuts. The Ministry of
Agriculture, Pood and Fisheries (MAFF) has done some crop budgeting and
progress has been made in developing techniques for growing non-sugar crops
(part. 2.15); under the proposed project, MAFF intends to finalize its work
concerning the economics of producing these crops. Increased production of
vegetables will depend mostly on export markets, since local demand is
largely met at current production levels.
2.09      Diversification efforts have to overcome both production and mar-
keting constraints.  Natural constraints on production include Barbados' poor
and erosion-prone soils and unevenly distributed rainfall, while technical
constraints include disease problems for crops such as cotton, onions and
white potatoes. Marketing within the country is constrained by the fragmen-
ted nature of the marketing system, and the recurring shortages and gluts on
the market. For onions, this is less of a problem, with plantings now stag-
gered over several months. For peanuts, once the crop Is sufficient to meet
the country's total annual demand, the lack of storage capacity will be a
problem because of the seasonal harvest but year-round demand for peanuts.
For cotton, there is a guaranteed export market in Japan at an attractive
price, but Barbados does not have the ginning capacity to handle the in-
creased production as foreseen by the Government. The six gins now in opera-
tion are sufficient to handle about 2,000 tons of seed cotton, but plans to
expand the cotton area to 800 ha within 2-3 years and ultimately to 2,000 ha
would probably require about a doubling of the total ginning capacity.
Institutional SuLport for Agriculture
2.10      Responsibility for the sugar subsector has receatly been assumed by
MAFF (formerly it came under the Ministry of Finance and Planning, dOFP).
Development and production of the sugar subsector are, however, largely in
the bands of the growers' organization, BSIL, which also owns and operates
Barbados' six sugar factories. As a result of recent low sugar prices and
mounting costs, BSIL had an accumulated deficit of over US$30 million in
1984. BSIL receives government support through a price support program begun
in 1982.
2.11      For the non-sugar subsector, MUAF provides research and extension
services and plays a regulatory role in areas such as quarantine and soil
conservation. Marketing is mainly in the hands of the private sector. How-
ever, several government or government-supported institutions are also in-
volved in marketing. The Barbados Marketing Corporation (BMC), a statutory
corporation supervised by MAFF, was the main trading agency until the early
1980s, when it was reorganized after incurring substantial losses. BMC now
provides market intelligence to farmers and explores new export markets, but
despite varied sources of income, including a monopoly on importing chicken
parts, its high administrative costs cause it to continue to operate with a
small deficit, The Agricultural Trading Company (ATCO), which is run by a
growers' association, assumed most of BMC's wholesale and retail operations,
including grading and packing for domestic and export markets. It also



operates at a loss.  Neither BMC nor ATOO is sufficiently commercially
oriented to take a leading role in the proposed project, which would be
private-sector oriented. The Caribbean Agricultural Trading Company (CATCQ)
Is a regional marketing institution formed in 1981 with the objective of
increasing agricultural trade in the region. Although based in Barbados,
CATCO is owned by regional governments and private interests; it is run under
a management contract with an expatriate firm. It has had some success in
exporting small volumes of produce frow Barbados and has negotiated favorable
air freight rates to the UK and USA. CATCO would very likely be one of the
exporting agents for vegetables and flowers produced under the proposed
project.
2.12      Credit to agriculture is mainly provided by the Barbados National
Bank (BNB), a government institution. Only one commercial bank provides
significant amounts of agricultural credit. Credit for agro-industries comes
from commercial banks and the Barbados Development Bank (BDB), a
Government-owned bank that specializes in loans to small and medium-sized
borrowers in industry and tourism. In addition to their own resources,
commercial banks and BDB have access to funds through discounting qualified
subloans with the Industrial Credit Fund (ICF), which was established in the
Central Bank oJ Barbados (CBB) under the Bank's Industrial Credit Project
(Loan 2260-BAR).
Government Objectives and Role in the Agricultural Sector
2.13      The Government's overall objectives for the agricultural sector
involve rationalization of the sugar subsector while exploring and
implementing options for agricultural diversification. The Government
expects the sugar industry to continue as a major earner of foreign exchange,
despite its recent poor performance. Diversifieation is viewed as a
complementary activity, to increase agricultural production and income,
improve Barbados' self-sufficiency in food crops, and reduce the traditional
emphasis on sugar. The Government will continue to play an important role in
applied research, extension and marketing and intends to strengthen its
institutional capability in these areas. It also plans to promote the
establishment of agro-industries needed to support agricultural
diversification.
The Bank's Strategy and Role in the Agricultural Sector
2.14      The Bank's development strategy for Barbados focuses on the
country's need to strengthen its institutional capacity in key sectors and
provides for Bank support for projects in these sectors, with substantial
technical assistance components. Agriculture has been one of these key
sectors.
2.15      The Bank's support of institutional development in agriculture
began under the FY82 Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2115-BAR);
implementation of the agricultural component of the project was completed by
the end of 1985. About 140 man-months of consultant services were provided
in areas such as extension methodology, vegetable production, irrigation and
marketing. As a result of that project, the research and extension functions
under MAFF have been reorganized and strengthened, MAFF staff have been
upgraded through on-the-job training by the consultants and overseas



fellowships, and progress has been made in developing techniques for growing
selected non-sugar crops. Research and extension focused on production
packages for vegetables, including onions, peanuts and cotton, and work has
already begun on the cultivation of flowers.  However, more work needs to be
done to consolidate efforts initiated under the previous project (by com-
pleting work on technical packages, e.g. harvesting techniques for peanuts
and pest control for cotton), to expand the range of crops, especially
vegetables and flowers, covered under the project, and to disseminate more
widely the results of that project. In addition to new Bank lending, work
which has already begun to identify sources of supplementary nutrition for
livestock may continue under a proposed IDB livestock project, and research
on fruit production is being carried out by the European Development Fund
(EDF) and the Inter-American Institute for Agricultural Cooperation (IICA).
2.16      Under the Bank's Industrial Credit ProJect (Loan 2260-BAR, signed
in April 1983), US$10.5 million equivalent was provided to the CBB for
onlending for industrial subprojects, including agro-industries. It is
likely that all credit funds will be ccimuitted by December 1986, one year
before the closing date. The proposed project would complement the
Industrial Credit Project in supporting agro-industries and would use the
same institutional arrangements for extending credit to subborrowers.
III. THE PROJECT
3.01      The proposed project was prepared with the assistance of FAO and
was appraised during September/October 1985. The role of the Bark under the
proposed project would be to assist the Government in developing an
agricultural strategy and in implementing agricultural diversification within
a coordinated framework. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. during
May 1986. The delegation from Barbados was led by Mr. Clifton Maynard,
Permanent Secretary, MAFF.
Project Objectives
3.02      The project would help to improve the long-term viability
of Barbados' agricultural sector and diversify it away from sugar by:
(a) assisting the Government to define and implement an agricultural
development strategy, which would be technically feasible and
financially and economically sound, and have an appropriate balance
between the sugar and non-sugar subsectors; and
(b) increasing the production of and income from non-sugar crops.
To help achieve the above objectives, the project would include: an
agricultural sector study; strengthening of research, extension, and
marketing services; and provision of credit for agro-industries to develop
non-sugar crops.



Project Description
A. Agricultural Sector Study
3.03      About 18 man-months of consultant services would be provided to
complete an agricultural sector study.  Because of its traditional
importance, the study would give particular attention to the sugar subsector,
looking at the domestic market, Barbados' preferential quotas in
international markets, and possible free market price trends. However, due
to the recent decline in the profitability of sugar and the Government's
objective of diversification as a means of improving the income of farmers,
practically all of whom are sugar producers, an important aim of the study
would be to consider alternative production options. In doing this, the
study would review Barbados' experience with diversification thus far, taking
into account information on technical production constraints (drawing on
experie-ace under Loan 2115-BAR) and on existing and potential markets for the
islad's non-sugar crops. The study would reach broad conclusions on the
area that should remain under sugar and the extent to which diversification
is feasible and de,irable, particularly in view of the erosion-prone soil of
Barbados that lends itself more to the production of perennial crops such as
sugarcane.
B.  DeveloMent of Non-Sugar Crops
3.04      The project would provide inter alia technical assistance and
credit funds for the production and covmercialization of commodities
identified under the Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2115-BAR) as good
prospects for diversification, viz. cotton, flowers, vegetables, peanuts and
onions. Specifically, it would provide:
(a) 44 man-months of consultant services, overseas fellowships,
equipment and materials to support research, extension and
marketing for the non-sugar subsector; and
(b) agro-industrial credit, for establishing the facilities needed to
handle non-sugar crops, and 5 man-months of consultant services to
help in setting up agro-industries.
3.05      Research, Extension and Marketing.  Continuing on the work of the
previous Technical Assistance Project (para. 2.15), the consultants would
complete work on vegetable production, mechanized farming and irrigation;
increase the emphasis on farm economics and budgeting, cotton production, and
marketing; and initiate work on the commercial aspects of flower production.
Specifically, consultants would work: (a) with MAFF's technical staff in
further developing production packages for vegetables, flowers and cotton, as
well as advising on the mechanization and farm economics of those crops
(28 man-months of services); and (b) with MAFF and with marketing agencies in
identifying and promoting export market opportunities for non-sugar crops and
improving domestic marketing systems (12 man-months of services). Terms of
reference for these 40 man-months of consultancy services have been agreed.
The remaining 4 man-months of short-term assignments would be used to provide
additional assistance for these or other activities, as agreed with the
-5 .



-10-
Bank.  In addition to its current staff, MAFF would recruit four qualified
counterpart staff to work with the consultants: two in cotton, and one each
In flowers and agricultural machinery operation and maintenance. The project
would also provide about 100 man-months of short-term overseas fellowships,
as well as vehicles, machinery, equipment and materials for research and
field demonstrations (e.g. of mechanized production and harvesting
techniques).
3.06      Agro-Industrial Credit.  Credit funds under the project would be
onlent to provide the storage and processing facilities needed to handle
non-sugar crops.; Three undertakings have already been identified: cotton
gins; onion and peanut cleaning, drying and storage facilities; and an export
marketing complex for vegetables and flowers. Others may be identified
during implementation. Funds would be onlent by CBB/ICF, which would
discount 90% of qualified subloans of commercial banks and BDB, in amounts-
not exceeding 70% of the cost of new individual subprojects and 80% of the
costs of expansion projects (these terms are the same as under Loan 2260-BAR,
ref. para. 3.16). The 90% discount would ensure that the intermediary bank
would contribute 10% of the subloan funds; the financial intermediaries would
also bear the risk of non-repayment of subloans. As new ventures are consid-
ered more risky than the expansion of existing enterprises, the subloan
amount would be a maximum of 70Z of the investment cost for new ventures.
Subloans could include working capital. Subborrowers would be private sector
institutions (such as growers' associations and/or private entrepreneurs) or
mixed companies with a minimum of 20% private sector participation and plans
for the Government to divest its holding within a reasonable period. The
subborrowers should be capitalized with at least 30% equity and at most
70% debt. Consultants (5 man-months) would advise MAFF and potential inves-
tors on organizational models and on policies and incentives that have proved
successful in establishing and running agro-industries in other countries.
Status of Project Preparation and Phasing
3.07      The project would be implemented over six years.  Terms of refer-
ence for the agricultural sector study, the agro-industrial consultants, and
the agricultural diversification consultants were agreed with the Government
during negotiations (para. 3.15). Contracts for technical assistance are
expected to be agreed during the first project year and would be completed by
the second project year. Subloan applications for agro-industrial invest-
ments are expected to be taken up early in the second year of the project.
Project Cost
3.08      The total project cost is estimated at about US$5.8 million
equivalent, including taxes and duties amounting to US$0.3 million or 5% of
project cost; the foreign exchange component would be US$4.0 million, or 69%
of the total project cost. The base cost estimates were calculated using
mid-1986 prices and include expected price increases over the implementation
period, based on projected inflation rates, amounting to about
US$0.2 million, or 3% of the total base cost. Price increases were computed
using the Bank's projections for international inflation rates. Project
costs do not include physical contingencies.



- 11-
Financing
3.09      The proposed Bank loan of US$4.0 million would finance 100% of the
foreign exchange cost, or 73% of total project costs net of taxes and du-
ties. The balance of project costs, including taxes and duties, would be
financed as follows: (i) US$1.0 million equivalent, or 17%, by subborrowers
for agro-industrial subprojects; (Ui) US$0.3 million equivalent, or 5%, by -
financial intermediaries; and (iii) US$0.5 million equivalent, or 9%, by the
Government. The Government-would be the borrower and would bear the foreign
exchange risk. As under the Industrial Credit Project (Loan 2260-BAR), the
Rank financing of US$2*4 million for agro-industrial credit would be passed
by the Government to CBB/ICF as an equity contribution.
Procurement
3.10      Consulting services, totalling 67 man-months, would be obtained
through international recruitment in accordance with Bank guidelines. Vehi-
cles and equipment required for the research and extension technical assist-
ance would be procured through competitive bidding following local procedures
acceptable to the Bank.  The small amounts to be purchased and the phasing
over three years would be unattractive to firms not locally represented in
Barbados. For the agro-industrial subprojects, of which about six are
expected, the procedures used for the Industrial Development Project
(Loan 2260-BAR) would be followed, whereby financial intermediaries and
CBB/ICF would satisfy themselves that procurement items were suitable for the
respective subprojects and reasonably priced, and that beneficiaries had
canvassed the main sources of supply and were purchasing from the most
cost-effective source.   Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 3.1.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that it
would follow procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.01
(a) (i)).



12-
Table 3.1: Procurement Arrangements
(TTSS million)
Procurement Method
Project Element           ICB     LCB      Other    N.A.* 1  Total Cost
Credit for Agro-industrv   -        -      3.7       _          3.7
(2.4)                (2.4)
Equipment, Materials       -        0.8     -        -          0.8
snd Vehicles                      (0.6)                       (0.6)
Consultant Services        -        -       -       1.0         1.0
and Training                                      (1.0)       (1.0)
Local Staff Salaries       -        -       -       0.3         0.3
and Expenses                                       (-)         (-)
Total                      -       0.8    3.7       1.3         5.8
(0.6) 7(2.)    (v?)         (i4:?)
Notes: (1) Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed
by the Bank. (2) 'Other' procurement orocedures consist mainly of
subborrowers canvassing the main sources of supply aud purchasing from
the most cost-effective source.
a/   Not applicable.
Disbursement
3.11      The proposed Bank loan of LTS¢4.0 million would be disbursed over
seven years, based on the disbursement profile for agricultural credit pro-
lects in the Latin America and Caribbean Reaion. However, the profile has
been modified to allow for: (a) the initial disbursement of USSO.25 million
into the Special Account expected soon after the loan has become effective;
and (b) rapid disbursements for technical assistance, which would be made on
the basis of contracts to be executed during the first two years of the
project. All disbursements would be against statements of expenditure; the
documentation would be retained by the implementing agency and made available
to Baak,staff duriug supervision.  Disbursement would be made at the rate of
100% of the cost of consultants, overseas fellowships and export promotion
activities (US51.0 million); 90% of subloan amounts discounted by CBB/ICF
(USS2.4 million); and lno% of the foreign exchange cost and 80% of the local
cost of vehicles, equipment and supplies financed uader the project
(USS0.6 million).
3.12      To facilitate availability of funds, duriag negotiations assurances
were obtained from the Government that it would establish and maintain a
Special Account in the CBR, with an authorized allocation of US¢o.25 million,
to cover the Bank's share of all eligible expenditures under the loan
(pars. 4.01 (a) (ii)). Replenishments of the Special Account would be made
upon receipt and approval of the Borrower's withdrawal applications for
amounts totalling about $100,000 or more.



- 13-
Implementation
3.13      MOFP would have overall responsibility f or the project.  However,
the proiect would be implemented by MAFF and CBB|ICF, as summarized below.
The Bank would sign a Project Agreement with CBB. Each implementing agency
is capable of undertaking its role in implementing the project.
3.14      MAFF's Planning Unit would be responsible for the agricultural
sector study. In carrying out the study, the consultant would work closely
with representatives of MOFP, MAFF, BSIL, and BNB, the main creditor of the
sugar estates. MAFF's Technical Division, through the Chief Agricultural
Officet, would be responsible for coordinating the work of the consultants an
agricultural diversification and agro-industries, as well as for organizing
export promotion activities and selecting candidates for overseas
fellowships.
3.15      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it would: (a) issue terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, for
consultants to be hired by MAFF for the agricultural sector study, for agri-
cultural diversification, and for agro-industries; (b) employ consultants,
with qualifications acceptable to the Bank, to enable effective implementa-
tion of the agricultural sector study, the agricultural diversification
activities, and promotion of agro-industries under the project; (c) recruit
four additional technical officers before the contract for the agricultural
diversification consultants begins; and (d) submit the report on the agricul-
tural sector study to the Bank for review and comment by December 31, 1987
(para. 4.01 (a) (iii)).
3.16      CBB/ICF would discount subloans made under the proposed project by
commercial banks and BDB (para. 3.06). Lending terms and conditions would be
substantially the same as those used under the Industrial Credit Project
(Loan 2260-BAR), which are that: (a) funds for capital irvestment would be
onlent in local currency for up to 15 years, including up to three years of
grace; (b) the CBB/ICF discount rate would be fixed at 2 points below the
commercial banks' weighted average prime rate and adjusted periodically (cur-
rently it is 10-12%, which is positive); (c) interest r-tes in Barbados would
be reviewed at least annually by the Bank and CBB to determine the appro-
priateness of these rates as the basis for CBB/ICF lending rates under the
project, and if no agreement is reached, the Bank would be authorized to
refuse new subloan commitments; (d) the financial intermediaries would not be
restricted by any ceiling on lending rates (spreads currently average about
3.5%, depending on the subproject), and would bear the credit risk; and
(e) subloans for working capital, up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000,
would be for a maximum period of 5 years, including up to 2 years of grace.
The financial intermediaries would be responsible for appraising subprojects
in accordance with the guidelines issued by ICF, and for making and
administering all subloans. CBB/ICF would review the project appraisals.
Subloan applications above US$250,000 equivalent or for mixed company
subborrowers would be sent to the Bank for approval. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from CBB that the lending terms and conditions under
the proposed project would be substantially the same as those under the
Industrial Credit Project, Loan 2260-BAR (para. 4.01 (b) (i)). A condition
of effectiveness would be the signing of a subsidiary financing agreement
between the Government and CBB/ICF, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.02).



- 14-
Accounts and Audit
3.17      MAFF and CBB/ICF would establish and maintain separate accounts for
the project activities for which they are responsible. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government and CBB that: (a) the project
accounts, including statements of expenditure would be audited annually by
auditors satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) e it reports on the project
accounts would be forwarded to the Bank within six months of the close of
each fiscal year, beginning with the year ending March 31, 1987, for MAFF,
and the end of the first such year when disbursements are made for CBB/ICF
(para. 4.01 (a) (iv) and (b) (ii)).
Progress Reporting
3.18      MAYF an& CBB/ICF would prepare annual progress reports on the
project activities for which they are responsible. The information to be
included in the reports and the format for presenting the data would be
discussed with the first supervision mission.
Project Justification aud Benefits
3.19      The project would improve the medium- and long-term viability of
the agricultural sector by assisting the Government to formulate a
technically, financially and economically sound agricultural development
strategy. As such, it would contribute to the Bank's development strategy
for Barbados. The proposed agricultural sector study would help the
Government to define a more appropriate balance between the sugar subsector
and non-sugar crops, by determining the most economic size of the sugar
Industry and assessing Barbados' comparative advantage in the production of
various non-sugar crops and associated products. Continued diversification
should lead to improvements in the agricultural balance of trade, both
through import substitution and through the export of non-sugar crops. The
findings of the study should provide the Government with a sound basis for
aligning price policies in support of Barbados' comparative advantage, so
that subsidies in the sugar subsector may be reduced, with a beneficial
impact on the Government's finances. Rationalization of agricultural
policies would also be expected to lead to improvements in farmers' incomes,
particularly over the medium to long term.
3.20      The project would bring impetus to implementation of the diversifi-
cation program already underway. Based on the work accomplirhed under the
Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2115-BAR), it would help to finalize the
development of technical production packages for non-sugar crops, investigate
their financial and economic viability, and disseminate the results to
farmers. In order to ensure a coordinated approach to diversification, the
project would provide financial and technical assistance to help establish
the agro-industrial facilities needed to process and distribute the crops.
In this way, the project would help to increase the production of, and income
from, non-sugar crops. Owing to the present agricultural structure in
Barbados, the main project beneficiaries would be the larger farmers who can
produce a tradeable surplus in the crops being promoted: vegetables, cotton,
onions, peanuts and flowers. However, smaller full-time farmers and
part-time farmers producing these crops would also benefit from the



- lS-
dissemination of appropriate production technology and marketing support.
According to a 1977 estimate, 23% of the rural population in Barbados earned
below US$484 per capita. Since this group probably comprises very small
growers who farm part-time for domestic consumption only, they would be
unlikely to benefit directly from the production assistance provided under
the project. Lower-income groups would, however, benefit from-employment
creation through agro-industrial development.
3.21           It is not possible to calculate an economic or financial rate
of return for the proposed project because: (a) the impact of the technical
assistance for diversification cannot be quantified; and (b) agro-industrial
subprojects would only be appraised during project implementation, but their
approval would be subject to satisfactory analysis and projections of finan-
cial and economic rates of return.  In view of these factors, the
justification for the project has been primarily based on its likely con-
tribution to the development and implementation of an appropriate
agricultural strategy. It is estimated that with attainment of the project
objectives, the potential export revenues from cotton, vegetables and
flowers, and the possible savings in foreign exchange from import
substitution by domestic production of onions and peanuts would be about
US$30 million per year. Of this amount, it is foreseen that the export of
cotton and flowers could each contribute about US$11 million.  Further
savings are expected as a result of rationalizirng the sugar industry, based
on the recommendations of the agricultural sector study.
Environmental Impact
3.22       As Barbados is a coral island with a shallow soil cover, the main
environmental hazard associated with diversification is erosion.  This limits
the extent of diversification and the types of crops that can be planted,
since except for tree crops, it will be necessary to rotate annual crops with
perennial ground cover such as sugarcane or pasture. The consultants working
on both the diversification component and the sector study under the proposed
project would investigate viable cropping patterns.  The packing and proces-
sing plants envisaged under the agro-industrial component would involve ro
effluents and would, therefore, have no adverse impact on the environment.
Project Risks
3.23      The main project risks are: (a) the inherent difficulties in
attempting to diversify out of sugar in an economy where sugar has been
predominant for many years; (b) the obstacles associated with attracting
private investment into non-sugar crops and agro-industries and developing
enough profitable markets for new products, either domestically or overseas;
and (c) the increased danger of pest problems associated with the expected
expansion of cotton uroduction. These areas would be a focus of the
consultants' work.



- 16-
IV. AGREEMENTS OBTAINED AND BEOMMENDATION
4.01      During negotiations, agreements were obtained from the Government
(Loan Agreement) and CBB (Project Agreement) on the following:
(a) The-Government would:
(i)  follow procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank
(para. 3.10);
(ii) establish and-maintain a Special Account in the CBB, with an
authbrized allocation of US$0.25 million, to cover the Bank's
share of all eligible expenditures under the loan
(para. 3.12);
(iii) (a) issue terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, for
consultants to be hired by MAFF for the agricultural sector
study, for agricultural diversification, and for agro-indus-
tries; (b) employ consultants, with qualifications acceptable
to the Bank, to enable effective implementation of the
agricultural sector study, the agricultural diversification
activities and promotion of agro-industries under the project;
(c) recruit four additional technical officers before the
contract for the agricultural diversification consultants
begins; and (d) submit the report on the agricultural sector
study to the Bank for review and comment by December 31, 1987
(para. 3.15); and
(iv) ensure that the project accounts of NAFF, including statements
of expenditure, would be audited annually by auditors satis-
factory to the Bank; and audit reports on the project accounts
would be forwarded to the Bank within six months of the close
of each fiscal year, beginning with the year ending March 31,
1987 (para. 3.17).
(b) CBB would:
(i)  ensure that the lending terms and conditions under the pro-
posed project would be substantially the same as those under
the Industrial Credit Project, Loan 2260-BAR (para. 3.16); and
(ii) ensure that the project accounts of ICF, including statements
of expenditure, would be audited annually by auditors satis-
factory to the Bank; and audit reports on the project accounts
would be forwarded to the Bank within six months of the close
of each fiscal year, beginning with the end of the first such
year when disbursements are made (para. 3.17).
4.02      A condition of effectiveness for the loan would be the signing of a
subsidiary financing agreement between the Government and CBB/ICF, satisfac-
tory to the Bank (para. 3.16).



-17-
4.03      Based ont the above conditions, the proposed project would be suit-
able for an IBRD loan of US$4 million for 15 years including a grace period
of three years, at the standard variable interest rate. The Borrower would
be the Government of Barbados.
January 27, 1987.



-18-                      ANNEX I
Page i of 7
BARTADOS
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Project
1.        The purpose of this annex is to provide further background on the
agricultural sector and information on the project to supplement the main
text.  The write-up on the sector contalns much descriptive informat!on not
usually included iu an SAR.  However, iince this is the Bank's first agricul-
tural project in Barbados, it is believed that this information will-be use-
ful in project implementation and supervision.  The sector write-up forms
Appendix I to this annex.
2.        The information given in the main text oa the first component of
the project, the agricultural sector study, is supplemented by the study
terms of reference included as Appendix 2 to this annex. Details on the
second component, development of non-sugar crops, are given below; terms of
reference for the consultants are included as Appendix 3.
3.        Other project matters-including project costs and finsucing,
procurement, disbursement, accounts, auditing, and progress reporting-are
discussed in the main text. Supporting tables on project costs aud the
disbursement schedule are attached as Appendix 4.
Development of Non-Sugar Crops
4.        This component would build on the achievements of the technical
assistance provided under Loan 2115-BAR. Under that loans, consultants
provided expertise in extenslon methodology; the production of vegetables,
peanuts and cotton; irrigation; marketing; dairy farm management; and use of
farm machinery. Production subproiects for vegetables and peanuts involved
research, demonstrations and field trials to develop technteal production
packages, and extension and training activities for farmers and agricultural
officers. Other subprojects investigated alternative irrigation schemes,
assisted with marketing, and developed training and information aids for
producers. Research sad trials for some vegetables, cotton and flowers need
to continue, as do trials of different irrigation systems. More realistic
estimates of costs and returns also need to he generated from actual farm-
level data.
5.        The proposed project would help MAFF in investigating the financial
and economic viabilitv of growing non-sugar crops; refining production
technologies and disseminating them to farmers; identifying and developing
export market opportunities; and assisting subborrowers to establish and run
agro-industrial facilities. Support for research, extension and marketing
(including export promotion) would include technical assistance, training,
equipment and other inputs; support for agro-industries would involve
provision of consultant services and credit to establish handling and
processing facilities, as discussed below.



-19 -ANNE 
Page 2 of 7
(a) Research, Extension and Marketing
-6.       Technical assistance would be provided over the first two years of
the project (Table 1). The role of each specialist is discussed below; terms
of reference are given in Appendix 3.
Table 1: Schedule of Consultant Services
-  -    -    Year I    Year 2          Total   -
Specialty                                      -man-months       
Farm Economics and Management             2           1              3
Vegetable Production                      3           3              6
Flower Production                         2           2              4
Cotton Production                         4          2               6
Mechanized Farming                        2           2              4
Irrigation                                3          2               5
Marketing                                 6           6             12
Subtotal                             22         18              40
Short-term Assignments a/                 2          2               4
Total                                24         20              44
a/   This time would be used to extend the above assignments or for new
activities identified during implementation and agreed with the Bank.
7.        The farm economics and management specialist, working with the
staff of MAFF's Planning Unit, would assist the other consultants in
evaluating the economics of production of the major non-sugar crops based on
farm-level data. He would analyze existing farm enterprises and make
recommendations on optimum mixes of crops and livestock production to
maximize farm incomes. He would assist MAFF in developing a service to
advise farmers on farm management.
8.        The vegetable production specialist would work on applied research
to develop technical production packages for new crops, as directed by the
Chief Agricultural Officer. Crops found technically and financially viable
would be promoted through seminars and demonstrations organized by the spe-
cialist and MAF staff. Attention would focus on the cultivation of quality
produce for export, opportunities for mechanization (such as use of seeding
equipment) and post-harvest handling.
9.        The flower production specialist would work with MAFF personnel on
ornamentals, especially the ginger lily and heliconia. As most of the
agronomic work for these flowers has already been completed, the specialist
would concentrate on post-harvest handling techniques (number of cuttings,



-20-ANX
- 2Q -               ~~~~ANNEX I
Page 3 of 7
hormone treatments, packaglng, shipping, etc.) to ensure successful
marketing. He would therefore work closely with the marketing specialist.
10.       The cotton production specialist would work on measures to control
pests and disease (especially the pink boll worm), which could represent a
serious threat once the area under cotton is expanded. Possibilities for
mechanization and optimum spacing would also be investigated. The specialist
would assist MAFF staff in setting up field triils on farmers' fields and in
disseminating production technology to farmers.
11.       The mechanized farming specialist would assist MAFF staff in
developing a local capability to operate, maintain and repair a wide variety
of machinery and equIpment, used by MAFF for demoast-rations. He would also
provide the expertise to identify opportunities for mechanizing production,
harvesting and post-harvest handling and to select the best equipment to meet
these needs. The specialist would be made available through short-term
assignments that would be timed to coincide with the delivery or
demonstration of new equipment.
12.       The irrigation specialist would work out the cost effectiveness of
drip versus sprinkler irrigation for different crops (vegetables, peanuts,
cotton and flowers) through tests conducted in farmers' fields. He would
look at possibilities for combining irrigation with fertilizer applications.
He would also test the financial feasibility of irrigating plant cane on a
commercial scale.
3.        The marketing specialist would help identify export markets for
non-sugar crops. He would also continue efforts to improve the marketing
system, services and facilities begun under Loan 2115-BAR. He would examine
the system's ability to handle (collect, package, store and distribute) new
products for the export market, especially vegetables and flowers. He would
focus on marketing constraints that might hamper expansion of exports, such
as poor quality produce; reliability of delivery; and packaging, storage and
transport capacity. He would work closely with marketing organizations in
Barbados, including BMC, ATCO and CATCO, as well as with the production
specialists.
14.       Training.  The project would provide about 100 man-months of
short-term overseas fellowships for about 24 local staff (Table 2). The
training program would aim to train at least two counterpart staff in
important disciplines. Initial courses would be followed up by short
refresher courses after 2-3 years, to ensure that counterpart staff keep
abreast of technical developments in their specialty. MAFF would need to
recruit an additional four technical officers before the work of the
consultants begins; the additional staff would develop skills in the
production of cotton (2) and flowers, and the maintenance and operation of
agricultural equipment and machinery. The salaries and travel expenses of
the additional staff are included in the project cost.



- 21 -      -            ANNEX I
P--e 4 of 7
Table 2: Overseas Training
Proposed
Organization/     Number of     Duration    Number of
Discipline                Location        Participants   (months)   man-months
Production agronomy    -Onion Producers'        3            3          9
and post-harvest      Association,                         I a/       3
techniques for oniors Florida
Production agronomy     Texas or                4            3          12
for cotton            California                           1 a/ 1
Cotton pest management  Texas or Calif.         4            3         12
1 a/       4
Peanut post-harvest     Peanut Growers'         3            3          9
techniques b/         Assoc., Georgia                      1 a/       3
Potato production       Internat'l Center       2            3          6
for Potato                           1 a/       2
Research, Peru
Techniques of partial   CIMMYT, Mexico          4            3         12
budgeting of                                               1a/        4
agronomic data
Production technology   Flower Producers'       2            1          2
for growers           Assoc., Colombia
Flower Producers'      2             1          2
Assoc., Florida or
California
Subtotal                                  24                      84
Unallocated c/                                                         16
Total                                                            100
a/   Refresher courses.
b/   Under Loan 2115-BAR, a satisfactory technical package for peanuts was
developed. However, post-harvest handling (cleaning, drying and
storage) could be improved and training is provided to meet this need.
Demonstration plots would also be maintained during the project, both to
continue dissemination of improved cultural practices and to demonstrate
post-harvest handling techniques.
C/   This time would be used to train additional staff in the above
categories or in other disciplines, as identified during implementation
and agreed with the Bank.



-22-                        ANNEX 1
-                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 5 of 7
15.       Equipment and Other Inputs.  The project would provide laboratory
equipment and materials needed for the research program, including pathology
and entomology research. The work of the soil and water laboratory set up
under Loan 2115-BAR would be important for supporting the field work with
drip irrigation and the laboratory analyses of water samples taken from the
process of combining irrigation and fertilization.
16.       In addition, the project would provide farm equipment to demons-
trate meckanized production and harvesting techniques. With the help of the
specialist, HAFF would identify opportunities for mechanization, select
appropriati machinery or equipment models to accomplish the tasks, and import
one item ror-demonstration to farmers likely to be interested in purchasing
such equipment.
17.       Finally, the project would set up trial and demonstration plots,
both to carry out adaptive research on production packages and to demonstrate
equipment-for planting, harvesting and post-harvest handling--for the crops
being promoted by the extension program. (Research into sugarcane production
would be guided by the targets for sugar production expected to come as a
result of the agricultural sector study.) The project would provide inputs
(seeds, fertilizers and pesticides), as well as small items of equipment for
maintaining the plots (such as hoes, rakes and back-pack sprayers). The
following plots would be established and maintained for three years:
Vegetables                   4 ha/yr
Gotton                       4 ha/yr
Peanuts                      4 ha/yr
Flowers                      4 ha/yr
Irrigation (sugarcane)      10 ha/yr
(non-sugar)      5 ha/yr
(b) Agro-Industries
18.       This component would support the establishment of agro-industrial
facilities. Three major undertakings have been identified: cotton gins;
cleaning, drying and storage facilities for onions and peanuts; and an export
marketing complex for vegetables and flowers. Other agro-industrial ventures
may be identified during implementation. Each subproject would be a
"bankable" venture. Particular attention should be paid to the presence of
risk capital from growers, as this would indicate that they have confidence
in the subproject being a profitable venture and, ii particular, that the
subloan has a reasonable chance of being repaid. The Government could hold
some equity, provided that there are arrangements for divestiture to the
private sector within a reasonable period. Because the subprojects would all
be commercial ventures and because the record of direct participation by
public sector organizations in commercial aspects of agriculture in Barbados
is not encouraging, management control should be in the private sector. The
Government is expected to be of great assistance in encouraging the setting
up of these subprojects through the financing of technical assistance and
associated inputs for production and marketing. Agro-industry consultants
would be hired for short-term assignments, anticipated to amount to three
man-months in Year 1 and two man-months in Year 2, to look at the organiza-
tional aspects of setting up agro-indusstries. Their terms of reference are
given in Appendix 3. Possible agro-industrial ventures to be supported are
discussed below.



-23-                         ANNEX I
Page 6 of 7
19.       Cotton Ginning.  At the present time (1985/86 season), about 300 ha
are planted to cotton. The Government plans to encourage production on
,'006 ha.in rotation with sugar and estimates that a break-even figure for a
viable industry is 1,200 ha. Assuming a yield of 2 tons per ha, 2,000 ha
would yi#d 4,OC0 tons of seed cotton, which in turn would yield 1,000 tons
of ginted cotton worth about US$13 milliov, as well as 1,600 tons of meal and
600 tons 6\f oil; the two by-products would be worth about US$0.5 million. At
present, there are six cotton gins (manufactured by Platt, UK) which are
owned by the Barbados Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC) and opera-
ted and maintained by the sugar growers' association, BSIL. BSIL has ginned
the last two crops (1984 and 1985), paying its growers the overseas price--at
time of receipt--less appropriate deductions. This arrangement is unsatis-
factory, because there is no provision for amortization of the investment and
BADC is not a financially sound entity. The capacity of the six gins is
2,000 tons of seed cotton per season.
20.       Special factors that would have to be taken into account in esta-
blishing a cotton ginning facility include: (a) number of days in the gin-
ning season; (b) length of ginning day; (c) gin capacity required (bales per
hour); (d) feasibility of storing unginned cotton (a function of moisture
content); (e) investment costs of needed gins, drying facilities, decortica-
tion, and screw presses; (f) user fees necessary to amortize the cost of the
factory; and (g) profitability to the grower, based on likely yields of seed
cotton with and without supplementary irrigation.
21.       Cleaning, Drying and Storage Facilities for Onions and Peanuts.
The total supply of onions in Barbados in recent years has been of the order
of 2,200 tons annually, of which an average of 1,600 tons have been
imported. There appears to be some potential to increase domestic production
for import substitution. The local production of onions already appears to
be increasing (500 tons in 1984/85, and 1,000 tons in 1985/86) and drying
facilities would, moreover, allow onions to store better. In determining the
car4city of such a facility, known constraints to increasing supply, such as
disease and poor storage characteristics of the domestic onion, should be
taken into account.. The organizational aspects of the proposed facility
should also be looked at carefully when the subloan application is made, with
a view to involving as many leading growers as possible as shareholders.
While BMC is taking the lead in helping to organize the market and in
arranging temporary drying facilities (by salvaging dryers from a
fire-damaged facilitv that was located near the airport), it is too weak,
both financially and managerially, to manage the proposed facility. ATCO,
which operates a grading station and markets onions for some farmers, is weak
in the same areas.
22.       Like onions, peanuts have a potential for import substitution.
Imports of peanuts over the last few years have been averaging
600 tons/year. While production of peanuts was very small (31 tons in
1984/85), it is now increasing (an estimated 500 tons in 1985/86). BADC has
a grading and drying machine on the same site as the cotton gins, but this
machine would not be able to handle the production foreseen by MAFF.  The
main risks of this venture would be associated with the ability to produce a
crop that is price competitive with imports and to organize markets and
supply. While FAO has reservations about profitability unless imports are
curbed and domestic prices allowed to rise, MAFF believes that peanuts can be



-24                        ANNEX I
Page 7 of 7
economically rotated with sugar using the technical package developed under
Loan 2115-BAR. The potential supply of competitively priced domestic peanuts
for the proposed facility should be carefully examined by the financial
intermediary.
23.       Marketing Complex for Vegetables and Flowers.  The current export
target for 1990 is 1,200 tons of vegetables and flowers, which represents
only about US$1.7 milllon of export revenues. Achievable targets might be
much higher. While Barbados has no comparative advantage in the supply of
out-of-season vegetables to the competitive markets of North America and
Europe, it does have --as a by-product of the tourist trade-- considerable
available air-freight capacity at a very low cost (BDS$ 0.50/kg to Europe).
It is conceivable that in five years' time, exports of fresh produce might
amount to 100 tons/week over 20 weeks and a further 50 tons/week over-
30 weeks, giving 3,500 tons of exports in all. At an estimated average value
of US$1,400 per ton, the potential revenue would be of the order of
US$5 million per year, 1/ Other products with export potential might include
produce for the "ethnic markets` (in the UK for example) of yams and sweet
potatoes, and "exotic' crops such as Chinese and Indian vegetables, which are
coming into vogue in high-income markets.
24.       Flowers might have an even greater potential.  Looking at prospects
for the heliconia and ginger lily, two attractive native flowers, 50 farmers,
supported by 3 extension agents, might have 60 ha in flowers -30 ha of heli-
conia at US$300,000/ha and 30 ha of ginger lily at US$70,000/ha- which would
generate revenue of over US$10 million. 2/
25.       Organizing a successful export business in perishable produce and
flowers is a sophisticated activity requiring specialized management.
Although Barbados has about 2,500 ha under vegetables and annual production
of about 12,000 tons, it is a rather high cost producer with disorganized
market systems. Production for export would require a greater level of orga-
nization, as well as extension assistance for the crops with market potential
and on-farm facilities in addition to a central receiving area. The timing
of production also has to be closely matched to market demand. Moreover,
overseas representation is essential. Financing of such a venture as a sub-
project would depend upon a detailed business plan, availability of expe-
rienced management and the presence of risk capital. A preliminary proposal
(see Project File) for financing a facility to handle increased exports of
vegetables and to initiate the export of flowers includes a packing area of
750 m2 and 500 m3 of cold storage. Essential elements to be developed in the
proposal include organization (the identity of the owner and operator of the
proposed facility) and a well-developed marketing plan.
I/  Estimates by CATCO.
2/   Estimates by the consultants employed under Loan 2115-BAR.



-25-                        ANNEX 
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 16
The Agricultural Sector
Climate and Resource Base
1.        Rainfall in Barbados tends to be variable, unevenly distributed and
normally deficient for the main crop, sugarcane. The average yearly rainfall
ts 1520 mm; a low rainfall coastal zone receives 1190 mm on average and the
central highlands over 2000 mm. There is a distinct wet season (August-
November) and dry season (February-April). The fairly strong and constant
winds, especially on the east coast, accentuate the rainfall deficiency
through evaporation. Although Barbados is in the hurricane zone, hurricanes
are rare.
2.        Barbados has an area of 431 km2, of which about 240 km2 are arable
land. Over 85% of the island consists of a coral stratum overlain by shallow
soils of coral debris and volcanic ash, which are prone to erosion if not
under permanent vegetative cover. The remaining area consists of sedimentary
rocks of two river formations. In the highest part of the island (the
Scotland District in the northeast), the terrain is steep and rugged.
Elsewhere slopes are gentle, though erosion of the underlying rock has led to
many irregularities and steep depressions on some land.
3.        The stratum of coral is highly porous and forms an aquifer, which
is the main water source of Barbados. There are in addition some surface
water resources (in the Scotland District), springs and surface runoff
collected by one small dam. Water quality is generally very good, with low
salinity.
4.        The total developable water resources (including surface runnoff)
amount to 250,000 m3/day in an average rainfall year. A 1978 study 1,
estimated that 53,300 m3/day would be available for agricultural uses
(sufficient to irrigate 1,500 ha), but projected a very high domestic
allocation to meet demand in the year 2000 based on a population almost twice
the present level. A more recent estimate of 180,000 m3/day, 2/ using a
revised population estimate and assuming admixture of brackish water, could
be sufficient for irrigating 5,000 ha (only 650 ha were irrigated in 1982).
Land Holdings and Use
5.        Data from the most recent agricultural census (1971) indicate that
about 3% of landholders controlled about 89% of the land at that time.
Smallholdings, of less than 2 ha, accounted for the remaining 11%. There are
1/  By Stanley Associates Engineering Ltd., Canada; figure quoted in
AGRIDEV consultants, Utilisation of Water Resources for Irrigation,
October 1984.
Op. Cit.



- 26-                       ANNEX 
Appendix 1
Page 2 of 16
now an estimated 150 estates of more than 10 ha (down from around 200 at the
time of the 1971 census); another 150 holdings of 2-10 ha which are farmed
full-time (down from 230); and allotments (estimated by MAFF at 10,000) of
less than 2 ha, which are usually farmed part-time to supplement income from
other sources. However, data on farm numbers and sizes are not very reliable
because of the amount of land that has gone out of production in recent
years, and few data are available on smallholder activities.
6.        Most of the larger farms are family owned, but some of the largest
estates, accounting for 20% of the total area, are owned by local companies.
Tenant farms are usually found on the peripheries of the estates. The
Government, through the Barbados Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC),
has about 1,600 ha, or 8% of the total land under cultivation. This land is
composed of sugar estates on marginal land which became insolvent.
7.        Although the larger estates are devoted to sugarcane, they are also
important producers of other crops (vegetables, yams and sweet potatoes),
accounting for over 70% of the total production of non-sugar crops. These
other crops are complementary to cane, being grown in rotation or inter-
cropped with the cane between the time the last ratoon is removed and the new
plant cane established. Vegetables are grown under irrigation in the cool
dry season or under rainfed conditions in the wet season. Full-time farmers
of 2-10 ha grow a wide variety of crops and many also keep livestock. They
account for about 20% of vegetable production. Part-time small farmers
(farming less than 2 ha, most with less than 0.5 ha) plant both cane and
vegetables, the latter mainly for home consumption; while they account for
less than 10% of vegetable production, part-time farmers contribute consider-
ably to the production of eggs, milk and mutton. Moreover, the large area
planted to cane by smallholders (estimated at about 3,000 ha) contributes a
significant proportio-n of total production, even though most smallholders are
thought to produce less than 10 tons of cane.
The Sugar Subsector
8.        Despite the recent difficulties faced by the sugar industry,
sugarcane remains Barbadost single most important crop. The area harvested,
averaging 14,200 ha in 1983/84 (Table 1), represents about 17,750 ha
planted. 3/ This is over 90% of the currently cultivated area (around
19,000 ha) or about 75% of arable land (about 24,000 ha). Since the 1960s
the area under cane has declined by about 7,000 ha. Half of this land is
believed to be idle, and it is estimated that almost 3,000 ha could be
recovered if the profitability of sugar production were restored.
31   The present rotation allows about 802 of the cane area to be harvested
annually. This is because seed cane planted in the rainy season is not
mature enough to be harvested during the first year after planting and
has to be carried over to the following harvest. "Forcing back" the
cane--by replanting during the early rains and cutting the cane while it
is still immature during the first harvest--lowers yields to only about
60% of yields of mature stands.



- 27 -                      ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
-Page 3 of 16
9.         Production declined rapidly during the 1970s after the record
annual levels of over 200,000 tons of sugar achieved during the 1960s.
Production dropped to a low of 85,800 tons in 1983, but recovered to around
100,000 tons in 1984 and 1985. Sugar production now accounts for less than
3% of total GDP, or about 40Z of total agricultural GDP.
Tabe 1:  9ug  Statistics, 1978-8
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982    1983  1984   1985
Area of cn  harvested (000hIc.tares)  15.8   15.9   16.1   15.8   15.8   14.1   14.3   15.0
miunt of cm  milled ('000 tws)         895  1,052  1,204    962    766    705    858    863
Yield (tos cen/hectare harested)       56.6   66.2   74.8   60.9   48.5   50.0   60.0   57.5
94Saproductia (O000 tos-rw value)    104.1  118.5  136.6   97.5  89.1   85.8  100.4  10.0
Suar yield (tows cane/te%a s"Wtr)      8.6    8.9    8.8    9.9    8.6    8.2    8.5    8.6
Niublr of factorles in opeation          9      8      8      7      6       6      6      6
8p<xrt (tOOQ tx3-WhI.te value at)    77.8   83.0  113.0   58.6  68.5   67.3   69.7 b/ n.a.
- to EEC                              59.8   48.0   56.1   44.0  49.3   48.4   53.6 b/ n.a.
- to US                                16.5   34.6   55.0   14.4   16.0   13.8   16.1 5 n.a.
- to others                            1.5    0.4    1.9    0.2    3.2    5.1   n.a.   no.*
at  S&yr white value is alxlAt 93% of sxar rw value.
b/  &timtes, based m EEC and UB quotas.
SQurces: ES:; MAPF; Atmal 0ras Trade Yearbooks; U5i



-28-                        ANNEX I
Appendix I
Page 4 of 16
10.       Although yields of cane are reasonable on average, they have been
low in some recent years. Several factors have contributed to these low
yields. One is the practice of cane burning. Controlled pre-harvest burning
to remove the trash and'reduce the cost of harvest operations is a common
practice in other countries with large sugar plantations. However, in
Barbados, where many areas have deficient rainfall and shallow soils with
relatively low water holding -capacity, preservation of a ground
cover-through the trash-is beneficial. Burning was practised for the 1974
and 1975 crops, but a serious drop in yields caused the industry to revert to
its traditional green cane harvesting in 1976.  However, losses have
continued from illegal fires. A green cane incentive scheme was introduced
and has resulted in the proportion of burnt cane being reduced from 25% in
1982, the highest rate recorded, to about 4% for the 1983 and 1984 crops.
II.       A second factor contributing to low yields has been inadequate
rainfall. The last two crops have both suffered from deficient rainfall in
the preceding growing season. Low rainfall has contributed to the decline in
cane area, since much of the land that has gone out of production Is marginal
for sugarcane and is in the low rainfall zone.
12.       A third factor has been the late start to the harvest, which has
gradually been shifting from January to February. The 1981 harvest was
particularly late, finishing in August at the beginning of the wet season.
A late start increases the likelihood of rain towards the end of the harvest,
and any benefit to cane maturity is offset by difficulties in harvesting with
the onset of the rainy season, problems of soil compaction and damage to
ratoon stools.
13.  -     echanization.  The labor required for manual cutting and loading
of green cane is high, and mechanical harvesting is being introduced because
of growing labor shortages and the high cost of wages (governed by minimum
wage legislation and the requirement to provide a minimum of five days'
employment per week for registered workers during the off-season). For the
1984 crop, 22% of the cane was mechanically cut and loaded; 60% was manually
cut and mechanically loaded; and 182 cut and loaded manually. Mechanical
cane cutters and loaders can reduce harvest labor to about 30% of that
required for manual cutting and loading; mechanical loading of manually cut
cane can also reduce the labor requirement, but tu a lesser extent (to
perhaps 55-60% of the requirement under an all-manual system).
14.       Possibilities for further mechanization are limited by several
factors. First, in some locations the steep and rugged terrain inhibits use
of harvesting machinery and makes cane transport difficult. Second,
compaction has become a serious problem on the shallow clay soils of Barbados
following the introduction of mechanized harvesting. In-field operation of
harvesting machines (combines, cutters and loaders) and transport is already
damaging the soil structure, especially under wet conditions. Finally, the
chopper-harvesters that can deliver chopped cane directly into the cane
transport are very expensive and are uneconomic because of the short harvest
season and the small size of most estates (most combines presently in use are
owned by grower-syndicates). Moreover, cane transport is not adapted to
carL:y chopped (rather than stalk) cane and factories are not equipped to
handle it.



-29-                        ANNEX I
Appendix 1
Page 5 of 16
15.       Sugar Factories.  Since 1970, the sugar factories have been owned
and operated by a grower owned company (originally Barbados Sugar Factories
Ltd., later replaced by Barbados Sugar Industries Ltd., BSIL), which has
reduced the number of operating factories to 6, giving two factories each in
the North, Center and South of the island. the estimated capacity of the
factories ranges from 60 tons of cane per hour (TCH) to 110 TCH. Total
capacity-is estimated at 120,000 tons of sugar in a year with normal
rainfall, but could be as high as 135,000 tons of sugar in a dry year, which
would allow a harvest season of four and a half months. One of the factories
produces high quality ("fancy') molasses.
16.       Factory results are generally good.  The ratio of cane to sugar
is among the lowest in the world: for the last four crops, it has averaged
8.5 (Table 1); the unusually high figure in 1981 (9.9) was the result of poor
cane quality, due to the late and wet harvest. These rates have been
achieved despite the poor state of the factories' equipment, which has
largely been obtained from equipment discarded by other Caribbean sugar
industries or by the Barbados factories that were closed. The factories
cannot handle chopped cane, and some of their equipment is obsolete and needs
to be replaced.
17.       Cost of Cane and Sugar Production.  The cost of production for a
ton of cane has increased by about 60% over 1980-83, while revenues have
decreased by almost 4%. The main factor in the significant cost increase
was a 283% increase in interest charges, due to the rise in accumulated
debts. The cost of inputs and wages has also risen. These increases have
changed an operating profit of BDS$ 13/ton of cane in 1980 to a loss of over
BDS$ 14/ton of cane in 1981, rising to a loss of BDS$ 32/ton of cane in 1982
and 1983. The cost of production for a ton of cane varies from almost
BDS$ 90 in the most favorable ecological zone, to almost BDS$ 139 in the
least favorable Scotland District.
18.       The cost of producing a ton of sugar has increased by 43% over
1980-83, while revenues have decreased by almost 10%. Barbados is now among
the dozen most costly producers (at US$507 per ton of raw sugar, compared to,
for instance, St. Kitts at US$250 and the Dominican Republic at US$315). 4/
The profit of BDS$ 51 per ton of sugar in 1980 has turned into a loss of
BDS$ 260 in 1981, rising to losses of BDS$ 450 and BDS$ 425 in 1982 and
1983. BSIL's profit of almost BDS$ 6 million in 1980 had become a loss of
BDS$ 13 million by 1984, and its accumulated debts in mid-1984 were
BDS$ 66 million (comprising an overdraft of BDS$ 20 million, long-term loans
of BDS$ 26 million and BDS$ 20 million of Sugar Industry Bonds). For the
sugar estates, the 1980 aggregated profit of over BDS$ 16 million had become
a BDS$ 26 million loss by 1983, giving the estates accumulated debts of
BDS$ 64 million.
4/   W. MacNally, W. David, and D. Flood, Sugar Study, World Bank report
(draft), July 1984. Table 5.10.



ANNEX I
Appendix 1
Page 6 of 16
19.       Sugar Markets and Prices.  Under the Sugar Protocol of the Lome II
Convention, Barbados has a quota of 49,300 tons of white sugar equivalent.
The sugar is paid for in European Currency Units (ECUs) c.i.f. Sugar sold by
Barbados under the EEC quota goes to the UK, and payment in ECUs is thus
converted to sterling. Progressive devaluation of European currencies
relative to the US dollar, to which the Barbados dollar is tied, has reduced
the f.o.b. value of exports to the EEC by 24.6X in Barbados dollars between
1980 and 1983.
20.       The US quota is variable and was fixed at 17,780 short tons raw
value for 1984/85. The 1984 f.o.b. price was US cents 18.78/lb (equivalent
to US cents 41.32/kg), plus US cents 2.80 benefit under the Generalized
System of Preferences. The f.o.b. price per (metric) ton is therefore
equivalent to about BDS$ 950.
21.       The domestic market is estimated at 14,000 tons of sugar of
different grades. The ex-factory price is equivalent to BDS$ 1,240 to
BDS$ 1,405 per ton, depending on the grade.
22.       Under the 1977 International Sugar Agreement (ISA), which expired
at the end of 1984, Barbados had a free market export quota of 70,000 tons
raw value. World market prices 5/ have been so severely depressed by sales
of surplus sugar from the EEC (not an ISA member) that sales are not
economically feasible for Barbados. However, Barbados does use a small
portion of the quota (about 7,000 tons of sugar equivalent) for exports of
fancy molasses to the dtS and Canada.
23.       Converting hhe various mar'Aets to a comparable standard, Barbados'
sugar has a total market of approxiLately 91,500 tons, as follows:
EEC (UK)        53,600 tons
US              16,100 tons
Domestic        14,800 tons
Fancy molasses   7,000 tons
Aiming for production of 100,000 tons in a normal rainfall year allows
Barbados to meet these demands.  Production beyond this is not profitable at
current sugar prices. However, this level of production may already be below
that necessary to maintain economically the transport infrastructure and
institutional support needed to handle the crop.
24.       The cane price received by growers is based on a formula that
allows the factories to retain 26% of net revenue from the production of
sugar and molasses, while the remaining 74% goes to growers. Growers receive
an interim payment pending the sale of sugar and molasses, and a final
payment only after the accounts have been made up. The cane price is also
5/   The world price per pound of sugar declined from an average
of US 8.3 cents in 1983, to around US 3.0 cents in early 1985, but
rebounded to around US 8.0 cents in early 1986.



-31-                        ANNEX I
31                        Appendix I
Page 7 of 16
affected by the incentive for supplying green cane. In addition, funds are
deducted from revenues to finance research and development and for the Sugar
Workers Provident Fund.
25.       The Sugar Industry (Support Price) Act of 1982 helps to bolster
growers' Income. mhe Act authorizes BSIL to-issue bonds, underwritten by the
Government, to finance a Sugar Support Price Fund. The bond Issues amounted
to BD$17 million, I0 million, and 15 million in the years 1982-84 to provide
support prices (per ton of sugar) of BDS$ 925, BDS$ 875 and BDS$ 855
respectively. The fund provides loans to factories and growers, which are
convertible to grants if certain levels of production are attained. The fund
is used to bridge the gap between the support price declared by the
Government and earnings from sugar sales. Table 2 shows how the support
price has affected the cane price in 1982-84.
Table 2: Cane Prices, 1982-84
1082        1983        1984
Basic price + cartage allowance
(BDS$/ton cane)                          63.68       63.06        67.17
Price support (BDS$/ton cane)                 14.86        13.52       10.66
Total received (BDS$/ton cane)                78.54       76.58        77.83
Source: FAO Working Paper #2, The Sugar Industry.
Non-Sugar Subsector
26.       The agricultural sector in Barbados has historically relied on
sugar, with some production of other crops (mainly root crops) and livestock
activities. To reduce an excessive dependence on sugarcane, the Government
is promoting diversification, particularly into crops for which there is
believed to be a ready export market (such as cotton and vegetables) and
import substitution crops (such as onions and peanuts). A wide variety of
crops that can be grown in Barbados has been identified; for some, commer-
cially viable technical production packages are available and have been
disseminated to some farmers. For other crops, work is still needed to
resolve problems such as pests and diseases, and to determine cultivation
packages, including optimum fertilizer applications and irrigation require-
ments. However, although MAFF has drawn up some preliminary crop budgets,
the economics of growing these crops--based on actual farm level data-has
not yet been finally established.
27.       The area planted to non-sugar crops in recent years has been
estimated at 2,500-3,000 ha, but rose to over 3,400 ha in 1985 (Table 3).



- 32 -
ANNU I
Appendix 1
Page & of 16
Table 3: Area Planted to Non-Sugar Crops, 1980-85
(ha)
1980       1981         1982      1983      1984     1985
Root crops       834         444          510       580       640      610
Pulses and
peanuts a/     165         182            8       23         39      160
cotton           119          -             -       20        162      303
Onion             44          31           23       41         44       64
Vegetables     2,041       1,976        2,160    2,340      2,180    2,310
Total       3,203      2,633         2,701    3,004      3,065    3,447
a/   Figures are for peanuts only in 1982-85.
Note: Figures given for cotton, onions and peanuts (1982-85) are fairly
accurate, since production of these crops has been monitored by the
consultants working with MAEF under Loan 2115. Data for other crops
are much less reliable.
Sources: FAO report; MAFF; BASIS Report.
The following paragraphs discuss the production trends and marketing
opportunities for different crops, as well as production of livestock and
fisheries.
28.       Root crops, grown mostly in rotation with sugarcane, have been a
staple food in Barbados. But changing consumer habits and competitive prices
of substitute foods led to a substantial drop in consumption of root crops
and, in turn, to a drastic reduction in production. Production of yams, for
example, declined from over 15,000 tons in 1970 to about 3,500 tons in 1984
and 1985 (Table 4). On the other hand, imports of white potatoes now amount
to about 9,000 tons a year. Per capita consumption of white potatoes
(36 kg per annum) now exceeds per capita consumption of traditional root
crops (30 kg per annum). The prospects for reversing this trend are not very
promising, due mainly to the changing pattern of the local diet and the
increasing requirements of the tourism sector.
29.       The main constraint to increasing the production of traditional
root crops appears to be the absence of market outlets. Pronounced consumer
preference for white potatoes has limited the domestic market, while overseas
outlets for root crops are restricted to immigrant communities where there is
competition from lower cost producers in Africa. On the other hand, strong
and growing demand provides a powerful incentive for developing domestic
production of white potatoes (the import bill for white potatoes has averaged
almost BDS$ 5.4 million over the last three years). This appears to be



33                         ANNEX I
Aitpendix }
Page 9 of 16
feasible, although it is not clear whether white potatoes could be grown
locally at a cost that would be competitive with imports.
Tae  4: PFoxz1oan of Selected Non-Sa Crops, 1977-85
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984  1985
Eat.
( L .           674    743    545    472    396    432    764    770  1,280
Patts           37    51   na.   na.   -  -         10    25    42    170
;ttm            27      16    17    12        -      -      -   n.a.   nea.
Yams          4,995  8,528  8,315  7,817  4,064  2,200  2,300  3,600  3,500
Set potatoes 1,074  4,990  2,255  4,705  3,048  2,400  2,800  1,990  1,930
Baeta           382    384   831    356    507    303    319    302    318
8Pwn            67    283    135      -    527    493    576    605   na.
(rots          497  1,814  2,143  2,395  2,145  3,605  3,946  3,917  3,986
String  a       179    181    298    521    510    509   n.a.   na.e   n,.a
lbmtoes         122   728    702  1,636  1,055  2,226  2,474  2,544  2,512
o.uabes         590  1,755    968     -  1,808  3,672  4,395  3,947  3,998
C&bbug          260   816  1,130  1,717  1,399  3,988  4,460  3,940  4,560
C1U1 lower       -      -      -      17    17    10    14    10    17
2Wplant          -      -      -      -      57    62    70    80        90
0tber vgetables n.a.   n.a.   n.a. 1,000  1,200  1,200  1,400  1,400  1,600
Sources: MM; ESIL; BAS; MM.
30.       Fresh vegetables production seems to have been increasing gradually
since the 1960s, and more rapidly during the last four years, but the volumes
produced and total area planted are still small (Tables 3 and 4). Total
supply of fresh vegetables in Barbados remained stable at 11,000-12,000 tons
during 1980-83, but the proportion accounted for by imports declined from 20%
to 14% over the same period. About 90% of those imports (in terms of volume)
in the last two years were onions, indicating a reasonable degree of
self-sufficiency in other crops.
31.       The country's relatively low per capita consumption of vegetables
(47 kg/year) suggests that there is potential for expanding production for
the domestic market, including demand generated by tourists. However, the
fact that total supply has remained fairly stable over the past few years
indicates that there are constraints on demand. These have been identified
as relatively high prices (reflecting intensive use of imported inpits and



-_34                        ANNEX I
Appendix l
Page 10 of 16
the high cost of labor), as well as the poor and uneven quality of produce.
Any future increase in production would have to be oriented largely to the
export market, but should also Include Import substitution for the tourist
trade. Some attempts to export--mainly sweet pepper and eggplant to the UK
and Holland-have been made in the past, but amounts bave been small (around
60 tons in 1983). Any significant expansion of vegetable exports will depend
on the country's ability to compete in terms of both prices and quality.
32.       For onions, however, domestic demand averages about 2,190 tons
while production is about 530 tons or 24% of requirements. The main factor
limiting production has been the seasonal nature of the crop, with produce
coming onto the market in March and April, but demand being steady throughout
the year. Although farmers with irrigation could stagger produ=.tui by
planting later, there is no financial incentive for them to do so; on the
contrary, with late planting, yields tend to be lower and the costs of
production higher. The local onion variety does not store well, but research
under Loan 2115 has helped to extend the growing season by 3-4 months and has
tested varieties with a longer storage life. This would enable domestic
onions to be able to supply the local market for nine months of the year.
Efforts to promote onions have led to a doubling in production, to an
estimated 1,280 tons in 1985. Disease problems have not yet been solved,
however. The Government has assured growers that when their onions come onto
the market, imports will be banned and farmers will be protected from outside
competition, but this raises questions about the economics of onion growing
and the competitiveness of the local crop.
33.       Flowers, particularly the ginger lily, have the potential for
commercial production. The ginger lLly grows wild in Barbados and appears to
thrive. Present estimates by FAO of the number of plants per hectare, the
number of blooms per plant and the proportion of exportable blooms suggest
that production on a commercial scale is feasible. There also seems to be a
ready market at a high retail price in the US for the ginger lily and other
ornamentals. The estimated high gross revenue of production and the large
margin between the sale price in Barbados and retail price in the US suggest
that the opportunities for production and export merit serious
investigation. However, as this is a completely new enterprise, market
outlets need to be established before production is promoted.
34.       Peanut consumption has risen considerably in Barbados since the
early 1970s, but has not been matched by a corresponding increase in domestic
supply, with the result that imports have risen sharply. The lack of
response to increased demand has been attributed to low profitability due to
the high costs of imported seed, labor, inputs and cultivation practices.
Under Loan 2115-BAR, trials have been carried out for peanuts to develop
technical packages that increase yields and that are suitable for commercial
exploitation. The area under peanuts is already increasing rapidly, from
8 ha in 1982 to 160 ha in 1985.
35.       The market prospects for peanuts appear good.  Imports have risen
from less than 100 tons per annum in 1972 to about 600 tons per annum



35                        ANNEX I
Appendix 1
Page 11 of 16
currently, with a value of about BDS$ 1.5 million. There is thus potential
for import substitution. Moreover, as this is a crop well suited for
intercropping with plant cane and as it can be grown without irrigation, it
can help-improve the overall cash-flow situation of the cane estates.
However, as with onions, the economics of import substitution, as ell as the
ability of local institutions to market the crop, still need to be
investigated.
36.       Cotton has been grown in Barbados since the early days of
colonization in the seventeenth century, but production has been erratic with
both areas planted and yields fluctuating widely. In 1983, 20 ha were
planted, but the area under cotton is estimated to have risen to 300 ha in
1985. Plans are to increase the area planted to cotton to around 800 ha
within 2-3 years, and ultimately to reach 2,000 ha. In the past, yields
appear to have been too inconsistent to ensure viability. Estimates by FAO
suggest that a yield of approximately 1.2 tons/ha of seed cotton is required
to break even at the current price of BDS cents 495/kg. Such a yield was
only attained on average in 4 of the 12 years when cotton was produced
between 1968/69 and 1979/80. Reasons for the low and fluctuating yields
include diseas& problems (primarily the pink boll worm) and, principally,
poor management, which has led to high costs. As 40% of costs are accounted
for by labor, opportunities to introduce mechanization should be sought.
Preliminary work with cotton under Loan 2115-BAR suggests that disease
problems can be controlled and yields maintained at satisfactory levels (of
perhaps 2 tons/ha).
37.       The cotton grown in Barbados--Sea Island Cotton--is a long staple
variety that produces a high quality cloth. There is a guaranteed market for
any volume of Barbados' Sea Island Cotton in Japan at an attractive price
(US cents 990/kg of lint). Current world prices of lint-for a medium staple
are significantly lower, at about UScents 106/kg (November 1985 price). One
constraint is the limited ginning capacity on the island: the six existing
cotton gins can handle production of 2,000 tons.
38.       Fruit production on the island (citrus, bananas, pineapples,
avocados, limes, mangoes and Barbados cherries) is limited. HAFP estimates
that production of fruits is about 9,000 tons per annum, which would
represent about 60% of domestic requirements. The future prospects for
increased commercial production of fruits seem to be limited, given the
natural agro-climatic disadvantages of Barbados. However, definite
conclusions must await the results of ongoing efforts by other international
agencies (EDF and IICA) to develop technical packages for the commercial
production of fruits.
39.       Livestock and Fish Production.  Livestock farming as a commercial
activity has been increasing in recent years, but Barbados remains heavily
dependent on imports of livestock products. This is likely to remain the
case for dairy products so long as fresh milk continues to be more expensive
to produce and process than imported milk powder. Beef production is a
by-product of the dairy industry and, although increasing, satisfied only
about 16% of local demand in 1976-81. Pork production has increased since
1970 but can still only meet 25% of domestic demand. Local mutton, produced



-36 -                       ANNEX I
Appendix 1
Page 12 of 16
mainly by small farmers, has declined to 20-30 tons in -ecent years.  Over
the past 20 years the poultry industry has become a sophisticated commercial
operation. This has brought about a significant increase in production, to
over 6,500 tons in 1983. However, because of its small size, the industry
has not been able to cope with demand for some chicken parts and remains
highly dependent on imported inputs.
Table 5: Production of livestock, 1977-84
1977   1978   1979.  1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - tons-
Pigs                 454  1,336    802    918    942  1,300  1,414  1,510
Cows and calves      180    249    324    414    442    376    326    273
GDats and sheep       34      21     60      58     51      21     29      21
Poultry            3,719  4,274  5,273  5,248  6,026  6,700  6,138  6,550
9gg8               1,701  1,814  1,600   ,040  1,350  1,330  1,048  1,880
Milk               2,641  2,993  7,483  7,500  7,146  7,400  7,757  8,730
Sources: MAFF; Central Bank estimates (dead weight for pigs, cows, calves, goats,
sheep and poultry); annual reports, Barbados Dairy Industries, Ltd.
40.       The fishing industry in Barbados is an important supplier of pro-
tein to the local diet. Fish production expanded significantly in 1983 with
over 6,500 tons estimated landed weight, compared with less than 4,000 tons
in 1982. It is expected that a recently approved IDB project will further
enhance fish production.
Institutional Framework
41.       The following paragraphs discuss overall ministerial responsibility
for the agricultural sector, the role of the growers' associations, and ins-
titutions providing agricultural support in research and extension, marketing
and credit.
42.       MAFF has now assumed responsibility for the sugar industry, which
formerly came under the Ministry of Finance and Planning (IOFP). In the
past, MOFP concentrated in practice on such problems as sugar price supports
and incentives, leaving development and production in the hands of the sugar
industry itself (i.e. BSIL). MAFF is also responsic e for non-sugar agricul-
ture. It provides necessary agricultural services (such as research and
extension) and plays a role in broad policy areas such as quarantine, soil
conservation and regulation.



-37-                       ANNEX I
Appendix 1
Page 13 of 16
43.       One important statutory organization coming under MAFF is the BADC,
which farms land for the state and has six cotton gins that are operated
under contract by BSIL, BADC farms the land commercially, but it also plays
a development role. BADC is seen as the agency taking the lead in the
Government's diversification program, by taking production packages developed
by MAEF-and producing the crops commercially. Some of the work under
Loan 2115-BAR, on demonstration plots for different crops and for use of drip
irrigation, took place on BADC estates. BADC is poorly staffed--in both the
technical and administrative areas--and had an accumulated deficit of
BDS$ 5.8 million in mid-1984. Although it has a developmental role, it does
not have a separate development budget. It suffers from the usual weaknesses
of state farms. Its effectiveness is also hampered by constraints on the
General Manager's authority, mainly the result of the traditional system of
estate management continuing in effect on the estates acquired by BADC. 61
44.       The sugar growers' association is BSIL.  As ownership is tied to
cane land, the Government holds almost 20% of BSIL equity, representing BADC
land (3-5%) and smallholder cane growers (about 15%). BSIL owns subsidiary
companies that handle the transport of sugar and shipping of molasses;
another subsidiary develops and manufactures machinery and equipment for cane
harvesting.7/ It also owns the controlling share (56%) in Barbados Terminal
Ltd., which deals with sugar storage and handling; the remaining 44% of
shares are owned by the sugar importing companies.
45.       The Barbados Agricultural Society (BAS) is a private farmers'
organization that nominally represents all farmers involved in non-sugar
agricuLture (both crops and livestock production). BAS's basic role is to
coordinate production activities and improve their efficiency. Through its
marketing subsidiary, it is involved in staffing a packing plant, running a
wholesale market and retail outlets, and arranging for farmers to sell their
produce directly (e.g. by supplying hotels). BAS has received financial
support from the Government, as well as from international agencies such as
IICA, USAID, FAO, and the Bank (in the form of assistance from the marketing
consultant financed under Loan 2115-BAR). BAS :iad accumulated a slight
deficit on its operations of BDS$ 0.2 million in mid-1984. BAS is still not
a strong organization, and needs greater support from its members, i.e. needs
to develop from 'the bottom up'.
6/   This involves, for example, the system of 'attorneyships" that allows
outside lawyers a voice in the management of the estates, as well as
rules on the dismissal of workers that require payment of compensation
for the total period worked on the estates (since such payments would be
high, workers tend to remain on an estate's payroll, even when it is no
longer economic to employ them).
7/   Sugar Transport Ltd; Barbados Nolasses Terminal Inc.; and Caribbean
Agro-ladustries Ltd.



-38-                        ANNEXI
-  :                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Appendix 1
Page 14 of 16
46.       Research and Extension.  Agricultural re-'earch in Barbados is con-
ducted by MAFF, the Caribbean Research and Development Institute (CARDI) and
the University of the West Indies (UWI). In addition, the West Indies Sugar
Cane Breeding Station and BSIL's Agronomy and Sugar Technology Research Units
conduct mainly sugarcane research, the latter futded by a levy on sugar
revenues.
47.       MAFF provides extension services for non-sugar farmers.  Its ori-
ginal function was to serve small, part-time farmers whe are only marginally
involved in commercial farming.  However, in view of the importance of non-
sugar crop-production as a means of significan'tly increasing foreign exchange
earnings, extension efforts under Loan'2115-BM have focused on commercial
farmers though not neglecting smaller farmers. Livestock extension-services
are provided by two Livestock Stations and by the veterinary service and
Animal Nutrition Unit. MAFF has a greater impact on agriculture because of
its new focus. BSIL has recently established a sugarcane extension service
comprising four officers, three of whom serve the large sugar planters and
one the smallholder cane growers.
48.       Marketing Services and Institutions.  Distribution of non-sugar
crops for the domestic market seems to be overwhelmingly through hawkers or
direct sa4ws. The results of a study in 1981 indicated that 40% of produce
is sold directly by large producers to supermarkets and hotels, while a fur-
ther 30% is sold to hawkers at the farmgate and 15% directly to consumers.
Only 15% goes through wholesalers. The Agricultural Trading Company (ATCO)
is the largest of only four wholesalers, handling about one third of such
sales. The roles of ATCO and other institutions involved in domestic and
export marketing are discussed below.
49.       The Barbados Marketing Corporation (BMC), a statutory organization
coming under MAFF, was established in 1963 to play a primary role in the mar-
keting of non-sugar commodities. However, financial losses (an accumulated
deficit of BDS$ 14 million in the early 1980s) led to a streamlining of BMC
staff and Its withdrawal from wholesale and retail trading activities. Its
role now is predominantly one of service to producers, by providing market
intelligence, market research and training of farmers to improve product qua-
lity. BMC is also involved in issuing export and import licenses. Finally,
it retains certain traditional activities, such as operation of the abattoir,
and is solely responsible for the import of some items (fish, chicken parts
and eggs).
50.      The Barbados Agricultural Statistical Information System (BASIS) was
begun in 1982 at t   initiative of BMC.  BASIS produces monthly information
on new plantings of fooderops and wholesale prices (actual and projections),
as well as features on a selected crop and other useful data (e.g. on rain-
fall or harvest projections). The publication's aim is to guide farmers in
making informed production decisions.
51.       The Agricultural Trading Company Ltd. (ATCO) is a registered public
company established in 1982 as a subsidiary of BAS. ATCO has partly taken
over BMC's wholesale and retail operations (including grading and packing for
export markets) with respect to vegetables and root crops. Although it is



-39-
ANNEX I
Appendlx 1
Page 15 of 16
run as a commercial operation, management experience in this area is thin.
For the year ending June 30, 1984, ATCO had an accumulated deficit of
BDS$ 214,000. It has a turnover of BDS$ 2 million, 90% of which relates to
domestic marketing of vegetables; this activity in fact showed a small profit
of almost BDS$ 168,000 in 1984. ATCO is also playing a role in upgrading the
quality of produce (a pre-requisite for expanding exports) and in introducing
improvements in the packaging and grading of fresh produce for the domestic
market. ATCO is now responsible for receiving and packaging export produce.
For eggplant and sweet peppers, it has contracted selected farmers to plant
agreed areas to these crops for export. Farmers are required to follow
production recommendations and are supervised to ensure harvesting in
accordance with a predetermined supply schedule.
52.       The Caribbean Agricultural Trading Company (CATCO) is a regional
institution based in Barbados. It is a subsidiary of the Caribbean Food
Corporation (CFC), an organization owned by regional governments, CFC owns a
51% share of CATCO, while the remaining 49% share is owned by the private
sector. CATCO was formed in 1981 with the objective of increasing
agricultural trade from and within the region. It was financed initially
from an overdraft guaranteed by CFC but has also received funding from USAID
(a loan for purchasing produce) and EDF (a loan to finance inputs for
agricultural development, plus grant money for technical assistance).
Although CATCO has suffered from initial management problems, it now seems to
be run by a competent management company. CATCO has had some success in
marketing Barbadost vegetables in Western Europe, particularly the UK, but
amounts are still small. It has secured an important advantage for Barbados'
exports in the form of a weekly volume of air cargo space at reasonable rates
on flights to the US and UK. While CATCOts obligation to serve its other
member countries limits its interest in owning packing houses in Barbados,
CATCO proposes to take a leading role in exports, gaining from the economies
of scale in serving several small Caribbean exporting nations. It is likely
that agro-industries expected to be financed under the proposed project will
use CATCO as an exporter to some markets.
53.       Credit.  Credit for agricultural production activities can be
obtained on a commercial basis from the six private commercial banks and the
Government-owned Barbados National Bank (BNB). BNB is the main agricultural
credit institution and in 1982 handled about two-thirds of total agricultural
credit. Through its Agricultural Division, BNB provides credit to sugar
plantations, sugar factories and small-scale farmers. Credit operations are
mainly short term. The Central Bank provides rediscounting facilities for
sugar cultivation and other agricultural purposes, and a credit guarantee
scheme for small-scale enterprises, including farming.
54.       The Barbados Development Bank (BDB) makes loans for agro-industrial
investments as a small part of its overall business of serving industry and
tourism. Its sources of funding include the Government, external agencies
(such as the Bank and IDB) and bond issues. Its rates for term loans are
slightly higher-at around 13%-than commercial short-term rates  (10.5-11%
over 5-7 years), but repayment periods are as long as 15 years and grace
periods are 3-4 years.



-40-                       ANNEX I
Appendix X
Page 16 of 16
55.       The increasing number of loans to the sugar industry and sugarcane
farmers in arrears during the last two or three years has put a heavy burden
on the financial resources of the banking system, particularly BNB, the main
lender to the-sugar industry. Most private sugar estates have accumulated
heavy debts. For some, their debts exceed their asset value and most will
find it hard to get further credit, even for non-sugar activities.



. -41-                        NXI
ANWEXI
Aippendix 2
Page 1 of 2
Terms of Reference  -  Aricultural Sector Study
I.  Introduction
1.1  The Government of Barhados and the Bsuk have agreed on the ueed for a
consultant study of the problems and prospects of that country's agri-
cultural sector.  The study is to be funded as part of an Agricultural
Development Project (Loau      -  ).  The Mlnistry of Agriculture, Food
aud Fisheries (MAM?) would select and supervise qualified consultauts
carrying out the study.
1.2  These terms of reference begin with a summary of the overall objectives
of the study sad the organizationsl arrangements for carrying it out.
This i8 followed by detailed analyses relating to the study sad the
topics on which the consultants would draw specific conclusions and make
recomendations. Background papers prepared by FAO on Barbados' sugar
subsector and diversification opportunities are attsched to these terms
of reference.
1I. Obiectives of the Study
2.1  The Government's overall ob.Jectives for the agricultural sector are to
rationalize the sugar industry while exploring sad implementing options
for agrlcultural diversification. The study would provide the
Government with the basis for defining sad implementing a technically,
finsucially sad economically souad agricultural development strategy to
achieve these sector objectives.
2.2 The basic reason for undertaking the study is the changing structure of
world-wide supply of and demand for sugar, and its effects on the viabi-
lity of the sugar subsector in Barbados and more generally on the entire
agricultural sector.
1II. Organization
3.1 The study would be coordinated by MAFP's Planning Unit. Representatives
of MOFP, MAFF, BSIL and the Barbados National Bauk (BNB) would assist
the consultents by providing data. MAFF would make available to the
consultants data sad advice from the consulteuts engaged to provide
technical assistance for non-sugar crops.
IV. Detailed Analyses and Recommendations
4.1 Markets and Prices Outlook for Barbados' Sugas
1.   Provide sugar market aud price projections for 1986-96.



-42-
ANNEX I
Appendix 2
Page 2 of 2
4.2  Cost Structure of Sugar Production snd Processing
1.   Review climatological information 8nd field and factory cost date
available in Barbados Sugar Industries Ltd. (BSIL) to develop a
field and factory cost structure for the industry and ascertain
cost of production by zoaes.
2.   Examine constraints on production (labor availability aud costs,
etc.).
3.   Estimste probable future costs under stated assumptious.
4.3 CroP Diversification Opportunities
1.   Review past and ongoing work on crop diversification, in particular
the researcb and production experience of the consultants hired
under Loan 2115-RAR.
2.   Assess the natural and technical constraints on production of the
varivus non-sugar crops, and the economic and financial viability
of growing crops for which production packages are already
available.
3.   Review Barbados' experience in export marketing of non-sugar crops
and assess possibilities for expansion, taking into account the
experience of other countries undertaking similar ventures and
competition in the potential markets for such crops.
4.4 Conclusions aud Recommendations
1.   Determine the most economic size of the sugar industry as regards
cane area, factory capaclty and other supporting infrastructure
needed to produce, process and export sugar at a profitable level.
2.   Make Preliminary recommendations on desirable crop rotations,
taking into account all relevant factors (agronomic, commercial,
etc.).
3*   Demonstrate attainable levels of profitability to the diversified
system for several scenarios, stating assumptions.
4.   Examine the financial position of the sugar industry and recommend
measures for dealing witb accumulated debts of growers and BSIL.
V. Consultant Input and Timing
5.1 It is expected that the study would require about 18 !an-months of
consultant time. The study would be completed withiu a year.



-43-
Appendix 3
Page 1 of 5
A. Terms of Reference - Technical Assistance for Research,
Extension and Marketing
Farm Economics and Management Specialist
Qualifications:
1.        Academic training in agricultural economics.
2.        Work experience with a team of applied production agronomists in
developing technical and economic farmer recommendations.
3.        Work experience with farm planning for credit projects or as a
private consultant to farmer groups.
4.        Should have the ability to work harmoniously with field scientists.
Duties
1.        Working with the staff of NAFF's Agricultural Planning Unit, assist
other specialists in evaluating the economics of production of different
diversified crops under existing conditions and using the improved technical
packages. Teach MAFF technicians to evaluate thair applied research results
to determine financial viability of their recommended technologies.
2.        Study existing farm enterprises and work models for different
combinations of crop mixes and animal production that would maximize farm
incomes.
3.        Produce data from which government agencies could determine
appropriate policy for input importation.
4.        Assist in the training of farmers and research/extension personnel
in order to help develop of an advisory service in farm management. This
service should be able to produce farm production plans suitable for
commercial bank loans.
Vegetable Production Specialist
Qualifications:
1. *Academic training in agronomy and specialization in production
techniques for vegetables in tropical growing environments.
2.        Work experience In vegetable production and agronomy in tropical
environments.



_44_                        ANNEX I
Appendix_3
Duties
1.       Through a program of adaptive research and demonstration plots,
develop economically attractive technical packages for the production of
vegetables with market potential that have not been dealt with under
Loan 2115-BAR or that need further work.
2.        Test the technical packages that are developed on a commercial
scale with farmers and collect agro-technical and economic data on these
trials; assist the farm economics and management specialist in assessing the
financial viability in each case.
3.-'      Establish a screening nursery for the introduction of vegetable
germplasm available from commercial and public sector sources outside
Barbados.
4.        Together with the mechanized farming specialist, test precision
vegetable seeding equipment In order to obtain appropiate plant densities and
reduce costs.
5.        Assist in publishing and disseminating recommendations and
information to vegetable growers.
6.        Guide and support applied research/extension workers in their work
with vegetable growers.
7.        Assist in training of research/extension workers and farmers.
Flower Production Specialist
9ualifications:
1.       Academic training in agronomy.
2.        Work experience in tropical flower production and knowledge of
market requirements.
3.       Work experience in adaptive research to meet demands of commercial
flower industry.
Duties
l.       Conduct trials on the growing of ginger lilies and other promising
flowers (e.g. heliconia and antheriums) and foliage plants (e.g. dracaena and
yucca) under irrigated conditions in order to develop economically attractive
technical packages for their cultivation.
2.        Carry out farm-level testing of the technology and collect the
relevant agro-technical and economic data; work closely with the economist in
financial evaluation of the data; prepare and publish detailed
recommendations for each ornamental.



-45-                       ANN  1
Appendix 3
Page 3 of 5
3.       Work with the marketing specialist to ensure proper harvesting and
phytosanitary measures to meet standards of potential foreign and local
buyers.
4.        Assist in training extension workers and farmers In the techniques
of flower and foliage production.
Cotton Production Specialist
Qualifications:
1.       Academic training in field crop agronomy.
2.        Work experience in production related adaptive research on cotton
in tropical environments.
Duties
1.       Carry out trials on Sea Island Cotton aimed at developing the
technology of production, working closely with the Entomology Division of
NAFF on pest and disease problems (primarily pink boll worm), possibilities
for mechanization and the economics of production.
2.       Extend the technology for Sea Island Cotton to farmers through
commercial-scale trials; and use the agronomic and economic data from these
trials to assess profitability to the grower.
3.        Develop systems of cultivation that allow cotton to be successfully
rotated with sugarcane production.
4.        Organize a germplasm introduction and screening program for cotton.
5.        Assist in training of research/extension workers and farmers in
cotton production.
Mechanized Farming Specialist
Rualifications:
1.       Academic training in agricultural engineering.
2.       Work experience in tropical climates with agricultural machinery
preferably in vegetable production.
3.        Experience working as part of an adaptive research team with
agronomists and economists.
Duties
1.       Assess the suitability of different types of farm machinery
presently used in Barbados for mechanized non-sugar agriculture.



-46-
Appendix 3
Page 4 of 5
2.        Import selected farm equipment for trials and demonstrations to
those farmers committed to crop diversification; develop and publish
recommendations on the most suitable types of equipment/accessories for each
operation for different crops; develop cost information associated with
various machines.
3.        Based on trials carried out in association with the crop production
specialists, suggest improvements in techniques currently used by farmers and
make comparisons of the cost and efficiency of effecting each operation by
the old and improved methods, under standard conditions.
4.        Develop system of minimum tillage for cotton production and its
integration into a rotation with sugarcane.
5.        Assist in organizing farm machinery pools among interested farmers.
6.        Assist in training research/extension workers and farmers in the
techniques of mechanized farming.
Irrigation Specialist
4_ualifications:
1.       Academic training in irrigation technology.
2.       Work experience with drip, sprinkler and gravity irrigation in
tropical environments.
3.       -Work experience in developing farmer recommendations based on
actual on-farm research.
Duties
1.        Establish, through appropriate investigations and trials, the
design criteria and irrigation schedules for sprinkler and drip Irrigation of
vegetables, peanuts, cotton and flowers for the different agro-ecological
zones of Barbados; assess the economic returns to irrigation in each case,
working in close collaboration with the relevant specialists.
2.        Formulate recommendations for farmers based on these data and test
them out on a commercial scale on farms and estates of cooperating farmers.
3.        Evaluate the different kinds of irrigation equipment available to
farmers for sprinkler and drip irrigation in terms of suitability and cost.
4.        Evaluate use of fertilizer application equipment in association
with drip systems of irrigation.
5.        Determine the financial feasibility of supplementary irrigation of
cane planted at the beginning of the dry season (January/February) aud
harvested at the end of the following dry season (April/May), carrying out
the trials on estates of cooperating planters.



ANNEX I
Appendix 3
Page 5 of 5
6.        Assist in the training of research/extension workers and farmers in
techniques of on-farm irrigation and water management.
Marketing Specialist
2!a1ifications:
1.        Ten years experience in marketing of perishable products, including
five years international experience.
Duties
1.        Promote further development and diffusion of improved practices for
packaging and gradiag produce.
2.        Participate in development of post-harvest technology and
services. In the case of flowers, this would include pre-pack treatment,
packing, cooling, etc.
3.        Identify specific markets and, where possible, quantify export
potential. Undertake such studies in close coordination with the production
specialists, BMC'S Agricultural Marketing Services Division, and CATCO
(Caribbean Agricultural Trading Company).
4.        Work with MAFF in organizing export promotion activities.
5.        Assist in further reorganization of ATCO (Agricultural Trading
Company Ltd.) in order to improve marketing services for farmers. Train and
supervise management.
B. Terms of Reference - Agro-Industry Consultant
1.        To ensure a coordinated approach to its support for non-sugar
crops, the Government, through its Ministry of Agriculture, Food and
Fisheries (MAFF), will provide assistance to groups interested in
establishing agro-industrial enterprises to process and market the non-sugar
crops whose production is being expanded under a Bank-supported project.
2.        The consultant to be hired under the project would assist in
the following areas:
-    advilsing interested parties (such as individual growers, growers'
associations, private entrepreneurs, etc.) on organizational models
for establishing and running export-oriented agro-industries; and
-    advising MAPF on the types of incentives and legal framework
conducive to the successful operation of agro-industrial ventures.
3.        Qualifications.  The consultant would need to be familiar with, and
have considerable experience in working with, successful agro-industries in
other countries.



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
iAppnix 4
Table I
BARBAADOS
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proiect Cost
-  Foreign
Tocal Foreign Total Local  Foreign Total  Exchange
-        (BD$'000) - ---(USS'000)
Agrtcultural Sector Studs      -    400    400             200    200      100
Developmeut of Non-
Sugar Crops               3v440  7,440 10,880 1,720   3,720  5 440         68
Consultaut Services          -    880    880      -   *4*O- 40           100
Export Promotion             -    200    200      -      100    100      100
Overseas Fellowships         -    360    360      -      180    180      100
Tncremental Staff          560      -    560   280         -    280       0
Vehicles                     -      90     90     -       45     45      100
luputs for demonstration  280    830  1,110   140        415    555      75
plots
laboratory equipment         -    300    300      -      150    150      100
Agro-Industrial Credit  2,600  4,780  7,380 1,300   2,3q0  3,690          65
Base Cost                3,440  7,840 11,280 1,720   3,920  5,640         70
Price Contingencies          200    200    400   100       100    200       50
Total Project Cost       3,640  8,040 11,680 1,820   4,020  5,840         69



- 49 -
ANNEX~ 1
Appendix 4
Table 2
BARBADOS
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of Equipment and Other Inputs
For.
Yr 1 Yr 2 Yr 3   Total         Total  Exch.      %
-BDS$'000-      -  -      US$'000-    F.E.
(a) Trials and Demonstrations
Vegetables (4 ha/year)       24.2  24.2  24.2    72.6        36.3   18.7    50
Cotton (4 ha/year)          23.0  23.0  23.0    69.0         34.5   17.2    50
Peanuts (4 ha /year)         25.0  25.0  25.0    75.0        37.5   28.7    76
Flowers (4 ha/year)         40.0  40.0  40.0   120.0         60.0   30.0    50
Irrigation - sugar          93.3  93.3  93.3   280.0        140.0  112.0    80
(10 ha/year)
Irrigation - non-sugar      32.5  32.5  32.5    97.4         48.7   39.0    80
5 ha/year)
Mechanization and
post-harvest
demonstrations            132.0 132.0 132.0   396.0       198.0  169.4    86
TOTAL                 370.0 370.0 370.0 1,110.0       555.0  415.0    75
(b) Costs of Laboratory Equipment and Supplies
Equipment                   80.0   -      -      80.0        40.0   40.0   100
Glassware                   40.0  40.0   -       80.0        40.0   40.0   100
Chemicals                   30.0  30.0   -       60.0        30.0   30.0   100
Other materials             40.0  40.0   -       80.0        40.0   40.0   100
TOTAL                 190.0 \10.0          300.0       150.0  150.00  100
= =~~ ~~~ . .                       =



-50-
ANNEX 1
Appendix 4
Table 3
BARBADOS
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMINT PROJECT
Estimated DILsbtueiuent Schedule
(US$ 'QOs)
IBRD
Fiscal                                  Disbursements         Cumulative
Year      Semester                    during semester a/  Disbursements a/
1987      June 30, 1987                       500               500
1988      December 31, 1987                   300               800
June 30, 1988                      300              1,100
1989      December 31, 1988                  440              1,540
June 30, 1989                      340              1,880
1990      December 31, 1989                   370             2,250
June 30, 1990                      370              2,620
1991      December 31, 1990                   350             2,970
June 30, 1991                      310              3,280
1992      December 31, 1991                  220              3,500
June 30, 1992                      190              3,690
1993      December 31, 1992                   110             3,800
June 30, 1993                      100              3,900
1994      December 31, 1993                   100             4,000
a/   The schedule is based on the disbursement profile for agricultural
credit projects except that the seven year profile has been modified to
allow for the disbursement into the Special Account soon after
effectiveness and for disbursements for technical assistance made on the
basis of contracts to be executed during the first two years of the
project.



t            ,~~~~~~~~~~~f
ANNEX 2
igeF  of 6
A"IUCULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Orgmai,ttion and Wangeiment
1*        Thi8 annex describes the  genciles responsible for implementing the
project Sn4 deteilp the special implementatiou features of the project.
Overall tesponsib1lity for the project would rest witb the Ministry of
Flasuce and Plonning (HOFF", whibc  would-be resposilble for producing the
project completion report. The two key implementing agencies would be the
Industrial Credit Fund (IC?) of the Central Bauk of Barbados and the Ministry
of Agriculture, Food end Fisheries (NAFF), both of which sre knoQw  to the
Bank: ICF is oulending Bauk funds under the Industrial Credit Project
(Loan 2260-BAR) and MAT is responsible for the agriculture comPonent of the
Technical Assistance Prolect (loau 2115-BAR). The roles of the two implemen-
ting agencies are described below.
The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries (MAFF)
2.        MAFF would be responsible under the project for supervising the
techaical assistanCe activities. MAFF is administered by a permanent secre-
tary who reports to the Minister. It is divided into two divisions: admin-
istratiou esd technical. The admiuistratiou division includes units such as
'Plnnuig, Price Coutrol, Markets, Meteorology, and Accounts. The Plananig
Unit would be responstble for recruitiug sad supervising cousultants for the
agricultural study.  Terms of reference for the consultants are set forth iu
Appendix 2 to Annex 1. The TORe also deteil the organization of the
agricultural sector study, and the roles of WAPP and major luterested
groups.
3.        The technical divisiou is administered by the Chief Agricultural
Officer (CAO).  The CAO has two deputies who admiister the technicel func-
tions, which bave been reorstaized as a result of the Bank-financed Technical
Assistance Project (Loan 2115-BAR). As under Losa 2115-BAR, the CAO would be
responsible for hiring and mausging the consultant tesm for technical assis-
tance in crop diversification and for providing quslified counterpart staff,
iucluding four additioaal permanent staff. Witb the advice of the marketing
consultsat, the CAO would organize export promotion setivities. The tech-
nical division would also be responsible for hiring consultants to advise on
possible organizational models for private sector-controlled sgro-industries
and associated policies aud inceutives as say be appropriate.  Terms of
reference for the consultants are act forth in Appendix 3 to Annex 1.
4.        Resesrch.  MAFP does no basic and little applied research.
Adeptive non-sugar crop research done by MAPF is largely concentrated at the
Central Agronomic Research Station, while livestock research is carried out
at the Central Livestock Ststion sad the Animal Nutrition Unit. One of the
two Deputy Chief Agricultural Officers'directs crop research through a number



-52-                         ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
of technical divisions or sections (Pathology, Entomology, Central Agronomic
Research, Soil Chemistry, and Land and Water Use) staffed by seven senior
Agricultural Officers, two Agricultural Officers, 12 senior Agricultural
Assistants and assisting non-graduate staff. Research in livestock and
animal nutrition is directed by the other Deputy Chief Agricultural Officer.
5.        Annual research programs are formulated with reference to the
current five-year plan and cover screening of crop varieties, trials on
fertilizer, spacing, intercropping, time of planting, heviicides, irrigation
trials, and chemical and biological crop protection experiments. A wide
range of crops is covered -by these trials; recent work under Loan 2115-BAR
has involved crops with export potential, including vegetables, peanuts and
cotton.  Pre-extension trials of vegetables have been conducted on farmers'
land in order to modify the recommendations to suit commercial growing condi-
tions. This method has proven effective in 'extending" these technical pack-
ages to farmers, who have been highly receptive to technical advice dispersed
in this manner.
6.        In the past, research has been hampered by lack of funds, inade-
quate and dilapidated laboratory premises lacking in supplies and equipment,
and lack of training opportunities. Moreover, research workers have been
burdened with regulatory and service functions. Finally, during technical
trials, little attention has been paid to costs and returns, and the resul-
ting recommendations may have been technically sound but often economically
unattractive to farmers. Technical assistance and training under
Loan 2115-BAR and under the proposed project have addressed these problems.
7.        Extension.  MAFF provides extension services for non-sugar
farmers. At one time it was to serve small, part-time farmers who are only
marginally involved in commercial farming. However, in view of the
importance of non-sugar crop production as a means of significantly
increasing foreign exchange earnings, extension efforts under Loan 2115-BAR
have concentrated on commercial farmers. Livestock extension services are
provided by two Livestock Stations and by the veterinary service and Animal
Nutrition Unit.
8.        MAFF's extension services are managed by the Deputy Chief
Agricultural Officer, Extension and Development.  Extension services at the
field level are provided by eleven Extension Officers (EOs) assigned to six
extension districts. Most of the 80s have only received a 2-year general
agricultural diploma from Trinidad or Jamaica with minor specialization in
extension. They lack an adequate technical background compared to many
farmers and are also not sufficiently sure of the technical basis for their
recommendations. This has resulted in a general lack of credibility, espe-
cially with the more progressive farmers. EOs have in the past also been
burdened with other tasks (administration of the farm incentive program, pay-
ment of wages, .rop appraisals, casual tasks for other Government institu-
tions, etc.) and have tended to respond to inquiries for information rather
than instituting a regular system of farm visits.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
9.        The reorganization of the research and extension functions that was
began under Loan 2115-BAR strengthened these services. One change has been
the creation of new extension-researcher positions to be filled by the best
qualified staff. This should not only ensure linkages between research ef-
forts and field work, but also enhance the zredibility of extension workers.
The counterpart staff working with the consultants under Loan 2115-BAR are
now visiting farmers regularly to follow up on production recommendations.
Regulatory and administrative functions are being delegated to less qualified
personnel.
10.       MAFF's Information Unit produces radio programs giving practical
advice and useful information (prices, farm incentives, government policies,
etc.), which are 1hroadcast three times a week. The Unit, which was strength-
ened under Loan 2115-BAR through the provision of equipment and staff trai-
ning, also produces fact-aheets for farmers and extension workers, and helps
to organize and prepare training materials for seminars and field days.
The Industrial Credit Fund
II.       The Industrial Credit Fund (IC') was established under the
Iadustrial Credit Project (Loan 2260-BAR). The purpose of the Fund, which is
managed by the Central Bank of Barbados, is to provide rediscounts to finan-
cial intermediaries making loans in certain approved areas. The Project
Agreement dated April 22, 1983 between the Bank and the CBB, as part of the
IDF Loan 2260-BAR, sets forth details of the establishment, management and
operations of ICF. The Statement of Policies of the Fund, and its Operating
Procedures are in Appendices I and 2 to this Annex. The ICF is staffed by
two professionals who are on the payroll of CBB. The Manager of ICF reports
to the General Manager of CBB, and ICF is subject to the control of CBB's
Board of Directors. Financial intermediaries of ICF include the commercial
banking system and the Government-owned Barbados Development Bank. Table I
shows the balance sheet for ICF as of December 31, 1984.
Table 1: Summary of Financial Statements for Year
ended December 31, 1984
Assets                  BDS$                    Liabilities & Capital
Cash Receivables        645,657      Govt. of Barbados            2,794,804 a/
Loans                 3,516,347      Central Bank of Barbados    1,280,000 F/
Interest                 38,017      Retained Earnings              125,217
4,200,021                                  4,200,021
a/   Bank funds under Loan 2260-BAR passed on by Government as equity.
b/   Part of BDS$ 4 million counterpart funds contributed as equity.



-54-                         ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6
12.       ICF landing Profile.  As of April 30, 1985, the ICF had provided
financing of BDS$ 11.9 million (US$5.95 million) for 59 projects. Table 2
provides a distribution of subprojects financed by sectors. Tourism and
manufacturing have been the two main sectors of ICF's activity, accounting
each for about 45X of total lending. The loans for tourism include two large
operations exceeding US$1.0 million each, while most of the otber loans in
that category are lower than US$10,000 and were mainly used to finance the
purchase of taxis by individuals.
Table 2: Subprojects Finaced by Sectors
No. of         Amount of           Average Size of Loan
&ectors        Loans         Loans (BDS$)           BDS$          US$
Agro-industry           2            1,157,000          578,500      289,250
Manufacturing          12            5,258,320          438,193      219,096
Tourism               31             5,338,700          172,217       86,108
Fisheries              14              166,380           11,884        5,942
Total            39            11,920,440         202,041       101,020
10  --                              a    r      
13.       Table 3 presents a distribution of ICF lending operations by
participating banks.
Table 3: Subprojects Financed by ParticiLating Banks
No. of     Amount of      Average Size of Loan
Loans     Loans (BDS$)      BDS$          US$
Barbados Development Bank    51            583,440         11,440      5,720
Royal Bank of Canada           3         1,500,000        500,000    250,000
Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce                  3         6,657,000      2,219,000  1,109t500
Barclays Bank                  2         3,180,000      1,590,000    795,000
Total                   59         11,920,440       202,041    101,020



-55                         ANNEX2
Page 5 of 6
14.       Although most of the projects have been financed through the
Barbados Development Bank (BDB), the total amount of financing provided to
that institution accounted for only 5% of the total ICF lending. This is due
to the fact that BDB's subprojects consisted mainly of small manufacturing
operations, the purchase of fishing boats and taxis. Among the commercial
banks, the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce provided the largest amount of
financing.
15.       At present, commercial banks are very liquid, due to the fact that
the economic recession has resulted in a slowing down of demand for invest-
ment resources while the 1984-85 tourism season has been good.
16.       ICF Financial Results and Position.  For the period January 1 -
December 31, 1984 IFC had a total income of about BDS$135,000 (US$67,500) and
expenses charged to the project totalling BDS$ 10,000 (US$5,000), which
resulted in a net profit of BDS$ 125,000 (US$62,500). However, this result
reflects only partially the ICF's financial performance as it paid only
promotional expenses while the Central Bank paid the salaries of the two ICF
staff as well as its other administrative expenses. As of March 31, 1985,
ICF had total assets of BDS$ 8.09 million.  Its loan por;.folio at that date
amounted to BDS$ 3.5 million.
17.       ICF Portfolio.  As of March 31, 1985, the ICF portfolio consisted
of 59 loans ranging in size from BDS$ 4,000 to BDS$ 3.0 million, and amounted
to BDS$11.9 million. Most of the loans, however, are in the BDS$ 10,000-
20,000 range. ICF does not have arrears problems as it does not lend direc-
tly to enterprises but rediscounts loans made by financial intermediaries,
which are responsible for repaying ICF whether they are repaid themselves on
time or not by their clients. However, ICF is kept informed of developments
in the enterprises that it finances by intermediaries who communicate to the
ICE the financial statements that the borrowers are normally required to
submit.
18.       ICF Project Pipeline.  As of October 1985, the ICF project pipeline
consists of four projects In the manufacturing sector that would require
total financing of BDS$ 3.4 million (US$1.7 million). Three of these pro-
jects would be for the expansion of existing operations while one would be
for the creation of a new enterprise. Remaining funds under Loan 2260-BAR
are likely to be committed by December 1986. The funds to be provided under
the project would be expected to be taken up beginning in 1987.
19.       Interest Rates.  Interest rates for the project will reflect rates
in Barbados which largely follow rates in international capital markets. The
Central Bank of Barbados (CBB) sets minimum deposit and loan rates as well as
a ceiling on the commercial banks average lending rate. Within these overall
limits, commercial banks set their own borrowing and lending rates. The
Commercial banks influence the rates at which Government borrows through
their treasury bill tenders. CBB sets rates for discounts to commercial
banks. CBB intervention has had, on occasion, a restraining or lagging



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
effect, but overall it has not altered the underlying tendency of local rates
-to follow the trend-of international interest races despite the institution
of exchange controls in 1974.
20.       Lending rates are positive in relation to the-current rate of
inflation (5% in 1985), and have been stable.  The minimum deposit rate set
by the Central Bank of Barbados (CBB) has remained unchanged at 5% p.a. since
April 1983. me minimum lending rate, which was reduced from 10% to 9% p.a.
in April 1983, has also remained unchanged. However, CBB allowed the average
lending rate of commercial banks to rise from 11.5% to 12.0% in July 1984 as
foreign interest rates rose. In February 1985, the commercial banks' prime
lending rate was between 10.25% and 11.5% with the weighted average rate of
-10.48% p.a.  The-interest rates presently charged on ICF loans are therefore
positive in real terms, and generally in line with international rates.
21.       The commercial banking system in Barbados, as in most developing
countries, is the dominant force in the financial system. At present, there
are seven commercial banks operating in Barbados. Six of the seven are
branches of U.S., Canadian and U.K. banks, and one is a government owned
bank, the Barbados National Bank (BNB). On the other hand, the Barbados
Development Bank (BDB) was established by the Government in 1969 to provide
long-term loans in the principal growth sectors of the economy, e.g., manu-
facturing and tourism. For the year ended March 31, 1984, BDB showed a loan
portfolio of BDS$ 71 million, shareholderst equity of BDS$ 18 million, and
net income for the year of BDS$ 0.05 million. BDB's portfolio reflects the
emphasis placed on the development of the tourism and manufacturing sectors
although some agricultural loans were made prior to 1978, when this function
was taken over by the agricultural division of BNB. BDB was financed by
Government capital grants up to 1971; however, since then, borrowings from
multilateral institutions have become a more important source. This has been
supplemented by the issue of National Development Bonds. BDB remains a rela-
tively small development bank, mainly serving the smaller industrial and tou-
rism enterprises and covering a limited share of the total financing require-
ments of the sectors. However, BDB has been instrumental in providing term
financing for the small and medium enterprises which would otherwise have had
limited or no access to commercial bank credit. Credit applications under
the proposed project may be forwarded to ICF from any of the qualified finan-
cial intermediaries.



- 57 -
ANN=X 2
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 2
BARBADOS
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial Credit Fund
Statement of Policies
A.  Objectives
1.        The objective of the Industirial Credit Fund (ICF), established in
the Central Bank of Barbados, is to contribute, within the policies of the
Government of Barbados, to the industrial development of the country. The
ICF will provide, through qualified financial intermediaries, credit to
productive private enterprises to stimulate the economic development of
Barbados, create new employment and generate foreign exchange.
B. Eligible Activities
2.        The ICF will discount, through financial intermediaries, sound and
economically viable projects engaged in one of the following activities:
(a) agro-industry; (b) manufacturing; (c) fisheries; (d) tourism; (e) mining
and quarrying; and (f) enterprises p.oviding services directly related to the
above.
C. Financial Policy
3.        The ICF will be established as a permanent fund.  To attain its
objectives it will operate in such a way as to maintain and, if possible,
increase its capital (or permanent resources). ICF will invest its resources
to obtain the maximum financial results consistent with sound financial
practices, and will maintain its financial resources in separate and
independent accounts.
4.        The ICF will operate with the following resources:
(a) its capital consisting of:
- Government's contributions;
- Central Bank's contributions;
- profits derived from its operations;
- such reserves as it establishes; and
- funds obtained as grants and transfers from other sources.
(b) the proceeds of loans borrowed in Barbados or abroad.
5.        The ICF resources may be used to (i) finance fixed assets and
technical assistance required for new private sector enterprises, or the
expansion of existing ones including feasibility studies; (ii) finance



-58-                        ANNEX 2
Appendix I
Page 2 of 2
working capital for existing or new enterprises; (iii) cover its
administrative costs; and (iv) service and repay loans received.
6.        The ICF resources used to provide working capital not related to
fixed asset investments should not exceed SQ% of its total resources.
7.        The ICE will maintain independent accounts and financial
statements, that will be audited at the end of each fiscal year by
independent external auditors.
8.        All subloans shall be expressed in BDS$.                    -
9.        ICF shall encourage the participation of financial intermediaries,
and avoid a concentration of financing in any single one of them. To this
end the ICF shall, from time to time, set upper limits on the participation
by each particular institution.
10.       In order to be accepted as a participant, a financial intermediary
should meet the eligibility criteria of ICF and must be equipped to appraise
and supervise long-term loans and sign a participation agreement with the
ICF.
I1.      The ICE shall finance a portion of intermediaries subloans as
determined in the operating procedures.
12.       The ICF's discount rate would be two points below the weighted
average commercial banks prime rate, this rate will be calculated quarterly
and adjustment may be introduced as necessary. Financial intermediaries
lending rates to beneficiaries shall not be subject to any interest rate
ceilings or regulations. The ICF discounts shall be exempt from the reserve
requirement.
13.      Maturity periods on subloans granted by the ICF shall be according
to the requiremients of each subproject. Maximum maturity shall be 15 years
including grace period of up to three years. The maturity and grace period
will depend on the capacity to repay and other characteristics of the
particular project.
14.       Financial intermediaries will onlend subloans to the borrowers at
their own risk, for the same maturities and grace periods as they receive the
corresponding discounts from the ICE.
15.       The ICF shall conduct periodic reviews of its operations, and of
the operations of the beneficiaries of its lending program. -
16.       ICP shall from time to time check the performance of the
enterprises financed with its resources, and with the assistance of the Bank
Supervision Department of the Central Bank inspect the ICF operations of the
financial intermediaries including BDB.



_59-                         ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 1 of 3
BARBADOS
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial Credit Fund
Operating Procedures
A. Beneficiaries
1.        To be eligible for financing from the ICF individuals or corporate
bodies must:
(a) Be either establishing a new enterprise or expanding existing
production capacity, or meeting production orders;
(b) Be resident Barbadian nationals, and in the case of Corporate
bodies at least 51% of stock must be held by resident Barbadian
nationals; and
(c) Have the managerial, technical and financial capacity to implement
their project efficiently.
B. Terms and Conditions Affecting Operations
2.        The project in question must be in accordance with the ICF's
Statement of Policies.
3.        The ICF may finance up to 90% of loans made by financial
intermediaries on a reimbursement basis, provided the amount discounted does
not exceed 70% of the cost of projects and 80Z of the expansion costs of an
existing investment.
4.        The amount of ICF discounts outstanding to any beneficiary should
at not time exceed BDS$3 million. The ICF shall not provide refinancing for
existing debts.
C. Interest Rates to Financial Intermediaries
5.        The rate payable by rinancial intermediaries to the ICF shall be
two points below the weighted average of the commercial banks' prime rate.
This rate shall be calculated quarterly and adjusted provided that the change
in the average prime is more than a quarter of one percent. The new rate
shall apply to both outstanding and new discounts. Financial intermediaries
shall be advised accordingly and the new rates (to the financial
intermediaries) shall be effective from the first working day of the quarter.



Appendix 2
Page 2 of 3
D. Interest Rates to Sub-borrowers
6.        The interest rate payable by loan beneficiaries on subloans under
this program shall not be subject to ceilings and shall be determined by each
financial intermediary for each subloan it makes. Financial intermediaries
shall be free to change the rate on any or all of its subloans from time to
time.
E. Maturity Periods
7.        The loan repayment period shall be established by the financial
intermediary in accordance with the needs and repayment capacity of each
subproject. The maximum repayment period shall be 15 years including a grace
period of up to three years. However, for working capital loans not related
to fixed asset investment or for technical assistance loans the maximum
maturity will be five years with up to two years of grace.
F. Processing of Loan Applications
8.        The procedure for discounting subloans shall be as follows:
(a) Application of the Loan Beneficiary. The loan beneficiary will
present the application to the financial intermediary of choice.
The application will include the information required depending on
the size of the requested loan;
(b) Appraisal by the Financial Intermediary. The proposed project
shall be appraised by the financial intermediary in accordance with
the guidelines issued by the ICF. Both the project study of the
beneficiary and the intermediary's appraisal report shall then be
forwarded to the ICF together with the promissory note and the
amortization schedule. Subloan applications for an amount above
BDS$300,000 shall include financial, marketing, technical and
economic data as specified by the ICF. For subloans below
BDS$300,000 evaluation focusing on the viability of the enterprise
and the project shall be required;
(c)  If the subloan is below BDS$300,000 the financial intermediary
shall approve it and disburse the loan without previous
authorization from the ICF. The ICF will satisfy itself that the
project conforms with its statement of policies and will disburse
the appropriate discount upon receipt of the intermediary's
application;



-61-                          ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 3 of 3
(d) If the subloan is above BDS$300,000 it shall require the previous
authorization of the ICF.  Accordingly the financial intermediary
shall present to the ICF the application accompanied by the
intermediary's evaluation. The ICF shall disburse discounts for
the corresponding subloan after it has reviewed and approved the
project;
(e) The IFC shall review discount applications and project evaluations
to ensure they conform with the objectlves and policies of the ICF,
that the projects are financially viable and that the market study
is adequate and satisfactory. For subloans above BDS$500,000, the
financial internal rate of return and the economic rate of return
for the project shall be calculated;
(f) Where the discount amount is over BDS$300,000 the recommendation of
the ICF shall be ratified by the Governor of the Central Bank or
his nominee. Where the discount is over BDS$500,000 the decision
must be ratified by the World Bank.
(g) Once a loan application has been approved, the financial
intermediary shall be notified of the amount of the discount that
has been approved.
(h) The request of a financial intermediary for disbursements shall be
accompanied by whatever documents are required to evidence purchase
of the goods and services.
si) Upon receipt of the disbursement request, the ICF shall promptly
notify the Banking and Currency Department of the Central Bank to
credit the account of the financial intermediary with the amount
approved for disbursement (the amount approved may be disbursed in
installments depending on the project's needs). The Banking and
Currency Department shall promptly credit the account (of the
financial intermediary accordingly and debit the account of the
ICF). The Banking and Currency Department will also debit the
accounts of the financial-intermediary according to the
amortization schedule of the respective loan and credit of the ICF
account accordingly.



-62-
AMNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
BARBADOS
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Justification and Benefits
1.        The main benefit of the proJect, though unquantifiable, would come
through providing the Government with a sound basis for defining its
agricultural sactor strategy. This would support tkhe Government's major goal
of agricultural development, and i8 in line with the Rank's development
strategy for the country as described below.
A. The Bank's Development Strategy for Barbados
2.        The Government's development objectives include rationalization of
the sugar iudustry; diversification into other export crops to reduce
dependence on sugar as well as crops which offer the prospect for efficient
import substitution and industrial linksge; pursuit of an appropriate iudus-
trial strategy; and promotion of a higher degree of energy self-sufficiency
through development of its hydrocarbon and alternative energy resources and
furtherauce of energy conservatiou. The implications of these objectives for
the transfer of labor out of sugar into other agriculture and manufacturing,
for relevant manpower development programs to support this process, for the
provision of adequate services to nontrsditional agriculture sad for eaergy
planning, highlight the need for strong iustitutions in precisely those
sectors-agriculture, energy, education-where institutional capacity is in
need of improvement.
3.        The Bank' s developmeat strategy therefore recotnizes that Barbados
needs to strengthen its institutional capacity in key sectors involved with
the Government's development program. Since the Rank's operations in
Barbados bave involved only a limited number of sectors, it is planned that
in the near future, the Bank should finsace projects in the weaker sectors
that are judged to be of economic significance, with substantial technical
assistauce components.
4.        Furthermore, Barbados' economic performance weakened severely
duriug the years of the world recession because of the country's openness and
heavy dependence on tourism. It was agreed that Barbados ueeded assistauce
in Improving its access to t-he capital markets.
5.        Thus, the Bank's objectives for the next several years will be:
(i) to help strengthen the ecouomic structure; (ii) to expand its sectoral
involvement in Barbados with a view to enhaucing institutioual development in
the weaker sectors; and (iii) to seek commercial bank cofinancing of some of
its projects as a means of increasing Bsrbados' experience with the private
capital markets. The lending program has to be designed to achieve these
objectives.



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
B. Justification for the Proposed Proiect
6.   -    The agricultural sector has a prominent role in the Government's
economlc diversificatiou strategy because its coatribution to the economy is
significant, but at the same time, it displays serious weaknosses.  The
sector now accounts for about 102 of real GDP at factor cost (or sbout 7% of
GDP in current prices) and about 102 of total employment. Agricultural
exports earu almost US$40 million in foreign exchange, equivalent to about
14% of merchandise exports. Nevertheless, the sugar iudustry-tbe most
importeant agricultural activity-is in serious financial trouble, being
sustained over the last four years by an expensive government support
scheme. Moreover, the development of non-sugar agriculture is far below
potential, requiriug expanded programs of applied research and technology,
-iucluding irrigation, in addition to Improved marketing and extension
services. One of the Government's objectives is to expand nontraditional
agriculture (as well as nonagricultural activities). Opportunities exist to
increase exports of vegetables, flowers, and cotton, and for limited import
substitution in peanuts and some vegetables. Iowever, the existing
iustitutional support for non-sugar agriculture needs to be upgraded.
7.        The Bank's FY82 Technical Assistance project in agriculture
(Loan 2115-BAR) was designed to upgrade the institutional and technical meaus
for expanding non-sugar crops, and to provide advice and guidance to the
GoverAment for developlng appropriate crops.  Under this project, the
research sad extension functions of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and
Fisheries (MAFF) were reorganlzed, and considerable work was accomplished in
developing the techniques of growing non-sugar crops.
8.        The proposed Agricultural Development project will build on the
efforts started under the Technical Assistance project with a view to further
streugthening relevant insutiutions and upgrading agricultural services. It
will also support a more comprehensive approach to strengthening the
agricultural sector by providing the Government with the basis for defining
an overall strategy for agriculture, and by providing financing for the
post-harvest handling of non-sugar crops. Technical assistance under the
diversification component of the proposed project will further strengthen
MAFT's technical division and assist in the formation of private sector
agroludustries. The result of these efforts, as well as development finsuce
for agroindustries, should increase farm income from diversified non-sugar
crops. This is expected to materially improve the economv of the
agricultural sector and meet a prime objective of the blak's development
strategy. The proposed project, therefore, conforms to the economic
development and iustitution building objectives of that strategy.



- 64 -
-            ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
C. Beuef its
9.        The benefits of the project with regard to the objectives are to
improve the viability of the agricultural sector by providing the Government
with a sound basis for defining its 8gricultural sector strategy and
increasing the production of and income from non-sugar crops.
10.       It is not possible to calculate an economic or financial rate of
retuLa for the proposed project because: (a) the 1'upact of the techaical
assistance for diversification cannot be quantified; and (b) agro-industrial
subproiects would only be appraised during proiect implementation. Instead,
the justification for the project is primarily based on its likely contribu-
tion to agricultural strategy development as disecussed above-. The potential
export revenues from cotton, vegetahles and flowers, sud the possible savings
in foreign exchange from import substitution by domestic production of onions
and peanuts, has been estimated at US$30 million per vear. Further savings
are expected as a result of rationalizing the sugar industry, based on the
recommendations of the proposed agricultural sector study.



-65-
ANNEX 4
BARBADOS
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documeats and Data Available in the Pro ect File
A.   General Reports on the Agricultural Sector
1. AGRIDEV Consultants: Semestriai-Reports on Loan 2115-BAR. (November
1983, June 1984, December 1984, June 1985)
-2.  AGRIDEV Consultants;  Monthly and Trimestrial Progress Reports-on Loan
2115-BAR (various)
3.  AGRIDEV Consultants:  Agricultural Diversification Project
(Loan 2115-BAR) - Final Report
4.  Government (MAF):      Evaluation of Final Report (Loan 2115-BAR)
5.  AGRIDEV Consultants:  Report on the Utilization of Water Resources for
Irrigation (October 1984)
6.  AGRIDEV Consultants:  Report on the Identification of Livestock Projects
(July 1984)
7.  FAO:                   Report to the Government on: International Meat
Development Scheme and International Scheme for the
Coordination of Dairy Development (October 1984)
B. General Reports Relating to the Project
8.  FAO:                   Preparation Mission Report on Agricultural
Di-ersification Technical Assistance Project,
Volume I, No. 24/85 CB-BAR 3 (February 22, 1985)
9.  FAO:                   op. Citi:  Volume 2: The Sugar Industry
C.   Selected Working Papers
10. Summary of component costs (MOFP)
11. Agricultural Census (1971) Classifications
12. Local Procurement Regulations
13. Estimated Potential Revenues from Non-sugar Crops



NOTES



MAP SECTION



IBRD20365
North Aoirt                                       '^, ~-*. <    ATLANrIC
.  X 9  -   X   ^  Xp  OCEANA(
4          ~~ ~~0 400'
Cl W I H IL L         \                                        -¢                           LL.L'-  C 
CRM¾ N- oLAI   400
fRA8H;LQ.~j   ~                                               0.4                  WIAN        MILES
"~PIE CORNER                            2oIn                     !U'  -RIC
t ! ST   Ui C 2  "'9'              -                           c-~rts 
. 4 /ff * 8 > . ~~~~Coriib6eor SeaoRB
Co,rbbeon   Seo          B~~ARBADOS
PANAMA
=--      . ,SOUTH   AMERICA
SPE|IG-      T        -ER _,  
ABY0 
.,   //~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
=H1ETW             X ST  TH        A                                       g        |         TH   AM
HALL.HASi- ¢ /
S.                       OlNS                MX'          
BARBADOS                          -   57IEW  P                       |
AGRIlCULlTURAL LAND USE PlAN
Arable land suitable for mechanical cultivation      *      Sugar factories
,Aroble- land unswitoNe for mechanicad cultivaton        -       Beaches
Pasture lond with limited irrigation                  *-------Irrigation boundaries
-,_    Markrlt gordening with limited irrigation           -        Major roads
..;.-Gullies- and steep land suitable for forest, fruit,  -     -Parish boundaories
citrus and banawnas, windbreak trees.                     Main built-up areas.
A   -   nes wpotble of ipprOimmotely eaqal sugar                  International boundaries
yhieds (not defined)                            0     1      2     3     4      5
HIR I Ss 
DECEBB 1986



