Tho World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4357-BAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt4.0 MILLION
TO
BARBADOS
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 27, 1987
-This docunent has a strckted distribution and may be used by rcipients only in de peffomnIc e
| ofteir oki duties. I contents may not otherwis be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURKENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:
Until November 1973    :   kastern Caribbean Dollar (EC$)
Since December 1Y73    :    arbados Dollar (BDSS)
Currency bqutvalents
Since July 1975
US*L.0O     -     BJSb2.00
BiJ$1.UO    -    US*U.5U
ABBRbV1ATIUNS AND ACXONtMS
ATCU   - Agricultural Trading Company Ltd.
BAIC   - Barbados Agricultural Development Corporation
SDB    - Barbados Development bank
niC    - Barbados Marketing Corporation
BLN4    - Biarbados National bank
BSIL   - Barbados Sugar Industries Ltd.
CAROI  - Caribbean Agricultural kesearcb and Oevelopment lnstitute
CATCU  - Caribbean Agricultural Trading Company
CBB    - Central Bank of Barbados
CDB    - Caribbean Development Bank
CFC    - Caribbean Food Corporation
CGCEOJ - Caribbean Group for Cooperation in bconomic Development
EOF    - European Development Fund
EEC    - European Economic Community
FAU    - Food and Agriculture Organization
ICF    - Industrial Credit Fund (of the Central Bank)
IDS    - Inter-American Development Bank
IICA   - Inter-American 1nstitute tor Agricultural Cooperation
HAFF   - Miinistry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries
MUFP   - Hinistry of finance and Planning
USAID  - United States Agency for International Development
Government of sarbados
Fiscal Year
April I to March 31



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
6AKBAiJUi
AG&LCULTUSAL DEVELOPMINT PKOJiCT
LOAti AND PROJECT SUMMARY
borrower:        Barbados
Beneficiaries:      (i) Ministry of Agriculture, Food and fisheries (MAFF);
and
(ii) Industrial Credit Fund (LCF) in the Central Bank of
Barbados (Cdl), and through LCF participating
financial intermediaries.
Amount:           3Sj4.0 million equivalent.
Terms:            15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:          The Borrower would make Us$2.4 million of the dank loan
proceeds available as an equity contribution to CSB/LCF,
which would use it to discount loans for agro-industrial
subprojects made by participating financial
intermediaries.
Project:          (a)  Objectives:  The proposed project is designed to
improve the viability of Barbados' agricultural
sector and help diversify it away from sugar by:
Ci) assisting the Government to define and implement
a technically, financially, and economically sound
agricultural sector development strategy; and
(ii) nelping to increase production of, and incomes
from, non-sugar crops.
(b) Description: The proposed project would support the
production, processing and marKeting of non-sugar
crops with proven commercial potential.  Et would
build on research concerning technical and economic
feasibility of non-sugar crops and extension efforts
begun under the bank's FY8Z Technical Assistance
Project (Loan 2115-BAR). Kore specifically, the
proposed project would provide 67 man-montns of
consultants' services, overseas fellowships, equip-
ment and materials to strengthen MAdF's research and
extension activities and provide credit funds for
agro-industrial ventures. It would also provide for
an agricultural sector study, involving both the
sugar and non-sugar subsectors, and crop diversifica-
tion policies.
(c) Benefits: The proposed project, over the medium to
long term, would lead to improvements in farmers'
incomes, together with gains in Barbados' balance of
trade. The main direct project beneficiaries, due to
the country's present agricultural structure, would
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfofmance
of ftir official duties Its contents may not othrwis be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
be the larger farmers who already produce sugarcane
and can produce tradeable surpluses in potential
alternative crops, including cotton, onions, vegeta-
bles, peanuts and flowers. dowever, smaller growers
of tbese crops would also be assisted through dis-
semination of appropriate production technology and
marketing support.
(d)  Risks:  The main project risks are:  (i) the inherent
difficulties in attempting to diversify out of sugar
in an economy where sugar has been predominant tor
many years; (ii) constraints associated with
attracting private investment into non-sugar crops
and agro-industries, and with developing profitable
markets for their output, domestically or overseas;
and (iii) a danger of pests for expanded cotton
production. These areas would be a focus of the
proposed project consultants' work.
Project Cost:                                   Local    Foreign      Total
(US* Million)-
Agricultural Sector Study                                   U.2        U.2
Development of Non-Sugar Crops
Technical Assistance & Associated Inputs         0.4       1.3         1.7
Agro-Industrial Credit                           1.3       2.4         3.7
Base Cost                                   1 7       3.9        5.o
Contingencies                                    U.1       U.1         U.2
Total Project Cost                          1.d       4.0        J.8
=    =
Financing Plan:
Government                                  U.5       -          U.5
Proposed Bank loan                          -         4.0        4.U
Financial Intermediaries                    U.3       -           U.3
Contribution by Subborrowers                1.0       -          1.0
Total                                       1.8       4.0        JA



- jii -
estimated
Disbursements:                      bank Fiscal Year
19a7   1! l8 19s9   1990   1991   199L   1993   1994
- -    (UsA million)--              -  -
Annual            U.5    U.b    U.8    U.7    U.7    U.4    U.2    U.1
Cumulative        U.5    1.1    1.9    Z.b    3.3    3.7    3.9    4.U
Economic Kate
of Keturn:     Not applicable.
Appraisal
Report:         DIo. bU3U-zAK, dated January 27, 1987
map: lisKW 20365



INTERNATIONAL JuNK FOU  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT ANU £ECUOMEkUATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TkE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LUAN TU BARBADOS
FOR AN AGB.ICULTURAL DEVEOPMENT PROJECT
1. *I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan of USS4 million equivalent to Barbados for a period of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate,
to help flnance an agricultural development project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report (Barbados - Development Challenges, Report
No. 5604-BAR, dated April Zb, 1985) has been distrituted to the Executive
Directors. The following paragraphs also reflect the preliminary findings
of an economic mission that visited Barbados in September 198b. Annex I
contains the basic country data.
Background and Recent Economic Performance
3*        Barbados, a smaUl island in the Caribbean with limited natural
resources and a high population density (584 per 1m2), has made impressive
gains in recent decades. During the lYbOs and 1970s, growth averaged 5% in
real terms per year, with an average of 7Z in the l96sO and 3% in the
1970s, and low population growth permitted per capita income to advance to
US§4,baO in 1965. In the meantime, the economic base developed from a
monoculture producing and exporting (mainly sugar) to a more diversified
structure featuring strong tourism and manufacturing sectors. By the
beginning of the 1980s, agriculture, tourism and manufacturing together
directly contributed some one-third of the national product in roughly
equal shares.
4.        As a small open economy, Barbados is subject to fluctuations
generated abroad and it suffered its most severe external shock in recent
tines during the 19Y1-83 world recession. Activity in the sensitive
tourism sector, the largest export earner, dropped a cumulative 21Z over
the two years 198L and 1982. The economic impact was compounded by poor
sugar harvests and weakening commodity prices in the same years, with the
result that the balance of paymnets and public finances deteriorated
sharply. The authorities adopted a program of fiscal and monetary
austerity that gained the support of the IMF, and in 1982 the Government
entered into its first stand-by arrangement with the Fund. by the end of
1983, with the successful implementation of that stabilization program, the
deterioration in the public finances and balance of payments was contained.
5.        The economy emerged from the 1981-83 period with its economic
structure severely weakened. Both the tourism and sugar sectors
encountered severe financial difficulties in those years that continued
into 1984. A number of hotel operations failed, debt service delinquencies
mul-iplied and the sugar industry suffered substantial losses because of
both output and price declines. The manufacturing sector meanwhile was
sustained by strong growth in the enclave electronics subsector whose
performance more than outweighed the declines in the rest of manufactur-
ing. The low economic activity in those years pushed unemployment from 11X



-2-
in 1981 to about 16X by the end of 1983. Inflation, however, moderated
along with the slower rise in import prices.
b.        After two years of negative growth during the 1981-83 world
recession, the economy recovered mildly in 1983 and recorded a growth rate
of 3.5X in 1984. But GDP growth slowed down considerably to 0.3Z in 1985.
Sugar production remained at around 100,000 tons in 1985, while tourism and
manufacturing declined significantly following continued exchange and trade
restriction& in the CARICOM region. Kowever, these losses were offset by
growth in mining, quarrying and construction sectors. Meanwhile, slow
growth in recent years compared with additioas to the labor force has
pushed up unemployment. The unemployment rate increased from 17X in 1984
to about 192 in 1985 mainly owing to job losses in the manufacturing
sector, following a number of plant closures. -Unemployment is likely-to
increase further in 1986 owing to recent decisions by two major foreign
firms (electronics and garments) to close operations in Barbados.
7.        The slowdown in the economy in 1985 led to a sharper fall in
imports than in exports, causing a smaller trade gap compared with that in
1984. This, together with increased non-factor services resulted in a
current account surplus of US$54 million, equivalent to 4.4% of GDP in
1985. Net flows of public capital also increased significantly.
Consequently Barbados' net foreign reserves increased by about USS25
million. Excluding Barbados' outstanding claims of US$60 million against
the Caribbean Multilateral Clearing Facility (CMCF), the import cover of
the country's gross international reserves stood at 1.9 months as of end
1985. Despite the slowdown in the economy, Central Government current
revenues increased significantly in 19b5/86 owing to increased stamp ducies
on imports and improved tax collections. These gains, however, were eroded
by steep increases in wages, salaries and transfer payments. Consequently,
the Central Government current account surplus narrowed from the equivalent
of 1.1% of GDP in 1984 to 0.8Z of GDP in 1985. The public sector current
surplus also narrowed considerably in 1985. Consequently, its share of
domestic financing of public investment declined in 1985 from 68% in 1984
to 61X in 1985.
8.        The new Government, elected in May 1986, has presented through
its July 1986 budget proposals, a wide range of tax concessions to
stimulate growth in the economy. The Government is committed to an
economic strategy based on export-led growth and a greater role for the
private sector. Accordingly, greater emphasis is being placed on export
marketing and on stimulating domestic investment via tax concessions. The
public sector is expected to play a supportive role and to attain higher
levels of operational efficiency. There are, however, a number of issues,
as discussed below, that require to be addressed in order to achieve the
growth performance expected by the Government.
Development Strategy and Development Issues
9.        Barbados' development has proceeded within a framework of general
reliance on the market mechanism and private enterprise, both foreign and
domestic, with the role of the Government largely reserved to the provision



._3_
of supporting infrastructure and appropriate production incentives. The
development strategy is outwara-looking as is appropriate for a country
with such a small domestic market (253,00U people).  Given the openness of
the economy, the development strategy aims at diversifying the economic
base so as to strengthen the resilience to external shocks. The
traditional sugar industry, which has dominated isarbados' agriculture over
many years but is now facing difficulties, has to be rationalized, while
exploring tor options for agricultural diversification to increase the
country's domestic earnings and export income. Tourism has grown rapidly
in the past and the country will continue to have a comparative advantage
in that field. In addition, the country has significant assets in its
readily trainable labor torce, proximity to the North American market, and
good communications.  To capitalize on these assets, enhancement of the
quality and industrial relevance of the labor force through continued
improvement in the education and training system has to be a central
element of the uovernment's development strategy.
1U.       Barbados continues to face a critical issue concerning the
competitiveness of its production in international maricets. While the
recent decline of the US*, to which the BUS$ is pegged, has brought about
some improvement, many of Barbados' competitors, including Jamaica and
Trinidad within CAKLCU, t have had sharp devaluations recently leaving
Barbados as a relatively costly destination for tourism and source of
manufactures. in the sugar industry, costs remain high on an international
basis. These developments highlight critical imbalances in the cost/price
structures of the sugar and tourism industries, wtich experienced rapid
wage increases in the years preceding the recession and falling prices
during the recession years. Another urgent issue stems from the trade
problems of CAKiCWi that have effectively curbed intra-regional trade,
pointing to the need to reorient manufactured exports to extra-regional
markets. Yet existing manufacturers have little experience or Itnowledge of
trose markets and would require strong incentives and support to make the
shift.  Inadequate capitalization of business firms in tourism and
manufacturing, and weak management, particularly weak rinancial management,
across all sectors are other sectoral problems exposed by the recent
economic difficulties.
II.       The task ahead for the Government is to formulate and implement
corrective measures for restoring the viability of these major producing
and foreign-exchange-earning sectors.  The problems in the sugar industry
underscore the need to rationalize operations and to increase production
efficiency, in addition to pursuing programs for agricultural diversifica-
tion. The Government intends to conduct an in-depth review of the sugar
industry, as a basis for informed policy-making about its future. Further
mechanization appears to be a part of the medium- to long-term plan for the
industry. The tourism industry needs to improve its operating efficiency
and to expand its revenue-earning capacity by better targeting its
promotion at the up-scale market. The hotel sector has already begun to
rationalize its cost structure by adopting a more flexible employment
poLicy and the Government has provided assistance to the tourism sector as
a whole in the form of relief from some taxation and tees on tourists,
reduction in water rates for hotels and an increase in the promotion
budget. Manufacturing, meanwhile, is tacing a most difficult transition.



-4-
A strategy is required to diversify markets and products, attract new
activities such as linkage industries that would help maximize local
value-added, and to examine incentives needed for extra-regional exports.
In all sectors, the approaches imply strong marketing efforts, and enhanced
management and vocational training. Finally, appropriate macroeconomic
policies are of the utmost importance for the country's international
competitiveness. There is the need for the authorities to monitor and
control wage increases, which in the recent past have exceeded domestic
inflation by significant margins. Even though the local currency has
depreciated along with the US dollar against European currencies over the
last year, the issue remains important and needs to be addressed. In
regard to fiscal policy, the tax concessions offered by the July 1986
budget are likely to result in a revenue loss in the short term, which
requires to be compensated by revenue increases, possibly in consumption
taxes, and by current expenditure controls. Unless this is done, domestic
resource mobilization efforts will falter and adversely affect the
financing of public investment. The Government is aware of the urgent need
to restore balance in its central government current account.
12.       The new Government's public sector investment program for the
medium term focuses on rehabilitation of economic infrastructure, projects
and technical assistance to support private sector investments and
improvements in vocational education and training. Its successful
implementation will enhance the country's appeal to visitors and potential
investors.
Development Prospects and Creditworthiness
13.       Leaving aside Barbados' susceptibility to exogenous factors such
as external price fluctuations and unpredictable weather, the economic
outlook hinges strongly on the country's ability to address the fudamental
development issues that have emerged in recent years. The failure of the
economy to sustain the recovery begun in 1984 underscores the urgency for
appropriate adjustment measures. The authorities have in the past
displayed prudence in managing the economy and in maintaining fiscal
responsibility. It is essential that they continue this performance. It
is a favorable sign that policy-makers and industry operators in the major
productive sectors have begun to gather necessary information and to take
measures to promote structural adjustment. Not least among the latter is
the importance of wage restraint and productivity increases to enable
Barbados to maintain its competitiveness in international markets.
14.      Barbados' government and government-guaranteed external debt in
1985 stood at US$352 million equivalent (28Z of GDP). The rate of
accumulation of debt increased to 16.6Z in 1985, following a d.22 buildup
in 1983. These increases were related to borrowings for large development
projects in the public and private sectors. In the first half of 1985, the
Government arranged foreign commercial bank loans totaling US$44 million to
bolster its liquid external reserve position. The debt service ratio,
which was 7.7Z in 1985, is expected to remain within manageable levels over
the medium-term. Balance of payments projections indicate that the debt
service ratio would peak at about 17X of exports in 1991, and decline
thereafter. Considering all of the above, Barbados continues to be
creditworthy for Bank lending on conventional terms.



15.       In 1985, the Bank's share in Barbados' outstanding public and
publicly guaranteed external debt was i.2X; its share in Barbados' external
debt service was 11.3X. It is estimated that, by 1990, the bank's share in
Barbados' outstanding public and publicly guaranteed external debt would be
about 12.9Z. The bank's share in external public debt service would then
be about 9Z.
PAKT L1 - TMi BAN& GKUUP UPEKATIONS
lb.       Barbados became a member of the Bank in 1974.  Since then, the
country has received, net of cancellations, US$60.0 million in loans from
the Bank, covering nine projects, including one loan in supplemental
financing (Annex II). These included assistance in the education, tourism,
industrial, power and highway sectors as well as the financing of technical
assistance to support the Ministries of Finance and Planning, and
Agriculture. In addition, Barbados has benefitted from the Bank's lending
to the Caribbean Development bank (CDB). The COB lending to Barbados
includes a US$2.6 million loan for an industrial development project in
1978; a US$3.0 million loan for the rehabilitation of two sugar factories
in 1981; and a US$1.1 million loan for the manufacture of clay tiles in
1983.
17.       Despite some delays and associated cost overruns, project
implementation and loan disbursements have, in general, been satisfactory.
With the exception of the Joad Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (Loan
2432-BAR), which was recently approved, the funds provided under all
Bank-assisted projects have been substantially committed.
18.       The Bank has also maintained a close dialogue with the Government
through its economic and secror work and has, since the inception of the
Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development (CGCED) in 1978,
successfully assisted in helping to coordinate external donor assistance to
Barbados.
19.       A document entitled "Barbados: Graduation from the Bank" (K84-31)
of February 13, 19d4, which was distributed to the Executive Directors,
provided, inter alia, for a graduation strategy involving a seven-year
phase-out period (FYUS/91), with a bank lending program of around US69
million annually in commitments over the period. In the spirit of the
"Statement on Graduation" (Xb4-Z52, dated September b, 1984), approved by
the Board on September 11, 1984, the question has been discussed with the
Government. The Government has continued to express its disagreement.
Thus the matter will require continuing review.
20.       In the meantime, there are steps that can be taken to strengthen
the economy, so as to permit graduation. Among them is the strengthening
of the agricultural sector. The proposed project fits into this strategy
of strengthening the economy. The agriculture sector is an important
foreign exchange earner, chiefly based on sugar, but exhibits serious
weaknesses. The sugar industry has sustained severe financial setbacks in
recent years and the development of non-sugar agriculture is well below the
country's potential. With proper applied research, technology and improved
extension and marketing services, non-traditional crops may increase
considerably their contribution to farm incomes and to the country's export
earnings.



-6
21.       The proposed project would assist the Government to formulate its
development strategy for the agricultural sector (including the sugar
subsector), and to promote suitable diversification in non-sugar
agricultural production, and would provide credit funds to expand
agioindustries related to the latter. beyond the proposed project, the
Bank expects to support projects in Barbados in education and training,
sites and services, industrial credit, and road maintenance and
rehabilitation, including possibly rural roads.
PAKT III - TiE AUKICULTUMAL SECTUR
Production Patterns
22.       Barbados is a coral island overlain by shallow soils that are
prone to erosion if not under permanent vegetative cover. It has a total
area of about 430 kmZ and a cultivable area of about 24,U00 ha; around
19,000 ha are currently cultivated and the remaining 5,00U  ha are either
scrub or grazing area. There are about 150 estates with holdings of over
10 ha and another 150 holdings of 2-10 ha that are farmed full time. In
addition, it is estimated that 1U,UU0 people farm mixed cash
crop/subsistence areas of 2 ha or less to supplement their income from
other sources. Estates above 10 ha account tor about dUZ of sugar
production and over 70% of the total production of non-sugar crops; farms
of 2-10 ha produce about 5% of sugar and about 20% of non-sugar crops, and
smallholders the remainder. Data on farm size, areas planted and
production should, however, be treated with caution, because of the amount
of land that has gone out of production since the last census (1971) and
the lack of systematic data collection, especially on smallholder farming.
Trends in the Agricultural Sector
23.       The relativie weight of agriculture in the economy has declined
over recent years in terms of boib its contribution to GDP and foreign
exchange earnings. The agricultural sector's share of GOP, about 1U% in
197b, declined to about 7% in 1983 and 1984. Within agriculture, the
importance of sugar has been declining, accounting for bU% of agricultural
GDP in 197b but around 43% in 19b3; in that year, non-sugar crops accounted
for about 29% of agricultural GDP, and livestock and fisheries 14% each.
Likewise, agricultural exports have declined from 48% of total exports in
1976 to 14X in 1964, mainly due to a large increase in manufacturing
exports and a fall in sugar exports. Exports of sugar and molasses, valued
at USM30 million in 19U4, accounted for 1U% of total exports in that year,
down from 42% in 1976.  Other agricultural exports have remained at around
5% of total exports.
24.       The agricultural sector employed an estimated 9,40U people in
19b4 (or about 1UZ of the total labor force), down from 14,O0U in 1Y70 and
from over 2U,OU in the l9bUs. Young people are reluctant to seek
employment in agriculture, due to their perception of more attractive
employment opportunities in the tourism and manufacturing industries. As a
result, agricultural labor has become scarce and expensive, despite the
country's overall high unemployment rate (20U). Moreover, the average age
of the agricultural labor force is high, with more than 60% over 50 years
of age.



-7-
25.       Although declining in importance, sugarcane remains Barbados'
single most important crop. The area harvested dropped from approximately
20,000 ha in the l9bOs to about 14,U00 ha in 1983/64. The corresponding
decline in sugar production has been from the record of over ZUU,UOU
tons p.a. during the lYbUs to a low of about bb,UUU tons in 1983, but
recovered to around 10U,000 tons in 1984 and 1985. Cane yields have been
satisfactory, averaging 59 tons per hectare over the past eignt years, and
sugar yields good (averaging 11).
26.       The reduction in sugar production has not, however, translated
into corresponding increases In the area planted to non-sugar crops. The
area under such crops has in fact remained fairly steady at around
2,500-3,000 ha over the past few years, but reached nearly 3,500 ha in
1955. The cropping pattern is changing, however, with declining production
of root crops and increased production of vegetables and cotton. This is
partly in response to changes in the local consumption pattern:
consumption of traditional root crops (yams and sweet potatoes) declined
from 11,800 tons in 19aU to 7,460 tons in 1983, but imports of white
potatoes have increased from a negligible amount to about 9,000 tons a
year. For other vegetables, mostly onions, imports of over 2,JU0 tons in
1980 have declined to 1,6UU tons in 1983.
Agricultural Potential and Constraints
27.       The Sugar Subsector.  Despite its present difficulties, the sugar
subsector remains vital to Barbados. it still earns a significant amount
of foreign exchange. There is, moreover, no alternative large-scale crop
suited to local conditions of climate, soils and topography. The main
issue for the subsector is its declining profitabillty, caused by both
external and internal factors. External factors derive from the fact that
most of the sugar is exported (less than 13X is consumed locally) and the
bulk is paid for in sterling (going to the UK through its EEC quota).
Since Barbados' currency is tied to the US dollar, until recently revenues
declined as European currencies depreciated against the dollar. In 1955,
the average price for Caribbean sugar under the IEC quota was about US
16 cents per lb. Moreover, the world price of sugar declined, from an
average of US n.3 cents per lb in 19bi to around US 3.0 cents per lb in
early 19b). It rebounded to around US B.0 cents per lb in early 1956.
According to the bank's Commodity Division, the world price in 199U, in
constant 1954 dollars, is forecast to be around US 14 cents per lb.
Production above the approximately 1U0,U00 tons of sugar equivalent,
required to meet Barbados' domestic demand and preferential quotas, would
be highly unprofitable if free market prices continue near their present
level. The main internal factor contributing to declining profitability is
the rising production costs, mainly the high cost of labor. While there
should be room for further mechanization, it is constrained by problems of
soil compaction and uneven terrain. Barbados is now among the dozen most
costly sugar producers in the world. The small pro±it (US*25 equivalent)
per ton of sugar in 1980 had turned into a large loss (over USW 2UU
equivalent) by 1953. The accumulated debts of both the growers'
association (Barbados Sugar Industries Limited, BSIL) and estate owners had
reached US$o5 million equivalent by 1984, including about US$10 million of
bonds, underwritten by the Government, to finance a sugar price support
scheme. In addition, the Government has recently made a grant of US"5
million to the industry.



28.       In the light of the above developments, there is an urgent need
to review the present and future status of the sugar subsector and
determine its most economic size;ito recommend measures for dealing with
the accumulated debts of growers and JSIL; and to recommend crop rotations
that can help improve agricultural incomes. The review should examine the
outlook for sugar markets and prices while considering alternative
production activities, and would assist the Government in defining a
balanced agricultural strategy.
29.       The Non-Sugar Subsector.  Barbados is seeking to increase the
variety of non-sugar crops and to raise production, both by expanding the
area planted and by increasing yields. It is tocusing on crops such as
cotton, vegetables and flowers for which export markets may be found, and
import substitution crops such as onions and peanuts. The Ministry of
Agriculture, Food and Fisheries (MAFF) has done some crop budgeting and
progruss has been made in developing techniques for growing non-sugar crops
(para. 3b); under the proposed project, IAFF intends to finalize its work
concerning the economics of producing these crops. Increased production of
vegetables will depend mostly on export marKets, since local demand is
largely met at current production levels.
30.       Diversification efforts have to overcome both production and
mrketing constraints.  N4atural constraints on production include Barbados'
poor and erosion-prone soils and unevenly distributed rainfall, while
technical constraints include disease problems for crops such as cotton,
onions and white potatoes.  Marketing within the country is constrained by
the fragmented nature of tte marketing system, and the recurring shortages
and gluts on the market. For onions, this is less of a problem, with
plantings now staggered over several months. For peanuts, once the crop is
sufficient to meet the country's total annual demand, the lack of storage
capacity will bc a problem because of the seasonal harvest but year-round
demand for peanuts. For cotton, there is a guaranteed export market in
Japan at an attractive price, but Barbados does not have the ginning
capacity to handle the increased production as foreseen by the Government.
The six gins now in operation are sufficient to handle about 2,000 tons of
seed cotton, but plans to expand the cotton area to 800 ha within 2-3 years
and ultimately to 2,OUU ha would probably require about a doubling of the
total ginning capaclty9
Institutional Support for Agriculture
31.       Responsibility for the sugar subsector has recently been assumed
by frAFF (formerly lt came under the Ministry of Finance and Planning,
MUFP). Development and production of the sugar subsector are, however,
largely ±n the hands of the growers' organization, bSIL, which also owns
and operates. -Barbados' six sugar factories. As a result of recent low
sugar pri'.es and mounting costs, BSIL had a- accumulated deficit of over
US430 million in 1984. BSIL receives government support through a price
support-program begun in 1S2.
32.       For the m,n-sugar subsector, MAFF provides research and extension
services and plays a regulatory role in areas such as quarantine and soil
conservation. '-Marketing is mainly in u -behands of the private sector.
However, several government or government-supported institutions are also



-9-
involved in marketing.  The Barbados Marketing Corporation (BiC), a
statutory corporation supervised by MAVF, was the main trading agency until
the early 198Os, when it was reorganized after incurring substantial
losses. BMC now provides maricet intelligence to farmers and explores new
export markets, but despite varied sources of income, including a monopoly
on importing chicken parts, its high administrative costs cause it to
continue to operate with a small deficit. The Agricultural Trading Company
(ATCU), which is run by a growers' association, assumed most of BMC's
wholesale and retail operations, including grading and packing for domestic
and export markets. It also operates at a loss. NIeitber BiC nor ATCO is
sufficiently commercially oriented to take a leading role in the proposed
project, which would be private-sector oriented. The Caribbean
Agricultural Trading Company (CATCU) is a regional marketing institution
formed in 19tlY with the objective of increasing agricultural trade in the
region. Although based in Barbados, CATCO is owned by regional governments
and private interests; it is run under a management contract with an
expatriate firm. It has had some success in exporting small volumes of
produce from Barbados and has negotiated favorable air freight rates to the
UK and USA. CATCU would very likely be one of the exporting agents for
vegetables and flowers produced under the proposed project.
33.       Credit to agriculture is mainly provided by the Barbados National
B;ank (BNB), a government institution. Only one commercial bank provides
significant amounts of agricultural credit. Credit for agro-industries
comes from commercial banks and the Barbados Development bank (BUIS), a
Government-owned bank that specializes in loans to small and medium-sized
borrowers in industry and tourism. In addition to their own reso9urces?
commercial banks and BDB have access to funds through discounting qualified
subloans with the Industrial Credit Fund (ICF), which was established in
the Central Bank of Barbados (CLiB) under the BanK's Industrial Credit
Project (Loan Z2bU-BAK).
Government Objectives and Role in the Agricultural Sector
34.       The Government's overall objectives for the agricultural sector
Involve rationalization of the sugar subsector while exploring and
implementing options for agricultural diversification. The Government
expects the sugar industry to continue as a major earner of foreign
exchange, despite its recent poor performance. Diversification is viewed
as a complementary activity, to increase agricultural production and
income, improve Barbados' self-sufficiency in food crops, and reduce the
traditional emphasis on sugar. The Government will continue to play an
important role in applied research, extension and marketing and intends to
strengthen its institutional capability in these areas. It also plans to
promote the establishment of agro-industries needed to support agricultural
diversification.
The bank's Strategy and Kole in the Agricultural Sector
35.       The Bank's development strategy for Barbados focuses on the
country's need to strengthen its institutional capacity in key sectors and
provides for bank -support for projects in these sectors, with substantial
technical assistance components. Agriculture has been one of these Key
sectors.



- 10 -
36.       The Bank's support of inst-itutional development in agriculture
began under the FY82 Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2115-BAR);
implementation of the agricultural component of the project was completed
by the end of 1985. About 140 man-months of consultant services were
provided in areas such as extension methodology, vegetable production,
irrigation and marketing.  As a result of that project, the research and
extension functions under IAFF have been reorganized and strengthened, dAF
staff have been upgraded through ou :Ze-i-r   training by the consultants and
overseas fellowships, and progress has been made in developing techniques
for growing selected non-sugar crops. Research and extension focused on
production packages for vegetables, including onions, peanuts and cotton,
and work has already begun on the cultivation of flowers. However, more
work needs to be done to consolidate efforts initiated under the previous
project (by completing work on technical packages, e.g. harvesting
techniques for peanuts and pest control for cotton), to expand the range of
crops, especially vegetables and flowers, covered under the project, and to
disseminate more widely the results of that project. In addition to new
Bank lending, work which has already begun to identify sources of
supplementary nutrition for livestoct may continue under a proposed IDB
livestock project, and research on fruit production is being carried out by
the European Development Fund (EDF) and the Inter-American Institute for
Agricultural Cooperation (LICA).
37.       Under the Bank's Industrial Credit Project (Loan 2260-BAR, signed
in April 1983), US$10.5 million equivalent was provided to the CBB for
onlending for industrial subprojects, including agro-industries. It is
likely that all credit funds will be committed by December 1986, one year
before the closing date.  The proposed project would complement the
Industrial Credit Project in supporting agro-industries and would use the
same institutional arrangements for extending credit to subborrowers.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The proposed project was prepared with the assistance of FAO and
was appraised during September/October 1985. The role of the Bank under
the proposed project would be to assist the Government in developing an
agricultural strategy and in implementing agricultural diversification
within a coordinated framework. Negotiations were held in Washington,
D.C. during May 1986. The delegation from Barbados was led by
Mr. Clifton Maynard, Permanent Secretary, MAFF.
Project Ubjectives
39.       The project would help to improve the long-term viability of
i3arbados' agricultural sector and diversify it away from sugar by:
(a) assisting the Government to define and implement an agricultural
development strategy, 'ehich would be technically feasible and
financially and economically sound, and nave an appropriate
balance between the sugar and non-sugar subsectors; and
(b)  increasing the production of and income from non-sugar crops.



To help achieve the above objectives, the project would include: an
agricultural sector study; strengthening of research, extension, and
marketing services; and provision of credit for agro-industries to develop
non-sugar crops.
Project Description
A. Agricultural Sector Study
4U.       About 18 man-months of consultant services would be provided to
complete an agricultural sector study. isecause of its traditional
importance, the study would give particular attention to the sugar
subsector, looking at the domestic market, Barbados' preferential quotas in
international markets, and possible free market price trends. However, due
to the recent decline in the profitability of sugar and the Uovernment's
objective of diversification as a means of improving the income of farmers,
practically all of whom are sugar producers, an important aim of the study
would be to consider alternative production options. In doing this, the
study would review barbados' experience with diversification thus far,
taking into account information on technical production constraints
(drawing on experience under Loan 2115-BAK) and on existing and potential
markets for the island's non-sugar crops. The study would reach broad
conclusions on the area that should remain under sugar and the extent to
which diversification is feasible and desirable, particularly in view of
the erosion-prone soil of isarbados that lends itself more to the production
of perennial crops such as sugarcane.
B. Development of Non-Sugar Crops
41.       The project would provide inter alia technical assistance and
credit funds for the production and commercialization of commodities
identified under the Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2115-JAK) as good
prospects for diversification, viz. cotton, flowers, vegetables, peanuts
and onions. Specifically, it would provide:
(a) 44 man-months of consultant services, overseas fellowships,
equipment and materials to support research, excension and
marketing for the non-sugar subsector; and
(b) agro-industrial credit, for establishing the facilities needed t'
handle non-sugar crops, and 5 man-months of consultant services
to help in setting up agro-industries.
4z.       Research, Extension and Marketing.  Continuing on the work of the
previous Technical Assistance Project (para. 36), the consultants would
complete work on vegetable production, mechanized farming and irrigation;
increase the emphasis on farm economics and budgeting, cotton production,
and marketing; and initiate work on the commercial aspects of flower
production. Specifically, consultants would work: (a) with MAEFFs
technical staff in further developing production packages for vegetables,
flowers and cotton, as well as advising on the mechanization and farm
economics of those crops (28 man-months of services); and (b) with I,AFF and
with sarketing agencies in identifying and promoting export market
opportunities for non-sugar crops and improving domestic marketing systems
(12 man-months of services). Terms of reference for these 40 man-months of



- LL -
consultancy services have been agreed. The remaining 4 man-months ot
short-term assignments would be used to provide additional assistance for
these or other activities, as agreed with the bank. In addition to its
current staft, IAFF would recruit four qualified counterpart staff to work
with the consultants: two in cotton, and one each in flowers and
agricultural machinery operation and maintenance. Tne project would also
provide about iOU man-months of short-term overseas tellowships, as well as
vehicles, machinery, equipment and materials for research and field
demonstrations (e.g. ot mechanized production and harvesting techniques).
43.       Agro-Industrial Credit.  Credit funds under the project would be
onlent to provide the storage and processing facilities needed to handle
non-sugar crops.  lhree undertakings have already been identified: cotton
gins; onion and peanut cleaning, drying and storage tacilities; and an
export marketing complex for vegetables and flowers. Uthers may be
identified during implementation. Funds would be onlent by CJSB/JXF, which
would discount YDZ of qualitied subloans oS commercial banks and bub, in
amounts not exceeding 7UZ of the cost of new individual subprojects and WSUX.
of the costs of expansion projects (these terms are the saoe as under
Loan ZZbO-&AK, ret. para. b3). The VUZ discount would ensure that the
intermediary bank would contriDute 10Z of the subloan tunds; the financial
intermediaries would also bear the risk of non-repayment of subloans. As
new ventures are considered more risky than the expansion of existing
enterprises, the subloan amount would be a maximum of 7uZ of the investment
cost for new ventures. Subloans could include working capital.
Subborrowers would be private sector institutions (such as growers'
assoclations and/or private entrepreneurs) or mixed companies with a
minimum of ZUX private sector participation and plans for the tiovernment to
divest its holding within a reasonable period. The subborrowers should be
capltalized with at least 3UX equity and at most 7UZ debt. Consultants
(5 man-onths) would advise nAFF and potential investors on organizational
models and on policies and incentives that have proved successful in
establishing and running agro-industries in other countries.
Status of Project Preparation and Phasing
44.       lhe project would be impiemented over six years.  Terms of
reference for the agricultural sector study, the agro-industrial
consultants, and the agricultural diversification consultants were agreed
with the Government during negotiations (para. 52). Contracts for
technical assistance are expected to be agreed during the tirst project
year and would be completed by the second project year. Subloan
applications for agro-industrial investments are expected to be taken up
early in the second year of the project.
Project Cost
45.       The total project cost is estimated at about US5.8 million
equivalent, including taxes ana duties amounting to US*U.3 million or fZ of
project cost; the foreign exchange component would be U544.U million, or
b6X of the total project cost. The base cost estimates were calculated
using mid-1986 prices and include expected price increases over the
implementation period, based on projected inflation rates, amounting to
about US$U.2 million, or 3% of the total base cost. Price increases were
computea using the ilank's projections tor international intlation rates.
Project costs do not include physical contingencies.



- 13 -
Financing
4b.       The proposed bank loan of US*4.U million would finance lOZ of
the foreign exchange cost, or 731 of total project costs net of taxes and
duties. The balance of project costs, including taxes and duties, would be
financed as follows: (i) US*1.0 million equivalent, or 17Z, by
subborrowers for agro-industrial subprojects; (ii) US*U.3 million
equivalent, or 5Z, by financial intermediaries; and (iii) u54U.5 million
equivalent, or YX, by the Government. The Government would be the borrower
and would bear the foreign exchange risk. As under the Industrial Credit
Project (Loan 22b0-MAM), the isank financing ot US~2.4 million for
agro-industrial credit would be passed by the Government to CIS1/ ICF as an
equity contribution.
Procurement
47.       Consulting services, totalling b7 man-months, would be obtained
through international recruitment in accordance with bank guidelines.
Vehicles and equipment required for the research and extension technical
assistance would be procured through competitive bidding following local
procedures acceptable to the bank. The small amounts to be purchased and
the phasing over three years would be unattractive to firms not locally'
represented in Barbados.  For the agro-industrial subprojects, of which
about six are expected, the procedures used tor the Industrial Development
Project (Loan 22b0-BA") would be followed, whereby financial intermediaries
and CBiJs/IF would satisfy themselves that procurement items were suitable
for the respective subprojects and reasonably priced, and that beneficia-
ries had canvassed the main sources of supply and were purchasing from the
most cost-effective source.   Procurement arrangements are shown in the
table below. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that it would follow procurement procedures acceptable to the
bank.
Procurement Arrangements
(USA million) '
Procurement Method           'rotal
Project Element                ICB      LCB     Uther    N.A. a/  Cost
Credit for Agro-industry        -         -     3.7       -         3.7
(Z.4)               (Z.4)
Equipment, Materials            -        U.8     -         -        V.b
and Vehicles                           (U.b)                      (U.b)
Consultant Services             -         -      -        1.0       1.U
and Training                                            (1.0)     (1.0)
Local Staff Salaries            -         -      -       U.3        0.3
and Expenses                                             (-)       (-)
Total                      -       0.8    3.7       1.3        5.8
(U.6)  (Z.4)    (1.0)      (4.0)
a/   Not applicable.
Note: (1) Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed
by the bank. (2) Other' procurement procedures consist mainly of
subborrowers canvassing the main sources of supply and purchasing from the
most cost-effective source.



- 14 -
Disbursement
4is.      The proposed bank loan of US*4.U million would be disbursed over
seven years, based on tne disbursement profile tor agricultural credit
projects in the Latin America and Caribbean kegion.  However, the profile
has been modified to allow tor: (a) tne initial disbursement of
US*O.25 million into the Special Account expected soon after the loan has
become effective; and (b) rapid disbursements for technical assistance,
which would be made on the basis of contracts to be executed during the
first two years of the project. All disbursements would be against
statements of expenditure; the documentation would be retained by the
implementing agency and made available to biank staff during supervision.
Disbursement would be made at the rate of 100% of the cost of consultants,
overseas fellowships and export promotion activities (Ub§I.U million); 9U4
of subloan amounts discounted by CBB/ICF (US*2.4 million); and IUUZ of the
foreign exchange cost and bUX of the local cost of vehicles, equipment and
supplies financed under the project (US*U.0 million).
49.       To facilitate availability of funds, during negotiations
assurances were obtained from the Government that it would establish and
maintain a Special Account in the CWM, with an authorized allocation of
US$U.25 million, to cover the Bank's share of all eligible expenditures
under the loan.  Replenishments of the special Account would be made upon
receipt and approval of the Borrower's withdrawal applications for amounts
totalling about 41UU,UU or more.
Implementation
5u.       MUFP would have overall responsibility for the project.  hfowever,
the project would be implemented by MAEF and CBB/ICF, as summarized below.
The bank would sign a Project Agreement with CUs.  Each implementing agency
Is capable of undertaking its role in implementing the project.
.1.       MAIF's Planning Unit would be responsible for the agricultural
sector study. In carrying out the study, the consultant would work closely
with representatives of IUFP, MAFF, sSIL, and bNb, the main creditors of
the sugar estates.  MAFF's Technical Division, through the Chief
Agricultural Officer, would be responsible for coordinating the work of the
consultants on agricultural diversification and agro-industries, as well as
for organizing export promotion activities and selecting candidates for
overseas felLowships.
52.       During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it would: (a) issue terms of reterence, satisfactory to the hank, tor
consultants to be hired by MAk' for the agricultural sector study, for
agricultural diversification, and for agro-industries; (b) employ consul-
tants, with qualifications acceptable to the Bank, to enable effective
implementation of the agricultural sector study, the agricultural diversi-
fication activities, and promotion of agro-industries under the project;
(c) recruit four additional technical officers before the contract for the
agricultural diversification consultanta begins; and (d) submit the report
on the agricultural sector study to the isank tor review and comment by
December 31, 1Mb7.



15 -
53.       CBB/IAC  would discount subloans made under the proposed project
by commercial banks and 5DB (para. 43). Lending terms and conditions would
be substantially the same as those used under the Industrial Credit Project
(Loan 226U-BAL), which are that: (a) funds for capital investment would be
onlent in local currency for up to 15,years, including up to three years of
grace; (b) the Ubb/SIF discount rate would be tixed at 2 points below the
commercial banks' weighted average prime rate and adjusted periodically
(currently it is 1U-12Z, which is positive); (c) interest rates in Barbados
would be reviewed at least annually by the bank and CBS to determine the
appropriateness of these rates as the basis tor Cbb/ICF lending rates under
the project, and if no agreement is reached, the bank would be authorized
to refuse new subloan commitments; (d) the financial intermediaries would
not be restricted by any ceiling on lending rates (spreads currently
average about 3.5Z, depending on the subproject), and would bear the credit
risk; and (e) subloans for working capital, up to an aggregate amount of
US*5UU,UUU, would be for a maximum period of 5 years, including up to
2 years of grace. The financial intermediaries would be responsible for
appraising subprojects in accordance with the guidelines issued by ICF, and
for making and administering all subloans. CBB/ICF would review the
project appraisals. Subloan applications above US*25U,UUO equivalent or
for mixed company subborrowers would be sent to the hank for approval.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained trom fiBB that the lending
terms and conditions under the proposed project would be substantially the
same as those under the Industrial Credit Project (Loan 22bU-BAK). A
condition of effectiveness would be the signing of a subsidiary financing
agreement between the Government and CBB/ICF, satisfactory to the Sank.
Accounts and Audit
54.       MAEF and CbB/LCF would establish and maintain separate accounts
for the project activities for which they are responsible. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained trom the Government and CBB that:
(a) the project accounts, including statements of expenditure, would be
audited annually by auditors satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) audit
reports on the project accounts would be forwarded to the bank within six
months of the close of each fiscal year, beginning with the year ending
March 31, 19b7, for MAkF, and the end of the first such year when
disbursements are made for CBBi/1CF.
Progress Keporting
55.       MAFF and CBks/ICF would prepare annual progress reports on the
project activities for which they are responsible. The information to be
included in the reports and the format for presenting the data would be
discussed with the first supervision mission.
Project Justification and benefits
56.       The project would improve the medium- and long-term viability of
the agricultural sector by assisting the Government to formulate a
technically, financially and economically sound agricultural development
strategy. As such, it would contribute to the Bank's development strategy
for barbados. The proposed agricultural sector study would help the
Government to define a more appropriate balance between the sugar subsector



- 16 -
and non-sugar crops, by determining the most economic size of the sugar
industry and assessing Barbados' comparative advantage in the production
of various non-sugar crops and associated products. Continued
diversification should lead to improvements in the agricultural balance of
trade, both through import substitution and through the export of non-sugar
crops.  The findings of the study should provide the Government with a
sound basis for aligning price policies in support ot Barbados' comparative
advantage, so that subsidies in the sugar subsector may be reduced, with a
beneficial impact on the Government's finances. Rationalization of
agricultural policies would also be expected to lead to improvements in
farmers' incomes, particularly over the medium- to long-term.
57.       The project would bring impetus to implementation of the
diversification program already underway. Based on the work accomplished
under the Technical Assistance Project (Loan ZlIJ-BAK), it would help to
finalize the development of technical production packages for non-sugar
crops, investigate their financial and economic viability, and disseminate
the results to farmers. In order to ensure a coordinated approach to
diversification, the project would provide financial and technical
assistance to help establish the agro-industrial facilities needed to
process and distribute the crops. ln this way, the project would help to
increase the production of, and income from, non-sugar crops. Owing to the
present agricultural structure in Barbados, the main project beneficiaries
would be the larger farmers who can produce a tradeable surplus in the
crops being promoted:  vegetables, cotton, onions, peanuts and flowers.
However, smaller full-time farmers and part-time farmers producing these
crops would also benefit from the dissemination of appropriate production
technology and marketing support. According to a 1977 estimate, Z3Z of the
rural population in Barbados earned below US§4b4 per capita. Since this
group probably comprises very small growers who farm part-time for domestic
consumption only, they would be unlikely to benefit directly from the
production assistance provided under the project. Lower-income groups
would, however, benefit from employment creation through agro-industrial
development.
58.            It is not possible to calculate an economic or financial
rate of return for the proposed project because: (a) the impact of the
technical assistance for diversification cannot be quantified; and
(b) agro-industrial subprojects would only be appraised during project
implementation, but their approval would be subject to satisfactory
analysis and projections of financial and economic rates of return. in
view of these factors, the justification for the project has been primarily
based on its likely contribution to the development and implementation of
an appropriate agricultural strategy. It is estimated that with attainment
of the project objectives, the potential export revenues from cotton,
vegetables and flowers, and the possible savings in foreign exchange from
import substitution by domestic production of onions and peanuts would be
about US$30 million per year. Of this amount, it is foreseen that the
export of cotton and flowers could each contribute about US§11 million.
Further savings are expected as a result of rationalizing the sugar
industry, based on the recommendations of the agricultural sector study.



- 17 -
Environmental Impact
59.        As Barbados is a coral island with a shallow soil cover, the
main environmental hazard associated with diversification is erosion. This
limits the extent of diversification and the types of crops that can be
planted, since except for tree crops, It will be necessary to rotate annual
crops with perennial ground cover such as sugarcane or pasture. The
consultants working on both the diversification component and the sector
study under the proposed project would investigate viable cropping
patterns. ThA packing and processing plants envisaged under the
agro-industrial component would involve no effluents and would, therefore,
have no adverse impact on the environment.
Project Kisks
6u.       The main project risks are: (a) the inherent difficulties in
attempting to diversify out of sugar in an economy where sugar has been
predominant for many years; (b) the obstacles associated with attracting
private investment into non-sugar crops and agro-industries and developing
enough profitable markets for new products, either domestically or
overseas; and (c) the increased danger of pest problems associated with the
expected expansion of cotton production. These areas would be a focus of
the consultants' work.
PAKT V - KEOHMMUAIION
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Loan*
Barber S. Conable
President
Attachments
January 27, 1987



-18-                                                  I
Page i of 7
.O             .      -scL taso         u       fl
incu- a,t turs                      Nicm  incu
MOST                     C.-MS  #eCv  itsrima
1~~~~~~~~~~~UL U7ctm                               HIM"I I^.at
EuTUtAuUft.         LAT. AdiLCA a Ca              AMhit
*~~~m   t__ur  urn m                          -    -4a.
-TMAL                                0.3         0.4        U.S.
lAGJ.                               0.3         0.4          "                  * 
W t PM C       cm                       ..          .. CuSWO                   1873.9                   21*44.3
ITILO-MS OF OtL QUIALET)           Z63.0      1200.0      bOLD               99L.o                   111I..
P0LATt1m.0U4-TSA  tTuuEAdS         231.0       239.2      253.0
UP"  POFULATOU CZ OF ToTs)          35.5        37.2       41.4               07.7                     47.5
-ouLATIOn PZOJ=CTIOIS
POPULATU  tI TEO 20M0 (ILL)                               0.3
StA,TIOU   PULTIONl tl..
POPULATION M                                                I.
PtR SO. M.                       537.2       550.3       567.4              44.0                     34.7
PE  sQ. ml. ACtI. WID            770.0       000.5      020.1               91.1                    100.9
POPtIATOU SEt sTfhCrf  (t)
f0-L  RS                         3.0         37.4       28.2               36.5                     31.2
15-4 URS                          55.1         4.4       02.0               57.1                     6L.5
65 AND AsI                         *.7         3.1        9.7                4.2                      7.2
POPULIATION GROWa KATE CZ)
TOTAL                              0.9 /C      0.3 Jc     0.4 IC             2.4                      1.4
calm                               1.4        0.0         1.1                3.0                      3.7
CRUs atiim RTa  cmi fH.4).          33.0        20.0       19.3.,                                      a3.'
-DE DrAT  KATE (PER T1NV)            9.1         1.7        3.9                3.0                      3.9
G-nss aaoUcTln  RAt                  2.0 Lo      L          1.1                Lo.                      1.
FAMILY PUANIC
ACins. a^L Ira)
USEs (I or  m                                            A..  ..    Z.      45s.3
LNM  Of FOOD PRGL PM CWPITA
(1969-71-100l                      103.0      106.0        7L.0              109.0                    109.1
PE CAPITA SuPPLY oF
CaRoE  CZ OF UQOUIRCUS)          100.0       119.0      136.0              1132                     131.5
PUOTELYS (GRAS it DAY)            01.0       79.0        ".0                 9.4                     92.4
or WIC  ANIAL AND PULSE          34.0      4*.0         54.0 t             34.2                     34.5
CHILD CAGES 1-4) DEATM IiAT          4.3         1.9        1.3               4.4                       4.7
am
LIFE 01a. AT SIRMT CTEARS)          ".3        6.5         71.4 *4.6                                   67.2
ZSNAFr MT. RATE CPE  TuA)          74.0        60.1        22.9              59.7                      53.3
ACCESS TO SAfE  aTnE (Po
TOTAL                              ..         ".0         ..                05.3                     70.2
UR                                ..         95.0         ..                70*5                     69.4
Rl;sL                              .     . I 0U.O                   .           .2                   57.0
ACCSS TO EXCEA DISPOSAL
CX OF POPUIATXIN)
TOTAL                              ..        100.0         .6. .3                                    59.0
URIS                               ..        100.0        ..                73.4                     45.9
IR=AL                              ..        100.0        ..                25.5                     47.0
rPOPInoN PM  PHYSICIA             3O4u.O      1910.0     1240.0 I.          1909.1                   1070.4
POP.  SIR  S:INC £3SO            510.0      270.0       320.0 J             4.2                     709.5
POP. MM HOSPITAL SID
TOTSL                            170.0       100.0      110.0 21           302.0                    320.3
URON                             180.0 it   120.0       160.0 a            422.0                    201.9
RURAL                              ..        100.0 l1 £90.0 Ins            2714.7                   4519.7
ADMISSIouS       HOSaP       .-                  9.2ALOJZ9  10.2              27.5                     20.0
AVERAGE SIZE OIF HOUSEO                               --
TOTAL                               .a         4.0
UR                                 ..         ....
ma                             .  ..           ..         .                   ..
AQUCI NO. or PEusn/Rorn
TOL.                               1.2         1.0
:                   1~~ca                             ..         ..          .                  ..
-'--              ULma                                ........
:t' S~pzR ACz or O<gLLtS 5    a=.
TOSAL                              ..         59.1
1                                  ..          ..
*           R~aLA                               ..          ..         .                  .-,



9~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
- 19 -                                         ANN1E I
Page 2 of 7
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~oL t__wmDr.a                                WOL
1914       in7OLb  gamUinULh        IAT. aISK10A aCIA            bums
.93255E    TOTAL                  105.0      iU.0        t10.0              WI.?                      Wi.,e
NAES                  UI6.0       1ll.0       111.0              105.5                    105.2
FMAL&                 102.0       105.0       l0.0               106.6                     V7.3
UUcomIIAT  TOMA                   29.0        71.0        59.0              15.2                      57.5
matE                   46.0        70.0    9u.0                   52.7                     64.9
IWILI                  32.0        72.0        91.0                1.9                     5 I0.0
VfCAnOmW.A CZ or uucornw)            5.2         5.1         ..                12.2                     31.0
IUPUTCA3MI two10
ralUL                  60.0 IL.0               20.0               29.9                     25.1I
21COVIA IL                        29.0       O270         23.0             1*L7                       19.1
PANUNKI CAEUSI3N00AIID POP          31.5        50.7       102.5               46 .0                    51.2
RAKO UC TVMITo           01        151.s       372.1       757.9              .3293                     170.7
TV uI EUIU            OP             ..        9".9        215.               IL2.                      159.3
1KRORM    t C    COLA UL
ZUIZ5) awLU0
PER TMOWD 1OIU1T            *       6.2        91.2       155.4               51.1                     37.0
CDI SIIAIIL  TUDAZICAt               7.0         5.1         ..                 2.4                      2.7
TOTAL LAD. go0 C(tAlOU)             91.0        90.O       112.0                 *
FE=Z. (333031?)                   42.0        39.9       *520 23.                                     2.3
AOL?U  CtnWI?                     26.4        21.0    U     .1       l        1                        UL.8
S(33 0 5CW)                       27.0        22.0        25.0               24.3                     23.3
TOTAL                             29.6        37.5        51.1               33.5                     13.1
ASZS                              51.2       41.3         53.9               51.3                     55.1
fin"                              30.2'       25.5        35.7               15.9                     31.5
3tUOHIC 0033330  TO                  1.1         1.2         0.9                1.3                      0.9
MCUT OF PRI.A. INC..U
umiwvo w
IllC5  301 OSt   WUIU              ..         19.5 9       ..*
3132GII01 01r 300UOLUI             ".1.0
LESr 2o0    30033301.35            ..           . 1S       .. .. ..
UL T  0O oouoS                     ..         15. 7 .       ..
-SDM   AMISMATZ POVERT 13001
1.531 (lES$ 931 C811W
0315                               ....                  55.01              251.3
WIlL                               ..          ..        siS.Oj             165. 3                      .
LEUL                                          4...0 i                         5.3*
011*3                              ..          ..        5U1.0 Jd           519.U
BumL                               ..          ..        S1U.0             359.7
3STDI1       POP. *3..0 A55.L2*
03353                              ..          ..         23.07.
NOT  VUK
MO APPL!CAZ
N o T Z S
/A  The gtep maeaws for each ndicater are eOlaottaos-nlted arithetic ma_e.  Cove rage of ceautrie
_m   the indicators d  rde an .vmilabi±ty of due  nW Is not *iferm
/b  Baluee othr"Mie .tetd. "Dta for 19or rofor to a" "ear betwe 1959 sad 191; 'Dat, for 1970' bhetme
99ff and 1971; ed dat for "bet beset Ztstute bet_em 195  and 1983.
Je  Dan to dgrntten Vpulatis greth rate s lear then rate of natural lncrene;  /d 1977; A  1979;
/f 192; 4g 19761    Goverwnmet hegital Otablibi,    LL;  L  19031  fJ 19601.  Ki* m  recipient;  /1 1975.
JUNK. 1335



-20 -                              ANNEX I
Page 3 of 7
IRPIUV4TOffSOOIAL INDCAIOE15
_m1sS humus. of tne  or        dotiS.. ad camp1s uSd by d_  camei. is cgk   sh dot. Th data mm. momshbsm mW so
&a.atl lal_ _ob _S dais mnt merSbu  b1om car
Wh pm            1 _0m maky pm   e s  d    os                 oar  pom wh mewu hler am beoom  hn  ocn
miseal ass  bib .1... pomp datashe steps - pops wu             arda cmumrorea iessadsownonly whmrajiny
tibnf apahsfl -e shth dhtUobouno col emoi _                     iheSat.deeds c h wmilt y side  n  i.. mam
auur  beeui braw              fm  bEtrtoeohm lee a.v*rup|s a  ey umMbomeu shie wtse icue iniao s         _u mn
m_d___
ftbeoenq ud infteame Vpom
AE  (thousand aq.L)                                         CM& Bib Rae (pr thesamed)-Number of live birtbs in the year
lbS-Taotl surface a   compnri  lad aea  d ai anawaters;     per thousnd of Sd-year population; 1960.1970. and 1983 datL
196Q 1970 and 1963 data.                                    Cmr   Deab Rot for sh_arnd)-Number of deaths in the year
is_td  t-'e of agricultural am usd tempoly or                 r thousad of mid-year populadon; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
pemmdy for crop paurs market ad kitchn grden or to          Grs Rqswha  Rate-Averag number ofdaughber a siona
le rNow. t960, 1970 .d 1962 datL                            will ber in her nomad reproductive priod ir she expeins
psnt agespecific fertlity rmat: usually five-year averages ending
CGM  M    CAMA (USS-GNP per capia etmat at curret           in 1960.1970. and 1983.
mare prces, caclated by -se convermon method a World          =     I                A        (hmmdr4-Annual num-
D.t  Adt (196143 bsis); 1963 data.                          ber ofacetor of binhconsnl devices under a_upies of national
U(W  -CONSUM  r. I FM  CAWIT -AnnaL a ent                   faly plantin progr.
conmpto  of ommecil  primy me    (coal and linuiew          A       Ph -Ulr  (percmtefmued awaer)-Tbe peren-
pa_ro. mnaul gs and hydr-. nlar and geothernal ec-    tage of married semen of child-baring ae who am practicing or
ricity) in kilograms of ol equivalent per capitr; 960, 1970. and  whos hubnds are practcing any form of contaception Womem
1962 data.                                                  of cbd-bearing a  are geely womn  aged 1549. although for
soe ounie contrnceptive use  is measurd for other age
POPULAIO   AND VIFL SGATISTICS                              groups.
Tod hR  Md_      -Ye (I )-As of July 1; 1960. 19            FOOD AND NUTfMON
and 1963 datL
Whim  A- S -   (penn of1 ta-Ratio of urban to total    zS!f)d Pfh^CW              1 Per Ce$sa (1969-71 a 11)--Inda ofper
pepuaion;dferet definto of urban ara my aOS c               capita annual production of all food commodities Producton
abird ofdn anm  coutries 1%0 1970 aW  983 dta.excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
abilityof dara among countries; Iff0,1970, and 1983 daa.    inldude primary commoditis (eg. sugarcane insted of suupr)
apae.a45ss                                                    vinch ae aedible and contain nutients (e.g. coffee and tea ar
Ap.detlin yaw 2D00I-Tbe pron of popuation for 2000.    exuded). they comprise cerals root crops. pules, oil seeds.
md for eacmne   separtely. S4tai  with information on       vegtaLble  fruits, nuts. sugacane and sugar beets. livestock, and
total popubtion by ae and sx, fertity nts. mortaity ea. and  ivestock products Aggregte producion of each county is baed
inrmeionl migration in the ba  year 1980. thew psamerms     on national averag producer price weights; 1961-5, 1970. and
won projecFed a Se-year inteal on the bas of generalid      1982 data.
nmmptoveun  the populanton bm ationy.                       Pert Cp. SaW  ofCalr  (prert qfnqdrmeuf-Comput-
Stuewy p_pudm-4s one in which a   and se-specific mor-    cd from calorie equivalt of net food supplies available in country
uity a  bave no chnotpd ovwer a long peiod. whil age-pecific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
frtt rat  have simultaneously remaind at rplcmet kle        tion. imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net eproduction at- 1). In soch a popution, the birth rate is    exdude animal feed. seeds for ux in agriculture, quantities used in
conat and equal to the deah rate, the age structe is also   food processing. and loses in distrbution. Requirmants wer
cotma, and the growth rmt is aro. The stationary popultion  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
aim wastmated on the basis of the prjected characi    of    and health considering envionmntal temperature body weights,
thepopulation in the year 2000. and the rae of decline of frtifity  agand sex distribution orpopulation, and allowing 10 percent for
rat to rplacement lveL                                      waste at household levd: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
*    _ufui  Mmmtm,-hIs the tendency for popuation growth to  Pf C9j  SW* .frR,e (grmper doy)-Protein content of
conua  beyond the tune tat replacement-level fatlity hs been  per capita net supply o. food per day. Net supply ofr ood is defined
achived; that is. evn after the net ttpodflon ru  has resied  as above. Requiements for all countries establshed by USDA
uniy. Te mometm ofn population in the yeart is meaud as     provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a Mtio of th utima  statoay popultion to the population in  day and 20 gruns of animal and pulse protein. of whicb 10 grams
the yer t. giv  the assmption that ertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. Tbese standards.are lower than those of
me levd from year  onward, 1985 data.                       75 grms of total protein and 23 gram  of animal protein as an
i         Deity                                             avae for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Ar sqJl:xLbMid-yer population per squae kilometer (100 hev  Supply. 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
am) of total   ; 1960. 1970. ad 1983 data.                  hr CdWia Ash Supl   m Aamlmd Fie-Protein supply
t squ  rapakwal hard-Compute as above for agicultual        offood derived from animals and pulses in grans perday: 1961-65.
lan ony 1960 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
ftI   d  Age Saint (jerud-Cbldren (0-14 yes). work-        CNN(ye 1-4) De1th Rate (pertdh@urd)-Number ofdeaths of
ingl(5-yeans).and reid  (65 yersnd ower)a pentage           children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the sane age
of mid-yer popai   19o 1970. and 193 dam                   group in a given year. For most devdoping countries data derived
-qmmmGm"0,u   Re w )-nl-Ann                  grosh a  of    frrom ife tables 1960 1970 and 1983 data.
-otA midy   populatin for 195046 1961070. and 1970-83.      HEALTH
AVIII10 Gle     R_ (en CN           vAna grwth rates        Life Ezpercp d Kkb (pew-Number of years a nwborn
f urb  popuation for 195040 1960-70. ad 197043 data.        infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-21 -                                 ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7
at db time ofd i birth w     o oay h sae -throughout it life;  Aqp-trer Ra - pshary. md uemmdar.-Tal studten en-
1960, 1971 .d 1983da,                                        roiled in primay  nd secondary level divided by number of
I4f  Maot  Rab (pwr tbmmd-Number of infnts who die           tmhbe  in the crrexpndIn level
before roteaching  yer ofap  per thound live births in a given
yr; 1960,1970 an  1983 data                                  CONSUMPTION
Acom to S*  Wie (pa a!f              N)-e      wim- ad       ftrw  Car (per *,S_earm  AUpmsi.AjGM com-
Nuw-Nwnber of people (totL ubn. uprad) with resonable        pi  motor car seatig less than eight persons: exclds ambul-
acn to sae waer supply (Idudds   ace waters or                as, hearses and niliutry vdhclde
untead bt uncontaminated water Much a that fram procted      R        R     4w  rimrmdp.palk.m-Al tp  of re        r
bo_holes, spriand sanitary wells) - pereetaw of tdr nme      for rdio broadcat to gal public per thousad of popWuaion
ive populaions In a urbn arme a public founta  or sandpost    excludes un-licened rceive  in countri  and in years whe
lted not -m th  200 me s from a ouse may be cndr                   tie, of radio se   was in effect; data for  cet years my
as being within reasnable socese of that house. In rural areas  not be comparable since most countries abolisWhed icesig.
reaonable acoess would imply that the houswife or numbers of the
houebold do not have to spend a dispmo ortionate pat of the day  TVReeS (rhurT   receivesforbroadcast
in f     tbing dr family's wate   needL                      to geeral public per dtosn poplati; ecdes unliened TV
in fetching the family's war n .                             rives in countries and in yea when registration ofrTV a  ws
Aces. I. Emot Ddspad (purcem of pepAlsd.u)-snd, mrbi,        in effect
ad und-Nurmber of people (tout urban. and rural) served by
excr  dispold as pe toag  of their repective populations.    AwspqpW CuITUkIG   (per tAm.adpqpaklsd..-Shows the aver-
Excets diposl my include the colection and disposal, with or  sge circu.a' on of "daily general intemt newspaper. dined a a
witbout treament of human exaret and wat-water by water-     paocaI pubbcanon devoted primarily to recording genl news.
borne system or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is coisiaded to be -dailyf if it appes at least four dim  a week.
Ppatimn per P     opida-lbpulation divided by number of prac-  Clear A _al Adane per Ch per Yer-Baed on the
tising physicans qualified from a medcl shool at university lewel  number of tickelt sold during the year induding admision to
Pbpas. per Nwzla hrsaw-fbpulation divided by number of       drive-in dnemas and mobile unitl
practcing mae and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses,
prccl nurss and nursing auxiliarieL LsBOR FORCE
F.p I  per Neqitel &Id-s1  wrim  aid naL-bpublation          Toal L_b' Fre  (ahme._j-Economically active persons, in-
(totaL urban,d rural) divided by their respective number of  duding armed forces nd unpbyed but excudmg bowive
hospital bods avaible in pub  and ixivate Fndl and ized      students, etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hopitals abd rsaitabein  cepicant  Hopivte l are   ecalized  various countries are not comparabkle 1960, 1970 and 1963 datao
permanently staffed by at lt one physician. Estblishnents prov- Fa  (per)-Fenale labor force as percentae of tota labor
iding princpay custodial care are not incduded. Rural hospitals  orc.
howevct include health and medicaenters not permanently staffed  Agrkabv (pernO-Labor forme in rmig. forestry, hunting
by a physcian (but by a medical assistant, nurse. midwife. etc.)    and fishing as permntage of total labor force; 1960.1970 nd 1980
which offer in-patient accommodaton and provide a limited range  data.
Of medical failities.                                        la6m  (prceato  -Labor force in mining construcon. manu-
Abdad   per il.pisaf Br-Total number of admissions to or     factuig and electricity, water and gs as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.     force; 1960, 1970 and 1980 dataL
-b :-(tb.n Ewe (pwcat-ma4 mule- adtf
HOUSING                                                      or activity rtes are computed as total male, and fmale lbor force
A4w   Si ze  Ho-eaci  (perso  per hmentAe)-e( -ban,          as prcentacs of totai, male and female population of al ago
adrarl-A houschold consists ofa group of individuals who shae  rspctively. 1960W 1970. and 1983 data The  amre baed on  Ws
lving quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participationres relkting age-sex ste ofthe popuato  and
may not be induded in the household for statiscal purposs.   long time trend. A few estmates are from national sour
Avenge Nwt.er of Perso  per Raa-ayea  ard.. ad rard-         Egnad  Depeadewy R_ro-Ratio of population under IS. and
Averag number or perons per room in all urban, and rural     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwdlings. respectively. Dwellings exdude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts                INCOME DITRIBTION
Pers e of DieNqp **  Eeearirt-taal, rim, ad rtwal-           Aerctq  f To  Dirpesekle       w fbat in carz acd  ind)-
Conventional dwellings with elcricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total hous-
tage of totaL urban, and rural dwellings respctively         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4xffe         i ErnIf r Radis                               The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Pmry school - toal, male mnd female-G      to.   le and      klvls, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
feimale enrolment of all ages at the prmary level as percentages of  EstumwediAlhbe hfUSMp   Lewd ((SS per esphe)-rhn
reqsecive prmary school-ge populatio   Whie many countries   ad rral-Absolute poverty income leve is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years others do not T he  below wbich a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essial
differnc  in country practices in the ages and duration of scbool  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some counties with universal  Esrhed Relatierey lucerne Levd (USL  pr cqpa)-erim
educati  gross anrogment may exceed 100 percent since some   ad we-Rural relative poverty income level is one-tbird of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita pesonal income of the country. Urban lvd is
age.                                                         derived from  the rural lvd with adjustment for hiBher cost of
Seconary school - totil malk amdfemeJe-Computed as abo.e;    living in urban arcas.
secondary education requir  at least four years of approved pri-  Ersed Pl.aiv  Baw Ssvte Jirnrty hinrm  Leve (per-
mary instuctn provides general vocationaL or teacher trtining  crar )-rhm ans rout- Perent of population (urban and rural
insLrucions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are absolute poor.
im courses are geneally cxduded.
Voeazilm  Fivolbe  (percent of secmouqy-Vocational insitu-             Comparative Analysis and Data Divsion
ions incdude tecbnical industriaL or other program which operate     Economic Analysis and Projeions Deparment
independenty or as departments of secondary institutions.                            June 1985



-22-
Population         0.2'--
P pw  capita  lltU,46  iiu85
16m :- ECOIIDIC ZUIil^C6Tr
_Ns - ami  _i_  __
tl rma  btt  D--  ----
1US$ million at                        Actu l                               Est.            ProjKcted
Ildicatwr            corret prices)       ----- --- ------                                              -          -      -
195               1971       3      191      192      19       18        195      199     1M8      1990
NATI WIIL ACCMIDUNT                                           .
Gross Doetic Product a/  1236.1                 7.9      4.4      -1.      -4.9      0.4      3.5      0.3      3.0    -1.5        3.0
Agricultu                  N0.1               8.1       5.5   -17.2      -2.'      3.q      9.5    -0.5        ...      ...      ...
Hining I Industry         137.9              13.5       2.6    -3.8      -1.0-   3.4        3.      -9.1       ..       ...      ...
Services                  902.9              21.k     22.A      19.4      4.6      4.7      8.7    10.1                 ...      ...
Cuasutim                    m9.0                5.9      10.1      2.3    -;iL       7.9      3.4      3.3      3.0    -3.0        2.4
Gross lnnstet t192.                             8.4      17.4     19.0    -14.4     -5.7    -5.7       2.6      0.8       5.1      2.0
Exports of  FS      -       762.5               19.9    -1.2      -7.7      9.6      5.3      7.4     12.5    -11.6      11.6      4.7
Imlorts of WS           ;  717.2               17.7      9.2       7.5      2.0    16.3    10.5       14.0     -3.5    -5.3       4.0
Gross National SAvings      246.6             -10.4    -10.0    -27.5    -6.0    -56.0    -3.6
Prices
6DP deflator                                  155.6    184.9    216.8   23B.5   252.7   266.6   287.4    296.0    314.1    333.2
(1974 r 100)
Ex.-.:ae rate                                   2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0
Share of BP at market pricen I)
(at current prIces
1977     1902     193s     WOR
Gross  omstic Product -.i                     140.0   100.0   100.0
Agricultue                                    9.2       6.1      6.5
lining I Industry                             10.9     11.1     11.1
Services                                     69.6     72.4     13.0
indirect taxes les5 ubsidies                 10.4     10.3      94
Consuption                                     89.9     93.3      80.8
Gross Investment                                19.5     22.6     15.6
Exports of SNFS                                56.0      61.4     61.7
Imports of 6GFS                                65.4     67.3     58.0
6ross National Savings                        I12.       18.5     19.9
As I of 6BP
Public Finance                                                             1979     1981     1983     1985
Current revenue (161                                                       29.8     26.6    26.5      27.2
Current expenditure 10C1                                                   26.3    25.1    24.4    26.4
Surpluslkficit (C6I                                                         3.5      1.4      LI       0.9
Surplus/kficit (PS)                                                         7.0      3.6      5.5      4.1
Cipital Experditue (PS)                                                     8.0     10.1      8.2      7.5
Foreign Financing (PS)                                                      1.6      5.3      1.8      2.0
... Nut available.
a/ At arwket price; compots are expressed at fator cost and mill not add up to total du to eclusion of nt indirect taxe
less suobsidies.



- 23 -
Populatiom        0.253
uP pr capita  UM,160 (193I5
0iMD      EXTEIN  TRMDE
Amout              ----I----4naual Growth Rate (%)----
(1$ million at                         ctual                              Est.           Projectd
Indicatwr            corret pricel   ---------------------   -
i985             1979    1990    1981    192         1        1984    195      199      1987    193
Externl Trade
INrchandise Exports a/     243.3              10.2    17.9    17.0    18.1         2.5     12.9   -16.9   -11.4   -11.7        4.9
Sugar and molass          29.0              23.1      9.7   -51.4    32.9   -16.3    36.7   -12.5    -3.7    -3.2            0.1
Othn                     219.3               ...    30.4       2.3    12.2       9.8    10.8   -17.3   -12.3   -12.7         5.5
Nhrchdadise lports bl      610.5               4.8      9.0      0.8      3.8    -8.5       7.8    -8.4    -3.1    -5.3        3.5
Food                      77.2               ...      ...      ...      ...      ...      ...     ...
Petroleum                110.9               ...      ...      ...      ...      ...      ...     ...
Kachinmry               *180.2               ...      ...      ...      ...      ...      ...     ...      ..       ...      ...
Others                   242.3               ...      ...               ...      ...      ...      ...
Prices
Export Price lndex                          79.1    96.9    92.2    95.6       %.5       7.8   100.0   107.7   113.8   119.3
Import Price Index                          95.5   104.7   105.2   103.8   101.0    99.3   100.0   111.3   114.5   116.1
Terms of Trade Index                        81.1    83.0    B7.7    92.1    95.5    98.5   100.0   %97    99.5   102.7
Cmpositioa  of krchandise Trade II)
at currat prices)
1979    1985     1987
Exports ldomestic)                                             100.0   100.0   100.0
Sugar and mols                                                27.6    11.7      12.0
Nauf actures                                                   6.5    85.1       3 .0
Others                                                         5.9      3.2      5.0
lomorts (retained)                                             100.0   100.0   100.0
Food                                                          16.5    12.6    18.0
Petroleum                                                     14.0    18.2      5.2
Hlachinery                                                    19.7    29.5      19.0
Others                                                        49.9    39.7    57.8
Share of Trade with                         Share of Trade with
Industrial Ceontries (Z)                    Deloping Comutries (O)
1974    1979    1985                        1974     1979    1985
irection of Trade
Exports                              56.8    61.0    26.7                         43.2    39.0    73.3
Impats                               67.0    63.0    61.7                        33.0    37.0    38.3
ot. available.
aI Doestic exports only.
hi Retained imports only.



- 24 -
Population        0.253
6SP put capita  US4,680 (19851
8ARRADOS - DALANCE 8F PAYIENTS, EXTE£1AL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Actual                             Est.                Projected
Indicator                      - -
1979    1910    1981    1982    1993    1984   I18          1986    1999    1990    1993
ALANCE OF PATINETS 1US1 million)
Exports of IFS                     421.9   497.2   518.4   538.2   510.9   676.2   656.9   630.2   660.8   762.7   *0.4
of tick: Nerchandise f.o.b.       120.3   119.8   146.0   195.8   254.2   291.4   248.3   236.9   242.8   298.2   362.6
Imports of 6LFS                    463.3   560.9   631.5   597.3   651.2   660.8   611.6   663.6   677.6   743.9   872.5
of uhich: lNrchandise c.i.f.      399.8   465.5   528.5   481.3   556.7   560.4   505.3   548.2   559.9   615.7   752.2
let Factor Services                 -1.6      2.3     0.0    -2.6   -11.7   -10.6   -10.2   -20.0   -25.4   -25.9   -24.2
let Transfers                       18.9    23.8    27.1    20.4    20.7    20.7    18.9    21.4    26.3    30.7    33.0
Current kAcout Balance             -24.0   -37.4   -96.0   -41.3   -51.3    17.5    54.0   -32.0    -7.8    23.6    16.7
KILT Debt (net)                      9.8      9.3    50.0    30.9    59.9    24.1    36.9    42.9    12.9   -23.6    16.3
Other Capital n.e.i.                23.8    48.0    11.9       4.0    -1.1   -51.6   -66.0        4.2      9.9    15.0   -18.0
Change in Reserves (- = increase)    -9.6   -19.q    24.1      6.3    -7.5    10.0   -24.9   -15.0   -15.0   -15.0   -15.0
EXTERI. CAPITAL AN DEBT
Gross Disbursement                  12.9    19.3    65.3    33.9    69.5    40.9    72.1    81.9    61.3    58.7    36.4
-ltilateral                         6.6    12.3    22.7    21.2    18.2    15.1    14.2    13.2    22.4    38.2    26.7
IBn                                0.0      0.9     3.6      8.9      7.2     8.7      7.9     4.8      6.0      5.3      1.7
COB                                0.9      2.7     7.6      4.8      3.3     0.0      0.9      0.7     1.8      1.5     0.5
IDB                                4.9      6.7     9.2      4.9      5.2     3.9      3.2     4.9    14.5    31.4    22.6
Other                              0.7      2.0     2.3      2.7      2.5     2.5      2.3      2.7     0.0      0.0     2.0
Other aI                            6.3      7.0    42.6    12.7    51.3    25.8    57.9    68.7    39.9    20.5          9.7
Official grants                      0.6      1.0     1.1      1.4      1.2     1.8      1.3     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
External Debt
Mdt Outstanding & Disbursed b/     70.4    97.8   175.5   222.5   278.9   301.8   351.9   346.3   398.5   361.9   305.8
Debt Service
Total Service Paymnts              12.1    14.5    16.2    22.9    28.1    27.9    42.9    64.7    76.0   122.3    68.4
Interest                           5.3      5.9     8.9    15.7    17.1    15.3    19.7    25.7    31.5    31.8    27.6
Aortization                        6.9      9.7     7.4      7.2    11.0    12.6    23.2    39.0    44.6    90.5    40.8
Debt Service as I of Exports cl      3.7      3.4     4.0      5.2      5.5     4.8      7.7    11.3    12.5    17.7       8.4
Average Interest Rate on New Lom                                                                 8 .  .  .  .  9.2  8.2  9.2  8.2
(in pernt)
Average Haturity of New Loans                               .                             .      15.0    18.0    18.0    19.0
fin years)
... lot available.
a/ lcludes other public and publicly guaranteed financing from bilateral ad private sources.
bh Historical years reflect cancellations and other adjustmets.
cJ Doestic exports and grass travel receipts.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Pg. 1 of 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS lid BARBADOS
A.   Statement of Bank Loans as of April 7, 1986 I/
USS million
(Amount less Cancellation)
Loan        Year   Borrower   Purpose              Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
1642-BAR    1979   Barbados   Education             9.0     -        0.0
1685-BAR    1979   Barbados   Tourism              7.3      -        0.0
1813-BAR    1980   Barbados   Industry            10.0      -        1.2
1940-BAR    1981  jSLPC        Power               6.0      -        2.9
2115-BAK    1982   Barbados   Technical
Assistance          2.7      -        0.8
2260-BAG    1983   Barbados   Ind. Credit          10.5     -        5.3
1642/1-BAR  1984   Barbados   Education Suppl.    3.0       -        0.4
2432-BAR    1984   Barbados   ffighway daint.      11.0     -       10.3
TOTAL                    59.5      -       20.9
of which has been repaid  8.2      -         _
TOTAL Outstanding        51.3      -       20.9
B. Statement of IFC Investments as of April 7, 1986
717-BAR     1984   Caribbean  Finance for          0.3
Financial  productive        (equity)
Services   ventures in
Corp.      the Caribbean.
1/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Oirectors on April 30 and
October 31.



26 -
ANNEIX III
Page 1 of L
BAKbA)US
AUKLCULTUMAL DEVVELUPKENT PKUJWT
SUPPLEMENTAKY PKUJECT DATA SHUBT
SkCTIUl 1:  TIME TABLE UF KEY EVENTS
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  ii months.
(b)  agency which prepared project:  tU'P and  AFF,
with assistance by MaU.
(c)  Project first presented to hank:  January 1985
(d) First bank mission to review project: July 1985
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Lission:  September 1965.
(t) Completion of Negotiations: may 198b
(g) Planned aate of etfectiveness: March 19a7
bLUrLuN 11:  SPICiaL BANK J&H.r.MNJTATIUN ACTIUNS
None.
tCTUION 1II:  SPECIAL CUNUIJUDiNS
(a) The borrower would: (i) issue terms of reference, satisfactory
to the Banx, tor consultants to be hired by £A'F for the
agricultural sector study, for agricultural diversification, and
for agro-industries; (ii) employ consultants, with quaLifications
acceptable to the BanK, to enable effective implementation of the
agricultural sector study, the agricultural diversification
activities and promotion of agro-industries under the project;
(iii) recruit four additional technical officers before the
contract for the agricultural diversification consultants begins;
and (iv) submit the report on the agricultural sector study to
tne Bank ror review and comment by December 31, 1987 (para. 52);
and
(o)  Tihe lencaing terms and conditions for development of agro-
industries under the project would be substantially the same as
those under Loan ZLbU-BAi( (para. J3).
Sr.CTlN IV - Gu4JLTIUNS UF EFFECTIVk'NESs
Signing ot a subsidiary financing agreement between the
Government and CbILCF (para. J3).



:L :-: :-
;::s ^
= ;
:l
-.P SECTION
.
'
...
.
; x,; .    z . .: . -- 0;   .,
! S . 9 . .. . , ... = .. . . . . .



I BRD 20365
.   Nortfi htM- PWW                                    ; ' 1           OCEA I
r~~~~ ~0                  Am
q >>x A     -tDOSINUHAN   MILES
PIE CONNER                                       HAITi          Eta RICO
JAMA, ,A,  rite
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Co-ibbeon   Sea                 aARBADOS
~EIGH15--T.   -.                                                        f" SOUTH AIERICA l O-
.~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~  ..I,.                                            in
-,wo fta
rov      -oo -f WAR Arbeln   nsiobfrmchnclctivt                          ece
BATHSHEBAE CAN
HOLEDOWN TSTN
HN~~~~~
ARIGRULRALADUEPA
- [1111]f-9:-  Pasture, lond with limited irrigation     -.- Irrigation boundaries
-- II]1 -Marktet gardening with limited irrigation                  Major roads
bGullies and  steep iond suito ble for foarest, fruitculivi  Parish boundories
- citrus and banonos, windbreak trees.               -     Main built-up areas
:-- A    Zones capable of-approximotely equal sugar             Internctional boundaries
yields (notcefined)  -           -            0      1     2     3      a     s
MILES
DECEMBBZ 1986



I



