Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7473-UA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED FIRST PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN (PAL I)
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$250 MILLION
TO
UKRAINE
August 23, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization



UKRAINE
FIRST PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Currency Equivalents
(Exchange Rate Effective as of 01/01/01)
Currency U)nit =Hryvnia
UAH 1.00 = US$ 0.1838
US$ 1.00 = UAH 5.44
Government Fiscal Year
January 1- December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BTI         -  Bureau of Technical Inventory
CAS         -  Country Assistance Strategy
CIS         -  Commonwealth of Independent States
CoM         -  Cabinet of Ministries
DKZ         -  State Committee on Land
EBRD        -  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EFF         -  Extended Fund Facility
EU          -  European Union
EUTACIS   -  European Union - Technical Assistance for CIS
FDI         -  Foreign Direct Investment
FSU         -  Former Soviet Union
GDP         -  Gross Domestic Product
IDF         -  Institutional Development Fund
IFI         -  International Financial Institutions
IMF         -  International Monetary Fund
NBFS        -  Non-Banking Financial Institutions
NGOs        -  Non-governmental organizations
PAL         -  Programmatic Adjustment Loan
PER         -  Public Expenditure Review
PSD         -  Private Sector Development
PWG         -  Privatization Working Group
SIDA        -  Swedish International Development Agency
SME         -  Small and medium enterprises
SOE         -  State owned enterprises
TA          -  Technical Assistance
UAH         -  Ukrainian Hryvnia
USAID       -  US Agency for International Development
WTO         -  World Trade Organization
Vice President:       Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:     Luca Barbone
Sector Director:      Pradeep Mitra
Team Leader:          Dusan Vuovic



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THIE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED FIRST PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO UKRAINE
Table of Contents
Loan and Program Summary ..............................i
I. ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS    .                .
A. Background .I
B.   Medium-Term Economi. Prospects and Creditworthiness         .5
C.  Addressing Poverty Through Systemic Reforms              .6
II.  THE REFORM PROGRAM .................... 10
A. Fiscal and Financial Discipline                   .12
B. Regulatory Reform .15
C.   Creating and Protecting Property Rights .18
D. Public Sector Accountability .22
E.   Management of Social and Environmental Risks .27
[II. BANK GROUP STRATEGY ............................. 32
A.   The World Bank .............................                           32
B.   Coordination with the IMF .............................             , 33
C.   Coordination with Other Donors ............................. 33
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN .................................. 34
A. Program Design .34
B.  Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation .35
C.  Actions Taken Prior to the Second Tranche .39
D. Loan Administration .41
E. Benefits and Risks .42
F.  Arrangements for Implementation and Monitoring .43
V. RECOMMENDATION ................                                            44
ANNEXES:
Annex 1:      Key Economic Indicalors (1995-2002)
Annex 2.      Status of Bcnk Group Operations and Status of IFC Operations
Annex 3.      Timetable qf'Key Processing Events
Annex 4:      Letter of Developmnent Policy
Annex 5.      Matrix of Inslinutional and Policy Outcomes
Annex 6:      Country at a Glance
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipiertts only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






UKRAINE
FIRST PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:               Ukraine
Amount:                 US $250,000,000
Terms:                  Variable Spread Loan (VSL) in US Dollars under standard Bank
terms.
Commitment Fee:         Standard Bank terms.
Front End Fee           One percent of the loan amount payable with the firsi: tranche.
Objectives and          The proposed  Loan  of US$250  million equivalent is a
Description:            Progranmmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL) that will support the
Medium-Term Econiomic Development and Reforn Program of
the Government of Ukraine. It is envisaged that over FYOI-03,
there could be up to three PAL operations tco support the
implementation of the Government Program. PAL I will have two
tranches: the first based on past achievements and the second
linked to the track-record of the new Cabinet appointed in May
2001.  Subsequent PALs are expected to be single-tranche
operations based on results.
Ukraine's reform program aims to set the basis for sustained
economic growth, poverty reduction and improved environmental
protection. It seeks to build key missing institutions of a market
economy and improve public and private sector governance, while
maintaining macroeconomic stability. The first PAL operation
rewards the progress already accomplished and continued reform
efforts in the following five thematic areas of the medium-term
Government Program:
*  Improved fiscal and financial discipline through elimination
of non-transparent budget offsets, reduction of budget arrears
and an increase in cash collections for energy; in the medium
run, the objective is to resolve the non-payment problem and
reduce the stock of arrears from 90 to 20 percent of GDP;
*  Better regulatory framework for entry and operation of
enterpris-s through shorter and more efficient registration and
licensing procedures and rationalized business inspections; in
the medium term, the objective is to improve fiurther corporate



governance and introduce modern regulatory functions in
critical sectors (including telecom, energy and finance);
* Creation and protection of clear property rights has already
produced initial results in advancing transparent privatizations
of large industrial and energy companies, Ukrtelecom and
agricultural land, and the start of bankruptcy procedures for the
largest indebted enterprises and banks; in the medium run,
improved property rights will be the basis for the revival of
economic growth coming from private investment and FDI;
* Strengthened public sector accountability through greater
fiscal transparency, rule-based intergoverrnental transfers,
improved procurement procedures, advances in streamlining
the government and reforming the public administration; in the
medium run, the Government is committed to completing the
reform of the fiscal system and meeting international fiscal
transparency and special data dissemination standards; and
* Improved social and environmental risk management is
based on strengthening the effectiveness and inclusiveness of
social benefits and social care services, improving old-age
income security through pension and social protection reform,
and on reducing the risks of poverty and further environmental
d gra('4tion; in the medium run, the implementation of the
govertiment program will help complete the pension reform,
streamline social assistance, provide a basis for better delivery
of health and education services, and put in place a viable
system of environmental protection.
The financial support under PAL I will help Ukraine meet its
budget resource needs, increase foreign exchange reserves and
rebuild its creditworthiness in international markets.   The
resources of the first tranche will be made available upon
achieving real reform outcomes on the ground, while the release of
the second-tranche would be linked to establishing and sustaining
a track record of the new Government in areas supported by PAL.
Benefits:                The benc.1ts already achieved under PAL I are:  (1) reduced
budget arrears and improved cash collections in the energy sector;
(2) reduced cost of entry and operation of businesses; (3)
discontinuation of Kolkhozes and issuance of 6.5 million land
ownership certificates and 1.3 million land titles to former
Kolkhoz members; (4) a more transparent transfer of budget
resources from the center to the regions based on a clear formula;
(5) streamlined public administration with reduced number of
ministries and scaled-down Cabinet of Ministers; and (6)



rationalized system of social benefits. Additionally, PAL I has
helped the Government markedly improve policy coordination and
engage the cooperation of civil society in the design and
implementation of reforms. These benefits woulcl be sustained
and expanded through the second tranche of PAL I and subsequent
operations in the PAL series.
Risks:                       The substantive reform results supported by PAL :[ have already
been achieved on the ground. There are, however, important risks
to the medium-term program, stemming, as discussed in the FY01 -
03 CAS, from the highly volatile political and socioeconomic
environment. While these risks must not be undeirestimated, the
reform orientation and the results already attained over the past 18
months merit support by the Bank. Were the reform program to
go off-track at any time during or after the first operation, so that
the medium-term program goals were jeopardized, built-in
safeguards would be activated and further Bank exposure would
be automatically stopped.
Schedule of                  US$150,000,000  upon  loan  effectiveness  (expected  in  late
Disbursements:               September/early  October 2001); and US$100,000,000  million
upon meeting the second tranche conditions (expected by the end
of 2001).
Poverty Category:            Not ipplicable
Rate of Return:              Not .mppicable..
Project ID Number:           UA-PE-70693
The task team includes: Dusan Vujovic, Deborah Wetzel, Larisa Leshchenko, Svetlana Budagovskaya, Joel
Hellman, Katerina Petrina, Andriy Storozhuk, Valeriy Gladkiy (ECSPE); Luis Alvaro Sanchez, (consultant); Luca
Barbone, Lilia Burunciuc, Eugenia Marinova (ECC II); Csaba Csaki (RDV); lain Shuker, Aleksander Kaliberda
(ECSSD); Adriana Damianova, Alexei Slenzak (ECSSD); Carolyn Gochenour, Yuri Miroshnichenko, Vakhtang
Kvekvetsia (ECSEG); William Porter (COCPO); Jordan Schwartz, Philip Gray (PSAPP); Vlado Kreacic, Andrei
Mikhnev, Alex Fleming, Khaled Sherif, Katalin Forgacs, Angela Prigozhina (ECSPF); Galina Sotirova, Laura Rose,
Peter Darvas, Yelena Fadeyeva (ECSHD); Zoran Anusic (CCC05); Miroslav Ruzica (ECSSD); Gregory Jedrzejczak,
Natalia Cherevatova, Anna Musakova, Maria Koreniako (ECCUA); Carlo Maria Rossotto (CITPO); Sanjay Vani
(ECSCS).
Peer Reviewers include: Victoria Elliot (OEDCM) and Charles Humphreys (AFTM4).
The project has benefited from quality control feedback by Samuel Otoo, Pervaiz Rashid (ECSPE); Michal
Rutkowski (ECSHD); Ira Lieberman (ECSPF); Alex Fleming (ECSPF); David Craig (ECSEG); Laura Tuck
(ECSSD); Richard Westin, John Hegarty (ECSCS).






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED FIRST PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO UKRAINE
1.    I submit for your approval this Report and Recommendations on a proposed
Programmatic Adjustment Loan to Ukraine for US$250 million to support the Medium-Term
Economic Development and Reform Program of the Government of Ukraine, approved by
Parliament. This loan is the first operation of the three under the Base Case scenario envisaged
in the CAS discussed by the Board on September 12, 2000.  This document and the
accompanying Letter of Development Policy discuss the three-year program framework, as well
as the specific benchmarks applying to this first operation.
I.    ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS
A.   Background
2.    Nation building. After independence Ukraine faced two main tasks: to build a new
country and to make the transition from a command to a market economy. On the first count,
Ukraine has avoided conflicts that have beset other CIS countries and has managed to develop a
working political system, based on a new constitution and the emergence of a democratic, albeit
still imperfect, political culture. However, within the task of building a new nation, limited
priority was given to setting up the necessary institutions of a market economy. Ukraine's initial
efforts to introduce new legislative and executive agencies of an independent nation state were
hampered by the obsolete Soviet institutional framework still in place. Thus, the resulting state
rules and procedures lacked transparency and gave old-fashioned bureaucrats an opportunity to
capture power from within. Partially in response to these developments, the 1996 Constitution
gave Parliament considerable oversight power over the executive. The result was a stalemate
between the Parliament and the Government that effectively blocked all reform initiatives for
almost two years, up until the presidential elections held in late 1999. The presidential elections
changed the balance Qf political power and led to the creation of a pro-Presidential majority in
Parliament. In December 1999 President Kuchma appointed Victor Yushchenko as Prime
Minister, who assembled the most reformist Government since independence. The 'Yushchenko
Government and the parliamentary majority worked constructively for over a year making
important advances in completing the institutional and legal basis for sustained reforms in
Ukraine. In the aftermath of the political crisis triggered by the "tape scandal", the Presidential
majority in Parliament disintegrated, and the new ad hoc coalition of communists and oligarchs
forced Yushchenko out of office despite a long list of impressive reforms and very solid
macroeconomic performance achieved over the previous sixteen months.
3.    Anatoliy Kinakh, who was appointed new Prime Minister in late May, has retained
twelve ministers from the previous Government (including all key economic posts) and pledged
to continue the institutional and structural reforms as well as promote social programs and
address the issues of poverty. The new Prime Minister has made a strong commitment to



- 2 -
increase transparency of Government operations, disseminate on a regular basis information on
Government activities to the civil society at large as well as fight corruption.
4.    Economic Outcomes. Over the last decade, up until the beginning of the year 2000, the
limited attention given by post-independence governments to economic reform had detrimental
consequences for the economy and society more generally. As discussed in section C below,
slow progress in economic and institutional reform, lack of protection of property rights, abusive
behavior on the part of the state apparatus against private business and the resulting rent-seeking
behavior on the part of powerful insiders led to a situation in which few incentives existed for
private business to flourish. Not surprisingly, economic performance during the first decade of
independence was disappointing. Official GDP per capita is now around US$750 (Atlas
methodology), and official GDP in real terms is only 40 percent of its 1990 level (although these
figures do not take into account the rapid growth of the informal economy, thought to be as high
as 50 percent of the official one). Economic diversification has been limited and the country
continues to depend on former Soviet Union countries for a large portion of its international
trade. Agriculture has shrunk dramatically. Only tertiary activities expanded in relative terms.
Foreign direct investment has been among the lowest in the region.
5.    Increase in absolute and relative poverty.  The incidence of poverty has increased
considerably in Ukraine to the point that 29 percent of the population now lives below the
poverty line, but only 3 percent in extreme poverty.' A fifth of the population is working part-
time or is on administrative leave; formal unemployment has risen to 11 percent of the
economically active population. (For further detail on Ukraine's poverty profile, see Box 1). At
the same time, the human and physical capital stock has deteriorated. The underlying reasons for
these developments are:
* Significant decline in real earnings since 1989. Official statistics indicate that, between 1991
and 1999, measured national income declined about 60 percent, on a cumulative basis.2
There is widespread dissatisfaction with the standard of living, and a deep sense of a sharp
decline in real incomes. One reason is a significant shift of the sources of incomes from the
official sector of public enterprises and institutions to the private sector--mostly in the
shadow economy. The new structure of incomes is inherently less reliable than the old one,
and makes decisions about spending patterns less stable. In addition, the shift from the
"economy of shortages" to the "economy of full shops" made households' budget constraints
more acute and visible. Therefore, for many families the level of consumption has dropped;
they can no longer compensate for the lack of purchasing power by spending more time
waiting for goods, bartering for them, or acquiring them on the black market. Ample
anecdotal evidence suggests that inequality has increased, with the emergence of a small
I The results are based on the 1999 household survey, in which, following international standards, "poor' is
defined as having daily consumption equal to $4.30 per person or less, and "extremely poor" as having
consumption of $2.15 per person or less.
2 At the same time, the size of the shadow economy has grown significantly. However, the size of the informal
economy has yet to be established with some certainty, but by all accounts it is reportedly substantial, ranging up
to 50 percent of measured GDP. The last country CEM established the size at around 40 percent. But household
surveys, for instance, do not pick up evidence of massive unreported employment The bulk of the estimated
informal economy is largely a reflection of underreporting by officially-registered firms to subtract income from
SOEs and avoid taxes.



-3 -
class of very wealthy individuals that have benefited from the initial stages of the
transformation.
BOX 1: POVERTY IN UKRAINE
More than one out of four people--some 29.4 percent of the population--is poor (defined as having
consumption equal to $4.30 per person per day or less), based on results of 1999 household survey. By
international standards, only 3 percent of the households are extremely poor as they have consumptiion of less
than $2.15 per person per day. At the same time 18 percent of the households are spending 4/5 oiftheir total
expenditures on food. While valid comparisons between the results of the latest survey and earlier surveys are
complicated by problems related to survey methodology and determination of the poverty line, it is generally
agreed that poverty in Ukraine has increased during the 1990s. This trend has been fueled mainly by a decline in
real incomes during the transition period.
Who are the poor in Ukraine? As in many other countries of the Former Soviet Union (FSU), they are,
in particular, families with children (especially those with three and more children, and those with children under
the age of three); the elderly living alone, especially pensioners that cannot supplement their pensions with some
form of paid work; the unemployed; and-increasingly--the working poor. Households headed by females
appear to be at higher risk as are single mothers/providers or widows. Key facts are as follows:
*  Poverty is not confined to those with low/limited opportunities for outside employment. Because of low
real wages and wage arrears, the share of poor households with a formally-employed head is more than 40
percent.
*  At the same time, there is a strong correlation between unemployment status of head of household, and
poverty. The poverty rate of households with an unemployed head was 37 percent, and 20 percent of such
households were very poor.
*  Poverty rates are much higher among the single elderly, especially those above age 75. However, more
generally poverty among pensioners is tempered by the fact that a large number of such people keep
working. Some 22 percent of males and 13 percent of females aged 60 to 70 work.
* Households with children are more likely to be poor, and the likelihood of poverty increases with the
number of children.
*  Poverty is correlated with lack of education and occupational skills: the higher the education level of the
head of household, the less likely the household is to be poor.
. Poverty is differentiated by regions and related to residence outside growth areas (Kyiv city, Chernihiv,
Kharkiv and Transcarpathia show the lowest poverty rates).
*  While owning a plot of land will mitigate poverty, plot size plays an important role in determining poverty.
On average, the plots of poor households are half the size of those of the non-poor.
All this indicates a complex, structurally-based picture of poverty, with a significant share of poor and
very poor people, differentiation in poverty by region and status of human capital and asset ownership/access.
Poverty is clearly linked to lack of progress in creating an economy that can offer productive jobs.
Source: Ukraine CAS, September 2000 and Ukraine: Social Safety Nets and Poverty, December 2000, ECA
Region.
* Areas of structural poverty. Changes in relative prices imply that many of t.he activities
carried out under the old system are no longer viable. One-factory cities, industrially-
specialized areas such as the coal mining areas, and the rural areas are particularly affected
by such structural poverty. Certain groups such as single old people and single mothers also
continue to be particularly vulnerable.
* Poor delivery of social services. Shrinking budgetary resources and unclear definition of
responsibilities have led to deterioration in social service delivery. In Soviet times, large



- 4 -
state enterprises were responsible for the provision of many social facilities including
kindergartens, schools, hospitals, sports and social welfare facilities. With the onset of
reforms, many of these responsibilities were passed on to local governments that lacked the
resources to take on these functions. In some cases, communities have simply curtailed the
provision of such services. In others, providers of social services (such as health care and
education) exploit the relatively stable demand and charge "informal fees" for access to these
services.
Poor health status. Deterioration in service delivery and increasing poverty has led to poor
general health status of the population.  The situation is worsened by recent, as yet
uncontrolled, epidemics of tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS. By 1998, the number of TB cases
had reached 27.8 thousand, an increase of almost 73 percent since 1990. HIV/AIDS had
been relatively unknown in central and Eastern Europe until the mid-1990s. In recent years,
however, the pace at which HIV has begun to spread has become astronomical. While the
total number of reported cases was 398 for the whole 1987-1994 period, UNAIDS now
estimates that there are between 200 and 240 thousand HIV-infected persons in the country.
Ukraine is believed to have the highest adult prevalence of HIV in the region, about 1 percent
of all adults. Although the epidemic continues to be fueled by high-risk behaviors, Ukraine
may be the first country in the region to face the eminent spread of HIV into the general
population.
6.    Poverty in Ukraine has been artificially mitigated by open and hidden subsidies for basic
consumer goods and services (such as bread, housing, public transportation, electricity tariffs)
and a tacit approval of non-payment for housing and utilities. Although these subsidies alleviate
the immediate poverty impact, they are very inefficient and could block reforms to remove them
as they involve painful social and increasingly difficult political choices. However, the current
system of significant implicit subsidies to supply basic goods to the population is not
economically sustainable and limits the possibilities for economic renewal.
7.    Reversing the decline   As a response to these outcomes, for the first time since
independence, the Ukrainian Government in the year 2000 prepared a medium-term program that
signaled a clear departure from the past and secured endorsement of the Verhovna Rada.
Against the negative background of the performance of the 1990s, the economic situation turned
around in the year 2000. Led by robust double digit industrial growth , particularly in food-
processing, light industry, and metallurgy, GDP grew by 6 percent in 2000 and recorded 8.5
percent for the first five months of 2001. In recent months, robust industrial growth has been
further augmented by increased output in agriculture, long the weakest sector of the economy.
These positive developments would represent a clear break from the past only if institutional and
structural reforms are continued at an accelerated pace.
8.    The economic rebound began as a result of the combined effects of the Hryvnia
devaluation, strong economic growth revival in the Russian Federation and other trading
partners, and the increase in domestic demand following an improved pension and wage payment
record. The large unused capacity existing in the country allowed a quick supply response and
the pick-up in economic activity. However, all observers recognize that for sustained growth in
the medium term an increase in private capital investment will be required: this is unlikely to
materialize if the momentum for reform is not maintained and if the systemic issues that have
prevented private sector growth in the past are not addressed.



-5 -
B.   Medium-Term Economic Prospects and Creditworthiness
9.    An improving external position. Since the interest of private investors in lJkraine's
domestic debt market sagged in late 1997-early 1998, the country has been struggling to defend
its foreign exchange position and prevent a balance of payments crisis. At times, the level of
official foreign exchange reserves dipped below one week of imports. The threat of the Russian
contagion to the exchange rate and macroeconomic stability in 1998-1999 were prevented
through: (a) a strong support from international financial institutions; (b) significant turn-around
in the balance of payments; (c) rescheduling of a number of domestic and external debts; and (d)
a temporary introduction of administrative foreign exchange restrictions. IFI's support included
a substantial resource inflow including, for example, a disbursement of more than US$700
million in adjustment lending between September 1998 and September 1999 by the World Bank
alone. Improvements in the trade and current account balance were due to the real devaluation
and strong external demand. The current account deficit that gradually went down from US$1.5
billion in 1997 to US$ 1.3 billion in 1998, rapidly turned into a surplus of US$834 million in
1999, and US$1.5 billion in 2000.
10.   The swap of privately-held debt carried out in March 2000 spread US$2.3 billion in
Eurobonds maturing in 2000-2001 over the subsequent seven years. The debt-servi.ce burden
was further eased by a stay on Paris Club debt although its formal rescheduling is still pending.
The debt relief and a large current account adjustment has allowed the National Bank to purchase
substantial amounts of foreign exchange for its reserves and debt service since the Spring of
1999 and yet maintain a stable nominal exchange rate (following a strong devaluation in the
aftermath of the Russian financial crisis). Through much of the year 2000 Ukraine maintained
foreign exchange reserves at around US$1 billion and gradually increased them to US$1.8 billion
during the first half of 2001 while remaining current in its obligations with IFIs.
11.   Based on recent positive economic developments, the prospects for revival presented in
the 2001-03 CAS document remain a valid medium-term framework. That framework assumed
a medium-term scenario in which the economy slows down somewhat following the 2000
revival to gradually approach a 3.3 percent longer-run annual equilibrium growth rate by 2003.
The somewhat higher transition growth rates (4.0 and 3.5 percent) projected in 2001-2002 can be
attributed to the reforms already undertaken as well as the continued, albeit gradually fading,
impact of: (a) strong economic performance in Russia; (b) presence of idle industrial capacity;
and (c) favorable price developments on international markets.
12.   The higher rate of economic growth in 2000 and early 2001, and Government's ability to
initiate the build up of foreign exchange reserves indicate that a more ambitious growth path may
be achievable if the Government succeeds in: (a) maintaining a sound macro-economic
environment; (b) further advancing institutional reforms; (c) securing sustained IFI sapport; and
(d) building creditworthiness in international capital markets. If this is accomplished, the
economy could embark on a growth path 1 to 2 percent above the previous projections. To
sustain increased growth rates, the country would also require substantial investmLent in new
capital and upgrading of existing capacities, which takes time to yield a return and puts strain on
the balance of payments in the interim.
13.   Thus, in 2001, the country faces an opportunity to consolidate its reforms, farther build
up foreign exchange reserves, change the profile of its external debt, further consolidate the



- 6 -
fiscal position of the Government and finance the capital imports necessary to propel growth.
The Government expects to increase the level of reserves and gradually approach the pre-1998
crisis levels (2-3 months of imports) while maintaining a sustainable presence on the domestic
foreign exchange market. To consolidate its fiscal position the Government needs to (a) reduce
the share of short term domestic and foreign debt; and (b) gradually eliminate budget arrears and
restore its revenue capacity. This will not be possible unless there is renewed budget and balance
of payments support from the IFIs. The resources provided under PAL are precisely intended to
support these efforts in 2001 and subsequent years. Based on the actual budget performance data
for the first half of 2001, it appears that the Government will experience an estimated 2.4 billion
UAH shortfall in privatization proceeds due to lower effective sale prices caused by country risk
perception factors, exacerbated by an apparent lack of IFIs financial support to Ukraine for
almost two years now. Partially, this revenue shortfall has been compensated through improved
tax revenue performance and expenditure management measures. A timely financial support
from IFIs would be indispensable to avoid harsh sequestration measures, continue the reduction
of budget arrears, improve the debt profile, including a repayment of short-term domestic debt
that would effectively reverse the crowing-out effect of past years. If a similar strategy is
pursued through the remainder of the CAS period the country would be ready to increase
investment, sustain economic growth and meet its increasing debt service obligations in year
2002 and beyond when payments from rescheduled private sovereign debt start to come due.
14.   If the country succeeds in maintaining  macroeconomic  stability  and  sustains
implementation of the reform agenda supported under the PAL program, by the end of year
2002, it will have met the first set of conditions to restore its creditworthiness in international
capital markets. Thereafter, the improved economic fundamentals and creditworthiness will set
in motion the process of increased foreign and domestic investment, thereby strengthening the
basis of economic growth and competitiveness of Ukrainian economy.
C.   Addressing Poverty Through Systemic Reforms
15.   Fundamental to the Bank's mission in Ukraine is to assist the Government in reaching its
strategic objective of reducing poverty and improving the welfare of its citizens. Against the
backdrop of a decade of negative growth and increasing inequality, and in spite of recent
improvements in performance, a clear question is how to more effectively address these issues.
Recent work at the World Bank3 suggests three critical elements for addressing poverty:
creating opportunities for the poor through the creation of an environment for new employment
and growth, and improved human capital based on better access to education and health services;
empowerment of the poor, through institutional reform, stronger public accountability and
increased efficiency in the use of public resources based on greater involvement of civil society;
and improved security for the poor, through the use of direct instruments to reach the most
vulnerable, and by helping the poor to deal with volatility and hardship caused by the transition
process. Our understanding of poverty in Ukraine, as set out in Box 1, suggests that creating an
economy that can offer productive jobs, building human capital, strengthening the voice of the
3 See the World Development Report 2000/2001: Attacking Poverty. Washington D.C.: The World Bank, and
Making Transition Workfor Everyone: Poverty and lnequality in Europe and Central Asia. Washington, D.C.:
The World Bank.



7-
- 7 -
poor and improving the security of citizens are all important aspects of a strategy for poverty
reduction.
16.   However, as discussed in the 2001-2003 CAS, progress in pursuing the policies that
would lead to greater opportunity, empowerment and security has been blocked by systemic
obstacles.  Institutional weakness and poor governance have hampered the effective
implementation of policy and are at the root of the unsatisfactory performance of the 1990s.
Weakness of institutions and poor governance are reflected in the gap between written rules and
regulations and actual behaviors, particularly in the public sector. These systemic issues lead to
a variety of behavior patterns that have a negative impact on all aspects of economic and social
life. Among the most damaging have been the following:
*  Poor fiscal and financial discipline leading to serious non-payments problemns and soft
budget constraints in the public and private sectors.  The budgetary arrears of the
Govemment have been a major source of non-payment problems in the economy, while the
use of offsets among budgetary units and with state enterprises appears to be at the core of
non-transparent, barter-type transactions and a major source of corruption. Unprofitable
enterprises continue to operate on the basis of direct and indirect government transfers, fail to
pay taxes, and create a very uneven playing field that prevents entry/exit and competition.
3  Weakly-defined and poorly-protected property rights. Some important laws necessary for
stable commerce are either still missing (for instance, protection of investment rights and
mortgaging), provide an inappropriate legislative base (for instance, leasing, banking and
collateral legislation), or lack proper enforcement (for instance, the Law on Bankruptcy).
The lack of adequate property rights in agriculture has reduced economic incentives and led
to significant drops in productivity.  Also, poor control of state-owned enterprises has
resulted in considerable asset stripping and other loss of state property.
* Capture of public institutions by private interests, as observed, for instance, in the way in
which disposition of public assets has been implemented in the energy sector.
*  A highly complex and non-transparent regulatory environment, which has been a major
source of corruption--with many agencies still entitled to "inspect" business and demand
payments, particularly at the local levels. The weak and incomplete regulatory environment
for natural monopolies, particularly the energy sector, has led to poor operating practices,
deteriorating performance, and reduced operating capacity.
*  Non-transparent and poor management of public monies, as epitomized by concerns about
the management of foreign exchange reserves of the NBU and a multitude of extra-budgetary
funds, which have only recently been eliminated.
*  Increasing exclusion of the poor and weak cooperation with civil society. Dwindling public
resources and poor institutional structures for the delivery of health, education and social
protection (especially lack of proper definition of responsibilities among different levels of
government) have led to the exclusion and impoverishment of increasing numbets of people.
Civil society has only played a very marginal role in complementing public efforts to
properly address critical emerging social problems.



- 8 -
17.   The consequences of an incomplete institutionalframework and weak governance. In
the context of these fundamental systemic issues, economic policies have not had the desired
outcomes and traditional market mechanisms have been highly limited in their effectiveness.
Under a culture of non-payments or barter transactions, for instance, economic agents do not
have clear and transparent signals to guide their actions, thereby increasing transaction costs, and
precluding rapid responses to market incentives.  Likewise, weak property rights lower
confidence in market operations and lead to the development of alternative enforcement
mechanisms or outright exit from the markets. All of these developments have hindered private
sector development and growth in Ukraine and have undermined the effective provision of social
services. Moreover, they have contributed to delays in the restructuring of existing industry and
have weakened the financial sector. The limited investment that has occurred has been allocated
to activities with very low or even negative economic returns. Declining production has led to
underemployment and contributed to increased poverty. These systemic issues are indeed
significant obstacles to poverty reduction and reduced inequality.
18.   The Nature of Ukraine's Development Challenge. The challenge for the country is to
define concrete actions that address these systemic issues and, in doing so, help to support the
elements of a broad poverty reduction strategy. The objective of the PAL is to support the
Government in these efforts. Addressing systemic weaknesses in institutions and governance
will remove critical obstacles to growth and opportunity, public accountability, strengthened
civil society, and security. They will, therefore, help to pave the way for poverty reduction and
reduced inequality in the future.
19.   First, the program underlying the PAL provides the foundation for sustainable growth,
with attendant job creation and higher incomes, which over time will lead to greater
opportunities for the poor. By addressing the institutional and governance bottlenecks that have
prevented private investment from taking a strong hold, it will be possible to capitalize on the
present favorable economic juncture and create the conditions for sustainable, job-creating
growth especially in small and medium enterprises. This requires addressing the key causes of
the fiscal and financial non-payment problems, which have made it difficult for economically
viable enterprises to operate and easy for bankrupt or financially non-responsible units to survive
and remain active. It also requires a reduction in the transaction costs that are caused by
excessive government regulation (registration, licensing, operation and bankruptcy) and
strengthening of the necessary regulatory framework to facilitate the proper operation of critical
sectors such as energy, telecommunications, banking, and pensions.  Clear definition and
protection of property rights, advances in transparent privatization, and effective implementation
of bankruptcy procedures will all help to spur development of the private sector. Together, these
elements will help to create an environment in which all enterprises and businesses face the same
opportunities and constraints, and will thus reinforce the broad-based growth necessary for
poverty reduction.
20.   Second, the program  strongly  emphasizes the need to increase public sector
accountability through increased participation in decision-making of citizens and NGOs at all
levels of government. In order to broaden the reform constituency, the strategy has been
developed with the active participation of NGOs and their associations and it assumes the
involvement of broader civil society in the design and implementation of critical institutional
reforms in the future. To secure the involvement of civil society, the Government plans to make



-9 -
use of the existing large network of NGOs to disseminate the key features of its medium-term
reform agenda and its main accomplishments thus far. The initial step in this process was to
embrace the concept of developing an in-house capacity to communicate effectively with the
NGO community and civil society. The next steps will build a specific work program to engage
civil society participation in components of the Government Program that benefit from their
participation in design, implementation, evaluation or oversight.4 These efforts to engage civil
society in the reform process, combined with the specific measures to improve public sector
accountability described in Section It, help to reinforce the effects of growth on poverty by
empowering all citizens and giving voice to their concerns and needs.
21.   Third, the program aims to support the security of the poor by undertaking a pro-poor
restructuring of the existing social protection programs. This requires the consolidation and
abolition of many "privileges" for a variety of special groups that are no longer justifiable on
equity grounds. It also requires the reform of social security, comprising the elimination of
pension arrears and the strengthening of the finances of the first pillar, as well as the
development of the regulatory framework that will allow a more modem and sustainable system
to be put in place as conditions warrant. The strategy also seeks to contain arnd reverse
environmental degradation, which creates a different type of insecurity by adversely affecting the
health and the well-being of the population. These elements support poverty redluction by
addressing immediate concerns related to the quality of life.
22.   Monitoring of poverty developments will be carried out in a continuous manner by the
Government, with the help and assistance of the Bank. A household survey is now in place and
capable of tracking shifting indicators of poverty across socio-economic and geographic groups.
In conjunction with the preparation of the PAL, the Government has refined its ability to forecast
the effects of changes in government policies on the poorer segments of the population, and is
using this to refine its strategies of reform in the social sectors.
23.   As suggested in the above paragraphs, key systemic reforms are needed to put Ukraine on
the path to poverty reduction and reduced inequality. The joint Government-Bank strategy
therefore focuses on systemic reforms in five areas that address critical institutional and
governance issues:
(a)    Improvement of fiscal and financial discipline in the economy;
(b)    Development of a regulatory environment that encourages an even playing-field
for economic activity;
(c)    Creation and protection of property rights;
(d)    Assurance of public sector accountability; and
(e)    Improved management of social and environmental risks.
Some examples are: (a) evaluation of the regulatory framework for business; (b) evaluation of public budget
outcomes; (c) feedback on government performance in critical revenue functions (Tax/Customs); (d) delivery of
social services; and (e) progress in improving the environment. At present, this strategy was made feasible by
extensive donor support channel to support numerous civil society initiatives. The challenge for the future will
be to provide a stable legal and regulatory framework for non-profit organizations to secure income sources other
than donations through the provision of regular services. This will also require NGOs to start working closely
with local goveniments and public sector institutions that implement a large portion of the public budget.



- 10-
Progress in dealing with these issues will help to close the gap between formal rules and informal
behaviors and will thus help to create an environment that supports greater opportunities,
empowerment and security for the poor. Section II examines these reforms in detail.
I.   TBE REFORM PROGRAM
24.   Since January 2000, when the Yushchenko Government took office, there has been a
substantial change in the conduct of economic and social policies, and in the attitude towards
economic reform. The Government signaled clearly its readiness and determination to take bold
reform steps and move the country out of the stalemate of the previous years. It focused its
attention on the most critical policy and reform issues that had the broadest economic and social
impact and would pave the way for further reforms in the future. The objective was to help
sustain the nascent economic recovery and strengthen the pro-reform constituency in the country.
The Government's efforts produced substantial payoffs (see Box 2).
25.  In parallel, an intense effort was launched to formulate a medium-term reform program
that addresses the key issues of reviving economic growth, reducing poverty, and phasing out
social inequities linked to the transition. The main thrust of the Government Program was to
identify and remove critical bottlenecks that obstruct economic restructuring efforts, increase
transaction costs in the economy, weaken property rights, favor soft-budget constraints, and
hinder the effectiveness of the state in the provision of social services and the protection of the
poor. Thus, the Program a clear intent to advance cross-cutting, systemic reforms as a first step
in a longer-term effort to achieve sustainable economic growth, improve economic welfare,
eradicate poverty, and move the country to modern institutional and governance standards.
26.   The actions already taken during 2000 and early 2001, as well as those proposed for the
next two to three years are detailed in the Letter of Development Policy (LDP) and Matrix of
Institutional and Policy Outcomes (Annex 5). The LDP provides the medium-term vision of the
Government and details the process of institutional change, including the detailed milestones
used to measure progress and interim policy inputs for each component of the program. The
proposed PAL will support these efforts and assist the Government in reaching its reform
objectives. Annex I sets out the PAL benchmarks agreed with the Government for measuring
performance and determining disbursements. Resources under PAL would be made available to
as the reform outcomes are obtained and in accordance with Ukraine's resource needs. The
design provides sufficient flexibility to respond to any unforeseen circumstance that may arise.
27.   The new Prime Minister Kinakh and his Government have made a strong pledge to
preserve the results achieved thus far and to continue key institutional and structural reforms
initiated by the previous team, as well as promote social programs and strive to alleviate poverty.
The credibility of this commitment will be established through decisive reform and policy action
and a build-up of a positive track record for the new Government.
28.   As discussed above, the Government Program will pursue systemic reforms designed to
help overcome impediments in five key areas: fiscal and financial discipline; regulatory reform;
creating and protecting property rights; public sector accountability; and management of social
and environmental risks. Each of these areas consists of a number of components which are
discussed in turn below.



Box 2: POLICY AND REFORM ACHIEVEMENTS DURING 2000 - 2001
Despite the lack of foreign external financing through most of the year and the very difficult country image
problem, inherited from the past and further aggravated by the emergence of new financial and political scandals, the
Government can take credit for an impressive list of macroeconomic policy achievements since January 2000.
MACROECONOMIC POLICY ACHIEVEMENTS
. Achieving strong GDP growth in 2000 and the first half of 2001 for the first time since independence while
maintaining a sound macroeconomic stance with improving price stability (CPI inflation declined from 25.8%
in 2000 to less than 5% in January-May 2001), a balanced budget in 2000, and a growing current account
surplus (estimated at US$1.5 billion for 2000);
*  Averting the contagion effect of the Russian crisis and an extemal debt crisis by successfully reprogramming
private sovereign debt in excess of US$2.3 billion;
* Servicing maturing external debt obligations of more than US$1 billion;
*  Getting relations with the IMF, the World Bank and other IFIs back on track;
* Maintaining the level of foreign exchange reserves above US$1 billion throughout 2000 and increasing them to
over $1.7 billion by late April 2001 in the absence of full financial support from the IFIs; and
.  Meeting its commitment to close the Chemobyl nuclear power station.
INSTITUTIONAL AND STRUCTURAL REFORM ACHIEVEMENTS
In addition to building a broad consensus for reform, the Government made important advances in implementing
important elements of its medium-term programi, (as detailed below in Section II);
In improving payment discipline signif cant improvements include:
* Elimination of netting budget operations (resulting in increasing share of cash revenues from 80% in 1999 to
almost 100% in 2000), declining use of barter (from 32.7% in 1999 to 17.1% in 2000); and ieduced budgetary
arrears through elimination of pension arrears and reduced arrears on wages (by 60%) and energy (by 75%/o);
. Increased cash collection for electricity from 15% in January 2000 to 58% of bills for the six months ending in
April 2001; and gas which averaged 50% in the year 2000 and increased to 87% in April and 68% in May 2001.
Improved business environment through:
* Easier entry based on one-stop shop registration with reduced cost (from US$192 in 1997 to US$67 in 1999) and
shorter registration time (from 34.7 days in 1997, to 11.6 days in 1999, and an expected 5 days in mid- 2000);
* Streamlined business licensing procedures allowing single-license for multiple economic activities.
* Reduced number of business inspections (from 30 during 1998, to 16 during 1999, and 10 in 2000).
Progress in WTO accession negotiations signaling commitment to liberalize trade and change relevant legislation.
Improved protection of property rights including:
. Elimination of state ownership of land and the issuance of 6.5 million land certificates to former Kolkhoz
members, on the basis of which almost 1.3 million land title deeds will be issued in 2001.
* Completed transparent privatizations of nine large industrial enterprises, mostly in metallurgy and oil processing,
and six electricity distribution companies (Oblenergos).
Greaterfiscal transparency and more efficient public administration through:
* The implementation of the new procurement law which led to a 29-fold increase in the nurnber of announced
tenders compared to 1999 and produced a 20% estimated savings to the budget;
* The introduction of a formula-based system of allocating resources to the Oblasts and from the Oblasts to rayons
in the 2001 budget yielding more transparent fiscal relations.
* The elimination of 256 Cabinet orders granting individual tax and customs exemptions.
* Reduced number of central state bodies (from 80 to 50) and downsized Cabinet from over 50 to 20 members;
* Creation of specialized Cabinet Committees, downsizing and reorganizing the Cabinet Secretariat.
In the broad social area key accomplishments thusfar include:
* In pension reform: introduction of personal pension accounts and transfer of pension determination function to
the Pension Fund;
* In social insurance reform: introduction of social insurance database; administrative consolidation, move to
unified targeting methodology, and expansion of the social care network (750 enters /10,000 out-reach persons).
. Elimination of professional and other privileges that are notjustified on poverty and equity grounds.
. In health sector, efforts to improve control of public health risks, better allocate resources; and foster primary
health care through family medicine centers and university specialization.
. In education, adoption of a national 12-year compulsory education program.



- 12 -
A.    Fiscal and Financial Discipline
29.   Lack of fiscal and financial discipline during the past decade led to a large accumulation
of fiscal and inter-enterprise arrears with negative consequences on contract compliance and the
overall business environment, thus affecting the level of economic activity and employment, real
incomes, and timely payment of wages and pensions. Predictably, the social groups most
adversely affected by these developments included the elderly, the underprivileged, and those
reliant on incomes and transfers financed from the budget, e.g., those most likely to be poor.
30.   The medium-term vision of the Government Program in this area is to foster financial
discipline, correct the weaknesses that underlie present macroeconomic imbalances, attract FDI
and promote sustainable growth. More specifically, the medium-term objective is to gradually
eliminate the non-payment problem by substantially reducing the stock of accumulated arrears
over the next three years to levels comparable to international and regional standards (i.e., from
about 90 percent of GDP presently to the regional average of around 20 percent of GDP). The
Government has decided to lead this process by: (i) addressing budget and tax arrears, and (ii)
by focusing on the resolution of energy sector arrears as the nexus of the inter-enterprise
payment problem in the economy.
31.   Budget and tax arrears. The Government has begun to create the conditions necessary
to eliminate the chronic non-payment problem including fiscal (budget, tax) and inter-enterprise
arrears. The first step has been to control the use of veksels (promissory notes) and budgetary
offsets. Veksels were introduced to allow budget-spending units to continue procurement of
goods and services in the absence of regular budget revenues. Recipients of veksels could use
them to settle tax obligations. However, veksels were issued as promissory notes in order to
facilitate offset operations, rather than as a tradable financial instrument (government bonds or
treasury bills). As a consequence, veksels had no clear market value. This provided an
opportunity for budget spending units and providers of goods and services to engage in non-
transparent exchanges and misreport related transactions. Over time, this eroded budget and tax
discipline and provided an opportunity for corrupt practices resulting in: (a) higher effective
prices for goods and services procured under the budget; and (b) lower effective cash collections.
32.   In June 2000, the Cabinet issued an order discontinuing the use of veksels, except for a
very limited number of special cases. In the budget for the year 2001, the Government
completely disallowed the use of offsets. The policy actions of the Government to improve
fiscal discipline during 2000 have been an important first step to increase budget transparency
and to reduce the scope for corruption. They have already had effective results on the ground:
*  Cash revenues of the consolidated budget have increased substantially (from 78.3 percent
of total revenue in 1998 and 82.7 percent in 1999, to 99.4 percent in 2000).
*  The use of barter by industrial enterprises has decreased substantially from 42.5 percent in
1998 to 32.7 percent in 1999, and 17.1 percent in 2000. Preliminary data indicate further
reduction to less than 15 percent during the first quarter of 2001.



- 13 -
*  The Government has also selectively reduced budgetary arrears-beginning with pensions.
By mid-September 2000, the Government had completely eliminated pension arrears that
stood at 1.3 billion UAH at the beginning of the year; it has remained current ever since.
*  During 2000 and early 2001, the wage arrears payablefrom the budget have been reduced
by almost 60 percent to less than 470 million UAH, while social protection arrears have been
reduced by 26 percent and stood at about 700 million UAH at the end of the firsi; quarter of
this year.
* During the year 2000 and the first two months of 2001, the outstanding amount: of energy
arrearsfrom the budget has been reduced by 4.2 billion UAH or almost 75 percent.
33.   To address the remaining fiscal non-payment problems on a more permaneni. basis over
the next three years, the Government has committed to developing a comprehensive strategy to
settle the stock of budget and tax arrears in a consistent and definite manner. The objective of
this strategy is to close the gap between expenditures and revenues on a cash and a commitment
basis in the context of a sustainable medium-term fiscal framework, taking into account hidden
contingent liabilities. A range of workout mechanisms (including debt conversion, securitization
and bankruptcy procedures) will be considered to resolve overdue obligations and settle fiscal
imbalances. The end result will be a realistic timetable to reduce the remaining budget and tax
arrears, which will allow the Government to stay current thereafter. The Bank will support the
Government in the implementation of that strategy.
34.   Inter-enterprise arrears.  The budget arrears and lack of financial discipline in the
productive sectors led over time to mounting inter-enterprise arrears. By the end of 1999, past
due inter-enterprise arrears (payables) in Ukraine reached 93 percent of GDP. This is very high
compared to Russia (60 percent) and peak levels of comparable arrears in Central European
economies (20-30 percent). The alignment of payment practices in the productive sectors with
Central European standards will have significant positive effects on the business environment
and FDI.
35.   To address this critical problem, the Government program has chosen to focus first on the
energy sector, particularly electricity and gas sectors. Although energy arrears (estimated in
January at UAH 10 billion for electricity and another UAH 5 billion for gas) represent a small
part of the overall inter-enterprise non-payment problem, the electricity arrears still represent
more than half of the annual average electricity sales of UAH 15 billion in the wholesale
electricity market (Energomarket). In addition, the energy sector is a net lender to the rest of the
economy and improved collection of energy payments is expected to have significant
demonstration and positive multiplier effects. Increased internal financial discipline will enable
timely payments for energy imports 5 and help reduce the energy intensity of the country.
36.   Progress has been remarkable:
5 Internal debts to the gas sector directly contribute to the outstanding external debt for gas estimated at around
US$1.5 billion.



- 14-
* A growing proportion of cash payments for electricity has been secured through an
improved legal and regulatory framework that effectively broadens the scope of electricity
cut-offs as an effective means of enforcement, eliminates non-cash forms of payment, and
streamlines the handling of cash payments from consumers. Last year, 23,000 non-paying
electricity consumers (mostly enterprises) were cut off, sending a truly remarkable message
on the credibility of budget constraints.
* As a result, cash payments from the Oblenergos to the Energomarket increased
dramatically, from 15 percent of electricity bills in January 2000 to an average of 58 percent
of bills for the last six months ending April 30, 2001.
* Cash collections in the gas sector improved and averaged 50 percent for the year 2000 and
continued to improve during the first five months of this year (reaching 87 percent in April
and 68 percent in May).
37.   This performance in the electricity sector allowed the Government to reach the target
envisaged under PAL 1 (i.e., at least 50 percent cash collections for the electricity sector during
the last six months) and bodes well for achieving the more ambitious targets set by the
Government for the second (65 percent over nine months) and third PAL (full collection adjusted
for the billing cycle). In the gas sector, the same 50 percent cash collection target has been
established for all consumers purchasing gas from Naftogas, but it will be measured over the last
three months. Like in electricity, for the second PAL the target for cash collections over nine
months will be increased to 65 percent, and in the third PAL to full collection (again, adjusted
for the billing cycle).
38.   The Government strategy also addresses the outstanding stock of past electricity and gas
debts. To deal with the stock of outstanding electricity debts, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy
has already identified all debts of enterprises and budgetary organizations to each of the 26
Oblenergos (electricity distribution companies), including the seven already privatized ones.
The debt of each electricity consumer has been stated as of January 1, 2001, and the Ministry is
monitoring any changes to this debt and the corresponding legal actions and physical
disconnection.
39.   The Government has launched debt restructuring programs for each of the state-owned
Oblenergos prior to their proposed privatization. Under the proposed arrangement, the debt of
state-owned Oblenergos to the Energomarket outstanding on January 1, 2001 will be converted
into a new five-year medium-term debt, with a two-year grace period followed by quarterly
payments thereafter. Pursuant to the regulations for the Oblenergos' privatization, the newly-
privatized Oblenergos will be required to pay in cash the full amount due to the Energomarket
for their current power purchases. In case of non-compliance, the Oblenergos will be subject to
corresponding legal actions. The 2.9 billion UAH debt to the Energomarket owed by the 7
Oblenergos privatized earlier will be resolved through existing legal means, including sanctions
by the regulator and court actions.
40.   The full chain of debts from the Energomarket to electricity generators and further to fuel
suppliers will be restructured concurrently. This comprehensive approach to debt restructuring
will give Oblenergos an incentive to classify their debtors into three categories: (i) solvent
debtors with accumulated arrears due to previous liquidity problems; (ii) insolvent debtors who



- 15 -
cannot be cut off due to their strategic importance or environmental concerns; and (iii) large
insolvent debtors who will likely be bankrupt. Only consumers in the first would qualify for
debt restructuring. For the second group, the Government will develop a mechanism within the
state budget to secure timely financing of electricity bills for strategic entities. This regionally-
administered mechanism will be in place for the second PAL. For the third group of debtors, the
Oblenergos will undertake the necessary steps to either collect the outstanding debts during
bankruptcy procedures or write them off.
41.   To deal with the outstanding stock of gas debts by its domestic consumers, Naftogas will
identify the major debtors and prepare a detailed debt rescheduling program to resolve the
problem. Naftogas has also sought judicial recourse against one large indebted company.
42.   Moreover, to secure a sustainable improvement in fiscal and financial discipline, the
Government Program also seeks to resolve the outstanding issues regarding agricultural sector
debts either directly to the budget or deriving from state loan guarantees. This will promote
sound financial discipline and help reduce the risk of sequestration of agricultural output, thus
helping farms obtain private finance.
43.   Lastly, in order to support fiscal and financial discipline, the Government Program
includes cleaning the debts from the budget to the banking sectors to help strengthen the
financial sector. This will include developing an agreement with the banking sector to securitize
government liabilities to commercial banks by issuing government marketable securities.
Specifically, this will include a concrete timetable to handle overdue and restructured
government debt on the books of state banks (Savings and EXIM banks).
B.    Regulatory reform
44.   Ukraine has long been beset by a highly complex and non-transparent regulatory
environment, which has hampered growth, biased transactions and provided a major source of
corruption. Many agencies (particularly at the local level) are still entitled to "inspect" business
and demand payments.  The weak and incomplete regulatory environment for natural
monopolies, particularly the energy sector, has led to poor operating practices, deteriorating
performance, and reduced operating capacity. The net effect of such problems in the regulatory
framework is that entry for new and especially small and medium enterprises is stifled and
economic opportunities are limited. Addressing these issues is therefore a critical component of
obtaining sustained growth and poverty reduction.
45.   The medium-term vision. As part of the overall vision to best utilize national resources
and improve the productive capacity of the country, the Government Program seeks to remove
obstacles to the creation and operation of businesses and to provide clear rules cf the game
through better and more independent regulators in critical sectors. In order to achieve this, its
efforts are focused on: (i) facilitating entry and operation of business; (ii) facilitating accession
to WTO; (iii) strengthening corporate governance; and iv) improving regulatory systems in key
sectors (including telecom, energy and finance).
46.   Facilitafing entry and operation of business.  The Government Program plans to
accelerate on-going efforts to create favorable conditions for opening and operating business,
which will lead to substantial increases in the number of SMEs over the next three years. SME



- 16 -
growth will be an important tool for job creation necessary to reduce poverty over time.
Accomplishments to date include:
*  Improvements in new business registration. First improvements were introduced in 1998
through amendments to the Law on Entrepreneurship. The Government fine-tuned these
changes in 1999 and developed a separate Law on Registration in 2000 to encapsulate the
principles of one-stop shop registration. This law takes into account implementation lessons
and prepares the ground for future improvements in registration and post-registration
procedures. It is expected to be passed during the next session of Parliament. Independent
surveys conducted annually by USAID and IFC show that there has already been a
significant reduction in the official costs and time of registration. The official cost of
registration has gone down from US$192 in 1997 to US$67 in 1999; while the time needed to
register a new business (i.e., obtain a new registration certificate) has decreased from 34.7
days in 1997, to 11.6 days in 1999, and an expected 5 days in mid- 2000.
*  As a result, according to periodic IFC surveys, the number of licenses needed per enterprise
has gone down from 3 in 1997 to 1.6 in 1999. Second, in June 2000, Parliament has
approved a new licensing law further streamlining licensing procedures and allowing a single
license to cover multiple (similar) economic activities. This allows a further reduction in
cost and time of procuring business licenses and lowers a significant obstacle to doing
business in Ukraine. The complementary regulations have since been prepared and adopted,
and the implementation of the new law has started in October 2000.
 An improved business environment. The number of inspections has gone down from an
average of 30 per enterprise during 1998, to 16 during 1999, and an estimated 10 in mid-
2000, according to surveys undertaken by the IFC and the USAID. The Government
Program is committed to reducing inspections by half from the existing level during the PAL
program, by reviewing and streamlining existing legislation and consolidating inspections. A
simplified tax treatment was introduced for SMEs to help their operation and generate new
employment and economic growth.
47.   The Government Program includes further actions to support regulatory reform and to
improve the business environment. In addition to the measures specified above, the Government
Program emphasizes improved taxpayer services and modernization of tax administration. The
Bank will support the Government in the tax administration area with a free-standing credit
operation. This project will develop indicators to measure improvements in taxation practices.
Overall progress made in improving the business environment will be monitored through
business surveys and direct consultations with stakeholders.
48.   The Government Program pays particular attention to the streamlining and making
precise the rules of the game in agriculture, where market relationships are just beginning to
develop and need to be nurtured through transparent policies. Thus, the Program seeks to
stipulate a clearer and reduced role for the state in the sector, while refraining from introducing
new restrictions in the domestic and international trade in grains, and gradually phasing out
existing trade distortions (such as sunflower seed export tax). Given the importance of private
sector development in agriculture, the Government with the Bank's help will design a system of
monitorable indicators to measure progress in the development of a strong market environment
for agriculture.



- 17-
49.   Facilitating the Accession to WTO. Trade barriers have long played a role in creating an
uneven playing field and in hindering investment. Setting a clear regulatory environment for
trade is therefore an important element of the Government's strategy for encouraging, growth and
poverty reduction. After a two-year hiatus, Ukraine's effort to join the WTO is now back on
track. The 7h meeting of the working party held in July 2000, in conjunction with a series of
bilateral meetings between Ukraine and more than a dozen WTO members carried the
negotiation process forward, and has strengthened the direction of Ukraine's trade policy. The
Government has committed to a very ambitious accession timeline, has pledged to share more
information about the legislative program to bring its trade regime in line with WTO rules, and
to revise its market liberalization offers for goods and services before the next formal meeting of
the working party scheduled for mid 2001.
50.   The Government has committed to publish all trade-related laws, to provide appeal and
review procedures, and to include clear timetables for adaptation to WTO requirements. The
Government will facilitate the work of the working party by providing in English all future draft
legislation and action plans to identify the gaps and bring existing legislation into conformity
with WTO requirements.
51.   The import regime is still burdened with fees, licensing and certification procedures.
Recent legislation brought many procedures into conformity with WTO agreements. [mpressive
improvements were achieved in defining technical barriers, sanitary and phyto-sanitary measures
that used to be a major impediment to trade. Substantial progress has also been made in passing
new legislation in the area of trade-related intellectual property rights (TRIPs). The chief
concern now is the actual implementation of the laws. Ukraine also intends to comply with the
WTO obligations limiting use of subsidies and trade-related conditions attached to investment
(such as the domestic input requirements), removing discrimination and generally come into line
with EU trade rules.
52.   Regarding trade arrangements with other countries, the issue is the treatment of imports
from other CIS countries (Russia and Belarus in particular). Present problems will be effectively
resolved when Russia switches to the destination principle for value-added tax. Ukraine has had
bilateral negotiations on access for goods and services with all the developed countries and with
Brazil, Bulgaria, Cuba, India, Panama and Poland. Bilateral negotiations have already been
concluded successfully with Mexico and Uruguay, while the negotiation process has been
finalized with Korea and Ecuador.
53.   Corporate Governance.  The Government Program  seeks to improve corporate
governance in Ukraine, secure a level playing field for all businesses and adhere to international
governance (accounting/audit) standards over the medium term. The Government Program
focuses particular attention on the following set of governance issues: (a) moving towards the
adoption of accounting and audit norms compatible with international standards; (b) improving
company auditing practices and enforcement of disclosure regulations; and (c) protecting of
minority investors/shareholders rights. The country has already developed much of the basic
regulatory framework. Thus, the Government will focus on finalizing and fine-tuning regulation,
but most importantly, on improving enforcement. The Government will measure improvement
in corporate governance though surveys and consultation with reputable foreign investors.



- 18-
54.   Regulatory Systems. The Government Program also supports introducing or improving
regulation in telecommunications, energy, non-banking financial services, and pensions. In
energy and communications, regulatory advances are needed to support privatization and to
address the private capture of public institutions.
55.   Regarding energy, the Government has prepared and presented for the consideration of
Parliament, a law amending the existing regulatory system to enhance the energy regulator's
(NERC) autonomy. To guarantee NERC's independence and efficient operation of the sector,
clear rules that allow predictable tariff setting will be established, and amendments to the
Administrative Reform Decree will be introduced as necessary.
56.   In telecommunications, the objective of the Government is to introduce an independent
regulatory agency as a complement to successful privatization.  To begin, the Cabinet of
Ministers will approve a comprehensive sector policy, including clarifications on the regulatory
framework, competition, and universal service policy. Also, the Government will present
Parliament with a draft Communications Law, prepared within the framework of a sound
communications sector policy. The regulatory framework will cover interconnection, licensing,
tariff re-balancing, universal service, and radio spectrum management. Given its importance, it
is hoped that Parliament will soon approve the Communications Law, thereby enabling the
Government to set up an independent telecommunications regulatory authority before the
effective privatization of Ukrtelecom is finalized.
57.   In the financial system, the Government Program  mandates a forceful and prompt
implementation of the Banking Law approved in December 2000 and expects concrete outcomes
from the enforcement of the new regulatory system. All banking regulations issued by NBU will
be consistent with the Basel core principles. The Government will pursue development of a
viable deposit insurance scheme to complement the core banking sector legislation and reform
initiatives.
58.   To further strengthen financial intermediation in the country, the Government will
commence the development of an appropriate regulatory framework for the non-banking
financial sector in order to set clear rules for a wide range of non bank financial transactions that
are highly risky due to a lack of investment opportunities and mechanisms to protect clients and
investors. The Government expects to have in place a fully functioning Supervisory Authority
for non-bank financial institutions by 2003.
C.    Creating and Protecting Property Rights
59.   Weakly-defined and poorly-protected property rights have affected opportunities for
individuals and businesses alike. Property rights are so fundamental to an effective market
economy that they influence every aspect of a strategy to reduce poverty--opportunities for
income-earning activities and investments are inhibited; the power to enforce contracts is
limited, and the security of being able to retain the benefits of one's efforts is limited. In
Ukraine, some important laws necessary for stable commerce are either still missing (for
instance, protection of investment rights and mortgaging), provide an inappropriate legislative
base (for instance, leasing, banking and collateral legislation), or lack proper enforcement (for
instance, the Law on Bankruptcy).



- 19-
60.   The medium-term vision.  The Government expects significant improvements in the
efficiency of the productive sectors of the economy over the next three-year period. An
important part of this effort is to improve the existing allocation of property rights and develop
institutions to protect them, both in industry and agriculture. Effective results here should help
increase the inflow of foreign investment, bring strategic investors into key areas of the
economy; achieve a definite allocation of property rights in agriculture; and set clear and
effective rules to solve problems that arise when enterprises are no longer solvent or liquid. The
Government Program targets the following strategic areas for improved ownership rights: (i)
strengthening property rights in agriculture; (ii) supporting transparent privatization processes;
and (iii) utilizing bankruptcy as a mechanism for facilitating the restructuring or closure of ailing
enterprises.
61. Strengthening property rights in agriculture. In the agricultural sector, the Government
has set in motion a process to transfer land to private owners and to disband the previous system
of collective agriculture. The accomplishments so far have been as follows:
*  Almost complete elimination of state ownership of land, and substantial phase-out of
government monopoly on inputs and outputs as a result of the implementation of the
Presidential decree "On Reforming Agriculture".
* Issuance of 6.5 million land certificates to former Kolkhoz members (giving them
ownership rights on around 4.2 hectares of arable land) during the year 2000, on the basis of
which 1.3 million land title deeds guaranteeing private property on land were issued by June
2001.
* Partial elimination of government participation in supply of inputs and substantially
reduced government presence in the purchase of outputs to 1/1 0t ofpre-reform levels.
62.   To secure the full impact of the land privatization initiative, the Government Program
includes further efforts on the legal front (Land Code, Title Registration Law) to enable effective
private land ownership and development of market relations in agriculture. The Program will
seek to be proactive in the transformation of land certificates into effective land titles and in
setting the necessary institutional changes to carry out these tasks. The Bank will support the
Government in this work with an independent land titling operation, which will serve to develop
clear, effective, and transparent processes for granting land titles, based on the certificates
already issued. This should also help reduce the present uncertainty regarding the validity and
use of the land certificates. To improve the institutional set-up for land titling, it is necessary to
evaluate the capacity of the existing titling agencies and gain significant synergies to be achieved
through a unified registry system for all unmovable property. This could be achieved through a
merger of DKZ and BTI,6 with the Ministry of Justice acting as a legal guarantor ancl repository
of titles. The Program will develop indicators to measure advances in the titling program, such
as the number of titles issued by the end of the program and the advances made in improving the
efficiency and transparency of the titling institutions.
6 DKZ stands for Derzhavni Komytet Zemlyi = State Comniittee on Land; BTI stands for Byro l'echnicheskie
Inventarizatsie = Bureau of Technical Inventory.



- 20 -
63.   Supportng Transparent Privatization. The transparent transfer of ownership rights
from the State to the private sector is a key element of supporting a healthy market economy.
Special interests and unclear processes create an uncertain climate for investment and inhibit
potential interest in pursing economic activities. Recognizing that a dynamic private sector will
be critical for Ukraine's growth prospects, the New Government has made an effort to improve
the transparency of privatization. Since January 2000, the Government has put up for sale 83
controlling blocks of shares in the industrial and service sectors and has used the services of
international advisors in nine cases. Key accomplishments in strengthening the transparency of
privatization include:
* Development of the necessary regulations to start the implementation of the Privatization
Law for the next three years approved by Parliament in October 2000.
*  Privatization of nine industrial enterprises, mostly in metallurgy and oil processing
following transparent procedures.
* Completed privatization of six Oblenergos.
*  Creation of an independent panel of experts to advise and monitor the privatization
process.
64.   The use of transparent international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures and active
participation of strategic investors are an essential part of the privatization process. They
improve the access of Ukrainian enterprises to cutting-edge technology and to advanced
management practices. The Government is committed to observe transparent privatization rules.
With collaboration from the World Bank, it has set up an independent panel of experts
(Privatization Working Group--PWG), consisting of representatives of the Government, IFIs,
and international experts, to advise and monitor the privatization process. The Government is
developing a methodology to measure privatization progress, based on revenues, use of advisors,
transparency, post-privatization viability, and other considerations.
65.   The program of the Government includes the privatization of Ukrtelecom to strategic
international investors. Parliament has already approved, and the President signed, the telecom
privatization law.  The Cabinet has recently approved an ICB package, inviting strategic
investors. Engaging a strategic investor in this sector will have a very beneficial impact on the
overall business environment both through provision of quality telephone services at competitive
prices, and signaling Government readiness to advance the privatization agenda into strategic
sectors of the economy.
66.   The Government Program includes advances in the privatization of the power sector
companies in order to improve and maintain satisfactory sector performance and increase
efficiency. In May 2001 the first batch of six Oblenergos was successfully sold to reputable
investors, on the basis of the advise of a respectable international advisor (Credit Swiss First
Boston). The Government has re-appointed the same advisor for the privatization of the
remaining Oblenergos and is currently taking stock of the past experience before proceeding
with the next batch of privatizations. The Government also plans to initiate privatization of the
four thermal-condensing electricity generating companies prior to the third PAL.



- 21 -
67.   To support increasing private sector investment in the gas sector, the Government is
committed to undertake an audit of Naftogas, one of Ukraine's largest but least efficient business
entities. The audit would provide confidence to potential investors concerning the financial
information provided about the company. The audit is to be carried out in three stages (the first
stage has been completed). Naftogas has signed a contract with a reputable auditor (Arthur
Anderson) to carry out the second phase activities, which includes preparation of audited
financial statements for 2000 for the three subsidiaries involved in production, transmission and
trading, as well as compilation of the financial statements for Naftogas's oil subsidiary
(UkraNafta). Audit to international standards would require an estimate of the company's oil
and gas reserves and a restatement of the replacement value of fixed assets. For the second PAL
operation, Naftogas will have signed a contract to audit 2001 financial statements of all the
entities forming Naftogas. By the third PAL, a complete audit of Naftogas 2001 financial
statement to international standards will be available.
68.   In addition, the Government will explore ways of allowing private involvement in the gas
sector (for PAL 2) and will undertake the necessary legal and regulatory actions to enable this
process. If this strategy is adopted, initial steps in privatizing the gas distribution companies and
new private investment in the gas distribution sub-sector could also be expected within the
second PAL operation. The third PAL will then seek to support Government efforts to involve
the private sector on a larger scale leading to greater competition and better performance of the
gas sector as a whole.
69.   Bankruptcy. The Government plans to streamline bankruptcy and related legislation to
make it an effective instrument of facilitating the restructuring or closure of ailing enterprises
and banks. The necessary legislative changes have already been identified and the revisions
presented for parliamentary consideration.  Improvements in the bankruptcy legislation
notwithstanding, the Government will take decisive action to implement bankruptcy procedures,
beginning with the largest overdue debtors to the state. The Government has already put
together a list of the largest debtors to the state and plans to initiate at least five procedures
during 2001, and to reach a court decision in at least three cases on whether to proceed with
restructuring or go for liquidation. By the end of the program, the Government expects to have
initiated another ten bankruptcy procedures and completed at least three cases.
70.   The passage in December 2000 of the new Law on Banks and Banking Activity will
facilitate bankruptcy procedures in the financial sector by: (a) integrating all pertinent rules and
procedures; (b) eliminating existing legal loopholes that allowed parties with vested interests to
interfere and endlessly postpone the process; and (c) putting the NBU clearly in charge of
initiating and managing the bankruptcy procedure for banks. This would equip the Government
with more effective tools to resolve the problems of Bank Ukraina and the Savings Bank.
71.   The Government has agreed to implement a time-bound resolution plan for Bank
Ukraina, developed with the help of the World Bank. The resolution plan had an cbjective to
prevent losses to depositors and at the same time help strengthen the financial discipline in the
banking sector. On July 1 a decision has been taken to remove the Banking license from Bank
Ukraina and to transfer its deposits to another banking institution. This solution will be enabled
by an issue of 450 million UAH in long-term (10 years) Government Bonds which will be
authorized by the Parliament as an amendment to the 2001 Budget Law. The Government plans
to make a parallel effort to: (a) mitigate the social impact of closing Bank Ukraina through



- 22 -
adequate retraining and assistance programs; and (b) help establish an alternative source of
mortgage financing for the agricultural sector.
72.   Regarding the Savings Bank, the Government, in response to NBU  regulatory
requirements and institutional building objectives of the bank, has developed a short-term action
plan covering the specific actions to be undertaken in the current year. A detailed restructuring
plan will be developed during the coming year which will include measures to rectify capital
deficiency, improve bank's corporate governance and mitigate potential risks to the bank's
depositors and the overall banking sector.
D.    Public Sector Accountability
73.   Ukraine's received fiscal management and public administration system was designed to
encompass almost every aspect of social and economic life in the country. Significant progress
has already been made in withdrawing direct state intervention in favor of effective market
institutions, and redirecting state efforts towards providing basic social services and improving
the welfare of the poor. The Government intent to assure better use of public resources will
facilitate implementation of programs that directly alleviate poverty and increase opportunity
through better health and education services. Equally, efforts to enhance accountability would
assume greater involvement of civil society and thus empower the poor to voice their concerns
and participate in the design and delivery of the support programs. Finally, efforts to reform
public administration and modernize civil service and the revenue system would scale down the
costs of the state and leave more resources available for private investment and job creation
thereby benefiting the poor.
74.   The medium-term vision. The medium-term vision is to improve the credibility of the
State and to enhance the legitimacy of the institutional transformations underway. Thus, the
Government Program gives priority to improving the accountability of the public sector with
emphasis on: (a) a more effective use of public funds secured through elimination of special
privileges not justified on equity grounds, and advancing transparent procurement practices; (b)
introduction of a modernized, efficient and transparent public revenue system; (c) clear
definition of the roles and responsibilities of the state at each level of government and an
appropriate system of inter-governmental transfers to match the expenditure assignments; (d)
improved public availability of information, open budget process, and independent assurance of
integrity, including provisions for the involvement of civil society; (e) a leaner public
administration based on a clear definition of new roles of the Cabinet and the individual
ministries, and (f) advancing the reform of the civil service.
75.   Streamlining expenditure. The Government Program implies a significant change in the
role of the state and, with its emphasis on financial discipline, seeks to develop a public sector
that will live within the available resource constraint. The Government Program therefore
includes a streamlining of public expenditure to fit the new role of the state. In this effort, the
program assigns particular importance to removing special privileges granted to professional
groups and improving the efficiency of social expenditure (discussed in more detail in Section E
below). Following the same wisdom, remaining transfers (subsidies) to the productive sectors
will be restricted and gradually eliminated. The Bank will support further work on strengthening
Government's capacity to manage public expenditure through a PEIR recently completed.



-23 -
76.   Procurement Reform    The reform  of procurement practices and their uniform
application nationwide, by all levels of government, is central to the Government's efforts to
improve the accountability of public action and use of public resources. Governmenl: efforts to
improve the procurement of goods, works and services financed through public fuinds were
initially done through decrees, resolutions and regulations.7 Although clearly an improvement
over non-transparent procurement procedures practiced in a centrally-planned economy, multiple
decrees and regulations did not provide sufficient consistency, clarity and guidance to procuring
entities.
77.   In order to remedy this, preparation of a comprehensive procurement law was initiated
with the assistance from IFIs and donors, resulting in the first Public Procurement Law, passed in
February 2000 and put into effect in July 2000. According to the draft Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR) for Ukraine, the new procurement law:
*  Has wide applicability (to all goods, works and services except defense-related purchases or
purchases excluded by special decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers);
* Allows a decentralized procurement system in which ministries, public agencies and state
enterprises at different levels of government can undertake own procurement utilizing public
funds; and
* Advocates sound public procurement principles (economy and efficiency, international
competition, equity and fairness, development of domestic industry and transparency).
78.   The Government has already developed the complementary regulatiorl enabling
implementation of the new law. Early results8 are encouraging:
* Number of published announcements of upcoming tenders has increased 29 times compared
to 1999;
X The monitoring of public procurement expenditures has improved and detailed data are being
collected on a regular basis by the State Statistical Committee since the first quarter of 2000;
* Out of 7096 tenders held during the second half of 2000, three-quarters followed most
competitive procedure (open tender), 15.1 percent followed other competitive procedures,
and only 10.5 percent of contracts were done based on non-competitive procedlures (sole-
source);
* The amount of signed contracts during the second half of 2000 was lower than the budget
denoted amounts resulting in 19.9 percent savings of public funds.
79.   The Government foresees the gradual implementation of the new procurement procedures
so that by the end of the three-year program, no more than 5 percent of all eligible government
7 Decrees and resolutions enunciated broad procurement principles, while procedures were set through regulations.
8 Based on reports from 52 main budget spending units (including 27 regions and main ministries) during the first
six months since the effectiveness of the law. The data was compiled by the Ministty of Economy.



- 24 -
purchases will obtain an exemption from the nationalinternational competitive bidding
procedures prescribed by the new Procurement Law.
80.   To achieve this, a substantial capacity building effort detailed in the CPAR will be
needed over the medium-term relying on an IDF and other donor funding. The focus will be on:
strengthening the public procurement office and the organization framework; improving
procurement procedures and practices; and enhancing competition.  The proposed strategy
assumes continuous improvements in the procurement law and enabling legislation based on
implementation feedback and advice from IFIs and the donor community.
81.   The Revenue System. The Government Program considers a significant overhaul of the
revenue system. The objective is to create an efficient and transparent public revenue system
centered on the reform of tax and customs policy, and the development of a modern tax/customs
administration that succeeds in distributing fairly the public finance burden and minimizes
compliance costs. In early 2000, the Government decided on
* the elimination of 256 orders of the Cabinet of Ministers granting individual tax and
customs exemptions, signaling commitment to streamline the tax system and broaden the tax
base.
82.   The Government has already presented to parliament a new Tax Code expected to be
approved during 2001 and to become effective in 2002. The proposed Tax Code now being
considered by Parliament promotes the elimination of nuisance taxes and exemptions granted by
Parliament. The code considers a gradual reduction of the level of the tax burden and expands
the taxable base, while in parallel improving tax administration practices. Broadening the tax
base will require eliminating open and hidden tax exemptions and privileges, including, for
instance, selective enforcement of tax collection at the regional level as well as the special trade
zones. The strategy to realign tax rates, broaden the base, and improve administration will be
designed within a long-term  perspective and implemented gradually.  There is growing
consensus that dealing effectively with the burden of taxation can help bring part of the informal
economy into the open. The presumptive tax on small business and farms appears to have been
quite successful in bringing new business into the open.
83.  Inter-governmental Finance. The Government Program includes the reform in the
present system of inter-governmental finance as part of the effort to improve fiscal accountability
and transparency.  The fiscal crisis of the previous years has complicated greatly inter-
governmental fiscal relations. During this period, the responsibilities of local governments
increased, often without sufficient resources or control on mandates, which added to the
generation of fiscal arrears. Moreover, local governments have had limited incentives to
generate their own resources, because, the central government often found it necessary to reduce
transfers proportionally to the increase in local revenue generation. Also, the scarce resources at
the national treasury have implied erratic and uncertain transfers to the local governments. As
the fiscal situation improves and arrears come under control, it is now opportune to begin
focusing on inter-governmental fiscal reform.
84.   The vision of the Government is to set in place the basis of a solid and transparent system
of inter-governmental finance during the next three years. Putting together this system will be
part of a broader effort to develop a regional development policy and administrative and political



-25 -
reform. The system of inter-governmental fiscal relations will be based on: (a) a precise
assignment of expenditure and revenue responsibilities; (b) a rule-based system to transfer
resources between the national budget and local governments; (c) proper incentives lto generate
local revenues; and (d) transparent reporting and accountability mechanisms.
85.   Local governments are already responsible for about 40 percent of consolidated national
expenditures, excluding the pension fund. The Budget Code under parliamentary consideration
further fine-tunes, but does not alter substantially, the expenditure assignment. The transfers of
financial resources, however, will undergo significant changes to make them more transparent
and ruled based. The Government has developed a rule-based system to determine transfers
based on needs, income, and revenue potential. This system protects revenues generated locally
from capture by the central government.  As a first step, the Government has already
accomplished:
inclusion of a formula-based system of allocating resources to the Oblasts and from the
Oblasts to rayons in the 2001. This formula has been specified in a Cabinet of Ministers
resolution. The Government is confident that this first step will provide valuable experience
upon which to improve the transfer system and achieve the three-year vision of
intergovernmental reform. Moreover, since the rule-based system protects local revenues,
the basis will have been set for further reforms like local taxation and a greater emphasis on
service fees.
86.   The Government has already been working on improving the reporting and accountability
of local governments. An important element of this effort is the extension of a new treasury
system to the rayon level. This system is now being piloted and will be expanded nationwide as
soon as an adequate institutional and informational infrastructure is developed.  Local
governments will be subject to the same reporting and control procedures as the naticinal budget.
Lastly, the Government plans to encourage the participation of civil society in the preparation
and execution of local budgets.
87.   Improving use of public monies. A major problem in assuring control over, the use of
public monies was the proliferation of extra-budgetary funds, together with poor rules of control
over their utilization. The situation has now been drastically changed. All extra-budgetary funds
have been brought into the budget, with the exception of the Pension Fund and of other tri-partite
social and labor-related funds. The latter account for less than 2 percent of GDP. Accountability
in the use of these funds is secured through the enforcement of standard budget rules and
channeling of funds through the State Treasury.
88.   A new Budget Code, expected to be approved this year, will serve to further increase
fiscal accountability and transparency. It will allow the Government to prepare budgets that
reflect national and social priorities through open budget preparation involving active
participation of key stakeholders and civil society. Also, the new code will help the Government
improve the use of fiscal resources through better budget execution (including improved treasury
management), budget evaluation and reporting. These will be based on competitive procurement
and performance evaluation, and assume an active involvement of civil society and the adoption
of international fiscal transparency, accounting/audit, and data-dissemination standards.



- 26 -
89.   Accountability and Civil Society Role. The Government Program places considerable
importance on providing the opportunity for civil society to contribute in the design,
implementation and monitoring of government policies. The Government met with civil society
representatives when preparing its Government Program and keeps the polity informed of its
programs and achievements in order to broaden the constituency for reform. To consolidate this
early progress, Government is now developing more permanent and stable mechanisms to
facilitate future participation of civil society, particularly in areas such as the use of public funds,
the delivery of social services, tax and customs practices, and the business environment in rural
and urban areas.
90.   Fiscal Oversight. The Government is acutely aware of the need to secure an independent
assurance of integrity through internal oversight of fiscal operations and independent external
supreme audit of both revenues and expenditures. Although the country already has some basic
control institutions in place, the institutional design is still incomplete and its performance is
inadequate. Thus, the Government Program includes: (a) during 2001, an institutional revision
of the existing control and oversight organizations; and (b) by the end of the program, technical
upgrading to improve the quality and performance of public sector oversight. As part of these
efforts, the Government expects to normalize and upgrade the yearly auditing of budget
execution, improve reporting within government bodies, and strengthen the mechanisms of
internal control both in taxes and expenditures.
91.   Public Administration Reform. The Government recognizes that the limitations of the
public administration system inherited from Soviet times have often interfered with its ability to
address serious economic and social reform issues. The core of this problem can be traced to: (a)
dissonance between the reform agenda and policy actions effectively taken; (b) under-developed
capacity for strategic policy making; and (c) government inability to effectively take into account
the complexities of the legal/administrative system. The Government has adopted a medium
term goal to: (i) improve the decision making capacity of the Cabinet by downsizing it, focusing
its work on strategic priorities, and making the decision-making process more transparent; (ii)
change the role and functions of ministries in line with the new role of the state in a market
economy; (iii) strengthen the fiscal capacity of the Government, by bringing all fiscal functions
and institutions under one ministry; and (iv) improve civil service performance.
92.   Reform of the Cabinet and its Secretariat was necessary to overcome one of the main
shortcomings of the received administrative system: The old Secretariat not only acted to
prepare the decisions for the Cabinet, but also served as a buffer between the Cabinet and the
ministries limiting their independence and policy responsibility. The Government has already
made progress in reforming the Cabinet and its Secretariat. These achievements include:
*  A smaller and more effective Cabinet created through the reduction of central state bodies
from over 80 to less than 50 (including 16 ministries) and concurrent downsizing of the
Cabinet from over 50 to 20 members, a level comparable with OECD countries;
*  Creation of five specialized Cabinet Committees to further decrease the workload on the
Cabinet, improve transparency, and increase the policy role of the ministries. Under new
streamlined and transparent procedures, all decisions are first considered in the Cabinet
Committees before being decided by the Cabinet at large and signed off by the Prime



-27 -
Minister. This preempts previous practices that allowed the Prime Minster to approve
decisions independent of Cabinet consideration in a non-transparent way; and
Downsizing and reorganizing the Secretariat to better support the work of the new Cabinet
and its Committees and eliminate the discretionary role of the previous Apparat.
93.   The Government plans to focus the work of the Cabinet on strategic priorities (including
the preparation of key policy decisions), while delegating non-strategic and sectoral issues to
lower levels of government, eliminating the remaining overlapping functions, adapting the
Secretariat to its new role and functions, and aligning budgetary resources with medium-term
strategic priorities.
94.   The Government has been working to transform the role of ministries from implementing
and micromanaging state-owned enterprises to developing and implementing economic and
social policies that enable economic activity and provide social support. To achieve this, a set of
functional reviews was undertaken in all core ministries: seven have been completed and two are
underway. As a result, the restructured Ministry of Finance has improved performance in
budgeting and expenditure control, and the Ministry of Social Policy has taken a leading role in
reforming the system of social protection and pensions. Future efficiency reviews will enable
the Government identify ways of improving the efficiency in the use of public resources.
95.   The Government seeks in the medium term to improve fiscal institutions as an anchor to
sustaining sound macroeconomic fundamentals. Key fiscal functions in need of improvement
are--budgeting process, tax policy and administration, and expenditure control, including
improved procurement procedures, fiscal reporting and internal audit. Today, these functions are
disintegrated across different agencies that often fail to coordinate their policies and actions.
Under the auspices of the three-year PAL program, the Government plans to review the full
matrix of fiscal functions as currently implemented by key fiscal agencies (Customs Department,
State Tax Administration, Treasury Department, Control and Revision Department, MIinistry of
Finance, Ministry of Economy) and develop an integrated framework that will enable the country
to design and implement sustainable fiscal policies in the future.
96.   The Government is aware that it is difficult for public administration initiative t-o succeed
without a comprehensive civil service reform. The strategy is to increase the motivation of civil
servants through a civil service system based on enhanced public servant training, merit and
competition, with strong safeguards against corruption. Another priority was the introduction of
a senior civil servant concept based on non-political appointments of state secretaries ELt the level
of the Cabinet of Ministers and individual ministries. The length of service and the appointment
procedure are supposed to secure political neutrality, the highest level of professionalism and
stability in the operation of the Government.
E.    Management of social and environmental risks
97.   Ukraine has inherited a very inefficient and overextended system of shared provision of
social services provided both by budgetary organizations and large state-owned enterprises. This
has limited the country's ability to address emerging social and environmental risks that it faces
today, as summarized in Part I and Box 1. In order to be effective in the provision of social
services and social protection, the government is committed to address the issues of overstaffing,



- 28 -
extensive networks of outdated and under-equipped facilities, lack of basic supplies and other
chronic problems that beset the social sectors today. These reforms will be the basis of
improving sector performance and reversing the downward trend in poverty and health indicators
that affect vulnerable segments of the population (the elderly, children, single mothers, and
unemployed).  Addressing these issues is critical both to directly alleviating poverty and
improving the security of the poor, revitalizing human capital and empowering large segments of
the population to actively take part in ensuing economic growth. In the case of Ukraine,
environmental risks merit particular attention given their impact on the quality of life of the
population and its health.
98.   The medium-term vision. The Government Program seeks to better manage social and
environmental risks based on enhanced effectiveness and greater inclusiveness of social benefits
and social care services, improved old-age income security through pension and social protection
reform, and on reducing the risks of poverty and further environmental degradation. By the end
of the program, the Government plans to: (a) reform the first PAYG pension pillar and develop
legislation and regulatory framework for funded pillars already in operation; (b) provide a better
targeted and more efficient social assistance; (c) effectively control public health risks, and start
the implementation of new health and education sector strategies; and (d) complete the
institutional basis for a viable environmental protection system and start implementing priority
environmental programs.
99.   Pensions. In pensions, the main objective of the Government Program is to reform the
first pillar and prepare the groundwork for the introduction of second and third pillars when
conditions become appropriate. In reforming the pension system, key accomplishments thus far
include:
* The introduction of a unified system of personal pension accounts with detailed recording
of lifetime contributions as a basis for pension/benefits determination and an anchor of
mandatory pillars;
*  The transfer of pension determination function Social Protection units to the Pension
Fund, which complements and enables the system of personal pension accounts; and
*  The creation of a unified social insurance database which provides a unified basis for the
reform of the social insurance system.
100.  When completed in early 2002, the new integrated system of personal pension accounts,
complemented with pension benefit calculation, improved internal flow of information and
upgraded management practices, will be the basis of a reformed Pension Fund and the backbone
of an integrated social security system. The new system will accurately record all contributions
and paid benefits and issue social insurance certificates to all the contributors and beneficiaries
of social security services. It will also enable informed participation of all the stakeholders in the
management of the tri-partite social security system, as well as secure the observance of
international financial management standards in controlling the use of social security resources.
101.  Concurrently, the pension reform program has been devoting a lot of attention to the
development of the necessary legal framework for future progress of pension reforms. The Law
on Mandatory Pension Insurance seeks to enhance the financial viability of the first pillar by



- 29 -
increasing the full and early retirement age, and by transferring to the general budget the
responsibility for welfare assistance to the elderly. The proposed law also establishes clear
timing for the introduction of the second pillar, realistically evaluates the transition costs and
proposes strict financial soundness criteria for the gradual introduction of the second pillar.
Eventually, as the size of the second pillar expands, the conditions will be met to reduce the
pension contribution rates.
102.  At the same time, the Law on Non-State Pension Funds sets the base for voluntary
pension mechanisms and provides a much needed regulatory framework to protect the right of
investors in the rapidly growing market of voluntary pension arrangements. By the end of the
medium-term program, the Government expects to have set up the corresponding regulatory
framework, as well as created the conditions for the complementary institutions to come into
place, including licensed fund managers, asset managers, and insurance companies. Within the
same timeframe, the Government intends to establish a specialized pension supervisory function,
State Inspection for Pension Funds (SIPF), responsible for both accumulation and pay-out stages
of the pension sector. At the organizational level, the Government is studying whether to
provide the SIPF function under an umbrella regulatory organization for the wnole non-banking
financial sector (NBFI), or to establish SIPF as an independent regulator that would subsequently
be subsumed under the universal NBFI regulator.
103.  Social Assistance. In social assistance, the chief objective of the Government Program is
to improve efficiency in the use of very limited budgetary resources to reach the poor and the
needy.  The new system of targeted social assistance, in conjunction with organizational
consolidation and reduction in administrative costs, will help achieve that objective. The
accomplishments in improving social assistance in related areas so far include:
*  A transfer of the provision of family benefits from state enterprises to Social Protection
Departments (SPD), thus eliminating one of the last remnants of the socialist social
assistance system shared between the budget entities and state enterprises;
*  Consolidation of social assistance administration, initiated with a merger of the Housing
Subsidy Departments with the SPDs;
*  The use of newly-developed unified targeting methodology in all means-tested programs;
and
*  The completion of 750 territorial social care centers and the expansion of out-reach
services to additional 10,000 old and disabledpersons.
104.  In the coming two years further progress is expected from expanding the new unified
targeting methodology to all social assistance programs, continued consolidation of the social
assistance administration, and improved social care provision based on the results of three
regional pilot projects. Pending those results, it is expected that increases in the effectiveness of
social care services would be obtained by diversifying service provision based on a system of
social orders.
105.  Specialprivileges. The Government report on special privileges indicates an explosion
of privileges granted through un-funded legal mandates approved by a populist parliament in the



- 30 -
years following independence. Combined with an inherited large number of retirees and
recipients of social benefits, the highest in the former Soviet Union, this led to an unprecedented
increase in the total number of people in Ukraine eligible for social privileges to 21.5 million or
43 percent of the population. In the year 2000, the value of the social privileges granted by law
amounted to 29.7 billion UAH or 20 percent of GDP. The state budget, however, provided only
2.3 billion UAH to comply with these laws; close to 10 billion of mainly professional privileges
have not been funded at all while the remainder has been pushed to lower levels of government
and state enterprises for funding. Such provisions in the budget for the year 2000, combined
with stricter control mechanisms and a prudent use of self-selection, are estimated to have
reduced the number of recipients of social privileges by around 50 percent with a significant
savings to the budget and a negligible impact on the poor. Similar provisions have been adopted
in the 2001 budget. The main accomplishment of the Government thus far has been to:
* Document the potential fiscal impact of the system of special privileges granted through
existing legislation; and
* Effectively discontinue funding of professional and other privileges that are not justifiable
on poverty and equity grounds.
106.  Although the majority of special privileges have never been effectively delivered, they
continue to remain a nuisance in the budget process that needs to be rectified. Proper elimination
of existing social privileges and entitlements, though, would require changes in some 40 laws
which goes beyond the common agenda of the weakening parliamentary majority. Until a
consensus is reached to legally streamline this important part of the social reform agenda, the
Government will continue to limit the budgetary impact of unfunded social (especially
professional) privileges using provisions in the annual budget laws. Furthermore, to facilitate
eventual legislative action, the Government Program will further review and streamline the
remaining, privileges and consolidate programs under a system of targeted protection based on a
single method of application and granting of assistance.
107.  Health and Education. The Government is deeply concerned with the deterioration of
the health and education services and the detrimental impact on society and the economy. The
Government is acutely aware not only of the need to keep and maintain the broad levels of
universal services but also of bringing quality in line with best regional practices. Also, it
acknowledges the fact that as public services have shrunk, parallel service systems, some based
on hidden fees, have emerged. The Government thus seeks to improve service delivery within
the current resource envelope, by seeking the best use of available resources and bringing all
stakeholders under a common set of institutional rules. Hence, in health and education, the
Government Program will focus initially on the development of sector strategies and improving
the institutional capacity of Government to undertake deep structural reforms that effectively
improve service delivery. A first blueprint of these strategies, expected by September 2001,
would serve as the basis to fine-tune the Government Program  in these areas.  Key
accomplishments in health and education thus far have been:
* Piloting of TB DOTS method started in Donetsk Oblast to help improve control of public
health risks;



-31 -
* Primary health care has been improved through establishment of new family medicine
centers and the introduction of university specialization onfamily medicine;
* Health resource allocation pilot has been started in Lviv;
*  Pilot on improved methods of education andfinance management started in Lviv; and
* A national program of 12-year compulsory education has been adopted
108. More specifically, in health, the Government Program will focus initially on addressing
the most critical health priorities: control of TB and HIV/AIDS epidemics and strengthening of
primary health care system. The Government has already launched a pilot on TB DOTS
treatment and two more pilots are being prepared.  A National Strategy on HIV/AIDS
Prevention, currently being prepared based on 1998 legislation, seeks to consolidate the efforts
of all stakeholders in controlling the spread of the epidemic into the general population. A well
functioning primary health care system, based on the introduction of family medicine, and the
launch of a national reproductive health program is at the core of the Government's health sector
reform strategy. The strategy will also address the pressing financial issues and the need to
improve the institutional capacity of the Government to engage in continued health-sector
reforms aimed at improved service delivery. Other health issues addressed in the strategy
include the introduction of social insurance as a financing modality, consideration of the
advantages and disadvantages of implementing a guaranteed minimum level of services, and the
need for increased efficiency via measures such as hospital rationalization. Some important
concepts advanced by the new strategy, such as the definition of a minimum package of services
and alternative approaches to resource allocation, are being tested in regional (Lviv) pilot
projects.
109.  In education, the Government program will focus initially on strengthening basic
education, improving resource mobilization and management. A National Program of 12 year
compulsory education has been already adopted and new educational standards are under
preparation. In the near term, the Government is planning to streamline the rural education
network and improve education quality through a new generation of textbooks and upgrading the
education technologies. New mechanisms for education management and finance are being
piloted. In higher education, consolidation of institutions, improved resource mobilization and
the creation of mechanisms to ensure equity form the core of the medium term reform program.
The Government is also preparing a comprehensive education development strategy which will
address issues of equitable access to quality programs at all educational levels, efficiency in
organizational and financial management and outcome based performance. A blueprint of the
strategy would be available by September 2001 and serve as the basis for further elaboration and
discussions with stakeholders.
110.  Environment. The Government is committed to improve the quality of the environment
by developing institutional capacity to address critical inherited environmental problems and
prevent further deterioration of the environment in the future. Its environmental strategy is built
around a new permit system based on actual emissions. To develop an operational permit
system, the program envisages the following set of actions: (a) preparation of an exhaustive
inventory of largest industrial and other polluters; (b) strengthening of the financing mechanism
for environmental protection; (c) building sufficient institutional capacity in the Ministry of



- 32 -
Environment and related agencies; and (d) developing a set of national programs based on
critical pilot projects financed through specialized environmental grants and investment loans.
Since environmental initiatives have long gestation periods before producing tangible results on
the ground, the Government Program targets interim results in capacity building and pilot project
implementation as a measure of success in developing the environmental agenda.
IH.   BANK GROUP STRATEGY
A.   The World Bank
111.  Past Assistance to Ukraine. The achievements and shortcomings of the Bank Group
experience in Ukraine are documented in the 2001-2003 Country Assistance Strategy reviewed
by the Board of Executive Directors on September 12, 2000. Overall, the relationship between
Ukraine and the Bank deteriorated as the priority reform programs could not be implemented as
envisaged. The CAS identified two main set of reasons for this development: (i) a complicated
social and political situation in Ukraine which weakened the ownership of the reform process;
and (ii) lack of adequate feedback mechanisms in the design of adjustment assistance based on
stand alone sector adjustment operations. As a result, the disbursement of adjustment funds
proceeded based on policy inputs rather than effective results on the ground. As a consequence,
the Bank Board placed Ukraine in a low case lending scenario starting in May 1999.
112.  Benefitting from past lessons. Building on the lessons of the earlier Bank assistance to
Ukraine, the 200 1-03 CAS outlines a support strategy based on demandfor and supply of pro-
development institutions. Under the low case scenario, the Bank support focuses on the demand
for pro-development institutions, with programs that enhance the role of the private sector and
civil society. Under the base case scenario, the Bank support extends to the creation and
enhancement of strong institutions, taking advantage of breakthroughs at the Government level,
and seeking to complete and revise the institutional framework and improve governance.
113. PAL design rooted in CAS. The PAL has been designed as the flagship operation to
provide the supply of institutions defined under the 2001-03 CAS. Key PAL characteristics are:
* Full alignment with the Government Program to encourage full ownership;
* Reliance on specific reform outcomes on the ground as a measure of progress towards a
clearly-defined medium-term vision;
*  Cumulative build up of reform results towards reaching the medium-term objectives;
*  Emphasis on thematic issues that cut across different sectors and enable a reliable assessment
of the overall progress of reforms; and,
* Built-in safeguards to prevent reform reversals by disbursing on the basis of results already
achieved on the ground and sustaining previous accomplishments.
114.  Shifting to the Base Case  The proposed PAL is being presented to the Board because
the record of accomplishments of the past year's work of the Government is such as to justify the



- 33 -
Base Case as defined under the FY01-03 CAS. The triggers for the Base Case included: (i) no
further deterioration in portfolio performance (there no longer are any unsatisfactory projects in
the Ukraine portfolio); (ii) presence of a viable mechanism for Bank loan approvals and
effectiveness; (iii) strict adherence to financial and fiduciary obligations; (iv) conssistent and
sustainable macroeconomic framework in place; and (v) meeting of PAL-specifi.c triggers
concerning financial accountability, regulatory framework, property rights, public sector
accountability and social sustainability. The latter coincide with the bulk of the benchmarks that
are supported under this first tranche of PAL I operation.
B.    Coordination with the IMF
115.  After almost 15 months, the IMF's EFF program was put back on track on December 19,
2000, providing Ukraine with much-needed credibility and foreign exchange support The IMF
review missions of February 2001 confirmed good macroeconomic performance but withheld the
disbursement of the next EFF tranche pending satisfactory progress in three critical structural
areas: (a) the resolution of Bank Ukraina problem; (b) satisfactory performance in large-scale
privatizations; and (c) achievement of agreed cash-collection targets in electricity and gas. In
June-July the ]MF mission has reviewed progress under the broadly-defined EFF program,
focusing in particular on the overall macroeconomic framework, including the country's external
position and short-term fiscal/budget-deficit issues. The EFF program is likely to be resumed in
late August-September 2001. In monitoring progress of structural reforms, including: strategic
privatizations of large industrial enterprises and companies in infrastructure sectors (especially
energy and telecom), restructuring of the banking sector, improved cash collections in energy,
reforms in agriculture, progress in deregulation and public administration reform, thle IMF will
rely on Bank support. Since most of these areas are part of the Government Program supported
under PAL, the results of monitoring developments in structural reforms will be shared with the
IMF. In the areas of improved financial discipline and fiscal reform the IMF and the Bank will
cooperate on a continuous basis.
C.    Coordination with other Donors
116.  Donor technical assistance is an important element of the implementation of the
Government Program. PAL has been providing a framework for integrating and prioritizing
donor assistance and making it more effective. This is a welcome development that allows the
Government to correct the dispersion of efforts that sometimes took place in the past. Moreover,
PAL, by focusing assistance on priority areas, will help deal with the decreasing total volume of
external donor support. The three-year framework of the Government Program supported by
PAL offers a more appropriate time horizon to permit donors to align their assistance with the
emerging priorities. Following Board approval of the first PAL operation, the Bank will present
donors with a program of priority TA, and setup a mechanism of donor coordination to enable
the Government to deliver on the expected outcomes and reliably measure achievements during
the latter part of the three-year program.



- 34 -
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.   Program Design
117. Design of PAL I. The proposed PAL I loan is the first in the series of the three
adjustment operations under the PAL program to be executed during the current CAS period
(FYO1-03). Each PAL operation is to be presented separately to the Board, within a common
strategic framework developed and agreed within the first operation, as discussed in Section II
above. The benchmarks for PAL I follow the guidelines provided by the CAS document and are
aligned with the priorities set for the year 2000 in the Government Program. The Bank and the
Government have worked together, often in cooperation with other donors, in developing and
implementing the necessary instruments to assure that these benchmarks are met. The design of
the first PAL operation includes two tranches. The first will be based on achievements already
obtained on the ground and the second on a track-record of the new Cabinet that confirms and
validates its ownership of strategic institutional reforms supported under PAL. Ukraine has
achieved the actions prior to Board presentation listed in Section B, below. Additional actions
needed for the release of the second tranche are listed in Section C.
118. Monitoring and subsequent PAL Operations. The Government and the Bank have
already agreed on the areas of the Government program to be supported under the second and
third operations in the PAL series. Expected outcomes in those areas are presented as indicative
benchmarks in the appropriate columns of the Matrix of Institutional and Policy Outcomes in
Annex 5. The Government expects the matrix to guide and help coordinate the work of multiple
ministries and agencies involved in the continuous development and implementation of the
Government Program. As this work progresses and feedback is obtained on the success of the
reform actions, the Government and the Bank will develop a detailed set of benchmarks to be
supported under subsequent PAL operations.
119. Supporting Technical Assistance. To achieve this comprehensive set of outcomes,
considerable preparatory work will be needed and the Government will require adequate
technical assistance. The Bank has already secured the initial seed TF resources to enable direct
preparation of activities to be supported under future PALs. Major bilateral and multilateral
donors have been involved in extending TA to Ukraine in many important areas supported under
PAL such as: privatization, land titling, development of an improved business environment,
fiscal decentralization, public administration and civil service reform, pension and social
assistance reform, environmental protection, and so forth. In addition, the Bank will coordinate
with the donors to identify potential new sources of funding as well as to refocus existing
resources towards critical areas with maximum reform impact.
120. PAL and coordination within Government Since the PAL focus cuts across different
sectors, considerable internal government coordination in Ukraine is needed for its effectiveness.
This has already been one of the benefits of PAL preparation, by helping build the policy design
and implementation capacity of the PM and the Cabinet of Ministers. Valuable lessons are
expected to help improve the institutional design in the fiscal, social, and energy sectors.
121. Responsibility for PAL preparation and processing within government is with the First
Vice Prime Minister, supported by the Deputy Minister of Economy, a coordinating group, and



- 35 -
five inter-ministerial working groups headed by deputy ministers. These groups have worked
actively on the implementation of the Government Program in five thematic areas supported
under PAL, as well as prepared inputs for PAL preparation and the necessary materials for the
Cabinet of Ministers consideration. The working groups will continue preparing the internal
action plans to achieve the stated benchmarks, monitor and document progress made thus far,
and prepare fuirther steps for the subsequent operations in the PAL series.
B.   Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
122.  As discussed above, the first tranche of the proposed PAL I rewards the accomplishment
of specific results in the five thematic areas comprising the Government Program. The first
tranche benchmarks under PAL I represent substantial and concrete accomplishments of the
Government Program that substantially improve the rules of the game (institutions) and promote
better public and private sector governance. These are:
Theme A: Fiscal and Financial Discipline
Benchmark 1A.1: Elimination of budget offsets
* Non-transparent budget offsets have been eliminated in budget 2001.
Non-transparent budget offsets based on non-registered veksels have been disallowed in
mid-2000 (Cabinet of Ministers Order # 934 of June 7, 2000) and completely eliminated in
the budget 2001 (Budget 2001 Law approved by V Rada on December 7, 2000 and signed
by the President on December 27, 2000).
Benchmark IA.2: Reduced budget arrears through:
- Elimination ofpension arrears in September 2000 and staying current ever since;
* Reduction of wage and social protection arrears by at least 27 percent from the January 1,
2000 level; and
* Reduction or containment of all other budget arrears at the level of January 1, 2000.
By mid-September 2000 the Government had completely eliminated pension arrears that
stood at 1.3 billion UAH at the beginning of the year. It has remained current ever since.
During 2000, the wage arrears payable from the budget have been reduced by about 60
percent to less than 470 million UAH, while social protection arrears have been reduced
by 26 percent and stood at about 700 million UAH at the end of the first quarter 2001.
During 2000 and the first two months of 2001, the outstanding amount of energy arrears
from the budget has been reduced by 4.2 billion UAH or almost 75 percent.
Benchmark 1A.3: Reduction of electricity and gas payment arrears
*  Debt of six Oblenergos (currently being privatized) to wholesale electricity market has been
restructured;
*  Oblenergos were given legal right to disconnect all non-paying electricity custo,mers;
* 23,000 delinquent electricity customers (out of more than 33,000 debtors) have been
disconnected;
* Cash collections by the wholesale electricity market from Oblenergos increased to at least
50% of current charges (measured over the last six months ending in March 2001);



- 36 -
* Cash payments for gas sold by Naftogas increased to at least 50% for other customers
(measured over the last six months ending in March 2001).
Large electricity debtors have been identified and the debt of six Oblenergos has already
been restructured. Fosteringfinancial discipline in the sector, Oblenergos have exercised
their legal right to disconnect 23, 000 delinquent customers out of 33, 000 debtors. Finally,
during the past six months, cash collections for electricity and gas have exceeded the
agreed 50% target.
Theme B: Regulatora Framework
Benchmark 1A. 4: Improvements in the business environment achieved
* Easier business entry secured through 1-stop shop new business registration;
* Simplified licensing system based on single-license streamlined application procedure has
been put in place;
*  Reduced number of inspections byfurther 20percent w.r.t. 1999 leveL
Improved effectiveness from better business environment has been demonstrated through
ongoing annual surveys of newly-registered businesses conducted by the USAID and IFC.
Surveys indicate: (a) one-stop registration has been in place rendering shorter registration
time (down from 35 days in 1997 to expected 5 days in mid-2000) and lower registration
cost (down from US $192 in 1997 to US $67 in 1999); (b) significantly reduced number of
business licenses needed (down from 3 to 1.6) as well as reduced time and cost of
obtaining them; and (c) reduced number of business inspections conducted by government
bodies (down from 30 in 1998 to 15.7 in 1999 and 9.6 in mid-2000).
Theme C: Propertv Rights
Benchmark lA.5: Transformation of the ownership/organizational structure in agriculture
*  Presidential decree on reforming the agricultural sector was implemented;
* Land certificates were issued to 6.5 million eligible individuals, on the basis of which 1.3
million land title deeds were issued; and
*  Government monopoly in the procurement of agricultural inputs and purchase of
agricultural output has been substantially reduced (to one tenth ofpre-reform levels).
The decree discontinued Kolkhozes, as a dominant form of organizing agricultural
production based on state ownership of land. Land certificates gave to more than 6.5
million former Kolkhoz members ownership rights to a land plot share averaging 4.2
hectares of arable land. Following the issuance of land certificates, close to 1.3 million
land title deeds to specific plots of land have already been assigned and registered. In the
year 2000, state monopoly in the procurement of agricultural inputs and the purchase of
agricultural output has been further reduced and now stands at less than one-tenth of pre
reform levels.
Benchmark IA. 6: Progress in transparentprivatization of industrial and energy enterprises



- 37 -
*  Competitive tenders for transparent privatization of 83 industrial enterprises were issued
during year 2000;
* Transparent sales of controlling blocks of shares for at least 8 industrial enterprises
(excluding energy companies) have been completed in accordance with transparency
criteria approved by the Privatization Advisory Group (PAG);
*  Transparent sale of 6 Oblenergos to strategic investors (using international advisors) have
been completed; and
* A contract with a reputable auditor has been signed to carry out phase IH of the three-year
program to audit Naftogas following international standards.
During the year 2000, progress has been made in initiating privatizations of large- scale
enterprises, launching and completing privatization of the next batch of six Oblenergos,
and in identifying a pool of large state-owned enterprises to be privatized in the next three
years.  An independent privatization advisory group found that nine large-scale
privatizations have been completed following fully transparent procedures.   The
privatization of six Oblenergos has been completed and the Government is committed to
continue the process upon analyzing past experience. Finally, the terms of rejrerence for
the proposed phased II audit of the Naftogas comply with international standards.
Benchmark 1A. 7: Telecom privatization progressing
* The telecom privatization law has been passed allowing a strategic investor (SI) to:
* Acquire a minimum of25percent+1 shares through a competitive process; and
a Gain operating control of the telecom (i e. 50 percent+1 of shares) by receiving for
management an additional block of shares owned by the state
* A competitive tender to hire an advisor for the privatization of Ukrtelecom has been issued.
Benchmark IA. 8: Progress in resolving Bank Ukraina problem
* Withdrawal of the Banking license for Bank Ukraina and appointment of a liquidator.
Government's decision to implement the Resohution Plan for Bank Ukraina is being
implemented as agreed. The Banking license has been removed and formal foreclosure
procedures have been started through an appointment of a liquidator.
Theme D: Public Sector Eff iciency and Accountability
Benchmark 1A. 9: Improved budget transparency
The discretionary determination of intergovernmentalfiscal transfers was replaced with a
formula-based system applied to oblasts and, indirectly, to lower levels of government in
the 2001 Budget
The formula-based calculation of transfers has been included in the Law on 2001 Budget
(Article 50) specifying both the transfers from the state budget to Oblasts, and the
methodology for calculating further transfers to lower levels of government.  This
methodology, developed by the Cabinet of Ministers, has been adopted by Oblast and



- 38 -
Republic of Crimea legislatures and the implementation is being monitored by the Ministry
of Finance.
Benchmark IA. IO: Reformedpublic administration -Improved Cabinet's decision-making
The decision making process of the Cabinet of Ministers (CoM) has been improved through:
*  Creation of a smaller and more efficient Cabinet with less than 20 members representing a
reduced number of central Government bodies (from over 80 to 50 including 16
ministries);
*  Establishment of specialized Cabinet Committees; and
* Improved functioning of the CoM Secretariat and adaptation of its structure to meet
Cabinet needs.
The reduction in the number of central bodies of executive power and in the size of the
Cabinet has already been achieved. The new Cabinet Committees have been formed and
are effectively contributing to an improved decision-making process in the Cabinet. The
Secretariat is now going through the second stage of reorganization and reform to align its
structure andfunctions with the evolving needs of the new Cabinet and its Committees.
Benchmark IA.I1: Elimination of tax exemptions
-  Tax exemptions granted through CoM decisions/orders have been revoked
The tax and customs exemptions granted through Cabinet orders have been revoked early
in 2000. The Government has documented the,fiscal and economic impact of this measure.
Further extension of this measure to exemptions granted by law has been proposed under
the new Tax Code already submittedfor Parliament 's consideration.
Theme E: Social and Environmental Risk Management
Benchmark IA. 12: Institutional and technicalframework for pension system reform
Personification system has been introduced;
A unified system of personal pension accounts has been introduced enabling detailed
recording of lifetime contributions as a basisforfuture pension/benefits determination and
an anchor of two mandatory pension pillars. This was complemented by a transfer of the
pension determination function from the Social Protection units to the Pension Fund, and
the creation of a unified social insurance database enabling an efficient reform of the
social insurance system.
Benchmark IA. 13 Improved social assistance
* Unified targeting methodology has been prepared and used in all means-tested programs;
* The creation of 750 territorial social care centers has been completed and out-reach
services expanded to additional 10, 000 elderly and disabled persons.



- 39 -
Progress has been made in consolidating social benefits and the social assistance
administration. New unified targeting methodology has been approved and is already
being used in all means-tested programs. The network of territorial centers has been
extended to all rayons in the country and out-reach services have been expanded to include
additional 10, 000 old and disabled persons.
Benchmark IA. 14 Improved health and education
* Improved control of public health risks achieved through pilots started in Donetsk Oblast
and Kiev to test the TB DOTS method adapted to national conditions;
* Primary health care improved through new family medicine centers and introduction of
new university specialization in family medicine;
*  Health resource allocation pilot has been started in Lviv;
*  Improved methods of education management andfinance have been piloted in Lviv; and
* A nationalprogram of 12-year compulsory education has been adopted;
While working on the design of a medium-term institutional strategy to improve health and
education systems in Ukraine, the Government has achieved a number of' tangible
outcomes listed above.  These achievements will facilitate the detailed design and
implementation of more ambitious strategies to be supported under later PALs and, specific
sector operations.
Benchmark IA.15 Special privileges reviewed
* The auxiliary social protection extended through special privileges has been analyzed and
evaluated,
* Professional privileges not justified on poverty and equity grounds have been discontinued
For the second year in a row, the Government has used its prerogatives in preparing the
budget to scale-down and effectively eliminate a number of special privileges (especially
professional privileges) that are not justified on poverty and equity grounds.
C.   Actions Taken Prior to the Second Tranche
123.  The second tranche under the proposed PAL I operation seeks to establish a credible
track record of the new Government regarding: (a) ownership of medium-term institutional and
structural reforms; (b) maintenance of reform and policy results already achieved; and (c)
progress towards reaching the results foreseen for PAL 2 and 3. Following the same thematic
breakdown the conditions for the release of the second tranche are:
Theme A: Fiscal and Financial Discipline
Benchmark 1B. 1: Elimination of budget offsets
* Disallow budget offsets in budget 2002.
Benchmark IB.2: Reduction of budget arrears
* Stay current on pension payments;



- 40 -
* Further reduce budget arrears on wages by 50% and on energy payments by 75%; and
* Prevent an increase in other budget arrears compared to July 1, 2001 levels.
Benchmark IB.3: Reduction of electricity and gas payment arrears
*  Quantify domestic debt to Naftogas and prepare a restructuring plan;
*  Increase cash collections by the wholesale electricity market from Oblenergos to at least
60% of current charges (measured over the last six months ending in November 2001);
* Increase cash payments for gas sold by Naftogas to at least 60% (measured over the last
six months ending in November 2001).
Theme B: Regulatory Framework
Benchmark IB. 4: Maintain the business environment through
* 1-stop shop new business registration;
* Simplified licensing system based on single-license streamlined application procedure;
* Same number of inspections.
Theme C. Property Rigihts
Benchmark lB. 5: Continue reforms agriculture by
* By issuing 1.3 million land titles to specific plots of land;
Benchmark lB. 6: Maintain progress in transparent privatizations
*  Complete a Privatization Advisory Group (PAG) transparency review of privatizations
done during the first three quarters of 2001;
* Submit to Parliament a list of enterprises to be privatized in year 2002 consistent with the
budget deficitfinancing needs;
*  Resume the process of privatizing Oblenergos to strategic investors through transparent
sales.
Theme D: Public Sector Efficiency and Accountability
Benchmark lB. 7: Improved budget transparency
* Evaluate the implementation of formula-based intergovernmental fiscal transfers during
the first nine months of 2001;
* Continue to use a formula based system in determining intergovernmentalfiscal transfers
to oblasts and lower levels of government in the 2002 Budget;
Benchmark lB. 8: Improved use ofpublic resources
* Achieve satisfactory progress in implementing the single Treasury account;
* Discuss CFAA report and adopt an action plan on improved financial management of
public monies (September 2001); achieve satisfactory progress in its implementation in the
last quarter of 2001.
Benchmark JB. 9: Elimination of tax exemptions



- 41 -
Refrain from granting any tax exemptions through CoMdecisions/orders;
Theme E: Social and Environmental Risk Management
Benchmark 1B 10: Institutional and technicalframeworkfor pension system reform
* Transfer pension determination function to the Pension Fund; and
* Create a unified social insurance database
Benchmark 1BI11 Improved health and education
* Approve a health sector reform strategy;
* Approve an education sector reform strategy;
Benchmark XB. 12 Special privileges reviewed
* Disallow professional privileges not justified on poverty or equity grounds in 2002 Budget
D.   Loan Administration
124. Borrower and Loan Amount. The proposed PAL I of US$ 250,000,000 will be made to
Ukraine, represented by the Ministry of Finance. The loan, which will be a two tranche variable
spread loan (VSL) with a 20-year maturity, including a five-year grace period, at t'he Bank's
standard terms.
125. Disbursement. Upon approval of the loan and notification by the Bank of Loan
effectiveness, the Government will submit a withdrawal application. The Ministry of Finance
will open and maintain a Deposit Account in the National Bank of Ukraine. The 'BRD will
deposit the proceeds of tranche one into this Deposit Account at the request of the Ministry of
Finance. Prior to that, the Bank will withdraw from the Loan Account a front-end fee amounting
to 1% of the loan amount or US$ 2,500,000. The remaining funds amounting to US$
100,000,000 would be released to the Borrower upon fulfillment of second tranche conditions.
If, after deposit in this NBU account, the proceeds of the Loan are used for ineligible purposes
(for example, to finance items imported from non-member countries or goods or services on the
IBRD standard negative list), the IBRD will require the borrower to either: (i) return that amount
to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (ii) refund the amount directly to the IBRD, in
which case the IBRD will cancel an equivalent un-disbursed amount of the loan.
126. Accounts, Auditing and Closing date. The Government will maintain accounts and
records, or ensure that such items are maintained, showing that loan disbursements were in
accordance with provision of the Loan Agreement.  Such accounts and records will be
maintained in a form acceptable to the Bank. As required by the CAS (para. 106), the
Government and the Bank have agreed on a tracking mechanism that would provide the
Ukrainian authorities and the Bank with a greater degree of assurance and transparency of the
proper use of Bank adjustment funds. The MOF will arrange for an external audit of the Deposit
Account in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank and by auditors acceptable
to the Bank. The audit of the Deposit Account will be done either separately or in conjunction
with the quarterly audits of the NBU already conducted under the IMF surveillance program,
based on appropriate amendments in the terms of reference for the audit acceptable to the Bank.



- 42 -
The MOF and the NBU will make the report on the audit of such records available to the Bank.
The closing date of the loan will be June 30, 2002.
127. Environmental Impact The PAL will have no direct impact on the environment. For
the purpose of Operational Directives 4.01, it has been placed in Category C, which does not
require an environmental assessment.
E.    Benefits and Risks
Benefits
128.  In addition to specific reform results detailed above (Section IV. B Actions taken prior to
Board presentation), the main benefits already achieved under PAL are:
* Markedly better policy coordination within the Government demonstrated through effective
work of cross-ministerial thematic groups focused on critical reform areas;
*  Broader pro-reform constituency in the Government and Parliament and wider participation
of civil society in the design and implementation of reforms showing a growing public
perception in Ukraine that a partnership between the Government and civil society is both
feasible and effective;
*  Improved financial and fiscal discipline which helped shatter the notion that the Ukraine
economy was doomed to rely on non-transparent payment practices (barter and offset
operations) and have a weak banking sector;
*  Easier entry and better business environment for SMEs and new FDI, and better protection of
property rights;
*  More transparent fiscal (including intergovernmental) relations adopted for the budget 2001
based on rules (formula) and a significantly streamlined public administration; and
*  Better management of social and environmental risks including better delivery of social
services and improved protection of the poor.
129.  In addition, achievement of outcomes listed under section IV.C above would confirm the
continuity of the reform process, sustain the results already achieved and augur a successful
implementation of the reform results envisaged for later operations in the PAL series.,
Risks
130.  The benchmarks associated with the first tranche for PAL I have been met, with one
exception, well in advance prior of Board presentation. The reform results achieved so far have
helped strengthen the pro-reform constituencies among broad sectors of the population including
pensioners, new land owners, wage earners, SME owners and employees, etc. Furthermore,
President Kuchma and the new Prime Minister Kinakh have made strong and detailed public
commitments to preserve reform results and sustain the path of reforms. This commitment,
combined with widely shared ownership of reform results amongst important political



- 43 -
constituencies, lowers the risks of failing the condition for the release of the second tranche
related to possible reversals in improved financial and fiscal discipline, better business
environment and enhanced protection of ownership rights.
131.  Under the present political circumstances, the main risk for future PAL operations faced
by Ukraine is related to political, institutional and policy sustainability of the present reform
drive in the short- and medium run and the ability of the country to accomplish an institutional
paradigm shift. Although the new Government's resolve to proceed with reforms and widen the
pro-reform support will be of major importance in this regard, the contribution of IFIs (both
technical and financial) in developing and advancing the reform agenda during this critical stage
should not be underestimated. An overly cautious behavior on the part of the Bank would likely
contribute to precipitate a financial crisis (through the consequences of withdrawal of budget
support) and would deal another blow to reformist tendencies in the government and beyond,
which would see themselves left without external support despite their objective achievements
and shared goals. Admittedly, Ukraine will continue to face a difficult political situation in the
years ahead, as was stressed in the 2000 CAS document. The presence of a viable reform
strategy supported by the Bank and other IFIs will have a critical role to play during that time to
mobilize the pro-reform stakeholder inside and outside the country to preserve widely-supported
reform results achieved thus far and to advance the reform agenda that enjoys broad public
support.
132.  In this context, the approval of the first PAL operation should be understood both as a
recognition of the results achieved thus far and as a provision of the necessary financial and
institutional support to ensure a sustainable macroeconomic environment necessary to maintain
the reform drive. Continued Bank engagement would also help enhance Government's reform
capacity through policy advice, technical assistance and, most importantly, a broad dialogue with
Parliament and civil society.
133.  In an adverse scenario in which the political difficulties stall further progress and lead to
reversals of past institutional reforms and deteriorating economic performance, the built-in
safeguards would be triggered and the country program would return to the low case scenario. In
that scenario no further PAL resources would be available, and all complementary operations
would be cancelled. It is expected, though, that the probability of an adverse scenario will
continue to diminish over time as economic growth takes hold, macroeconomic environment
remains stable, external position improves, and the country completes the institutional
framework of a modern market economy.
F.    Arrangements for Implementation and Monitoring
134. Implementation and monitoring arrangements. To facilitate the implementation of the
Government medium-term program supported by the PAL three-year program, the Government
will retain the inter-ministerial Coordinating Team. The Coordinating team will continue to be
led by the First Vice-Prime Minister. In addition to monitoring the implementation of reforms
covered under the first PAL operation, the Coordinating team will also engage in the design and
development of detailed implementation plans for future policy and institutional reforms
envisaged under the Government Program supported by subsequent PAL operations. In its work,
the Coordinating team will rely on the continuous operation of the five thematic working groups



44
established in mid-2000 during the preparation of the first PAL and on the results of specific TA
provided by the Bank and the donor community.
135.  Through regular quarterly reviews and in the context of preparation of subsequent PAL
operations, the Bank will monitor the general progress of the implementation of the Government
Program and, more specifically, the results achieved and sustained under the agreed benchmarks
for the first PAL operation.
136.  Supervision and subsequent PALs. The first PAL operation is based on specific results
on the ground already achieved during 2000 and early 2001 under the first set of benchmarks.
The benchmarks and expected outcomes for the later years are guideposts for monitor progress in
implementing the Government Program, rather than conditions for subsequent PALs or other
future lending. If reform progress is adequate, Ukraine's reform program could be supported
through subsequent two PAL operations envisaged under the three-year Programmatic
Adjustment Lending framework of the 2001-03 CAS, subject to the approval of the Board of
Executive Directors.  The size and timing of future PALs will be agreed between the
Government of Ukraine and the Bank as program implementation progresses.
V.  RECOMMENDATION
137.  I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the loan.
Jaines D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C.
August 23, 2001



Annex I
Page I of 3
Ukraine - Key Economic Indicators
Actual               Estimate             Projected
Indicator              1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic producta                 100     100      100     100      100     100      100     100      100
Agriculture                            14       14      14       13      12       12      12       12      12
Industry                               38       34      35       38      40       40      40       40      40
Services                               48       51      50       49      48       48      48       49      49
Total Consumption                        80      82       81      79       74      77       79      80       80
Gross domestic fixed investment          23      21       21      20       21      21       21      22       22
Government investment                   5        2       2        2       0        0       0        1       1
Private investment                     18       19      19       18      20       21      21      21       21
Exports (GNFS)b                          46      41       42      53       62      59      :57      58       58
Imports (GNFS)                           48      44       44      52       57      57       58      59       60
Gross domestic savings                   20       18      19      21       26      23       21      20       20
Gross national savingsc                  20      19       18      22       26      23       21      21       21
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                44558   50150   41883   30778   30874   34289   37103   39094   41191
(US$ million at current prices)
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)     1200    1150      970     840      790     740      730     790      850
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from previous year prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices    -10,0    -3.0    -1.9    -0.4  5.5    4.0      3.5     3.3     3.3
Gross domestic income                 -9.4    -3.4    -1.3    -2.3      7.0      4.0      3.5     3.3     3.3
Gross domestic investment            -25.7     0.3      0.4    -5.4      8.0     7.0      5.8     5.5      4.6
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from previous year prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  -9.3    -2.2    -1.5   0.2      6.5     4.8     4.3      4.1     4.1
Total consumption                     -6.8    -2.2    -2.3    -4.3       4.8     6.7      5.9     4.6      4.3
Private consumption                   -7.8    -2.5    -1.9    -0.7       6.3     6.8     7.0      4.8      4.4
Balance of Payments (US$ niillions)
Exports (GNFS)b                      20346   20355   17621   16234   19162   20244   21333   22577   23904
Merchandise FOB                    15547   15418   13699   12463   15250   16254   17263   18426   19670
Imports (GNFS)b                     21468   21891   18828   15237   17560   19542   21489   23123   24673
Merchandise FOB                    19843   19623   16283   12945   15162   16882   18573   20086   21499
Resource balance                     -1122   -1536   -1207      997    1601      702    -156    -546    -769
Net current transfers                  509     845      782     706      799     647      666     670      681
Currentaccountbalance                -1185   -1335   -1296      834    1572      611        2    -421    -611
Net private foreign direct investment  526     581      747     489      750     850      982    1031    1083
Long-term loans (net flow)d            283     803    1597    -277       -49     481       77     214      269
Other capital (net. incl. errors & ommissions)  1249  334   -2372    -763   -1288   -1153    -673    -334    -271
Change in reservese                   -873    -383    1324    -283    -986    -789    -388    -491    -470
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% ofGDP)              -2.5    -3.1    -2.9      3.2     5.2      2.0    -0.4    -1.4    -1.9
.Annual value growth rates (%/6)
Merchandise exports (FOB)              9.1    -0.8   -11.1    -9.0    22.4        6.6     6.2      6.7     6.7
Primary                              10.1    -1.6   -12.8    -7.8    23.8       6.8      6.4     6.9      7.0
Manufactures                          0.3    -3.3    -8.4   -17.2    13.2       5.1      5.0     5.1      5.1
Merchandiseimports(FOB)               17.1    -1.1   -17.0   -20.5    17.1    11.3    10.0         8.2     7.0



Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
Ukraine - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual               Estimate              Projected
Indicator               1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)'
Current revenues                       36.7    38.0    36.0    34.7    34.5    32.7    32.3    32.1    32.6
Current expenditures                   38.6    43.0    38.0    36.6    34.1    34.5    33.4    33.4    33.7
Current account surplus (+) or deficit(-)  -1.9    -5.0    -2.1    -2.0   0.4    -1.7    -1.I      -1.2    -1.2
Capital expenditure                     1.3      0.6     0.7      0.4     0.4      0.4      0.4     0.6      0.6
Privatization proceeds                  0.2     0.1      0.5      0.6     1.3      2.3      1.5     1.5      1.3
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                 11.5    13.4    14.9    17.0    17.5    17.8    17.9    18.0    18.0
Growth of M2()                         35.4    33.9    22.3    41.3    35.8    24.3    19.6    14.3    14.2
Privatesectorcreditgrowth/              9.1    29.8    62.0    41.0    85.9    65.4    73.8    61.2    60.8
total credit growth (%)
Price developments
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU; 1992-1)g   3.3     4.0      3.4      2.6     2.4      2.5     2.6      2.6      2.6
Consumer price index (%change)         39.7    10.1    20.0    19.2    23.6    19.0    15.4    10.0    10.0
GDP deflator (% change)                66.2    18.1    12.0    24.4    25.0    18.0    15.0    10.0    10.0
a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Net of rescheduled.
e. Includes use of IMF resources.
f Consolidated central govemment.
g. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex I
Page 3 of 3
Ukraine - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual                Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1996   1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Total debt outstanding and           9498   11096   12718   12588   10910   12817   13004   13342   13578
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (US$m)a            1276    1728    1875    -196    -579         547     187      338      236
Total debt service paid (TDS)        1257    1358    2017    2600    1847    1544    1680    1954    2326
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%/6)
TDO/XGSb                            45.6    52.8    69.9    75.2    56.7    63.1    60.6    58.8    56.5
TDO/GDP                             21.3    22.1    30.4    40.9    35.3    37.4    35.0    34.1    33.0
TDS/XGS                              6.0      6.5    11.1    15.5       9.6     7.6      7.3      8.6      9.7
Concessional/TDO                     2.3      1.9     2.1      2.3      2.6     2.1      1.9      1.6      1.4
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRDDS/publicDS                      2.8     4.9      4.5      4.8      9.7    15.1    19.2    17.4    16.2
Preferred creditor DS/public        10.0    14.5    20.5    39.6    71.7    68.5    50.4    45.2    47.5
DS (%)c
IBRD DS/XGS                          0.2      0.3     0.4      0.6      0.8     1.0      1.4      1.4      1.5
IBRD TDO (US$m)d                    859    1111    1599    2030    2114    2378    2672    2996    3051
Of which present value of            0        0       0       1 0      10      10       10       10       10
guarantees (US$m)
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)            1       1        1       2        2        2        2       3        3
IDA TDO (US$m)d                       0        0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0
IFC (US$m)
Loans                                 0        0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0
Equity and quasi-equity /c             1       1        6        6       8        8        8       8        8
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)                0        0        0       10      10       10       10      10       10
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IW, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



Annex 2a
Page I of I
Status of Bank Operations (Operations Portfolio)
Difference b/n
Last PSR          Original Amount in US$ Million       Expected
Supervision rating    OrgnlAon nU$Mlin& Actual
Disbursements
Board    PToj ID                                   Latest    Latest    IBRD      IUA Cacelled    Undisb      Orig. Frm Rev'd
Date FY                                            DO        PBaD A                     cIr me
1995     P038820   HYDROPOWER REHAB                S        S          114.0       0      14.2      30.7    44.39      2.93
1997     P044851   EXPORT DEVELOPMENT              S        S           70.0       0      0.0       25.3    19.51      0.00
1998     P044728   ODS PHASE-OUT (GEF)             S        S           23.2       0      0.0       10.8    11.77    -6.50
1998     P044832   KIEV DISTRICT HEAT.             S        S          200.0       0      0.0      191.2    82.86    24.85
1998     P049174   TREASURYSYSTEMS                 S        S           16.4       0      0.0       15.9    13.52      4.20
2000     P055739   KIEV PB ENERGY EFFIC            S         S          18.3       0       0.0      18.0    -0.02      0.00
2001     P055738   SEVASTOPOL HEAT SUPPLY          S         S          28.2       0       0.0      28.2     0.00      0.00
2001     P035786   LVIVWATERNWW                    S         S          24.3       0       0.0      24.3     0.00      0.00
TOTAL                                              494.4       0      14.2     344.4   172.03    25.48



Annex 2b
Page 1 of 1
Ukraine
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 7/30/01
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                                   Disbursed
FY Approvw Company  Loan       Equity     Quasi     Partic     Loan      Equity     Quasi     Partic
1998 Creditanstal      0       2.28          0         0          0      2.28          0         0
1996 FTJIB             0       5.00          0         0          0      5.00          0         0
2000 MBU                0       1.71         0         0          0       0.85         0          0
1994/96 Ukraine VC        0       3.29         0          0         0       2.94          0         0
Total Portfolio:         0      12.28          0         0          0      11.07         0         0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan      Equity     Quasi     Partic
1998 Creditanstal    5.00         0          0         0
1996 FUIB           10.00         0          0         0
2000 MBU             5.00         0          0         0
2001 Okean Ship     10.00         0          0         0
Total Pending Commitmei    30.00          0         0          0



Annex 3
Page I of I
Timetable of Key Processing Events
Notice of Invitation to Negotiate                              July 5, 2001
Formal Invitation to Borrower to Negotiate                     July 5, 2001
Negotiations (Kyiv)                                        July 23 - 27, 2001
Major Changes Memo to OC (if needed)                           July 27, 2001
Summary of Negotiations                                        July 27, 2001
Status of Negotiations Notice                                August 2, 2001
Final Board Package to CD (including form 2337)             August 20, 2001
Print Shop                                                  August 22, 2001
Release of PR to the Board (SECBO form 1767)                August 29, 2001
Memo on Board Attendance (SECBO)                         September 14, 2001
Memo on Questions from EDs                               September 18, 2001
Memo on Pre-Board Meeting                                September 18, 2001
Board                                                    September 20, 2001
Notice to Borrower on Board approval                     September 21, 2001
Notice Regarding Signing (SECBO)                         September 21, 2001
Notice to Borrower on Signing                            September 21, 2001
Effectiveness Authorizing Memo                           September 28, 2001
Notice to Borrower - Declaration of Effectiveness         September 28, 2001



Annex 4
Page I oiF 27
Letter of Development Policy
from the Ukrainian Government to the World Bank
August 10, 2001
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
The Government of Ukraine appreciates this opportunity of seeking World FBank
support for the implementation of its reform strategy based on the medium-term developrnent
vision of the President of Ukraine and detailed in the subsequent social and economic
development program of the Government. We are deeply convinced that the support and
cooperation of the World Bank is a powerful driving force for the acceleration of institutional
transformation needed by the Ukrainian economy. We, therefore, request you to suppont our
vision through a three year Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL). The Govermnent
Program of institutional and structural reform for the next three years is described further in
this letter.
Since independence in 1991, Ukraine has worked hard to develop the institutions of
an independent nation and to embark on a path of economic and social transition to a market
democracy. Early on, we achieved promising results in creating critical institutions of a
market economy. Particularly noteworthy are the initial successes in departing from a
centrally planned economy including: (a) mass privatization of SMEs and the beginning of
the case-by-case cash privatizations of large state enterprises; (b) price formation based on
market principles of competition, cost recovery and profitability; (c) the introduction of a
stable national currency backed by sound monetary policy; (d) the reversal of
hyperinflationary tendencies, followed by positive movements towards sustainable
macroeconomic stability; and (e) a tum around to positive economic growth in the year 2000-
2001.
Despite these significant achievements, there is still an urgent need to accelerate the
process of institutional and sectoral changes that will permit Ukraine to effectively pursue
policies aimed at achieving sustained economic growth and increased welfare of its people.
More specifically the key goals outlined in the medium-term Program are to:
* Further develop the human resource potential;
* Reduce poverty levels and an increase national welfare;
* Strengthen the international competitiveness of the Ukrainian economy by improving
the business environment, protect property rights and reduce the cost of doing
business in order to attract foreign investment and;
*  Continue to reform public administration, improve public sector transparency and
accountability;
* Protect human rights and freedoms; and
* Accelerate the integration of Ukraine into the world economy, including WTO
membership and future EU accession.
To achieve these objectives, the government will seek the participation of all
stakeholders by consulting with the civil society; broadening economic freedoms of citizens
and legal entities (thereby increasing scope for entrepreneurship); and fostering the economic
independence of the regions. The role of the civil society will be particularly important in



Annex 4
Page 2 of 27
achieving more efficient public sector governance and delivery of social services through
improved budget preparation, evaluation and oversight.
The Government and World Bank staff have worked together in developing the
components of the Government Program to be supported under the PAL series. The critical
steps to achieve mid-term objectives have been summarized in the attached Matrix of
Structural Policies and Benchmarks. The benchmarks are based on specific reform outcomes
in five thematic areas critical for institutional reforms and improved public and private sector
governance: financial discipline; regulatory framework; protection of property rights; fiscal
accountability; and social risk management and environmental protection Program
implementation during the year 2000 and the beginning of 2001 has already resulted in
specific reform outcomes summarized (under column labeled "Benchmarks for I't PAL) in
the Matrix, based on which we seek your support under the first PAL operation.
The content of benchmarks in subsequent two PAL operations reflects our current
understanding of the key reform outcomes to be reached in the coming two years. Although
the Government has included detailed benchmarks and intermediate policy inputs in the
Matrix to steer and gauge the work the Governments teams in specific ministries, it is our
understanding that the scope and content of these results are indicative and will be subject to
further refinement and discussions in the course of finalizing the documents to be considered
by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors for the subsequent PAL operations.
The implementation of the mid-term Government Program necessitates financial
support to cover temporary fiscal and foreign exchange gaps that arise before the full effect
of reforms takes hold. This assistance is requested under the PAL program. Moreover,
successful implementation of the Government Program will require: (i) careful planning of
functional and efficiency improvements in the core ministries; (ii) timely technical assistance
to help with the detailed design of the program and provide the necessary analytical and IT
support, staff training and institutional capacity building; and (iii) improved policy
coordination to assure adequate synergy between complementary reforms and participating
ministries and agencies. The Government stands ready to engage all resources at its disposal
to secure the achievement of these actions and counts on Bank's support in providing
continuous advice and coordinating donor assistance for the TA and capacity building
activities.



Anne-x 4
Page 3 of 27
1. REFORMING THE STATE AND BROADENING THE CONSENSUS FOR REFORM
To be able to implement reforms on a broad front this Government considers it
necessary to: First involve the broad civil society and make their voice count in the design
and implementation of reforms; Second, engage the legislature in a constructive dialogue and
support of critical reform steps; Third, adjust the structure and function of the administration
to the new role of the state in a market economy; and Fourth, balance the responsibilities and
resources at various levels of government and empower local governments. This will enhamce
the accountability and legitimacy of the state while at the same time increasing its ability to
successfully design and implement reforms.
1.1 DIALOG w1TH TEE CIvIL SOCiETY
This Government is committed to actively seek the participation of mnany
representatives of the civil society and their associations in the design and implementation of
its medium-term program. An open and continuous consultative process will have a central
role in enhancing the inputs of the civil society in the development, adoption and evaluation
of political, economic, and social decisions. At this stage, the priority areas for NGO and
civil society involvement would include local budget preparation and evaluation, monitoring
of the business environment, efficient provision of social assistance and other social services,
and feedback on key government functions such as tax administration and customs.
For instance, large-scale public discussions conducted in thirteen regions received
extensive media coverage and greatly helped in the preparation of the new Tax Code in line
with the expectations of small businesses and the broad public. It is expected that a fruitful
cooperation between the NGOs, the Parliament and the businesses will enhance the public
support for reforms and improve the quality of political decisions.
1.2 COOPERATION WITH VERHOVNA RADA OF UKRAINE
The Cabinet of Ministers is firmly commnitted to sustain a warranted political support
from Verkhovna Rada. An effective collaboration between the executive and the legislative
branch of the Government based on mutual trust and accountability is necessary for
continued implementation of economic reforms. Since June 2001 a permanent Consultative
council, comprising the heads of the Government, Parliament and Parliamentary factions
(groups), has been working on the issues of co-operation between the Cabinet of Ministers
and Verkhovna Rada. The early outcomes of the Council's work include recent approvals of
comprehensive legislation in the areas of budget and legal reforms. The Council has also
launched a set of measures to improve the quality of the preparation and passage of the most
important legislation needed to complete the institutional state building. The ongoing
collaboration between the Government and the Parliament is focused on the completion of
critical tasks to accelerate reforms and alleviate poverty, improve privatization procedures,
protect ownership rights, implement land reform, improve business environment, and
complete institutional capacity building for better social services delivery and an
establishment of an efficient pension system.
Proper implementation of existing legislation (such as the Law on the State Budget
2001, the recently adopted Budget Code, law on business licensing, law on social assistance
to low-income families etc.) is critical for the achievement of the Government's medium-
term development priorities and, thus, ranks quite high on the Cabinet's and Council's
agendas.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 27
The multi-year process of preparing and adopting comprehensive, systemic legal
codes (such as the Land Code, Comnmercial Code and Tax Code) is about to be completed in
Verhovna Rada this fall. In addition, a number of other systemic laws (on Telecom, on
corporatization of enterprises, on joint-stock companies, on mandatory state pension
insurance, on state program to enhance employment etc.) are being jointly refined by the
Government and Verkhovna Rada with an objective of:
advancing the privatization process and protection of ownership rights, such as the
law on the privatization of the telecom, the law defining the privatization program of
industrial enterprises for the next two to three years, and the new law on bankruptcy,
improving the process and fiscal accountability of the Government through the
passage of the budget 2001 law, a new procurement law, the law to secure payments
based on collaterals, and subsequently the Budget Code;
* improving the operating conditions for businesses, such as the new law on banks and
banking activity, and the law business licensing; and
- completing and/or improving the institutional framework for the delivery of social
services, including the introduction of 12-year standard education system, the law on
providing assistance to low income families, and several laws to improve the
operation of the labor market.
Parliament is currently considering a set of laws needed for the Government to
advance further the reform process. Among other initiatives, this legislative agenda includes:
- setting the basis for a modem property system in rural areas through the land code,
the law on land registration and related legislation needed to develop the commercial
operation in agriculture;
*  further improving the business environment by updating business registration
procedures and inspections;
  aligning existing legislation with agreed WTO accession timetable, including
legislation of intellectual property rights, trade regime, and equal treatment of foreign
and domestic business;
*  further enhancing public sector accountability by adopting a new tax code and
granting precise responsibilities and resources to lowers levels of government; and
* completing the regulatory framework by adopting a law on pension insurance, setting
up a telecom regulator, introducing rules for the provision of non-banking financial
services, and adopting a deposit insurance scheme for banks.
1.3. ENHANCING GOVERNMENT CAPACITY
The Government of Ukraine has embarked on an ambitious program of public
administration and civil service reform. The principal objective of the reform is the creation
of an efficient public administration operating within the rule of law, delivering high quality
services, respecting individual human rights and freedoms, improving accountability and
professionalism of civil servants, and securing a role for the civil society in the oversight and
control of the state bodies.



Arnex 4
Page 5 of 27
The following positive developments have already taken place in the area of public
administration reform:
 Streamlined and Improved Structutre of the Cabinet of Ministers: The number of
central bodies has been reduced from 89 to 50, and the size of the Cabinet went down
from over 50 members to 21; along with the creation of Govemment Committees and
the reform of the Secretariat of Cabinet of Ministers. This enabled better team work,
more efficient decision making and focus on strategic and key policy issues.
X Clear Delineation of Authority and Functions of Central Executive Bodies. A
number of regulations were adopted during the past year which clearly establish the
authority and functions of the central bodies of executive power. This is a necessary
step in improving the activities of state ministries and agencies and enhancing their
institutional capacity and accountability.
 Improved Government Decision-Making process. The implementation of new
Cabinet procedures and the creation of the Cabinet Committees helped improve the
decision making process, foster the policy side of Cabinet decisions and greatly
increase their transparency; new standards and procedures enhance responsibility of
ministries, contribute to improved quality of documents and minimize the tirne for
their preparation.
The objectives of the administrative reform are to improve effectiveness and
credibility of the Governrment through improved quality of economic reforms and policy
decisions, effective distribution of responsibilities along functional lines, improved
performance and accountability, introduction of a merit-based competitive civil service, and
rebuilding the human resource potential of the public sector. To achieve these objectives the
Government of Ukraine will take the following steps:
*  Comfplete the creation of an adequate legal framework  This includes measures
needed to pass the Law "On the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" and adoption of a
Law "On civil service".
* Implement the recently developed civil service reform strategy, which will introduce:
(a) a clear distinction between civil servant, political, and patronage positions; (b) an
improved job classification for civil servants; (c) competitive and merit-based
recruitment and promotion practices; (d) adequate work incentives for civil servants
as well as increased accountability for their performance; and (e) the development of
a more effective training system for civil servants.
* Introduce an integrated system offiscal management with clear responsibilities and
reporting lines for all fiscal bodies of power.
a Deepen functional reviews and initiate efficiency reviews for core ministries and
line agencies with the assistance of independent Ukrainian and international experts.
Create an in-house capacity to ensure continuity of the review process and to monitor
the implementation of the recommendations coming out of functional and efficiency
reviews.
X  Create an efficient system ofperformance based audits in the public sector aimed at
improving the allocation of resources and the quality services provided to the public.
* Introduce the position of state secretaries in ministries and the Secretariat of the
Cabinet of Ministers to assume a large portion of administrative responsibilities and,



Amnex 4
Page 6 of 27
thereby, strengthen the policy orientation and political nature of ministerial
appointments.
1.4. NEW COND1TIONS FOR REGIONAL DEvELoPMENT
The main objectives of the state regional policy are: to create conditions for dynamic and
balanced social and economic development of Ukraine and its regions, improve the standards
of living, secure equal access to state services and adherence to social standards guaranteed
by the state for all citizens irrespective of the dwelling place, as well as to enhance the
process of market transformation with respect to state executive bodies and local self-
government. The Government seeks to complement the reform of the central state apparatus
with parallel reforms at the lower levels of government.
This process will be guided by two principles: (i) the maintenance of a sound fiscal
stance of the consolidated government; and (ii) the provision of the necessary training and
capacity building needed to prevent failures that may frustrate the objectives of local
empowerment. As the process of local empowerment advances, the government will revise
the structure of agencies of the central government with offices at all sub-national levels to
avoid inconsistencies or duplications.
The reform of regional (oblast) and local governments will have three components:
*  Clear definition of inter-governmental fiscal relations, including revenue assignments;
*  Clear assignment of responsibilities (expenditures) and alignment of the structure and
function with those responsibilities; and
*  The observance of same standards of service and quality control at all levels of
government.
The inter-governmental reform will be based on the Budget Code recently passed in
Verkhovna Rada The Code clearly defines the competence of the central and local budgets
and streamlines intergovernmental fiscal relations. The formation of local budgets will be
decentralized and based on a formula determined intergovernmental transfers. A
methodology for the calculation of formula-based transfers has been developed by the
Cabinet of Ministers and is being used by regional Radas for calculating local budgets.
The reform of regional and local power bodies and the division of the authority
between them shall be carried out in line with the principles of the overall administrative
reform, tax and budget reforms.
In our view the concrete steps to be taken in the nearest future are:
*  Submission to Verkhovna Rada of draft laws on anendments to the Law on Local
Self-government and Local State Administrations designed by the Cabinet of
Ministers to demarcate the authority between executive power bodies and local self-
government bodies, as well as de-concentrate authority of the central bodies of
executive power.
* Institutional support for the new mechanisms of interrelations between the center and
regions.
In later years (2002-2003) it is planned to:



Annex 4
Page 7 of 27
*  Introduce a mechanism for competitive allocation of state investment grants in
regions;
* Strengthen approaches to regional development; and
* Introduce fiscal equalization mechanism in budgets of cities of oblast subordination,
rayons and towns to provide for the social standards guaranteed by the state.
2. POVERTY, SociAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
The Reform Program of the Government for the first time acknowledges the
emergence of social problems during the transition and puts the resolution of social issues at
the top of its agenda. The Government believes that best measure of the success of its
Reform Program would be the improved well-being of the most needy segments of the
population. The unprecedented decline of GDP and real incomes during 1991-1997,
combined with the collapse of fiscal and financial discipline and inability of the current
organizations to provide social services and social protection, have been the main causes of
the dramatic increase in poverty levels, deteriorating public health, and unabated pollution
problems. The Government has already taken steps to ameliorate part of the problem linked
to budget arrears by paying all pensions and most wages on time. Reported improvements in
financial discipline have already resulted in tangible welfare gains.  Furthermore, the
Government has initiated steps to reform the pension and the social insurance systemn, better
target social assistance, and thoroughly reform health and education. The quality of these
reform initiatives notwithstanding, the Government maintains that the solution to present
poverty, social and environmental problems is best found with robust economic growth based
on the creation of new jobs and increasing real incomes.
Under any prevailing circumstances, this Govemment remains firmly committed to
make every possible effort to mitigate social and environmental risks through sector policies
aimed at: (a) better use of available public resources; (b) mobilization of additional private
financing, and (c) when appropriate, involvement of civil society organizations and the
private sector to achieve the least-cost delivery of public goods.
The Government and the World Bank are currently preparing an empirically based
"Strategy for Poverty Reduction" to improve the understanding of the causes and correlates
of poverty in Ukraine.  The study seeks to provide a balanced and detailed set of
recommendations to develop the Government strategy in:
* Better targeting social assistance to reach the most vulnerable segments of the
population;
* Reforming pension, social protection, health and education systems; and
* Increasing real incomes of the poor through creation of job opportunities and
promoting productive employment.
2.1. SOCIAL PROTECTION OF VULNERABLE SEGMENTS OF THE POPULATION
The Government is seriously committed to provide assistance on a priority basis to
those segments of the population that are unable to earn sufficient cash income or otherwise
provide for their subsistence minimum (such as disabled persons, senior citizens, single
mothers, homeless children etc.). Quick and effective actions are needed to ensure that these



Annex 4
Page 8 of 27
priority objectives are achieved. Given the limited public resources available, short-term
actions will focus on better targeting of social assistance and integrating the delivery of social
programs under a single organizational setup.
The law on "Social Assistance to Low-Income Farnilies", which became effective on
January 1, 2001, provides the necessary legal basis for delivery of social protection to the
most vulnerable segments of population. To effectively target social assistance programs
under the framework of this law, the Government has developed a methodology based on
means-testing and property status of households. This methodology is already being used in
all means-tested programs and, over time, will be expanded to encompass the entire social
assistance. The impact of these programs is assured through enhanced supervision (carried
out by independent social assistance inspectors). Also, the organizational setup for the
delivery of social assistance programs will be strengthened by integrating funds for family
allowances and the office network for housing subsidies into the Social Protection
Departments.
Based on this practical implementation experience, the Government expects that by
the end of the three-year period a unified targeted social assistance system will be in place.
Substantial improvements were made in the network for delivering social care services. The
Government has already achieved full coverage through 750 territorial centers at rayon level.
The centers provide day care or out-reach services to an increasing number of poor and
vulnerable. However, it is not economically feasible to deliver social care services relying
exclusively on a permanent organizational set-up as is done today. The Government will,
thus, move gradually to a system of social orders and diversify provision of social care based
on contracting the private sector and the NGOs. Possible innovative mechanisms of
providing social services along these lines will be piloted under the Social Investment Fund
project, developed with the World Bank.
2.2. PENSION REFORM
The Government already addressed the most pressing pension issue by eliminating
payment arrears in September 2000 and staying current ever since. Pension benefits,
however, remain low in real terms due to a significant imbalance between contributions to the
system and claims that come due, further exacerbated by delayed transfer of paid contribution
to the pension fund accounts.
The main contributing factor to this imbalance is a high ratio of retirees to
contributors; arising from a low mandatory legal retirement age and an even lower de facto
retirement age caused by privileges granted on professional or disability grounds. To manage
the imbalance between claims and available resources, average pensions have been falling in
real terms. Efforts to protect minimal pensions have led to a decrease in the range between
the lowest and the highest pension benefits. In 2001 this process was reversed through a
series of Government decisions reintroducing a wider range in pensions.
This process has been further complicated by an imperfect system of calculating
pension benefits at retirement that was de-linked from historical contributions to the pension
fund. This gave incentives to powerful professional groups to push for proliferation of
unfounded claims.
To address these difficulties the strategy of the Government seeks to replace present
PAYG system with a three-pillar system, including a mandatory fully funded scheme and a



Annex 4
Page 9 of 27
voluntary non-state pension pillar. In implementing this approach the Government will move
gradually focusing first on the reform of the first pillar as it recognizes that the risks of
introducing a mandatory second pension pillars in the presence of weak governance, lack of
financial infrastructures and underdeveloped capital markets are high. The approach to
pension reform has therefore been to first reform the PAYG tax financed pension system
while carefully exploring the feasibility and technical soundness of alternative reform
options.
In doing that the Government will take into account the experience from pension
reform experience in other transition Central and Eastern European countries (including
FSU), applied to specific economic realities and demographic prospects as well as political
economy consideration of the pension reform in Ukraine.
The Government believes that the following actions envisaged to advance the reform
of the PAYG system deserve PAL support:
*  Introduction of individual pension accumulation accounts (personification system);
* Calculation of pension benefits on the basis of actual pension contributions paid. and
the years of service;
* An increase in the retirement age for both men and women;
* Review of past (especially inherited) pension benefits; and
* Better financial and cash management of pension fund resources (contributions).
The creation of an improved pension system infrastructure will facilitate the
introduction of the second pillar based on individual accounts. The actual timing for the
introduction of the second pillar will depend on the progress in reforming the first pillar and
achievement of: (a) a synchronized downsizing of the PAYG pillar; (b) sustained economic
growth and sound fiscal position; (c) creation of effective institutions and the necessary
regulatory framework for the operation and supervision of the second funded pillar; and (d)
the development of the financial sector infrastructure and of stable capital markets.
Regarding the third pillar, many voluntary pension insurance schemes already operate
without the support of an adequate legislative and regulatory framework that would protect
the contributors and control the risks posed to the stability of the financial system. The
Government has prepared a law to regulate non-state pension funds and, upon approval of the
law in Parliament, will move quickly to setup an operational regulator.
Lastly, given the investment made in the creation of individual accounts and
improving the organizational setup of the pension fund, the Government will merge other
related social protection offices with the pension fund network to lower overhead costs,
improve the efficiency of using public funds and upgrade financial management standardls.
2.3. HEALTH
Lack of public sector financing, inefficient health service delivery and the overall
decline of real incomes have led to a worsened health status of the population and a decline in
their standards of living. Today the country is faced with an insufficient drug/medicines
supply, poorly equipped medical institutions, and a lack of modem  technologies.
Nonetheless, improved governance is central to the solution of the health sector prolblems
today. It must bring together all stakeholders and develop means to effectively combine



Amnex 4
Page 10 of 27
public and private resources. The Government expects to involve all stakeholders in
developing a sector strategy that combines social and market mechanisms to bring about a
true transformation of the sector over the medium term.
The health sector strategy will seek to profit from relevant international experience
and will be based on lessons learned from selected pilots to be carried out throughout the
countiy. The strategy will focus on:
*  improving the allocation of resources, by targeting the most effective interventions,
fostering primary health care, moving the emphasis from curative to preventive
interventions, and expanding the "family doctor" concept;
*  defining core medical services that will be provided free by the state;
*  substantially raising the management efficiency of health delivery organizations (such as,
hospitals);
  modemizing training methods for health delivery personnel (including new university
curricula and training programs for "fanily doctors") and creating proper remuneration
and incentive schemes;
*  providing incentives to make transparent the private payments for health services and,
later, develop a new multi-channel funding system based on budget resources, charity
contributions, individual cost-sharing, and paid health care services.
The Government will continue to work closely with the Bank in the preparation and
implementation of the "TB/AIDS Control" project and of pilot projects that will be launched
to develop and test specific aspects of the health reform strategy.
2.4. EDUCATION
Ukraine has always placed high priority on the education of its population. Recently,
however, the need to adjust to the requirements of an emerging market economy have
increased the demand for educational services and training while at the same time the
available resources have be become scarcer. These developments have particularly strained
present educational system, making it necessary to rethink the structure of educational
institutions and their adequacy to revive human capital as a base of renewed economic
growth and an important safeguard against poverty. With this objective in mind, the
Government strongly supported the reform of the education system and is committed to
secure access to the new 12-year general education system for all citizens as a social benefit
provided by the state.
As a first step, this year, the Government already set the standards for the 12-year
education scheme and, starting in 2000, has begun to allocate more resources to education
system in the budget. Immediate action is required to eliminate payment arrears in the sector,
align expenditures with resource availability and to combine public and private efforts
towards achieving more efficient and effective educational institutions.
To remedy the situation in the education sector the Government will:
* take stock of wage payment arrears and devise a strategy to eliminate them by the end of
2001;
* implement the new law on General Secondary Education by:



Aninex 4
Page II of 27
)  preparing a gradual transition to the new  12-year education system through
completion of legal and regulatory framework and provision of the necessary
methodological support;
> assisting schools in rural areas through a comprehensive "Village school" program
providing them with computers, textbooks and teaching aids;
>  aligning the pedagogical training system with the requirements of the new secondary
education system and securing that overall size and regional capacity of the
educational system is dimensioned on the basis of realistic demographic projections;
> building or rehabilitating school capacity in line with projected needs-the building
rehabilitation program for 2001 will upgrade school facilities for 21.3 thousand
secondary school student, 500 pre-school and 240 vocational students;
>  introducing a competitive system for the preparation and selection of textbooks for
secondary and vocational schools;
Streamline and rationalize the higher education system to make it compatible with the
new expanded 12-year general secondary education system and with criterna of operating
in a market environment. To achieve this the Government will:
>  Reorganize higher educational establishments by: (a) merging small institutions and
institutions specializing in one field of knowledge on regional level; (b) attaching
technical secondary schools, vocational schools and independent colleges as structural
units of universities, academies, and institutes; or (c) creating broader scientific,
training and production complexes. The rationalized network of higher educational
establishments and the new structure and scope of training programs will aim to
correct large regional disparities in education level and academic achievement.
> Introduce a loan scheme (already started in 2000) to support students in both public
and private educational establishments. This new effort is expected to increase the
total number of students in all higher educational establishments by 2.8% in 2001/2
academic year compared to previous year.
>  Expand the size and scope for delivery of paid higher educational services to
ameliorate the impact of limited budget resources. Paid education services will also
be introduced in secondary education for additional and AP subjects, extracurricular
activity, and in-depth learning of foreign languages.
2.5. UNEwLOYMENT AND JOB CREAToN
The creation of productive employment hinges on the positive and steady growth of
the economy, supported by the institutional and governance reforms the Government has
been undertaking. There is no doubt that the success of the Government strategy will depend
its ability to create employment for all segments of the population and throughout the
country. The Government is aware, however, that there can be a significant mismatch
between the labor demand needs of the new economy and the inherited structure of labor
supply. As a result, a considerable number of Ukrainians need retraining or relocation from
one-company towns and other disadvantaged locations. Thus, it is necessary to complement
the macroeconomic efforts to generate and sustain economic growth with specific and
targeted interventions to facilitate needed adjustments to improve the efficiency of labor
markets.



Annex 4
Page 12 of 27
The Government is trying very hard to improve the situation on the labor market by:
(a) providing incentives for new employment based on labor-intensive investment that will
utilize highly skilled Ukrainian labor force; and (b) supporting self-employment, family
businesses, small and medium size businesses. Every new draft law and government decision
is being be scrutinized for its impact on employment. In addition, the Law on Employment is
being changed and amended to reflect the changes that occurred in the society and economy
during the past decade. The main emphasis of the changed law is to facilitate the operation of
an efficient labor market rather than guarantee employment safety or unemployment benefits,
which are covered in the Unemployment Insurance Law. The Government also finalized a
specialized law to assist enterprises in preparing and carrying out employee training and re-
training programs.
The Government is taking specific action, including Bank financed projects, to
combat unemployment problems in the coal mining regions and to boost job placement for
the employees of coal enterprises being liquidated.
2.6. ENVIRONMENT
Environmental problems in Ukraine arise mainly from the frail state of the national
economy, the limited public sector resources to address the most critical priorities and an
inadequate institutional setup incapable of dealing with environmental problems in the
context of a market economy. Thus, the limited resources available are often not deployed
effectively and there is an urgent need to develop a system of incentives and economic
instruments that will remove barriers to, and create opportunities for, environmentally
sustainable development in the country. The latter will require the Government to (a) develop
adequate enforcement structures, probably anchored at the regional level, to ensure payment
of the full cost of environmental damage by polluters, and (b) generate sufficient financial
revenues for environmental protection and conservation, including private capital flows.
To reach the above goals the following actions will be taken in the next three years:
* An Environmental Expenditure Review will assess the effectiveness of different
environmental expenditures and different sources and methods of environmental finance.
Its recommendations will specify mechanisms for improved environmental expenditure
and revenue policies, including the National Environmental Fund.
* The process of harmonization of national legislation on environmental protection with
that of the European Union will be continued.
* The national system of environment monitoring and management of natural resources
will be improved through pilot programs in selected enterprises to test environmental
monitoring and adoption of EU based permitting systems.
*  Public participation in decision making and access to true data on environmental issues
will be ensured.
*  The 5th Pan-European Conference of the national ministers of environment will be
organized and hosted in Kiev, in 2003.
* The economic and regulatory mechanisms will be strengthened through:
> Widening the basis of taxes collected for environment pollution;
> Improving the system of licenses and permnits in the environmental area;
> Protecting the real value of environmental fees through inflation indexation.



AnneX 4
Page 13 of 27
In 2001 we plan to take a number of actions towards developing and agreeing with
other interested ministries and agencies the ecological indicators of the state of enviromnent,
as well as, if the World Bank technical assistance is available, to start preparation of a project
to initiate carbon emission trading.
In the short term (by the end of 2001) the following actions will be undertaken:
0 A formula for the adjustment of pollution fees to account for inflation will be
prepared and submitted to the cabinet of Ministers for approval.
> A list of pollutants to be monitored under a pilot emissions reductions program vill be
drawn up and approved by order of the Minister of Environment and Natural
Resources .
> Criteria will be developed by Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources , in
consultation with interested Ministries, for selection of enterprises to participate in the
pilot program for the introduction of an integrated permitting system.
In the medium term the Government intends to:
>  Implement the new pollution fees
>  Adopt environmental legislation based on EU environmental principles
>  Implement the pilot scheme for integrated perrnitting and emissions reduction
>  Review and initiate changes in the system of environmental finance
3. ECONOMIC GROWTH
3. 1. CREATING A FAVORABLE MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONmENT FOR GROWTH
For the first time in the last ten years the economy grew at 5.8 percent in the year
2000 based on an 12.9 percent industrial output growth and a 9.8 percent increase in
agriculture. It is particularly encouraging that this strong growth performance was largely
based on very high output growth (exceeding 25 percent) in privatized industries producing
consumer goods for the domestic market. This is consistent with a 6.3 percent increase in
real household incomes recorded in the same period. Lower nominal and real interest rates
and increased bank loans to the real sector by 28.8 percent helped fuel the economic
recovery.
The active macroeconomic government policy, implementation of structural changes,
rationalized public finances, payment discipline improvement in energy sector, acceleration
of agricultural reforms have become the basis for positive changes.
The outcomes of national economy development in the current year indicate the
continuation of positive trends: real GDP index in January-June reached 109.1%. Industrial
production growth by 18.5% has remained the most important component of the overall GDP
growth. Further progress in agricultural sector reform, which has been initiated last year, has
become critical in further deepening of structural reforms. The executive power has
undertaken several measures of organizational nature in order to create appropriate economic
environment for operating and development of reformed agricultural entities, in particular for
their financial sanation and formation of civilized agricultural market. This accounted for
expected agricultural production growth by 5.8%.



Annex 4
Page 14 of 27
Real household incomes grew by 7.8% in January-May due to a 25% increases in
(some) salaries paid from the budget, tvo pension increases (on the 1st of February and on the
1st of April), and a reduction in the wage arrears from the budget (as of June 10, salary arrears
payable from the budget have decreased by 44.2%).
Government's discontinuation of budget offsets, strict adherence to financial
discipline on the expenditure side of the budget, and an increase in revenues based strong
economic activity all contributed to an improved fiscal stance. According to preliminary data,
during 2000 state budget revenues increased by 41.4 percent in real terms. This increase also
reflects a concurrent transfer from barter to cash payments (in 2000 non-cash revenues
constituted 10.2 percent of the total). For the first time since independence Ukraine had a
budget surplus as revenues (including privatization proceeds) exceeded outlays by 0.4% of
GDP. In January-May of 2001 the budget surplus constituted 1.6% of GDP due to continued
strong economic growth (estimated at 9.1 percent) based on larger than expected output
increases in the real sector of the economy. This allowed the Ministry of Finances to service
domestic and external public debt without resorting to large new domestic borrowing.
The solid public finances situation allowed the NBU to implement a balanced
emission policy. The main part of new money creation was directed to the exchange market
to mop-up excess foreign exchange supply and build-up reserves. The continued monetary
growth in 2000 and January-May 2001 contributed to increased volume of lending to the real
sector of economy and a reduction in interest rates. In 2000, the real volume of lending by
commercial banks increased by 42.2 percent in national currency (or 40.8 percent in foreign
currency). From the beginning of 2000 till June I" 2001, the volume of lending went up by
23.2 billion UAH comprising a 26.0 percent increases of lending in national currency and a
16.0 percent increase foreign currency loans. This year NBU has already reduced discount
rate three times (from 27% at the beginning of 2001, down to 19% on as of June 11, 2001),
which contributed to a reduction in commercial discount rates from 37.2% per annum
prevailing in December 2000 down to 32.0% in May 2001.
Balanced fiscal policy of the Government and monetary policy of NBU has helped:
*  Restrain the inflationary processes, that decelerated in the 2nd half of 2000 yielding an
overall yearly level of inflation of only 25.8% for the year 2000 and 5.3% in January-
June 2001. An increase in volume of goods helped maintain a near-equilibrium on
the market (with an occasional insignificant excess demand caused by seasonal
factors).
*  Maintain foreign currency market stability: In 2000 Hryvnya depreciated by only
4.18% in nominal terms, yielding a real appreciation of around 17.2%; During the
first five months of 2001, Hryvnya fell only 0.36% implying a 4.8% appreciation in
real terms.
To sustain the basis for continued economic growth, the Government will do
everything possible to better coordinate efforts in the design and implementation of fiscal,
public debt, foreign exchange and monetary policies. The Government will focus on the
impact of these policies on the medium- and long-term economic development, knowing that
a imbalance or lack of coordination may significantly reduce the resulting growth potential.



AmLex 4
Page 15 of 27
To avoid the pitfalls of a macroeconomic imbalance, the Government will adhere to a
balanced budget policy. Budget balance or surplus will be achieved through rationalization
of public expenditures, tax policy and tax administration reform.
The improved allocative efficiency of budget resources will be achieved through
pension reform, streamlining social protection expenditures, better targeting of social
assistance, and the proposed gradual transfer to mixed forms of financing education. and
health care. The legislative acts which regulate financially non-sustainable outlays will be
reviewed.
Simultaneously, the Government strives to ease the tax burden for enterprises and
households through tax reforms proposed in the new Tax Code. The reduction of tax rates
and number of taxes will bring about increase in business activities and budget revenles in
long-term period, although, as the majority of experts agree, budgetary revenues may
temporarily decrease in the short run.
Although the Government will make every effort to reduce and rationalize budget
outlays as much as possible, public expenditures will not be reduced sufficientiy in the short
run to offset the reduction in revenues caused by the tax reform. Therefore, there is a need to
secure external source of financing of the transitory fiscal imbalance until the revenue base is
expanded. With the support of the World Bank through the PAL program the Goveniment
will be able to fully adhere to the macroeconomic stability, which, in turn, will signify
internal and external stability of Hryvnya and secure of investments inflow to Ukraine.
Under such conditions, we forecast the increase of small business entities by 17% in
2001, in comparison to 2000, and such level of investments, that will result into the real GDP
growth by more than 6%.
3.2. FISCAL POLICY
The Government of Ukraine understands that a sound and strict fiscal policy is the
foundation of macroeconomic stability and a reliable base for the sustained provision of
social services. Efforts to reform pubLic finance are already produced significant results
including:
>  The elimination of budget offsets and any other transfers outside the budget;
>  Reduction of budget arrears including the elimnination of pension arrears and a
reduction in wage and other budget arrears;
>  Expansion of the Treasury service to cover both the General and Special Budgetary
Funds, as well as own funds of budgetary units and earmarked funds';
> Reduction in the external public debt by US $2 billion (of which about US$700
million in contingent liabilities / guarantees);
1 The Government is expanding financial mnanagement controls to cover all public resources coming from fiscal
instruments ( taxes and contributions), disposition of public assets and public borrowing. The country has
since 1999 drastically reduced the numnber of funds mnaintained outside the budget. The 2000 budget partly
reversed this process by formally excluding the unemnployment and accident insurance funds, in ad&ition to
pensions to allow their proper tri-partite management. However, the Government maintained the
requirement to observe financial management standards and to rely on treasury services in collecting
contributions and paying benefits.



Annex 4
Page 16 of 27
> Adoption of a balanced budget (following Ukrainian budget classification which
includes privatization proceeds as part of the budget revenues); and
> Progress in restructuring tax arrears.
The next step in the fiscal and budget reform will be to gradually reduce the
outstanding stock of budget arrears, increase fiscal transparency and eliminate hidden fiscal
liabilities through the implementation of the new Budget Code including the following
measures:
> Streamlining budget procedures and clearly defining responsibilities in comnmitting
resources and authorizing payments.
>  Suspending un-funded mandates extending special privileges not justified on equity
and poverty grounds until the supporting laws are formally rescinded;
>  Improving fiscal payments, cash management and budget reporting based on the full
implementation of the Single Treasury Account; and
>  Better management of domestic and foreign public debt, including very stringent rules
for extending state guarantees.
In the next two years, The Government is committed to continuously reduce budget arrears
by eliminating wage and social protection arrears for the second PAL operation and the entire
stock of arrears for the third PAL operation.
3.3. TAx POLICY
A timely adoption of a new Tax Code that will promote tax policy reform and
improve the tax administration is a priority of this Government. The objectives of the
coordinated tax reform effort promoted under the Code are to: (a) review and consolidate the
existing tax legislation; (b) remove any inconsistencies and contradictions in the many tax
laws existing today; (c) secure stability of tax legislation by preempting frequent and erratic
changes in the tax laws and the tax rates; (d) lower and distribute more evenly present
excessive tax burden; and (e) broaden the tax base by eliminating tax privileges and
exemptions, facilitating compliance, and improving enforcement to limit the size of the
shadow economy. In pursuing these reform objectives the Government will aim to strike a
balance between securing sufficient revenues to the budget, minimizing the compliance costs
to businesses and providing an adequate environment for investment and new business
activity, in particular regarding small and medium size enterprises.
The new Tax Code will allow harmonization of Ukraine tax environment with that
prevailing in the EU countries, and aim to secure equal taxation treatment for all tax payers
both domestic and foreign. In conjunction with the elimination of tax privileges this will
create level playing field for domestic and foreign and facilitate Ukraine's WTO accession
plans.
The Tax Code already presented for the consideration of the Verkhovna Rada at its
current session includes the following specific proposals to lower the tax burden:



Amnex 4
Page 17 of 27
> Reduce the number of taxes, contributions and other mandatory payments from '39 to
23, by discontinuing taxes and fees such for innovation fund, winegrowing, gardening
and hop growing;
>  Reduce the CIT rate from 30% to 25% and allow enterprises to retain depreciation
charges;
>  Lower the VAT rate from 20% to 17% and improve the payment of VAT rebates;
>  Encourage savings and capital accumulation by lowering tax on dividends from. 30%
to 15%;
> Lower the top bracket personal income tax rate from 40% to no more than 25%.
With renewed economic growth and improved tax administration practices, revenue
collection has increased allowing a balanced budget and stabilization of tax arrears. Still, the
Government is preparing a comprehensive strategy to reduce the stock of tax arrears
presently exceeding UAH 7.6 billion (not counting penalties, fees and financial charges).
Based on the December 2000 law on tax arrears, a methodology has been developed to
evaluate past due obligations to the budget on the basis of age and tax-payers ability to pay.
Tax payers can dispute these claims in the arbitrage courts. This plan is closed coordinated
with parallel efforts to improve the payment discipline and reduce arrears in the energy and
banking sector. Particular attention will be given to the treatment of tax arrears owned by
companies/banks undergoing bankruptcy procedures. The application of these methodologies
will avoid rewarding lack of fiscal discipline.
Over the next two years the Goverunent plans to gradually reduce the outstanding
stock of tax arrears to: 5 percent of GDP for the second PAL operation; and 1 percent cif GDP
for the last operation in the PAL series.
4. IMPROVED BusINEss ENVIRONMENT
To promote economic growth and employment creation, the Government seeks to
further improve the business environment, transfer productive resources to the private sector,
promote strategic partnerships with foreign investors, and improve conditions for cooperate
governance. It is expected that these measures will help unleash the business potential of the
nation, specially through the accelerated creation of small and medium enterprises and larger
flows of FDI. The strategy to improve the business environment focuses on : (a) the
regulatory framework for business operation; and (b) the protection of property rights.
First, the Government agenda to improve the regulatory framework includes:
* The conditions for business entry, licensing, and inspections;
* The governance framework for private business sector operation, including, amongst
other issues, accounting and audit standards, disclosure of information, and a level
playing field--conditions for FDI, national treatment and standardization;
* The establishment of independent regulatory bodies in infrastructure sectors such as
energy, telecom, financial services etc.
The second area deals with the protection of property rights through:
* Clear distinction between state and private ownership and changed balance in favor of
the private sector through further advances in large scale privatization; and



Annex 4
Page 18 of 27
Clear definition and enforcement of contracts, especially regarding bankruptcy
procedures.
To ensure policy consistency and avoid reversals, the Government intends to hold
regular consultation with representatives of the enterprise sector to review the impact of
existing and proposed legislation and complementary regulations.
4.1 REGULATORY FRAMEWORK: BusINEss ENTRY, LICENSING, AND INSPECTIONS.
The improvements in the business environment presuppose that a clear distinction is
made between the state and enterprise sector, be it public or private. These issues will be
addressed under Government's comprehensive program to increase fiscal transparency.
Over the past years the main impediments to be urgently removed in order to create a
competitive market environment and promote small and medium enterprises were:
> bureaucratic procedures affecting private sector operation;
> complicated new business registration, post-registration and licensing procedures;
and
> large number of lengthy inspection procedures directly interfering with the
operation of small businesses.
Ukraine has made significant progress in removing the obstacles to private sector
entry and development. These policy reforms have already produced effective results on the
ground, as evidenced by improved business entry indicators, independently surveyed by IFC
and USAID on an annual basis. Today, the country has a fully operating one-stop shop new
business registration procedure, with reasonably low cost and short duration (5 days).
Regarding simplfrication of business licensing, important progress has been made already by
unifying multiple permits on a single business license, thereby greatly reducing the number of
licenses and the time needed to obtain them. Equally, substantial progress has been achieved
in reducing the number of business inspections conducted by state agencies (i.e. including
tax inspections) to less than 10 per enterprise per year. This was achieved by combining
inspections of a similar type, merging inspections agencies, and streamlining inspection
procedures.
In the future, the Government will maintain the gains already made with the one-stop
registration approach and focus its attention on improving post-registration procedures.
Business licensing will continue to be simplified through the implementation of new
legislation introducing standard permits for all types of businesses and requiring additional
licenses only for selected types of specialized operations. Given that Ukraine has reduced the
number of licenses to 1.6 per business, further progress in this area can not be expected to
yield a dramatic reduction of that particular indicator, but rather to assure that the new
licensing rules are applied fairly and evenly across regions.
On inspections, the Verkhovna Rada is revising drafts of two important legislative
initiatives. The defines the roles and responsibilities of public official conducting business
inspections, while the second defines the legal rights and lawful interest of businesses in their
relation with the state. The adoption and proper implementation of these laws will help
streamline the operations of state inspection (and controlling) bodies, make their relations
with businesses more transparent and greatly help in improving the business environment in
Ukraine.



Annex 4
Page 19 of 27
To track the progress in this area the Government will continue to seek anonyrnous
feedback on the quality of the services rendered and conduct surveys on a regular semi-
annual basis. The large number and wide scope of NGOs and other civil society organizations
already existing in the countiy will provide the government with continuous feedback on the
quality of the business environment at the national and local levels. The governrment will
encourage local administrations to profit of this opportunity by setting up consultative groups
to help monitor the business environment throughout the country.
4.2 REGULATORY FRAMEWORK: IePROVING GOVERNANCE STANDARDS.
Ukraine has advanced in defining a legal and regulatory environment for the operation of
companies in line with best regional and world private sector governance practice. The initial
step in this process was the adoption of national accounting standards that are fully
compatible with the methodological recommendations of the Intemational Association of
Accountants and puts the country on a transition path to full observance of IAS in the
medium to long -run. The provisions thus far and the targets for the coming two years are
deemed to be ambitious, yet feasible, and most importantly will not be a deterrent to
companies interested investing in Ukraine. Particularly noteworthy is the fact that banks and
joint stock companies have established effective compliance with international accounting
standards, ahead of domestic legal requirements, giving extra-confidence to foreign investors
and paving the way for future advances.
Likewise, important advances have been made in creating an intuitional framework for
setting the accounting standards and observing compliance and, on the other hand,
establishing a professional association of accountants to upgrade skills of the profession,
protect their professional interests, and most importantly secure that ethical standards are
observed by the profession at large. Moreover, in the next two year the Government wi11 seek
to: (i) monitor effective compliance with information dissemination requirements on the
effective operation and financial statements of companies; (ii) protect minority shareholding
rights; (iii) continue exploring alternative ways of establishing an effective stock regisbry, that
both protects the rights of shareholders and facilitates transactions; and, (iv) align ccmpany
audit practices with prevailing accounting standards and operating practices of companies,
while clearly separating the roles and responsibilities of auditors and accountants.
4.3 REGULATORY AGENCIES
The Government will also introduce or improve the regulatory framework in
telecommunications, energy, non-banking financial services, and pensions. In energy and
communications, regulatory advances are needed as complement to privatization. Regarding
the energy sector, the Government has already prepared and presented for the consideration
by Parliament a law amending the existing regulatory system to enhance the autonomy of the
energy regulator (NERC), including financing. The specific characteristics of key regulatory
agencies are discussed in more detail in appropriate sections of this letter dealing with sector
issues.
4.4 PROTECTION OF PROPERTY RIGHTS: PRIVATIZATION
Privatization of state-owned assets in large enterprises remains high on the
government agenda to improve economic efficiency, revive production and economic growth.
Newly privatized enterprises have already contributed significantly to GDP growth in 2000
(particularly, in food, textiles, and other consumer goods). This enhances the credlibility of



Annex 4
Page 20 of 27
the privatization process and helps create an environment supportive of Government efforts
in the privatization area
After completing mass privatization and liberalizing new entry, approximately over
30 percent of productive assets in the country are already under private sector control. This
Government has initiated a new of privatization drive with the purpose of tilting the balance
in favor of a truly private sector driven market economy in Ukraine.
The enterprises that are included in the new privatization agenda 2001 are large
industrial concems as well as infrastructure companies in energy, telecom and so forth. The
Government is aware that given the size and strategic importance of these companies,
privatization in these sectors is not easy. Thus, the Government has supported case by case
privatization process using transparent procedures in preparing these companies for
privatization.  Transparent procedures, following best regional practices, are of utmost
importance as they will enhance the public trust in Government, limit the scope for
corruption, assure the integrity of the process and protect the rights of new owners. To
ensure the transparency of the privatization process, the Government has engaged, on a
competitive basis, both domestic and foreign advisors to assist in the identification of
potential investors and the sale of controlling packages of shares. In addition, a Privatization
Advisory Group (PAG) was formed comprising representatives of the Government, IFIs,
donors, and independent experts with a mandate to review completed privatizations against
an agreed set of transparency criteria. Out of eleven large privatizations completed since the
beginning of the year 2000, the PAG found nine to be in compliance with the transparency
criteria
Parliament has approved in 2000 a State Privatization Program for 2000-2002, which
clearly defines the main goals, priorities and methods of privatization as well as revenue
target. Although an effective and transparent privatization is more important than the revenue
target, the privatizations are expected to make an important contribution to the budget with
around US $ 1 billion in 2001 and possible US $1.5 billion in 2002. The Government has
already compiled a tentative list of 200 large and medium size enterprises that will be
privatized in the year 2001, and advanced sale of controlling share packages earlier owned by
state in companies with strategic importance is to take place.
The Law on the Privatization of UkrTelecom enables the sale of at least 35% share to
a strategic investor. In addition, to secure management control over Ukrtelecom, the strategic
investor will entitled to acquire management control over additional shares held by the State
needed to reach the 50%+1 threshold. An independent advisor will be hired to facilitate the
privatization sale to a strategic investor. Additionally, the Government will undertake steps to
secure an adequate regulatory environment for the telecom sector necessary for the
privatization to yield beneficial effects for the sector and the economy.
In the energy sector, a reputable international advisor with prior experience in
Ukraine ("Credit Suisse First Boston" CSFB) has been selected for the preparation and sale
of first batch of six oblenergos. The first six oblenergos have been sold with participation of
CSFB as an advisor. The same advisor has been selected for the preparation and sale of the
next 12 oblenergos. After this process of the sale of the remaining 12 oblenergos is
completed, the Government plans to start privatizing power generating companies.



Annex 4
Page 21 of 27
4.5 PROTECTION OF PROPERTY RIGHTS: BANKRUPTCY
The Government places particular importance to improving the culture of contract
compliance in the economy. As noted elsewhere, it seeks to initiate the process by first
elimninating its budgetary arrears followed by the clearance of past due payments in the
energy sector. This would serve as an example for the rest of the economy, including the
financial sector. An important element of the discipline will be an effective implementation
of workout procedures among different contracting parties, including bankruptcy procedures.
The lack of expedient and transparent bankruptcy procedures has stifled the beneficial
effects of advances reached in liberalizing entry and simplifying business operation in
Ukraine. The Govemment realizes that clear and transparent bankruptcy procedures fully
shared by businesses and creditors are vital to secure legal exit of insolvent enterprises and
achieve a true restructuring of the economy. Successful introduction of such procedures in an
environment burdened by accumulated inter-enterprise debts and insolvent enterprises
(accounting for a significant share of assets and value added in the economy) makes it
difficult to define and implement a consistent framework for addressing bankruptcy issues.
Moreover, the effective implementation of bankruptcy procedures requires significant
institutional reforms and a build-up of the judicial capacity to successfully carry out these
processes in an expedient, transparent and fair manner.
Thus far, Parliament has approved both the general law regulating bankruptcy
procedures for all economic entities and a special law pertaining to banks and other financial
institutions. To enable efficient implementation of these laws the Government has developed
detailed bankruptcy procedures regulating the operation, asset protection, and the critical
decisions that need to be taken during a lengthy bankruptcy process. The Government has
created a self-financed bankruptcy agency under the Ministry of Economy to oversee and
facilitate the bankruptcy procedures. To expedite implementation and ensure that a proper
assessment of liquidity and solvency the Ministry of Economy - bankruptcy agency has:
m  mandated the appointment of a qualified independent managers for each step of the
bankruptcy process;
* instituted a licensing procedure for independent bankruptcy managers and other
experts based on qualifications and reputation;
*  taken stock of large state-owned companies in distress according to their tax and other
debts to the budget; and
*  started the implementation of a unified data base of enterprises in distress currently
undergoing bankruptcy procedures.
Completing this institutional framework will require considerable training of staff and
capacity building, including certification of up to 1000 arbitration managers (such as property
managers, sanation administrators, and liquidators). The performance of the new banlruptcy
system will be put to a real test by initiating bankruptcy proceedings for at least 5 enterprises
out of 50 largest tax debtors.



Annex 4
Page 22 of 27
5. SUPPORT OF STRUCTURAL REFORMS IN STRATEGIC SECTORS
To assure the success of the reform effort, the Government has decided to great
emphasis on selected critical sectors of the economy, such as (i) energy, where resources are
used presently very inefficiency, with high costs to the nation ; (ii) agriculture, where
resources are being greatly underutilized and production has fallen far below the country's
potential; (iii) telecom to create the basis to activating Ukraine's vast human capital potential
in modem services by joining the global economy; and (iv) financial sector to ensure proper
intermediation between savings and investment.
5.1 FINANCIAL SECTOR
The performance of Ukraine's financial sector remains inadequate relative to the
needs of this potentially large economy. The ratio of bank deposits to GDP is amongst the
lowest in the FSU (around 12%) notwithstanding a small improvement during the past year.
The ratio of cash to bank deposits remains exceptionally high (around 90%) reflecting
ongoing public distrust of the banks and the high levels of barter and other non-traditional
payment methods, now being gradually phased out. Weak operating performance of
commercial banks- including high operating costs and inadequate technical capacities -
partly explain the shortcomings of the banking sector. Another important factor constraining
the performance of the banking sector come from the exceptionally unfavorable operating
enviromnent, including a preponderance of loss-making firms and considerable business
uncertainty.
The government is commnitted to reforming and strengthening the financial sector by
taking appropriate measures to:
*  Achieve the accelerated restructuring of the sector by advancing the reform through
measures such as the liquidation of insolvent banks and the resolution of the structural
problems of a few larger banks including the resolution of Bank Ukraina and
restructuring of the Savings Bank.
-  Further strengthen banking regulation and introduce a new regulatory framework for
non-bank financial institutions.
* Create an appropriate operating environment for the banking sector by gradually
eliminating weak financial discipline regarding regular payment of obligation to the
banks, including payments from the government. To do so, stock of past obligations
will have to be evaluated, mutually agreed, and restructured, if needed.
*  Lower the cost of banking and financial intermediation by addressing the systemic
elements in the operating environment which limit access to information, and increase
transaction costs and risks. Particular attention will be given to measures that increase
financial independence and accountability of the banks and the limit the interference
of the government.
The reforms in the financial sector will comprise a variety of integrated measures to
eliminate the worst aspects of Ukraine's non-payment culture. To begin, the state will take
stock and evaluate the validity of the banking sector claims on the Government to ten
mutually agree on a repayment schedule to clear any overdue obligations. Moreover, the
scope for financial intermediation will be increased through concurrent measures to improve
payment and fiscal discipline as barter and simnilar practices are phased out.



Annex 4
Page 23 of 27
The effectiveness of the financial sector reforms will depend critically on the
adequacy and fair implementation of the regulatory and supervisory practices. Thus, the
National Bank of Ukraine is committed to move the Ukrainian banking system closer to
compliance with the Basel core principles. Equally important, the reforms seek to extend the
regulatory framework to cover a wide variety of emerging non-bank financial institutions
(NBFIs), including insurance companies, individual pension funds, and investment and
exchange houses.
Implementation of a better regulatory framework as provided in the new Banking Law
is also needed to sustain the effects of restructuring the state owned banks (the Savings Bank
and the EXIM Bank) and to secure compliance with capital and financial requirements in the
banking sector. The Government strategy in implementing the financial sector relorm
attaches particular importance to the exemplary resolution of priority problems, such as the
Bank Ukraina, which will serve as a basis for further reform advances in the whole banking
sector.
5.2 ENERGY SECTOR
The Government is implementing a comprehensive program to address a variety of
structural and functional difficulties in the energy sector. Primary attention is being given to
the reform of the present institutional setup that allows an inefficient use of energy resources,
making Ukraine one of the most energy intensive countries in the world. Key institutional
weaknesses: are inadequate pricing policies and poor financial discipline in the payment of
domestic and foreign obligations. Moreover, lack of proper maintenance and the absenLce of
energy saving and metering devices compounded the energy efficiency difficulties. As
consequence, the energy sector has an distorted input mix that not reflect the scarcity costs
for the country.
Improved institutional setup is at the core of the continued reforms in the energy
sector and includes: (a) better financial discipline; (b) appropriate handling of accumulated
energy arrears; and (c) a more effective organizational setup. To initiate the process of tighter
financial discipline, the Govemment has significantly increased cash collections from final
consumers, exceeding the planned 50 percent cash collection target in mid 2000 and
maintaining it thereafter. The Government plans to further increase cash collection to 60
percent by the end of 2001 and achieve full cash collection, corrected for the billing cycle, by
the end of 2002. In improving cash collections, the Government has decided to closely
monitor and audit payments transacted through the wholesale energy market as an indicator
of financial performance of the whole sector.
Accumulated energy arrears, according to our latest estimates, amount to 10 billion
UAH for electricity and an additional 5 billion UAH for gas. The individual obligalions to
the energy distribution companies have already been identified and restructured for large
solvent debtors. At the samne time, provisions have been made to: (i) cover energy debt of
budget entities and/or companies that cannot be cut off due to security, health or
environmental hazards; and (ii) settle debts of insolvent companies as part of a
liquidation/bankruptcy process.
Debt of oblenergos to wholesale electricity market are also being restructured, starting
with the six oblenergos currently under privatization. Debts to Naftogas have been quantified
and prepared for restructuring that will be implemented during year 2001.



Annex 4
Page 24 of 27
To be feasible the debt restructuring process has to be coordinated among the
different levels and segments of the energy sector. For instance, the reprogramming of the
Oblenergos debts to the wholesale market allows the Oblenegos to reprogram the debts of
consumers, but requires that the energy market be able to equivalently reprogram its debt to
generating companies and so forth along the supply chain. This comprehensive approach also
necessitates that fiscal obligations of participating companies are reprogrammed pari passu.
The organizational restructuring of the energy sector seeks to:
*  Complete the regulatory  framework  and  make the energy regulatory  body
independent;
* Gradually align energy prices with true opportunity costs for the country, defined by
import and export energy prices;
*  Enhance the efficiency of the electricity subs-sector by privatizing distribution
companies, and initiating privatization of generating companies; and
*  Evaluate alternative gas sector restructuring options and secure adequate legal basis
for the beneficial involvement of private sector investment.
More specifically, in the gas sector, the Government's medium term objective is to
improve efficiency, secure Ukraine's role in transiting large quantities of gas to the Western
European markets, and engage private resources in the further development of the sector. A
number of studies have been initiated to analyze the operation of the gas sector and explore
alternative restructuring plans allowing the involvement of the private sector in the
achievement of Government's medium term goals. Once a medium-term restructuring
strategy is selected the Government will initiate the necessary changes in the legislation to
assure its implementation.
As a parallel effort, the Government is undertaking measures to increase the
transparency of operations in the gas sector through a three-year audit program designed to
gradually reach international standards in auditing Naftogas operations, gas and oil reserves,
and fixed assets. The audit, of which the first stage has already been completed, will assist
Naftogas to improve its accounting and control procedures and it will provide confidence to
potential investors on the disclosed financial information. At the same time, this audit will
foster the accountability of state owned companies and establish financial management
standards for the overall public sector. The Government plans to submrit a full audit of
Naftogas to international standards as one of the outcomes to be supported under the third
PAL operation.
Lastly, the government is developing, jointly with the World Bank and the EBRD, an
energy savings strategy. Over the next three years, the energy saving measures introduced
under this strategy will yield considerable increase in energy efficiency. The introduction of
automated electricity metering systems will be an important element of this strategy.
5.3 AGRICULTURE AND AGRO-INSDUSTRIAL SECTOR
The Government and independent experts concur that agricultural production today
stands at a quarter of Ukraine's potential using available technologies. The Government
believes that the main underlying reason for this shortfall is an inadequate institutional set-up
that has precluded the development of strong market institutions in the rural areas



Anmex 4
Page 25 of 27
indispensable for investment and long-term growth of agricultural production. Thus., the
reform priorities center on:
*  Dismantling of inherited structures directly opposed to the development of a market
economy, such as the state ownership of land and other assets and the state monopoly
on the procurement of agricultural inputs and purchase of agricultural outputs; and,
*  Creation and protection of property rights on land as the basis for the emergence of
commercial farming, collateral of agricultural credit, and an efficient asset market.
The Government has already dismantled the system of Kolkhozes and issued 6.5
million land certificates to former Kolkhozes members, entitling them to a 4.2 ha average plot
of land. In addition, 14.5 thousand of new agricultural entities have been registered. Since the
second quarter of 2000, about 1.3 million proper land titles have been issued. These land
titles give property rights on specific plots of land and are registered with local offices of the
State Committee on Land and. The issuance of proper land titles will continue until the
demand for conversion of land certificates is completely met and a universal land title
registration system is put in place by the end of the PAL period. The Government expects
continued support from bilateral donors and the World Bank.
The Government has gradually removed itself from the provision of agricultural
inputs and the purchase of outputs: today its participation in these markets stands at 1/10 of
pre-reform levels. In addition, the Government will monitor the activities of local authorities
to prevent the emergence of trade barriers at the regional level and facilitate the settlement of
agricultural sector debt to the state, without interfering in the operation of the normal
agricultural markets. Also, the Government will seek to limit the burden on the agricultural
sector imposed through unfounded legal mandates (i.e. price controls) extending social
protection and social benefits. To support agricultural market development at the national
level, the government is undertaking efforts to create inter-regional commodity markets that
facilitate trade by securing financing and reducing transaction costs.
The completion of the legal and institutional framework needed to advance forcefully
with agricultural sector reform requires a consensus between the legislative and the executive
branches of government on the concept of agricultural reform and the following legal
initiatives:
* The Land Code;
* Law on State Registration of Real Estate and Land Ownership Rights; and,
* Complementing laws on Mortgage, Leasing, State Land Cadastre, Land
Transaction, Organization on the Use of Land, Land Protection etc.
The Government is aware that the success of agricultural sector reforn hinges on the
development of an efficient private commercial fanning. To verify that the initiatives
described above indeed lead to an environment for a vibrant private sector in agriculture, the
Government will conduct surveys and employ other consultative mechanisms to monitor
progress.
5.4 TELECOMMUNICATION
The Government places great importance on developing a competitive environment in
the telecom sector as a basis of improved efficiency, increased national coverage, and



Annex 4
Page 26 of 27
reduced costs. Improvements in the telecom sector will facilitate integration of Ukraine into
the global economy and allow the country to make full use of its comparative advantage
provided by its highly trained labor force.
As already mentioned, the Government is committed to privatize Ukrtelecom JSC, a
national operator on the telecommunication market. The supporting legislation granting
ownership and management right to a potential strategic investor has already been approved
by the Parliament. The exact timing for the announcement of the call to bid on a competitive
and international basis will depend solely on (a) the general situation in the world markets
and (b) prior expression of interests by strategic investors. Furthermore, to maximize the
benefits from privatization and improved competition in the telecom sector, the Government
is preparing the introduction of complementary regulatory norms and establish an
independent regulator to ensure compliance.
A complementary set of policies seeks to create favorable conditions for the
development of information technologies and internet services. Ukraine was selected as one
of the pilot countries under the World Bank Development Gateway initiative. A national
Ukraine E-Development project has already been launched. Implementation of the project
includes creation and support for a wide scale web site 'Gateway-Ukraine", different
education efforts, symposiums and conferences, preparation and publication of
methodological guides and periodicals etc. When completed, the project will:
*  Help disseminate general information and broadly protect the constitutional right
of citizens to free speech;
*  Provide inexpensive access to  statistical, legal, scientific  and  technical
information to be used for educational and professional purposes; and,
* Develop internet and intranet support for the operation of private businesses and
government entities.
6. RISKS
The Government is determined to implement the reform program stated in this Letter and
accelerate the so needed institutional transformations that will lead to better public
admninistration and improved economnic situation. At the same there are several risks that can
arise when implementing the prograrm Such as:
*  Actual suspension of the implementation of the reform strategy common for all
branches of power outlined in the Government Program. The suspension may occur
because the Parliament might not adopt a number of laws vitally important for the
reform program implementation, which may make it impossible to fully implement
the Government Program. To mitigate this risk, the Government constantly is working
with the Parliament as described in section 1.2 of this Letter.
*  Lack of sufficient support for the Government course, due to previous unsuccessful
attempts at reforming country's economy and essential reduction in living standard of
population. To minimize this risk, the Government constantly is communicating with
the civil society as stipulated in section 1.1. of this letter.
* Crisis changes in the situation on world commodity and financial markets.



Annex 4
Page 27 of 27
7. PAL PROJECT COORDINATION AND MONITORING
From the very outset of PAL project initiation the Government of Ukraine has been
keeping the decision making process transparent and has been introducing consultation
mechanisms with the representatives of the civil society.
To ensure coordination and control over the PAL organization and preparation
process, an Inter-ministerial Coordination Council was set up headed by First Vice Prime
Minister of Ukraine. The committee included Heads of key ministries and other central power
bodies, representatives of Presidential Administration, the Parliament, and NGOs.
This very Letter was developed in collaboration with the representatives of civil
society participating in the work of the working group in charge of the Letter preparation.
According to the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of
Economy is appointed as an implementing agency for the PAL project and as an organizer of
the Inter-ministerial Coordination Council.
It is expected that a new open mechanism for the interaction of the Government with
civil society will ensure the PAL project successful implementation.
Anatoliy Kinakh
Prime Minister of Ukraine
Signed copy on file



Annex 5
Page 1 of 12
MATRIX OF INSTITUTIONAL AND POLICY OUTCOMES
A. FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE
Objective: Foster financial discipline, correct the weaknesses that underlie present macroeconomic imbalances, attract FDL and promote sustainable growth. More specifically,
gradually eliminate the non-payment problem by substantially reducing the stock of accumulated arrears over the next three years.
A. 1. IMPROVE IHE BUIDGETARY MANAGEMENT AND GRADUALLY PHASE-OUT TIIE OUTSTANDING BUDGET AND TAX ARREARS.
ELIMINATE BUDGET     Benchmark A.1: Budget offsets    Benchmark IB.1: Budget offsets                                                                 G
OFFSETS               eliminated                       eliminated
*Non-transparent budget offsets    *Budget offsets disallowed in
elitninated in Budget 2001.      Budget 2002.
SIGNIFICANTLYREDUCE  Benchmark 1A.2: Reduce budget   Benchmark IB.2: Reduce budget  Benchmark 2.1: Continued         Benchmark3.1: Reduce budget  G, D
BUDGET ARRP.ARS      arrears                          arrears                         reduction of budget arrears     arrears to the level of best
*Pension arrears eliminated;     *Stay current on pensions;      *Stay current on pensions;     international practice
*The stock of wage and social    *Further reduction of budget    *The stock of wage arrears
protection arrears reduced by    arrears on wages by 50% and on    eliminated and the stock of
27% compared to January, 1       energy payments by 60% w.r.t.    social protection arrears
2000; and                        January 1, 2000; and            reduced by 70% w.r.t. January
* The stock of other budget arrears   *The stock of other budget arrears   1, 2000;
was not increased.               not increased w.r.t. July 1, 2001.   *The stock of other budget
arrears reduced by xx%
I_w. r. t. January, 1 2002.
SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE                                                                  Benchmark Z2:Reduction of      Benchmark 3.2: Reduction of    G
TAX ARREARS AND                                                                        arrears to the budget          arrears to the budget
OTHER OBLIGATIONS TO                                                                  *Tax arrears reduced to 5% of   *Tax arrears reduced to x% of
THE BUDGET                                                                             GDP;                           GDP;
*Debt obligations to the budget   *Other obligations to the budget
(including from agriculture)  reduced by xx%o.
assessed and strategy to clear
them adopted.                                            _
Legend: Poverty impact: G = Measure contributes to sustainable growth; D  direct poverty relief; E = contributes to empowerment and greater social inclusion.
xx% indicates benchmarks to be specified and agreed upon in subsequent PAL operations.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 12
A.2. GRADUALLY PIASE OUT INTER-ENTERPRISE AND BANK-ENTERPRISE ARREARS. AND NON-TRANSPARENT BARTER OPERATIONS
SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE  Benchmark 1A3: Reduce             Benchmark lB.3: Reduce            Benchmark 2.3: Continued         Bcnchmark 3.3. Continued        G
ELECTRICITY AND GAS    electricity/gas payment arrears  electricity/gas payment arrears   reduction of electricity and gas    reduction of electricity and gas
PAYMENT ARREARS       *Debt of six Oblenergos to       *Domestic debt to Naftogas         payment arrears (including       payment arrears (including
wholesale electricity market     quantified and restructuring plan   substantial increases in cash  further increases in cash
restructured;                    prepared;                         collections in gas and electricity   collections in gas and electricity
*Oblenergos given right to       *Wholesale electricity market cash   to 70% of current charges      to xx% on the basis of
disconnect all non-paying        collections from Oblenergos       measured over the last 9         international practices, adjusted
electricity consumers;           increased to 60% of current        months)                         to Ukraine).
*23.000 delinquent electricity    charges during July-Oct 2001.                                      Full payment discipline on
customers out of more than 33.000 *Naftogas cash collections for gas                                restructured electricity and gas
debtors disconnected;            sold increased to 60% of current                                   debts.
*Wholesale electricity market cash   charges during July-Oct. 2001.
collections from Oblenergos
increased to 50% of current
charges in the first half of 2001.
*Naftogas cash collections for gas
sold increased to 50% of current
I charges in the first half of 2001.      _                _          _                               _       _
Legend: Poverty impact: G = Measure contributes to sustainable growth; D = direct poverty relief; E = contributes to empowermnent and greater social inclusion
" xx% indicates benchmarks to be specified and agreed upon in subsequent PAL operations,



Annex )
Page 3 of 12
A. FlNANClAL DISCIPLINE (continued)
RE,STRUCTURE AND L)Benchmark 2.4: Continued                                                                              Benchmark 3.4: Continued      G
RFDUCF GOVERNNZENT                                                                       restructuring of government     restructuring of government
DEBT TO BANKS.                                                                           debt to banks                   debt to banks
*Inventory of government debt
to banks completed and legal
opinion secured;
oRestructuring and
securitization of xx% of
established debt to the banking
sector completed.
B. REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
Objective: Improve the business environment through a modem regulatory framework conducive to growth of output and employment based on FDI and domestic capital. Remove
barriers to entry / exit (bankruptcy), create normal conditions for operating a business, secure a level playing field and adhere to international governance (accounting/audit)
standards. Make visible progress in large-scale privatization following transparent procedures, and achieve progress in critical sectors (telecom, energy).
B. 1. IMPROVE THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT BY ENABLING NEW ENTRY AND FACILITATING BUSINESS OPERA TION
CONTINUE TO REDUCE   Benchmark 1A.4: Improve business  Benchmark 1B.4: Maintain                                          Benchmark 3.5: Secure         G, D, E
AND CONSOLIDATE      environment                        business environment through                                     continued improvement in
LICENSING AND        oEasier business entry secured    * 1-stop shop new business                                        business environment (entry
REGISTRATION          through 1-stop shop new business   registration;                                                   and operation.)
PROCEDURES.           registration (effectiveness      * Simplified licensing system based
PUBLISH A LIST OF     demonstrated through regular      on single license streamlined
REQUIREDIPROCESSES    surveys);                         application procedure;
FOR ENTRY            *Simplified licensing system based   * Same number of inspections;
on single license streamlined   (compliance established through
application procedure in place;  existing surveys)
*Number of inspections reduced by
at least 20% w.r.t. 1999 level
(compliance established through
existing surveys).                                                                                                            I
Legend: Poverty impact: G = Measure contributes to sustainable growth; D = direct poverty relief; E = contributes to empowerment and greater social inclusion
" xx% indicates benchmnarks to be specified and agreed upon in subsequent l'ALI opeiations.



Annex 5
Page 4 of 12
............. 0 . M .. .                       . .0  ....A......
....,...... N......
B. REGULATORY FRAMEWORK (continued)
B.2. SECURE LEVEL PLAYING FIELD FOR DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN INVESTORS AND ATTRACT FDI BY ADHERING TO INTERNATIONAL GOVERNANCE STANDARDS
SECURE EQUAL                                                                        Benchmark 2.5: Improved      Benchmark 3.6: Improved
TREATMENT FOR                                                                       corporate governance         corporate governance (further
DOMESTIC AND                                                                        *National accounting / audit    progress in same areas, as
FOREIGN INVESTORS                                                                    standards comply with LAS;    evidenced by business surveys)
]MPROVE CORPORATE                                                                   eSecurity trading regulated and
GOVERNANCE                                                                           confined to organized markets;
SECURE AVAILABILITY                                                                 *Protection of minority
OF ADEQUATE AND                                                                      shareholders secured;
OPEN INFORMATION FOR                                                                *Equal treatment of foreign and
INVESTMENT DECISION                                                                  domestic investors secured
MAKING                                                                              (WTO).
B.3. IMPROVE LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK IN CRITICAL SECTORS (AGRICULTURE, ENERGY, TELECOM, FINANCIAL SECTOR AND TBE PENSION SYSTEM
LEGAL AND                                                                           Benchmark 2.6: Legal                                       G
REGULATORY                                                                          framework for reforms in
FRAMEWORK FOR                                                                       agriculture enacted (including
MARKET REFORMS IN                                                                   land code, land titling law, etc.)
AGRICULTURE.
IMPROVE THE                                                                         Benchmark 2.7: Strengthen     Benchmark 3.7: Introduce     G
REGULATORY                                                                          regulatory framework in the   regulator in telecom sector
FRAMEWORK,                                                                          energy sector and ensure the
ESTABLISH OR                                                                        independence of NERC
STRENGTHEN
REGULATORS FOR
TELECOM AND ENERGY.
DEFINE AND/OR                                                                                                     Benchmark 3.8: Improved      G
IMPROVE THE                                                                                                       regulatory framework for
REGULATORY                                                                                                        Financial sector (based on BIS
FRAMEWORK IN THE                                                                                                  standards compliance).
FINANCIAL SECTOR
lIegend: Poverty impact: G  Measure contributes to sustainable growth; D  direct poverty relief; E = contributes to empowerment and greater social inclusion
/ xx% indicates benclunarks to be specified and agreed upon in subsequent PAL operations.



Annex 5
Page 5 of 12
it                                                                                           I        #oi:tAL 1tjpAear::
B.4. SECURE CONDITIONS FOR UKRAINE'S ACCESSION TO TIlE WTO
CONTINUE TO ADVANCE                                                                 Benchmark 2.8:
TOWARDS CREATION OF                                                                 * Create legal framework
CONDITIONS FOR                                                                        for a sytmof
UKRAINE'S ACCESSION                                                                        sse
TO THE WTO,                                                                           CertifiCatiOn, aCCreditatiOn
PARTICULARY, IN THE                                                                   and confirmation of
AREAS OF TECHNICAL                                                                    correspondence to the
REGULATION,                                                                           international standards;
INTF.LLECTUAL                                                                       * Create National body of
PROPERTY RIGHTS,                                                                      accreditation;
GOVERNMENT                                                                          * Implement European
PROCUREMENT AND                                                                       directives and international
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR                                                                   and European standards
(design 11 technical
procedures on the basis of
European directives of the
New Approach, particularly
the Decision of EU Council
9314651EEC);
* Harmonize the regime of
intellectual property rights
protection with requirements
of TRIPS;
* Minimize number of
exemptions from competitive
tender mode of government
procurements down to 20%
and further reduce the level
of exemptions;
* Make commitments to reduce
the total state support for
agricultural sector according
__OVERN______NT____Impl____                                                          to the WTO requirements.Europea
Legend: Poverty impact: G =Measure contributes to sustainable growth; D = direct poverty relief, E = contributes to empowerment and greater social inclusion
' xx%RO indicates bencarks to be specified and agreed upon in subsequent PAL operations.



Annex 5
Page 6 of 12
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .~~~~~~I
M     -9.......          ..                                                                                                  v     ....    .....
:,... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.<~~~~~~~.... . .... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..c:..:.:.::.:...~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~101~ ...  ...
C. PROPERTY RIGHTS
Objective, Secure the legal basis and full assi nment of proerty rights to enable proper definition of the role of the state and facilitate transactions.
C. 1. TRANSFORM THE OwNERSHIP AND ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
TRANSFORM             Benchmark 1A5: Transform the    Benchmark BR5: Reforms in                                         Benchmark 3.9: Reforms in       G, E
KOLKHOZES INTO NEW    ownership I organiRational        agricultural sector continued                                   agricultural sector continued
OWNERSHIP/ORGANIZAT  structure in agriculture           *1.3 million land title deeds issued;                           * Issuing and registering
IONAL FORMS.         *Presidential decree on reforming                                                                    additional I million land titles
ENACT ENABLING         the agricultural sector                                                                            completed.
LEGISLATION.          implemented;
IMPLEMENT LAND       *Land certificates to 6.5 million
TITLING LEGISLATION.    eligible individuals issued;
eState monopoly in procurement of
agricultural inputs/outputs
reduced by 90 /o.
C.2. IMPROVE INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS AND EXPORT PERFORMANCE THROUGH TRANSPARENT CAS] PRIVATIZATIONS OF INDUSTRIAL AND ENERGY COMPANIES
PRIVATIZE LARGE       Benchmark 1A.6: Transparent      Benchmark 1B.6: Transparent       Benchmark 2.9: Further         Benchmark 3. 10: Further        G
rNDusTRiAL SOEs viA   privatization of large industrial /    privatization of large industrial I    progress in transparent  progress in transparent
TRANSPARENT ICBs.    energy enterprises                energy enterprises                privatization of large industrial   privatization of large
ENABLE STRATEGIC      oCompetitive tenders for          *Complete a PAG transparency     / energy enterprises including:   industriallenergy enterprises
INVESTORS TO GAIn     transparent privatization of 83   review of privatizations         *Transparent sale of 9
MANAGEMENT             industrial enterprises issued     completed during Jan-Sept. 2001;  industrial enterprises as
CONTROL THIROUGH       during year 2000;                * Prepare a list of enterprises to  evaluated by the PAG;
CONTROLLING BLOCKS   *Transparent sales of controlling   be privatized in year 2002      *Transparent sales of 12
OF SHARES. No PRE-    blocks of shares for at least 8    consistent with the budget deficit   Oblenergos completed;
SALE CONDITIONS.      industrial enterprises completed   financing needs;
CONTINUE              in accordance with transparency    *Resume the process of privatizing
PRIVATIZATION OF       criteria approved by the Privat-  Oblenergos to strategic investors
OBLENERGOS.           ization Advisory Group (PAG);     through transparent sales;
CREATE A              *Privatization of 6 Oblenergos to
COMPETITIVE MARKET    strategic investors completed.
AND INCREASE PRIVATE  oContract signed for phase I of
SECTOR INVOLVEMENT    three year program to carry out
IN GAS SECTOR.         an audit of Naftagas operations in
2000 following international
standards.
Legend: Poverty impact G = Measure contributes to sustainable growth; D = direct poverty relief, E = contributes to empowerment and greater social inclusion
'/ ax% indicates benchmarks to be specified and agreed upon in subsequent PAL operations.



Annex 5
Page 7 of 12
C. PROPERTY RIGHTS (continued)
C.3. IMPROVE GF.NFRAL COMPETITIVRNESS OF UKRAINIAN EC'ONOMY BB REFORMING THE TELECOM SECTOR
BASED ON IMIPROVED   Benchmark 1A.7: Telecom                                            Benchmark 2.10: Telecom       Benchmark 3.11: Telecom        G
REGUI.ATORY          privatization                                                      privatization continued       privatization concluded
FRAMEWORK PROMOTE   Telecom privatization law passed
A CONIPETITIVE       allowing strategic investors (SI) to:
MARKFT STRUCTURE    * Acquire a minimum of 25%+1
AND INVOLVE           shares through competitive
PARTICIPA'I'ON AND   process; and
CONPETITION IN THE    * Gain operating control of the
TELECOM SECTOR BY     telecom (50%+1 shares) by
INVOLVING A           receiving for management an
STRATEGIC INVESTOR IN   additional block of shares owned
THI DELIVERY OF       by the state.
TELECOM SERVICES.    * Competitive tender for advisor to
privatize Ukrtelecom issued.                                                                  I
CA4. USE BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURES TO FACILITATE, ENTERPRISE AND BANK RESTRUCTURING AND PROMOTE ECONOMIC GROWTH           _____________
FACILITATE, BANK AND   BenchMark 1A.8: Resolution of                                    Benchmark 2. 11: Implement    Benchmark 3.12: Continued      G
ENTERPRISE BANKRUP_  Bank Ukraina (BU       o                                           bankruptcy procedures         implementation of bankruptcy
TCY PROCEDURES       oWithdrawal of the Bin                                             including                     procedures for banks and
(WORKOUTS, RESTRUC-       -rf           anking                                         *Initiation of bankruptcy      enterprises including:
TURING, LIQUIDATIONS)   lcense of Bank Ukraina and                                       procedures for 5 large       * Further progress in the
TO: REALLOCATE        appointment of a liquidator.                                      insolvent enterprises; and      liquidation of Bank Ukraina,
RFSOURCES TO VIABLE                                                                     *Progress with Bank Ukraina    * Securing of appropriate
ENTERPRISES / BANKS;                                                                    liquidation process.            execution of bankruptcy cases
REDUCE ECONOMIC                                                                                                         for large insolvent
COST OF MAINTAINING                                                                                                     enterprises.
NON-VIABLE SOEs;                                                                                                      Restructuring of the banking
HELP CREATE NEW                                                                                                       sector continued, including
SMEs FROM ASSET                                                                                                       * Adoption of an action plan
SPIN-OFFS.                                                                                                              for the Savings Bank.
Legend: Poverty impact: G = Measure contributes to sustainable growth; D = direct poverty relief; F  contributes to empowerment and greater social inclusion
/ xx% indicates benchmarks to be specified and agreed upon in subsequent PAL operations.



Annex 5
Page 8 of 12
D. PUBLIC SECTOR EFFICIENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY
Objective: Improve public sector governance through enhanced fiscal transparency including: clear definition of roles and responsibilities of the state, public availability of
information, open budget process and an independent assurance of integrity.
D. 1. STRENGTHEN THE SYSTEM OF INTERGOVERNMENTAL FINANCE TO ENHANCE FISCAL MANAGEMENT, ACHEVE MORE EFFICIENT SERVICE DELIVERY, AND PROMOTE GROWTH
ADOPT BUDGET CODE   Benchmark 1A.9: Secure budget    Benchmark 1B.7: Secure budget    Benchmark 2. 12: Secure budget  Benchmark 3.13: Further  G, E
WITH                transparency                    transparency                    transparency                 progress in budget
CLEAR FISCAL        *Discretionary determination of    *Implementation of the formula-    *Compliance with formula for   transparency, including:
RESPONSIBILITIES AND    inter-governmental fiscal   based determination of inter-    allocating transfers to both  * Implementation of SDDS in
FINANCING            transfers replaced with formula   governmental fiscal transfers  oblasts and rayons according  the area of GFS,
(EXPENDITURE AND     based system appUed to oblasts,    during Jan-October 2001     to CoM methodology set out in   * Publication of draft budget,
REVENUE              cities and, indirectly, to rayon  evaluated;                    2001, further refinement of   quarterly and annual
ASSIGNMENTS,         levels of government in the 2001   *Formula based system applied to    formula for 2002 budget;  summaries on state budget
TRANSFERS AND        budget.                        oblasts, cities and rayon levels of   *Transparent management of  execution.
DEFICITFINANCING).                                  government in the 2002 budget    extra-budgetary funds.
D.2. IMPROVIE T}E EFFICIENCY OF TILE USE OF PUBLIC RESOURCES
ADOPT BUDGET CODE                                   Benchmark 1B.8: Improved use of  Benchmark 2.13: Improved use  Benchmark 3.14: Improved    G, E
14PROVING EXECUTION,                                public resources                of public resources          use of public resources:
EVALUATION AND                                      * Satisfactory progress achieved in  *Improved procurement and  *Further improvements in
REPORTING,                                           implementing single Treasury   financial management          procurement and financial
COMPETITIVE                                          account;                        procedures in place (per     management procedures;
PROCUREMENT,                                        * Satisfactory progress achieved  agreements reached during  *Progress made in using public
PERFORMANCE BASED                                    during the last quarter of 2001 in   discussions of Bank fiduciary    consultations during Budget
EVALUATION, AND                                      implementing an action plan on    reports - CPAR,CFAA, PEIR);  preparation and evaluation;
CIVIL SOCIETY                                        improved financial accountabi-   *Public consultations during  *Progress in implementing the
INVOLVEMENT.                                         lity, as agreed with the Bank.  Budget preparation and       Budget Code.
evaluation piloted.
D.3. PROVIDE INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE OF INTEGRITY
SECURE INDEPENDENT                                                                                               Benchmark 3.15: Improved      E
ASSURANCE OF                                                                                                     fiscal transparency and
INTEGRITY THROUGH                                                                                                accountability (Unqualified
INTERNAL OVERSIGHT                                                                                               audit report of Budget 2001
AND CONTROL,                                                                                                     revenues & expenditures.)
EXTERNAL SUPREME
AUDIT, AND CIVIL
SOCIETY INVOLVEMENT.   -___.__._._.__
Legend: Poverty impact: G  Measure contributes to sustainable growth; D = direct poverty relief; E = contributes to empowerment and greater social inclusion
^' xx% indicates benclunarks to be specified and agreed upon in subsequent PAL operations.



Annex 5
Page 9 of 12
D. PUBLIC SECTOR EFFICIENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY (continued)
DA. VIMPROVE THE PERFORMANCE OF THE PURLIC ADMINISTRATION, CLARIFY THE NEW ROLE OF THE CABINET AND REFORM THE CIVIL SERVICE
IMPROVE CABMNET OF    Benchmark 1A.10: Reform public                                  Benchmark 2.14: Reform public  Benchmark 3.16: Progress in   G, E
MINISTFRS DECISION   administration - Improved                                        administration - Improve       reform of public administration
MAKING PROCESS.      Cabinet decision making                                          Cabinet's decision making      (policy-making capacity,
DEVELOP THE POLICY-   *Smaller and more effective                                     *Decision-making delegated to   integration of fiscal
MAKINb4G CAPACITY OF  Cabinet created with 21 members                                  ministries, agencies and lower   management, reporting and
THE LINE MINISTRIES   representing a reduced number of                                 levels of government by       coordination within the
AND AGENCIES.         central bodies (from over 89 to 50                               amending proper legislative   Ministry of finance, etc.)
including 16 ministries);                                        acts.
*Specialized Cabinet Committees
established;
*Functioning of the Secretariat
improved and its structure
adapted to Cabinet needs.
DEVELOP MERIT BASED                                                                                                  Benchmark 3.17: Create civil
CIVIL SERVICE THAT                                                                                                   service
SAFEGUARDS AGAINST                                                                                                  oNew job classifications in
CORRUPTION,                                                                                                          place;
DISTINGUISHIES                                                                                                       oNew training system (including
POLITICAL AND                                                                                                        training on policy
OFFICIAL POSTS, HAS                                                                                                   development) in place;
COMPETITIVE RECRUIT-                                                                                                oDevelop new pay system;
MENT AND INDEPEN-
DENT OVERSIGHT.
D.5. DEVELOP AN EFFICINT AND TRANSPARENT PUBLIC REVENUE SYSTEM
DEVELOP ATRANSPA-   Benchmark 1XA 1: Tax              Benchmark 1B.9: Tax exemptions                                 Benchmark 3.18: More efficient
RENT REVENUE SYSTEM   exemptions eliminated           eliminated                                                    tax system Qower tax burden,
THATDISTRIBUTES      oTax exemptions granted through   oNo tax exemptions granted                                    broader bases, simplified
FAIRLY THE PUBLIC     CoM decisions/orders revoked;    through CoM decisions/orders;                                 procedures for SMEs)
FINANCING BURDEN,
MINIMIZES COMPLIANCE
COST AND ENABLES
INVESTMENT / GROWTH.
Legend: Poverty impact: G = Measure contnbutes to sustainable growth; D = direct poverty relief; E = contributes to empowerment and greater social inclusion
./ xx% indicates benchmarks to be specified and agreed upon in subsequent PAL operations



Annex 5
Page 10 of 12
MWWTN            . 1iPA                                     fi.                     ..
. .   ........ .~.E~1ZIn. ~                                .. S.
E. MANAGEMENT OF SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS
Objective: Mitigate social costs of transition and create sustainable institutions that reduce inequality and alleviate poverty by providing for the needy (the elderly and the poor).
E. 1. ESTABLISH A FINANCIALLY AND SOCIALLY VIABLE PENSION SYSTEM
ACHIEVE SOCIAL AND    Benchmark 1A 12: Institutional    Benchmark 1B. 10: Institutional   Benchmark 2.15: Institutional    Benchmark 3.19: Institutional    D, E
FINANCIAL VIABILITY   and technical framework for       and technical framework for       and technical framework for     and technical framework for
OF TILE PAYG PILLAR;   pension system reform            pension system reform             pension reform including        pension reform including
IMPROVE INSTITUTIO-    * Personification system          *Pension determination function    * computerized system for     * Progress in implementation of
NAT. AND TECHNICAL      introduced;                      transferred to Pension Fund in     electronic processing of        multi-pillar pension system;
FRAMEWORK FOR AN                                          11 oblasts;                       personified reports; and      * Transfer of pension determi-
EFFICIENT MANDA-I-ORY                                    *Progress in creating a unified  * continued transfer of pension   nation function completed
PENSION SYSTEM AND                                        social insurance database by      determination function to the   * Law on Non-State Pension
FUTURE OPERATION OF                                       conmpleting a tender for the      Pension Fund in xx oblasts.     Insurance passed;
FUNDED 1'ENSION                                          production of social insurance                                   * Legal framework for pension
PILLARS;                                                 ID[s and issuing of the first                                      regulator function within
100,000 IDs;                                                      NBFI regulator established.
_E.2. IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF SOCIAL ASISTANCE                                                                                          _
IMPRCVETI -r.QUALITY  I B13ers liBenchmark A13B2.1: Better social    Benchmark 3.20: Better social   D
OF SOCIAL ASSISTANCE   assistance                                                         assistance                      assistance
BY                    *Unified eligibility criteria and                                   Improved targeting of social    Unified and better targeted
IMPLENfENTINO A        methodology for targeting social                                   assistance programs on the      social assistance system in
UNIFIED MVEANS TEST RD    assistance prepared (and                                        basis of unified eligibility    place;
PROGRAM FOR LOW        adopted);                                                          criteria.                       Increased use of NGOs to
INCOMIE FAMI.LIES, AND   *Creation of 750 territorial centers                                                             deliver social assistance
DIVERSIF YING SOCIAL   extending social services to
CARE PROVISIONY;       547.000 elderly and disabled
people;
*Out-reach services expanded to
include additionally 10,000 old
and disabled persons.
Legend: Poverty impact: G = Measure contributes to sustainable growth; D  direct poverty relief; E = contributes to empowerment and greater social inclusion
/ xx% indicates benchmarks to be specified and agreed upon in subsequent PAL operations.



Annex )
Page 11 of 12
E. MANAGEMENT OF SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS (Continued)
E.3. IMPROVE FINANCIAL VIABILITY AND SFRVICE DELIVERY IN THE HEALTH AND EDUCATION SECTORS
DEVELOP              Benchmark IA.14: Improved        Benchmark 1B.12: Improved       Benchmark 2.17. Improved       Benchmark 3.21: Better health   D, E
HEALTH/EDUCATION     health and education system      health and education            health and education           and education system
SECTOR STRATEGIES TO   *Improved control of public health  *Health sector reform strategy  * Develop an action plan to  performance
IMPROVE THE QUALITY    risks achieved through Donetsk  approved;                        implement education reform    Education system performance
OF SERVICE DELIVERY   Oblast and Kiev pilots of TB   *Education sector reform strategy  strategy;                    improved by:
AND FINANCIAL         DOTS method adapted to          approved;                       * Create regulatory framework  -Moving to a single structure of
VIABILITY THROUGH     national conditions;           'Adopt an AIDS prevention          for loans for university      four-year primary school; and
IMPROVED FINANCIAL    *Primary health care improved   program for 2001-2003;            students;                    -Implementing a village
MANAGEMENI'AND        through new family medicine                         ,           * Adopt a national program to    education network
MOBILIZATION OF       centers and new university                                        control TB epidemic;          restructuring pilot project
PRIVATE RESOURCES.    specialization on family medicine;                              * Establish AIDS patient care    (Vinyitsa oblast);
*Health resource allocation pilot                                  centers in Kiev and Odessa;    Health system performance
started in Lviv;                                                                              improved by:
*Improved methods of education                                                                 ' Establish AIDS prevention
and finance management piloted                                                                 centers in all oblast centers;
in Lviv;                                                                                      * Develop and implement a
*A national program of 12-year                                                                  program to prevent HIV/AIDS
compulsory education adopted;                                                                  transmission from mother to
child;
' Improved efficiency of TB
____________________________________                            treatm ent.
E4. STREAMLINE THE SYSTEM OF FISCAL EXEMPTIONS AND PRIVILEGES AIMED AT SOCIAL PROTECTION
REVIEWTHE AUXILIARY  Benchmark 1A.15: Special         Benchmark lB.12: Special        Benchmark 2. 18: Further       Benchmark 3.22: the plan for    D, E
SYSTEM OF SOCIAL     privileges reviewed              privileges reviewed             revisit special privileges     substitution of privileges and
PROTECTION BASED ON  *The auxiliary social protection  * Professional privileges not                                 compensations by targeted
FISCAL PRIVILEGES AND   extended through special privileges   justified on poverty and equity                       social assistance for some
BRING IT IN LINE WITH    analyzed and evaluated;       grounds disallowed in 2002                                    categories implemented.
THE MAINSTREAM      *Professional privileges not justified    Budget.
SOCIAL PROITECTION   on poverty and equity grounds
SYSTEM.              disallowed in 2001 Budget   _         _
Legend: Poverty impact: G = Measure contnbutes to sustainable growth; D = direct poverty relief; E = contributes to empowerment and greater social inclusion
' xx% indicates benchmarks to be specified and agreed upon in subsequent PAL operations.



Annex 5
Page 12  12
E.5. DEvELOP INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY TO ADDRESS CRITICAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS AND PREVENT FURTHER DETERIORATION OF THE ENVIRONMENT
DEVELOP INCENTIVE                                                                   Benchmark 2.19: Expand       Benchmark 3.23: Implemen.    D, E;
BASED ENVIRONMEN-                                                                   financing for the new system of  improved economic and
TAL POLICIES AND                                                                    environmental protection     regulatory mechanism of
INSTRUMENTS TO                                                                      *Secure financing by indexing    environmental protection
REMOVE BARRIERS TO                                                                   environmental fees and      *The integrated permit system
AND WILL CREATE                                                                     introducing self-financing    is introduced at selected
OPPORTUNITIES FOR                                                                    economic mechanisms;         enterprises
SUSTAIBABLE                                                                         *Address environmental       *The legislation for the new
DEVELOPMENT, WILL                                                                    degradation through an       integrated permit system is in
ENSURE PAYMENT OF                                                                    integrated permit system for  place
FULL COST OF                                                                         discharge of pollutants into air,
POLLUTION AND                                                                        water and waste disposal to
RESOURCE USE; WILL                                                                   promote best available
GENERATE FINANCIAL                                                                  technologies and monitoring;
REVENUES AND                                                                        *Launch pilots to test the
ENCOURAGE PRIVATE                                                                    implementation of the
CAPITAL INFLOW FOR                                                                  integrated permit system at
ENVIRONMENTAL                                                                        enterprises identified during
PROTECTION.                                                                          2001.                        ___                                   1
Legend: Poverty impact G = Measure contributes to sustainable growth; D = direct poverty relief, E = contributes to empowerment and greater social inclusion
' xx% indicates benchmarks to be specified and agreed upon in subsequent PAL operations.



Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
Ukraine at a glance
Eurole &  .:Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           CenrtralV:micdldle-
Ukraine      Asia  inrome       Development diamond*
1999
Population. mid-year (millions)                      50.0       475       8860                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                    750     2,150    A 1740
GNP (Atlas method. US$ billionse                     37.5      1 022    1 541
AvOrace'annual qrowth, 1993499
PoDulation (%)                                       -0.7       0.        11       GNGrs
Laborforce'(%) .                 ;    .              -0.4      0o.        1.5                                      Gross
per                            primary
MMost recent estimate (latestvyear available. 1993-99)I                           capita                       enrollment
Povertvy(% of oDufalo n. owa a vertie)0: (% o  l     bo  n   p y  / V27
Urban DoDulation (% of totalnowulation).   .           68        67        58.
Life4expectanrvatbirth (years)                        67         69        68.
infant mhortalityv(pr'er1000 ie barths):               14:       22:       35
Childrralnutrition (% of children underb5)             ..         8        14                Access to safe water
Access, to sate water M'% of. papal atbn):
Illiteracv (/of population ape 15+)                        0      3 :      14       __-   rn
Gross primarv enrollment (% of school-a.ae pwulation)  :   100    W:    102: eae
IMale                 .                              100        101      105              Lower-middle-income group
Female                :100                                     99        99
KEY ECONOMIC. RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      198      : 1999
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ bfilions at official exchange rate)  i   N     ..     41,9      30.8
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                  ..    28.9 2     0.8      19.8                     Trade
Exports*of goods and services/GOP.             .     32.1   ~41. m       52.8
Gross domestc savings/GDP                            28.8       18.5I    20.9
Gross national savings/GOP ..                        3&~9       17.7     22.5~
Current account balance/GDP                                     -.111     2.7
Interest payments/GOP                       1.0       25     ~~~~~~~Domestic
Total debtlGOP                                 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.4  40.8  Savings              Ivsmn
TotalAdebt serviceexoortts                              L I    11.11 1: I14.4
Present value of debt/GOIP                                     27.8      37.3
Present value of debtlexDorts                 1.,        :      38       8.78J
Indebtedness
197949  198949       1998      1999   1999I03
(ave4rage, annual growth)
GOP                 -10,7     -1 9       -0.4      3.2         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ukraine
GNP per capita                             -10.7     -2.44.0                          -Lower-middle-income group
Exiorts of goods and services.               0 S    -134        -7.9      5.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
('Y. of GDP)                               1979      1989      1998      1999     Growth of investment and GDP (%)
Aariculture                                   ..    22.9        14.2     12.8    20
Industrv                                             48.4      35.4      38.4       l
Manufacturinq                               ..      9.1        5.6       5.2    -20                      97   ss -o
Services                                       ..    28.7      50.4      48.8    -40
Private consumDtion                            ..    53.9      59.8      60.2    -60
General qovernment consumption                ..    17.3       21.6      19.0              -G 1    -0  GDP
Imports of qoods and services                 ..    32.1       44.2      51.7
(average annual growth)                  1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999     Growth of exports and imports (%)
Aariculture                                   ..    -6.3      -11.2      -4.2    30
Industry                                            -13.5      -0.1       3.4    20-
Manufacturinq                               ..   -13.4         0.0       5.5    10
Services                                       ..    -3.1      -0.6      -1.8      0
Private consumption                            ..    -8.0       1.3       0.5    10                  97      98
General government consumption                ..    -4.7       -3.5    -12.0
Gross domestic investment                     ..   -22.4        0.4      -5.4   -30
Imports of qoods and services                 ..      4.0      -14.0    -19.1               Exports    -mports
Gross national Product                        ..   -11.1       -2.7      -1.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-group averaqe. If data are missinq, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Ukraine
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989      1998      1999     Inflation (%)
Domestic p7rices
(% chance)                                                                     50D
Consumer Drices                               ..      ..      20.0      19.2    4DO
Implicit GDP deflator                         ..     3.8      12.0      24.4    300
Government finance                                                              100
(% of GDP. includes current qrants)                                               0
Current revenue                               ..      ..      36.0      34.4       95       96      97       98
Current budget balance                        ..      ..      -2.1      -2.0          -     GOP deflator  -CCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..      ..      -2.8      -2.4
TRADE
(US$ n~iIIions)                            1979    1989       1998     1999      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exDorts (fob)                           ..      ..   13.699   12.463      2ODcD
Ferrous and non-ferrous metals              ..       ..    5.336    4.874          .
Food iterms and raw materials               .        ..     1,379    1,418    2D.000-..                   ..
Manufactures and machinery                  ..       ..    2,393    1,981      15,000 - .
Total imports (fob)                           .        ..   16.283   12,945    lo.
Fuel and energy                             '        ..    6.170    5441       1
Capital goods                                .       ..     3,172    2.255        0
93  94  95  96   9    89
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      ..        96       95
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      ..       102      105                0 Exports     E Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..      ..        94       91
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ rra'Ilions)                           1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                 ..      ..   17.621   16.234       3T 
Imports of aoods and services                 ..      ..   18,828   15.237       2 - -
Resource balance                             ..       ,,   -1.207       997
Net income                                    ..      ..    -871       -869      o |,     -,- - ,---, 
Net current transfers                        ..       ..       782      706      1 L96                             99
Current account balance                       ..      ..   -1.296       834      2 +      U Lj
Financina items (net)                        ..       ..       -28     -551    -3 - -
Changes in net reserves                       ..      ..    1.324      -283      4
Memo:
Reserves includina gold (US$ mrillions)      ..       ..       793    1.094
Official exchange rate (locabVSS. averaqe)    ..      ..       2.4       4.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          0        0    12.718   12.588
IBRD                                        0        0     1.599    2,020                     G
IDA                                         0        0         0        0                             A 2020
Total debt service                            0        0     2,017    2,600
IBRD                                        0        0        68       96
IDA                                         0        0         0        0
IDA                                                    ] ~~~~~~~~~~           ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~F: 5143 /<   
Composition of net resource flows                                               I        I143
Official arants                             0        0         0        0                                    C:2776
Official creditors                          0        0       253      297
Private creditors                           0        0     1.344     -574
Foreign direct investment                   0        ..      747      489
Portfolio equity                            0        0        47       62                    E: 1794   D:350
World Bank program
Commitments                                 0        0       680        0      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               0       0        385      422      B - IDA    D - Other rnuftilateral F - Prrvate
Principal repayments                        0        0         0        2      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                   0        0       385      420
Interest payments                           0        0        68       94
Net transfers                               0        0       317      326
Devefopment Economics                                                                                            =



