Report No. PID9871
Project Name                     Ukraine-First Programmatic Adjustment Loan
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Institutional and governance issues in
multiple sectors:
Public Sector, Agriculture, Energy,
Privatization, Financial Sector, Social
Protection, Environment
Project ID                       UAPE70693
Borrower                         Government of Ukraine
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
12/2, M Hrushevskoho Str., Kyiv 01008
Tel. No.: (380) (44) 293-5363 / 226-
Fax: No.: (380) (4) 293-8243
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           January 10, 2001
Date Initial PID Prepared        October 18, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         February 7, 2001
Projected Board Date             May 1, 2001
Country Background
1.     During the first decade of independence Ukraine devoted most of its
efforts to the task of building a new nation, while giving limited priority
to setting up the necessary institutions of a market economy. Reliance on
the obsolete Soviet institutional framework gave old-fashioned bureaucrats
an opportunity to capture power from within and created a strong anti-reform
constituency. The 1996 Constitution introduced stronger parliamentary
oversight over the executive, but resulted in a stalemate that effectively
blocked all reform initiatives for almost two years.
2.     This  political stalemate thwarted the effectiveness of an ambitious
stabilization program launched in 1995-1996 with the help of the IMF. While
the program succeeded in curbing hyperinflation, it failed to carry through
fiscal and institutional reforms in the absence of Parliamentary support.
Hesitant economic restructuring led to an increasingly hostile business
environment, and to the emergence of a class of insiders that actively
engaged in rent-seeking.
3.     The political situation considerably improved after the re-election of
President Kuchma for a second term in late 1999 and the formation of a
working majority in Parliament supporting Yushchenko's new reformist
government. For a year now this majority has been supporting the
Government's program of reforms aimed at restoring Ukraine's external
credibility and laying the foundations for durable growth based on sound
economic management, improved institutions and good governance.
4.     The Government's medium-term program, launched April 2000, signaled a
clear departure form the past both in the choice of instruments and of
strategic goals that include: (i) human development; (ii) poverty reduction
and increased welfare of the population; (iii) improved competitiveness of
Ukraine's economy; (iv) protection of human rights and improved integrity of



the state; and (v) promotion of EU integration.
5.     In addition to re-launching medium term economic reforms the Government
succeeded in turning around the economic situation in the year 2000. Led by
the robust 12 percent growth in industry, GDP in year 2000 grew at almost 6
percent. The economic rebound was based on the combined effects of the
Hryvnia devaluation, strong growth in Russia and other trading partners, and
the revival of domestic demand following payment of pension and wage arrears
in the presence of large unused industrial capacity. These positive
developments will break past trends and generate sustainable growth only
with continued and accelerated reforms that attract private capital
investment, as a in country where one can do business. The Government
Program seeks to do just that.
The Proposed Loan/Credit
6.     The proposed Loan of US$250 million equivalent is a Programmatic
Adjustment Loan (PAL) that will support the Government of Ukraine's Medium-
Term Economic Development and Reform Program. It is envisaged that over
FY01-03 there could be up to three single-tranche PAL operations to support
the implementation of the Government program.
Objectives
The main objective of this operation is to support the efforts the Government
has already made in departing from the previous reform stalemate.
Improvements in fiscal and financial management and the business environment
that have been obtained are an important part of creating conditions that
will sustain economic growth in the mid-term. The results on the ground
supported by the proposed loan, have been possible because of the priority
assigned by the Government to these reforms and the significant preparatory
work with the cooperation of various donors, the Bank included.
Ukraine's reform program aims to build key missing institutions of a market
economy and improve public and private sector governance, while maintaining
macroeconomic stability and setting the basis for sustained economic growth,
poverty reduction and improved environmental protection. The objective of
PAL is to identify and help remove critical institutional bottlenecks that
presently hamper economic reforms, increase transaction costs, weaken
property rights, favor soft-budget constraints, and lower the effectiveness
of the state in the provision of social services and protecting the poor. To
achieve that, PAL will seek to complete and streamline the institutional
framework and significantly improve public and private sector governance.
The first PAL operation targets critical interventions already accomplished
in the following five thematic areas leading to the achievement of medium-
term goals set in the government program:
? Improved fiscal and financial discipline through elimination of non-
transparent budget offsets, reduction of budget arrears and an increase in
cash collections for energy; in the medium run the objective is to resolve
the non-payment problem and reduce the stock of arrears from 90 to 20
percent of GDP;
? Better regulatory framework for entry and operation of enterprises through
shorter and more efficient registration and licensing procedures and
rationalized business inspections; in the medium term, the objective is to
improve further corporate governance and introduce modern regulatory
functions in critical sectors (including telecom, energy and finance);
? Creation and protection of clear property rights has already produced
initial results in transparent privatizations of large industrial and
energy companies, Ukrtelecom and agricultural land, and the start of
bankruptcy procedures for the largest indebted enterprises and banks; in
the medium run, improved property rights will be the basis for the revival
- 2 -



of economic growth based on private investment and FDI.
? Strengthened public sector accountability through greater fiscal
transparency, rule-based intergovernmental transfers, improved procurement
procedures, advances in streamlining the government and reforming the
public administration; in the medium run, the Government is committed to
completing the reform of the fiscal system and meeting international
fiscal transparency and special data dissemination standards; and
? Improved social inclusiveness is based on streamlining and rationalizing
the system of social benefits and advancing the reform of the pension and
social protection systems; in the medium run, the implementation of the
Government program will help complete the pension reform, provide a basis
for better delivery of health and education services, and put in place a
viable system of environmental protection.
The financial support under the first PAL operation will help Ukraine meet
its resource needs and rebuild its creditworthiness in international markets.
The resources will be made available upon achieving real reform outcomes on
the ground, i.e. completion of prior actions.
Lessons learned from past operations
7.     The PAL design takes into account the lessons learned from past Bank
assistance to Ukraine. As recounted in the 2001-03 CAS, one of the key
problems that emerged with separate sector adjustment operations was Bank
disbursement of resources when agreements were met in one sector, while
policy reversals were taking place in another. PAL solves this problem by
pooling the key institutional agenda under one umbrella, so that successive
PAL operations will only be available, if the key reform agenda is
maintained. Another issue with multi-tranched adjustment operations has been
the pressure to extend deadlines and to grant waivers in order to disburse
resources after the allocation of the first tranche even if the overall
reform environment is not satisfactory. The PAL solves this difficulty by
limiting itself to single tranche operations. In this way, the Bank can stop
processing later operations if the overall reform environment changes
significantly. Also, the PAL, to the extent possible, will focus on outcomes
on the ground, so that the individual operations will not be taken to the
Board if significant measurable progress has not already been made in
advancing the reform agenda. The PAL will also emphasize intermediate
outputs (passage of laws and adoption of strategies) as a way of setting the
basis for outcomes on the ground later on. It will be outcomes that mostly
determine the availability of resources.
Poverty Category
8.     The proposed PAL will have an important effect on poverty alleviation
because it will promote reduction in budget arrears often directly benefiting
the poor, as well as better targeting of social assistance programs and
improved delivery and better quality of social services.
Environmental Aspects
9.     The loan will have no direct impact on the environment (in line with
World Bank operational directive 4.01). Policies and reforms supported by
PAL will have a substantial positive contribution to improved environmental
management as this is one of important sub-component of the PAL operation.
PAL will support better environmental management through improved
environmental legislation, better collection of environmental fees and fines,
capacity building at the Ministry of Environment and the implementation of a
permit system based on actual emissions.
Benefits and Risks
The benefits already achieved under PAL 1 are: (1) Reduced budget arrears and
improved cash collections in the energy sector; (2) Reduced cost of entry and
-3 -



operation of businesses; (3) Discontinuation of Kolkhozes and issuance of
land ownership certificates to more than 6 million former Kolkhoz members;
(4) A more transparent transfer of budget resources from the center to the
regions based on a clear formula; (5) Streamlined public administration with
reduced number of ministries and scaled-down Cabinet of Ministers; and (6)
Rationalized system of social benefits. Additionally, PAL 1 has helped the
government markedly improve policy coordination and engage the cooperation of
the civil society in the design and implementation of reforms.
Since, by design, PAL is based on reform results on the ground, there are no
risks associated with the achievement of benchmarks. The risk related to
political, institutional and policy sustainability of past reforms are
mitigated by the creation of broader pro-reform constituency as a result of
earlier reform successes. This risk, moreover, will continue to diminish
over time as economic growth takes hold, macroeconomic environment remains
stable, external position improves, and the country completes the
institutional framework of a modern market economy.
Contact Point:
Mr. Dusan Vujovic, ECSPE
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-6339
Fax No.:         (202) 522-2753
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.   Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



