                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 25464

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (SCL-46390; TF-28396)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$250 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                                UKRAINE

                                                 FOR A

                           PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN (PAL I)




                                                03/12/2003




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

       (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2002)

               Currency Unit = Hryvnia
                    UAH1.00 = US$ 0.187
                    US$ 1.00 = UAH5.339

                     FISCAL YEAR
                January 1    December 31

         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS    -  Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA      Comprehensive Financial Accountability Assessment
CoM    -  Cabinet of Ministries
CPAR      Country Procurement Assessment Report
EBRD   -  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EFF    -  Extended Fund Facility
EU     -  European Union
FDI    -  Foreign Direct Investment
GDP    -  Gross Domestic Product
IEA       Inter-enterprise arrears
IFC    -  International Financial Corporation
IFI    -  International Financial Institutions
IMF    -  International Monetary Fund
MO        Mutual Offsets
NBU       National Bank of Ukraine
NGOs   -  Non-governmental organizations
PAL    -  Programmatic Adjustment Loan
PAG       Privatization Advisory Group
PFU       Pension Fund of Ukraine
PHRD      Policy and Human Resource Development
PREM      Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
SI        Strategic Investor
SME    -  Small and medium enterprises
SOE    -  State owned enterprises
TA     -  Technical Assistance
UAH    -  Ukrainian Hryvnia
USAID  -  US Agency for International Development
WTO    -  World Trade Organization

             Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn
           Country Director:      Luca Barbone
            Sector Director:      Cheryl Gray
            Sector Manager:       Deborah L. Wetzel
         Task Team Leader:        Mark Davis

                                          UKRAINE
                    PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN (PAL-I)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P070693                                                      Project Name: Ukraine: Programmatic Adjustment
                                                                         Loan
Team Leader: Mark S. Davis                                               TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 27, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Ukraine: Programmatic Adjustment Loan                    L/C/TF Number: SCL-46390; TF-28396
   Country/Department: UKRAINE                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (35%); Compulsory pension and
                            unemployment insurance (25%); General industry and trade sector
                            (20%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (10%);
                            General energy sector (10%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Other
                            public sector governance (S); Other economic management (S);
                            Regulation and competition policy (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    10/31/2000                                        Effective:                         09/21/2001
   Appraisal:    01/31/2001                                            MTR:
    Approval:    09/20/2001                                         Closing: 12/31/2002               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE
                      Other Partners:      USAID, Dutch Goverment, DFID

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Johannes F. Linn                               Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Luca Barbone                                   Luca Barbone
Sector Manager:                 Deborah L. Wetzel                              Samuel K.E. Otoo
Team Leader at ICR:             Mark Davis                                     Dusan Vujovic
ICR Primary Author:             Sati Achath


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:HS

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:                                     No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
In 2000, for the first time in since Ukraine's independence, its government prepared a
medium-term program that signaled a clear departure from the past and secured endorsement of
its parliament. Against the negative backdrop of the 1990s, and combined with an acceleration of
the reform program, the economic situation turned around in the year 2000. Led by robust
double digit industrial growth, particularly in food-processing, light industry, and metallurgy,
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew by six percent in 2000 and recorded nine percent growth
for the year 2001.

In this context, the Programmatic Adjustment Loan program (PAL) forms the backbone of the
Bank's financial assistance under the Base Case scenario envisaged in the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on September 12, 2000. PAL is designed as a three-year
program of approximately US$750 million in three operations (PAL I, PAL II and PAL III) in
support of concrete achievements in the implementation of the Government of Ukraine's
Medium-Term Economic Development and Reform Program. The program is articulated around
five thematic areas which cut across sectors and aim at an improved institutional framework.
These include: (i) financial discipline, (ii) regulatory framework, (iii) property rights, (iv) public
sector accountability, and (v) management of social and environmental risks.

The program provides the foundation for sustainable growth, with attendant job creation and
higher incomes, which over time lead to greater opportunities for the poor. By addressing the
institutional and governance bottlenecks that prevent private investment from taking a strong
hold, it capitalizes on the existing favorable economic juncture and creates the conditions for
sustainable, job-creating growth, especially in small and medium enterprises.           Second, the
program strongly emphasizes the need to increase public sector accountability through increased
participation in decision-making of citizens and NGOs at all levels of government. Third, the
program aims to help protect the poor by undertaking a pro-poor restructuring of the existing
social programs.

PAL I was presented to the Board of Directors on September 15, 2001. It was originally
intended as a one-tranche operation. However, a change of government in May 2001, while the
operation was still under preparation, raised the question within the Bank as to whether the new
administration would be committed to reforms. Consequently, the operation was split into two
tranches. The first tranche of $150 million was based on achievements already obtained on the
ground and the second tranche of $100 million on a track-record of the new government,
confirming and validating ownership of strategic institutional reforms supported under PAL. The
two tranches were disbursed within the calendar year 2001.

The overall objective of PAL I was to support the government in addressing systemic institutional
and structural issues which are viewed as key limiting factors to the magnitude and sustainability
of inclusive growth in Ukraine: (i) poor fiscal and financial discipline leading to serious
non-payments problems and soft budget constraints in the public and private sectors; (ii) a highly
complex and non-transparent regulatory environment; (iii) weakly-defined and poorly-protected



                                                 - 2 -

property rights; (iv) capture of public institutions by private interests, (v) non-transparent and
poor management of public monies; and (vi) increasing exclusion of the poor and weak
cooperation with civil society.

PAL I's objectives were clear and appropriate. The benchmarks themselves supported selected
activities of the government program already approved by the parliament. The operation was
important because it was the basis for transforming the country from a low case scenario to a base
case scenario. Inter alia, PAL makes investment projects more feasible by supporting the policy
framework necessary to make them successful.            Some examples include reforms in tax
administration, land titling, mortgage and finance, business environment, fiduciary manage, and
improvement in the operation and control over social funds.

The operation was responsive to the needs of the borrower.          It catered to the borrower's
circumstances and priorities on a long-term perspective. The operation took into account lessons
learned from previous Bank assistance to Ukraine in light of the benefits and risks involved. Since
many of the activities proposed under the operation were already executed before the Board
presentation, the risk element was reduced to the degree possible.

Implementation of PAL I was complex and extremely demanding for the borrower because it
involved a multi-sectoral program and an untested mechanism of disbursing the loan only after
implementation of the outcomes on the ground. It was demanding politically; the reforms ran
counter to the interest of some strong power groups. However, the operation was feasible since
the borrower viewed these challenges as fundamental to the success of its medium to long-term
program, and proved capable of implementing it with commitment.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable

3.3 Original Components:


Overall Design:

PAL I consisted of five thematic components which supported achievement of outcome oriented
benchmarks: (i) financial discipline, (ii) regulatory framework, (iii) property rights, (iv) public
sector accountability, and (v) management of social and environmental risks. The first tranche
benchmarked substantial accomplishments toward improved institutions and better public and
private sector governance.     The second tranche continued this process, but also sought to
establish a track record of the new government which was appointed just prior to the Board
presentation of the program.

PAL I`s components were determined by the medium-term framework of structural reforms set
out by the entire PAL program. The program outcomes are summarized in the table below (see
Table 1). At the time of this writing, PAL II is in advanced stages of preparation.

                                       Table 1. PAL Program at a Glance

                           1999                 PAL I                  PAL II                PAL III



                                                - 3 -

Thematic Focus                                                                                 Q4 CY'04
A. Fiscal and   Mutual Offsets          MO disallowed & Tax      Revenues collected only
Financial       (MO) account for a      collections in cash at   in cash.
Discipline      quarter of budget       66% of tax revenues.
                revenues.

                Inter-enterprise        IEA at 68%.              IEA at 55%.              IEA continue to
                arrears (IEA) at                                                          decline toward
                91% of GDP.                                                               international norms.

                Barter at 33% of        Barter at 17% of gross   Barter at 4% of gross    Barter is not an issue.
                gross sales.            sales.                   sales.

                Budget arrears at       Pension arrears          Wage and "other"         Budget arrears are not
                about 4% of GDP         eliminated.              budget arrears           an issue.
                                                                 eliminated; social
                                                                 protection arrears
                                                                 reduced by 75%.


                Cash collection of      Cash collections of      Cash collections for gas Cash collection of
                electricity bills at    energy bills at 50%.     and electricity          energy bills approach
                7.7% of billings and                             at over 90% of total     international norms.
                15% of billings in                               invoices.
                gas.
B. Regulatory  Registration costs -     Registration cost ­ $22, Cost of Doing Business   Cost of Doing
Framework      $67, business            business inspections     Survey confirms          Business Survey
               inspections - 16;        ­12 ; licenses per firm  business environment     confirms business
               licenses per firm - 1.9. ­ 1.5 .                  continues to improve.    environment
                                                                                          continues to improve.

               Weak framework for                                Auditor certification    Traded companies
               corporate governance.                             procedures in            and all financial
                                                                 compliance with IAS.     institutions comply
                                                                                          with ISA and IAS.

                                                                                          New legal framework
                                                                                          enacted to protect
                                                                                          shareholder rights.

               Weak regulation of                                NBU enforcing key        All commercial banks
               financial sector.                                 BIS-compliant            compliant with IAS
                                                                 regulations on banks.    and ISA.

               Management of Saving                              Restructuring plan for   Rules governing
               Bank (with 40% of                                 Savings Bank goes into   management of all
               household deposits) a                             effect.                  state-owned banks
               systemic source of                                                         reformed & Savings
               concern.                                                                   Bank capital-
                                                                                          sufficient.

               Weak regulation of      Energy Regulator brings   Regulator of Non-bank    Regulator in telecom



                                                 - 4 -

                 natural monopolies & electricity tariffs to full financial institutions      sector established and
                 non-bank financial     cost recovery level.      established                 working efficiently.
                 institutions.

                 WTO accession          WTO accession restarted. Bi-lateral WTO               Ukraine WTO ready.
                 process stalled.                                 protocols signed with 11
                                                                  countries.
C. Property       Land reform is         6.5 million land         Adoption of the Land      Unified system of
Rights            stalled.               certificates issued.     Code & issuance of 2.7    registration for legal
                                                                  million land titles.      rights to land and real
                                                                                            estate in place.

                  Non-transparent        Privatization Advisory   Privatization slows, but  Privatization
                  privatization process  Group (PAG) formed.      PAG confirms high         accelerated under new
                  a major source of                               quality implementation    privatization law.
                  concern.                                        of privatization          Quality confirmed by
                                                                  program.                  PAG based on random
                                                                                            sample reviews.


                  Energy sector          6 Oblenergos                                       Oblenergo
                  reform off track.      privatized to strategic  Debt Restructuring Law privatization near
                                         investors through high   enacted which             completion; genco
                                         quality process.         facilitates completion of privatization under
                                                                  power privatization.      preparation.
                                                                  Oblenergo privatization
                                                                  process restarted.

                                                                  Financial advisor hired, Telecom privatization
                                                                  plan prepared and         under way or
                                                                  market tested for         completed.
                                                                  telecom privatization.
                  Bank Ukraina           Banking license of
                  insolvent,             Bank Ukraina             Good progress on Bank     Bank Ukraina
                  threatening            withdrawn.               Ukraina liquidation.      liquidation nearly
                  financial stability of                                                    complete.
                  the Banking Sector.
D. Public Sector  Lack of                Singe Treasury           Most social funds         All social funds
Efficiency and    accountability of      Account established;     brought into the          brought into the
Accountability    budget funds and       all non-social           Treasury System.          Treasury System.
                  extra-budgetary        extra-budgetary funds
                  funds.                 brought into the
                                         Treasury.

                  Non-transparent        Formula-based system     Refinement of transfer
                  discretionary          for allocation of        formula, including
                  allocation of          transfers to oblasts     provision of transfers
                  transfers to local     implemented.             from the State budget
                  budgets.                                        directly to the rayons
                                                                  and cities.


                  Lack of legal and      Public procurement law Non-competitive             Non-competitive



                                                  - 5 -

                institutional         approved.               procurement methods        procurement methods
                framework for                                 reduced to 25% by          further reduced to
                public procurement.                           number of contracts.       15%.


                Inefficient and       Number of ministries    Decision-making
                cumbersome system     and other central       delegated downward and Civil Service
                of public             executive power bodies the role of State           candidates selected
                administration,       reduced from 89 to 50,  Secretariats clarified.    based on specific
                comprises more than   including 16                                       procedures including
                100 of central bodies ministries.                                        standard exams.
                of executive power.

                Tax exemptions                                Tax exemptions and
                given by COM on       256 CoM Resolutions,    privileges reduced by      New tax code under
                discretionary basis   granting tax privileges,60%.                       implementation.
                to selected           cancelled.
                enterprises/sectors.
E. Management   General plan agreed                                                      Legislative framework
of Social and   for 3 pillar pension                                                     for first and third pillar
Environmental   system , but pension                                                     of pension system in
Risks           reform stalled.                                                          place and fiscally
                                                                                         sustainable.


                                      Personified system       Pensions calculated on
                                      introduced and unified   basis of personified
                                      social insurance         records.
                                      database initiated.

                11 social assistance                           Social assistance         Targeted housing and
                programs with as                               programs reduced to 5     communal services
                many different                                 and administration        subsidies provided in
                administrations.                               combined.                 cash to recipients.

                Unpaid entitlements   Occupational privilege   Social and occupational Social and
                of social and         entitlements frozen by   privileges income tested occupational privileges
                occupational          Parliament.              for all public employees. eliminated and/or fully
                privileges amount to                                                     income targeted.
                13% of GDP.


                TB/AIDS epidemics     Comprehensive health     TB/AIDS national          Comprehensive health
                growing without       and education reform     strategies under          and education
                national programs     strategies adopted by    implementation.           strategies refined and
                in place to address   the Cabinet.                                       under implementation.
                them.


                No clear              Government/Bank          First steps taken toward Integrated pollution
                environmental         dialogue on              comprehensive             prevention permits
                policy program.       environmental policy     environmental policy ­    issued and operational
                                      initiated.               fees adjusted, audits     for 8 pilot enterprises.




                                               - 6 -

                                                               undertaken and permit
                                                               system piloted.


In order to design and implement a program to reach the objectives, five working groups were
created, consisting of about 100 staff drawn from various ministries, corresponding to the five
thematic areas.    These made implementation of the project effective, focused, and well
coordinated. Creation of the working groups was viewed as a way to help build capacity of
counterparts in the government. It also proved to create ownership by counterparts at the expert
level, since in most cases they were the authors of the innovations supported by the operation.

Specific Components:

A: Fiscal and Financial Discipline

Lack of fiscal and financial discipline during the past decade led to a large accumulation of fiscal
and inter-enterprise arrears with negative consequences on contract compliance and the overall
business environment. It thus affected the level of economic activity and employment, real
incomes, and timely payment of wages and pensions. This component focused on concrete
improvements in financial discipline, both in terms of addressing arrears to and from the budget,
and focusing on energy payments in cash as the nexus of inter-enterprise arrears. The benchmarks
under this theme included the following: (a) elimination of budgetary offsets, (b) elimination of
pension arrears and reduction of wage and other budget arrears, (c) increasing the payment
record, in cash, of gas and electricity customers, and (d) starting the comprehensive process of
energy sector debt restructuring by focusing on a restructuring plan of the debts of Naftogaz.




                                                - 7 -

B. Regulatory Framework

This component sought to remove obstacles to doing business while providing clear rules of the
game through better, more independent and more accountable regulatory systems. In order to
achieve this, efforts focused on (a) facilitating entry, operation and exit of businesses, (b)
accession to WTO and supporting reforms, (c) strengthening corporate governance, and (d)
improving regulatory systems in key sectors (including finance, telecom and energy). The PAL I
benchmarks included achievements to streamline and simplify business registration and licensing
while reducing the number of inspections. Work was also initiated in the other areas listed and
they were thus included as indicative benchmarks for PAL's II and III. Technical assistance
support was identified where needed to move the process forward.

C. Property Rights

Weaknesses in property rights inhibit opportunities for income-earning activities and investments,
they reduce the power to enforce contracts, and hamper the ability of citizens and legal entities to
retain the benefits of own effort. PAL I targeted the following strategic areas for improved
ownership rights: (a) strengthening property rights in agriculture; (b) supporting a transparent
privatization processes; and (c) utilizing bankruptcy as a mechanism for facilitating the
restructuring (or closure) of ailing enterprises. In agriculture, the benchmark focused on issuance
of land certificates and land titles to agricultural workers while reducing the involvement of the
state in agricultural input and output markets. Efforts were made to improve the transparency
and overall quality of the privatization process, while deepening it to key strategic utilities in the
communications and energy sector. The focus in the area of bankruptcy was Bank Ukraina, a 100
percent state owned bank that had become insolvent and represented systemic financial risks, and
which also had raised questions about the state's governance.


D. Public Sector Efficiency and Accountability

Ukraine's fiscal management and public administration system was designed to encompass almost
every aspect of social and economic life. Making the state more focused and efficient in the
framework of a market economy is an ongoing process supported by the PAL program. Within
this framework, PAL I sought to (a) reform of the system of intergovernmental finance, including
supporting conversion to a formula based system of inter-governmental transfers, (b) implement a
single treasury account system, (c) initiate tax reform through the elimination of tax exemptions
earlier created through Cabinet of Ministers (CoM) decree, (d) support a streamlining of the
ministries and agencies of the state while improving the functioning of the Secretariat of a reduced
CoM, and (e) establish the analytical and planning basis for a comprehensive reform of Ukraine's
fiduciary management and procurement system, which would be supported by future PALs.




                                                 - 8 -

E. Social and Environmental Risk Management

Ukraine inherited an inefficient and overextended system of social services which has limited its
ability to address the emerging social risks that it faces. Similarly, the system of environmental
protection has not responded effectively to lower revenue levels, nor the fundamental changes
that are taking place in the economy and in the sources of pollution. In order to be effective in the
provision of these global public services, the government committed to prioritizing, streamlining
and making efficiency improvements to mitigate downside risks and set the stage for long term
restructuring and improvement of the system. In particular, the program sought to (a) develop an
institutional and technical framework for pension system reform, (b) improve administration and
income targeting of social assistance, (c) improve efficiency of the systems of health and
education and (d) free up public resources and improve targeting of social assistance through a
rationalization of the social and occupational privileges system.


3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable (N.A.)

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Highly Satisfactory. Despite the concerns, the overall rating is considered highly satisfactory
given the innovative nature of the project's design and the resultant improvement - both in terms
of the quality of reform in Ukraine, and in terms of the improved Bank-client relationship.

Operational Design: As mentioned earlier, the objective was consistent with the CAS and the
government's priorities and met the critical needs of the country. The innovativeness and quality
of design was high, and fit the needs of the client, contributing to a marked change for the better
in the Bank-client relationship in Ukraine. Innovative features of the operation include, (a) the
switch to outcome-oriented benchmarks, as opposed to "conditions" which in the past were
action oriented and often poorly owned by the client, (b) multi-sectoral cross-cutting thematic
issues, which allows for progress to be made in a stepwise, yet comprehensive fashion, (c)
emphasis on institutional building as the key to sustainability and implementation of the
government program, (d) design and implementation work executed through inter-agency
working groups in each of the thematic areas, and (e) the risk-minimizing mechanism of
disbursing the loan amount only after implementation of the agreed outcomes. The design of the
program was focused and well structured. The team also secured sufficient and critical technical
assistance grant funds for implementation through PHRD grants and through the Dutch Grant
which was allocated for implementation of the CFAA and CPAR action plan and to assist the
government in its WTO accession activities (more detail on the grants is provided below). The
operation also ensured that all prerequisites were transparently presented and in place on matters
such as budget, inter-governmental financial operations, and financial accounting practices, before
it was presented to the Board.

Of some concern is the fact that the operation was highly optimistic about the timing and
ownership for follow up reforms to be carried out with the support of the PAL II and PAL III
operations. Indicative benchmarks for PAL II and PAL III were sometimes vague and at times
understated the great leaps forward that would be necessary to achieve them. To give a couple of
examples, the PAL II indicative benchmarks include statements such as, "protection of minority


                                                 - 9 -

shareholders secured", "equal treatment of foreign and domestic investors secured (WTO)",
"independence [of the energy regulator] secured". Also, the time frame envisaged within the
Government's Action Plan to Implement the Comprehensive Financial and Accountability
Assessment was far too optimistic and should have been toned down.

Another concern was the lack of focus on the quality of the health and education reform strategies
prepared by the government. These strategies were not costed out, represented a wish list, and
were not sufficiently reviewed (and potentially revised) by and with the help of the Bank staff in
the social sectors before the operation was submitted to the Board.

In sum, PAL I did an excellent job of designing both the overall program and in setting up the
working relationship with the government to deliver the critical policy and institutional reforms to
the success of the government's program. However, the magnitude of the envisaged reform
program is extremely large, a great deal of work was left for future PALs, and the time frame
envisaged by PAL I for subsequent PALs was overly optimistic. While there was significant
commitment and ownership on the part of the Borrower, the depth and breath of the called for
reforms, which naturally will span more than one government, will require continued and intensive
efforts to deepen understanding and ownership for the proposed package of reforms. That said,
the PAL team envisaged that these reforms would take serious time and effort, and thus proposed
a programmatic approach.

Coordination with the IMF.        Intense discussion and information sharing took place at the
preparation and implementation stage of PAL I between the Bank and the Fund. Especially in the
areas of improved financial discipline and fiscal reform, the IMF and the Bank cooperated on a
continuous basis. In monitoring the progress of structural reforms, the Bank took the lead and
the IMF relied on Bank support. Especially, these related to the following: strategic privatizations
of large industrial enterprises and companies in infrastructure sectors (especially energy and
telecom), restructuring of the banking sector, improved cash collections in energy, reforms in
agriculture, progress in deregulation and public administration reform.

Coordination with other Donors. PAL provided a framework for integrating and prioritizing
donor technical assistance and making it more effective. This allowed the government to reduce
the dispersion of efforts that sometimes took place in the past. Moreover, PAL, by focusing
assistance on priority areas, helped deal with the decreasing total volume of external donor
support. The three-year framework of the government program supported by PAL offered a
more appropriate time horizon to permit donors to align their assistance with the emerging
priorities.

A Policy and Human Resource Development (PHRD) Grants from the Japanese Government of
US$ 490,658 were provided for preparation of PAL I. Funds within the PHRD grant were used
in each of the five thematic areas. Following Board approval of the PAL I operation, the Bank
presented donors with a program of priority TA, and set up a mechanism of donor coordination to
enable the government to deliver on the expected outcomes and reliably measure achievements
during the latter part of the three-year program. A Dutch Grant in the amount of $2,640,000 was
extended to focus on three specific areas: (a) implementation of the CFAA Action Plan, (b)



                                               - 10 -

implementation of the Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) Action Plan, and (c)
preparation assistance for the WTO accession process.             Other technical assistance was
coordinated with PAL I primarily through the periodic budgeting process of Ukraine's active
donors.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. Through various reform measures and improved governance implemented through
PAL I, the government succeeded in achieving economic growth and macroeconomic stability for
the first time since independence in 1991. Equally importantly, PAL I made significant progress
in the establishment of a program of institutional and structural reform which can sustain the
positive economic dynamics over the medium to long term.

Macroeconomic stabilization and growth (satisfactory):                Key achievements on the
macroeconomic front include cumulative growth since 1999 at 22%, single-digit inflation, a
sustained current account surplus, and a quadrupling of reserves (to 8 weeks of imports despite
sizeable IMF repayments). The government was also able to maintain a low fiscal deficit (a small
surplus in 2002), reduce the ratio of debt to GDP, and considerably reduce stock of budgetary
arrears. While it is difficult to attribute causality, there is a strong correlation between the
implementation of reforms under PAL I and Ukraine's improved economic situation (See table 2).
On the cautious side, the dramatic increase in money demand and deposits by the population and
domestic enterprises into the banking sector (banking assets are growing at a rate of over 50
percent per year), while good news, creates risks of financial instability. Real interest rates remain
relatively high, bank supervision, while a part of the PAL II program needs continual
improvement, and the fledgling banking sector too often lacks the expertise to properly evaluate
and track its lend portfolios. Efforts moving forward need to be continued to watch this evolving
situation very closely, while improvements in the legal and institutional framework (a focus of
PAL II and PAL III) need to be made to facilitate financial intermediation in Ukraine.

                         Table 2. Macroeconomic Indicators, 1998-2002
                                     1998       1999          2000          2001       2002
Real GDP Growth (% p.a.)             -1.9       -0.2           5.9          9.2        4.8
Export Growth (% of current          -13.4      -7.3          18.0          9.4        10.7
$)
Fiscal Balance (% of GDP)            -2.2        -1.5          0.6          -0.3        0.8
Current Account Balance (% of        -3.0        5.4           4.7          3.7         7.7
GDP)
External PPG Debt (% of              37.1       49.9           33.1         26.3       24.6
GDP)
Inflation (% p.a.)                   10.5      22.7           28.2         12.2        0.8




                                               - 11 -

Fiscal and Financial Discipline (satisfactory):                    Non-transparent budget offsets based on
non-registered veksels "Veksel" roughly translates to tradable "I.O.U's"1 were disallowed in
mid-2000 and completely eliminated in the budget 2001. This was sustained under the PAL I
second tranche.

                      Figure 1


              Non-payments in Ukrainian Economy


  100.0                                6.0           Overdue
   80.0                                5.0           payables/GDP, %
                                                     (left scale)
   60.0                                4.0
                                       3.0           Barter/gross sales,
   40.0                                2.0           % (left scale)
   20.0                                1.0
    0.0                                0.0           Budgetary

               1997 1998 1999 2000 2001              arrears/GDP, %
                                                     (right scale)
                       Years

By mid-September 2000, the government had completely eliminated pension arrears which had
stood at UAH 1.3 billion at the beginning of the year. It has remained current ever since. During
2000, wage arrears payable from the budget were reduced by about 60 percent to less than UAH
470 million, and by November 2001 they had been reduced by 97 percent. Social protection
arrears were reduced by 26 percent and stood at about UAH 700 million at the end of the first
quarter 2001. Progress was also made reducing arrears of the budget to the energy sector.
During 2000 and the first two months of 2001, the outstanding amount of energy arrears from the
budget was reduced by UAH 4.2 billion or almost 75 percent (Figures 1 and 2).

                   Figure 2

                                          Electricity
                   Cash Collections       Gas

            100
             90
             80
             70
             60
             50

     Percent 40
             30
             20
             10
             0



In the energy sector, large electricity debtors were identified and the debt of six oblenergos was
restructured. These six oblenergos were subsequently privatized by selling them to strategic




                                                          - 12 -

investors. Fostering financial discipline in the sector, oblenergos exercised their legal right to
disconnect 23,000 delinquent customers out of 33,000 debtors. Significant progress was made in
terms of cash collections for gas and electricity. Cash payments from the oblenergos to the
Energomarket increased dramatically, from 10.7% of electricity bills in January 2000 to 75.5% as
of October 1, 2001 (with an average of 71.1% for the first 10 months of 2001). Similarly, the
level of cash settlements for consumed natural gas as of November 1, 2001 was 90.2%. Progress
was made identifying the internal debt of Naftogaz and preparing a restructuring plan. As
envisaged, these developments had a significant impact on the energy sector in particular and on
the economy in general. By the middle of 2002, for example, barter transactions in the economy
had fallen by more than 50 percent from their peak and represented less than 4 percent of GDP.

Despite these dramatic improvements in financial discipline, significant problems remain. Among
the biggest is the continued problem of the accumulation of tax arrears to the budget, and the
accumulation of VAT refund arrears from the budget to exporters. Naftogaz in particular, while
collecting more revenues in cash, continued to accumulate large tax arrears during the PAL I
period. The tax amnesty that was extended to the enterprise sector during 2001 was a negative
influence on financial discipline, and is now a major issue for the ongoing PAL II program.

Regulatory Framework (satisfactory): Concrete progress was made toward improvement of
Ukraine's business environment, especially for small and medium enterprises. Toward this end,
the program focused on business registration, licensing and inspections. One-stop registration has
been put in place. In accordance with CoM Regulation "On Procedure for State Registration of
Subjects of Entrepreneurial Activity" the term of state registration makes up not more than five
office days. Additionally, a mechanism for accelerated registration (during one day) has been
introduced. The licensing procedure was also simplified. In June 2000, the parliament approved
a new licensing law, which streamlined licensing procedures by allowing a single license to cover
multiple economic activities. Implementing regulations of the law were adopted by October 2000
and they have been under implementation since that time.
Progress in improving the business environment was demonstrated through the ongoing process
of annual surveys of newly-registered businesses conducted by the USAID and IFC. Surveys
indicated: (i) the official cost of registration has gone down from US$192 in 1997 to US$22 in
2001, while the time needed to register a new business (i.e., obtain a new registration certificate)
has decreased from 34.7 days in 1997 to 12.1 days in 2001; (ii) the number of licenses needed per
enterprise has gone down from 3 in 1997 to 1.5 in 2001, while reasonable time limits (a maximum
of 16 days) are set to help avoid delays and opportunities for graft seeking by officials empowered
to issue licenses2; and (iii) the number of inspections has been brought down from an average of
30 per enterprise during 1998 to 12 in 2001. (Figures 3 and 4).

               Figure 3                                                Figure 4




                                                 - 13 -

                  Number of Small enterprises

 250.00



 200.00


                                                             Small enterprises,
 150.00                                                      thousands

                                                             Small enterprises in
                                                             industry, thousands

 100.00



  50.00



   0.00
           1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001




                 Time to Register an Enterprise


         40

         35

         30

         25

         20
     Days
         15

         10

          5

          0
                 1997          1998          1999         2000        2001




While real improvements were made to improve the business environment for small and medium
enterprises, perhaps more should have been done toward the establishment of regulatory bodies.
The regulatory of the energy sector does not have de facto independence, and too often remains
under the wing of the CoM in terms of major policy decisions in the energy sector. Also, the
telecom privatization process was out in front of the establishment of clear rules of the game in
the sector.          While a law was passed clearing the way for sale of management control of
Ukrtelecom, within the PAL I framework, no policy statement on telecom regulation and tariffs
objectives was issued by the government, no progress was made to establish an independent
regulator, and no changes were made or envisaged to rebalance tariffs prior to privatization.
Experience has shown that all of these steps are important for the quality of the privatization
process toward good development outcomes for the sector through devolution by the state of
telecom utilities.

Property Rights (satisfactory): Progress was achieved in the process of transformation of the
ownership/organizational structure in agriculture.                                Kolkhozes in Ukraine were discontinued,



                                                                          - 14 -

which formerly were the dominant organization form for agricultural production.                  Land
certificates were distributed to more than 6.5 million former Kolkhoz members. Ownership rights
to land plots averaged 4.2 hectares of arable land. Following the issuance of land certificates,
close to 1.3 million land title deeds to specific plots of land were assigned and registered by the
time of the first tranche. This figure had been increased to 1.81 million titles by November 1,
2001.    Also, state monopoly in the procurement of agricultural inputs and the purchase of
agricultural output was further reduced and now stands at less than one-tenth of pre-reform
levels.

During the year 2000, progress was made in initiating privatizations of large-scale enterprises,
launching and completing privatization of six additional oblenergos, and in identifying a pool of
large state-owned enterprises to be privatized in the next three years. In parallel, progress was
made to improve the transparency and effectiveness of the privatization process of industrial and
energy enterprises. A Privatization Advisory Group (PAG) was formed, made up of a group of
local and foreign experts, to review privatizations done during the first three quarters of 2001.
This included the review of privatization of eight large industrial enterprises ex poste, according to
a pre-set list of transparency criteria.      PAG confirmed that the privatization process was
acceptable and that the majority of privatization tenders reviewed in January-September, 2001
met the transparency criteria.

In the area of telecommunications, the telecom privatization law was passed allowing a strategic
investor to: (a) acquire a minimum of 25 percent+1 shares through a competitive process; and (b)
gain operating control of the telecom (i.e. 50 percent plus one share) by receiving for management
an additional block of shares owned by the state. A competitive tender to hire an advisor for the
privatization of Ukrtelecom was also issued and an advisor was selected.

The government also made significant progress in resolving the insolvent Bank Ukraina through
bankruptcy. A government decision was taken to implement the Resolution Plan for Bank
Ukraina, and it was implemented as agreed. The Banking license was removed and formal
foreclosure procedures were started through the appointment of a liquidator.
While good progress was made in the area of property rights, problems remain which need to be
addressed. The quality of land titles actually issued to certificate holders is reportedly not high,
due to lack of a cadastre and other factors. Efforts are ongoing to address this problem through
PAL II and through a bank project on land titling and cadastre. While the PAG did confirm that
the privatization process was acceptable according to the transparency criterion, the criterion
themselves do not capture competitiveness of tenders, and the list of privatizations reviewed by
PAG was selected by the government.             This latter issue was addressed through PAL II
preparation work, and the issue of competitiveness was raised during that process to be addressed
in PAL III. While extremely important for the country, the quality of the power privatization
process could have been better. There was not sufficient background work done to clarify the
assets that are associated with the privatization tenders, and not enough was done to clear the
debts of the sector overall, so that the privatization program moving forward has been stymied by
the need to deal with the large debt overhand among the remaining majority state owned power
companies. The mismatch between the Ukrtelecom privatization process and establishment of a
good regulatory environment in the telecom sector was raised above.



                                                 - 15 -

Public Sector Efficiency and Accountability (satisfactory): Budget transparency was improved.
The formula-based calculation of transfers was included in the Law on 2001 Budget (Article 50)
specifying both the transfers from the state budget to oblasts, and the methodology for calculating
further transfers to lower levels of government. This methodology, developed by the CoM, was
adopted by oblast and Republic of Crimea legislatures and implementation was monitored by the
Ministry of Finance and the Bank during the first nine months of 2001. It was confirmed that the
use of formula for distributing transfers had a positive impact on the fulfillment of local budgets as
to revenues and ensured funding of functions placed on local bodies of power. Local budgets
were fulfilled as to revenues by 100% in the first 10 months of 2001. The distribution of
equalization subsidies belonging to local budgets from the state budget for this period were
financed in full measure. As of November 1, 2001, local budgets received equalization subsidies
amounting to UAH 3434.2 million or 90% of the annual volume. This process was continued for
the 2002 Budget formulation. Distribution of volumes of inter-budgetary transfers (equalization
subsidies and funds, which are transferred from the state budget) between the state budget and
local budgets for 2002 was carried out in conformity with CoM Regulation No 1195, dated
September 5, 2001. The 2002 Budget extended the formula-based system to both the oblast and
rayon level.
Progress toward implementing the single Treasury account also proceeded well. By the end of
PAL I, all departments of the State Treasury had been included into the electronic payment
system of the National Bank of Ukraine. Introduction of a State Treasury account was completed
in all oblasts of Ukraine by December 1, 2001.

In the follow up to the Comprehensive Financial and Accountability Assessment (CFAA)
prepared by the Bank in 2001, tangible progress was made during the last quarter of 2001 toward
implementing its recommendations. In particular, an action plan of the CoM was approved by the
CoM Commission for improving the system of financial control of Ukraine. This plan was
prepared by the Ministry of Finance with the participation of representatives of ministries and
departments and coordinated with World Bank experts. In parallel, an action plan of the Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) was also adopted by the CoM. The key development
on that front was the passage of a new procurement law which has wide applicability, allows a
decentralized procurement system, and advocates sound public procurement principles.

Efforts were also made to improve the decision making process of the CoM. In particular were
the following: (a) creation of a smaller and more efficient Cabinet with less than 20 members
representing a reduced number of central government bodies (from over 80 to 50 including 16
ministries); (b) establishment of specialized CoM Committees; and (c) improved functioning of
the CoM Secretariat and adaptation of its structure to meet Cabinet needs.

Finally, the process of reforming tax policy was begun through the elimination of tax exemptions
which had earlier been granted by the CoM. This included a CoM decision to cancel 256 earlier
CoM resolutions resulting in less distortion from the tax system and a substantial increase in
Ukraine's tax base.




                                                - 16 -

Social and Environmental Risk Management (satisfactory):            An institutional and technical
framework for a reformed pension system was established. A unified system of personal pension
accounts was introduced enabling a detailed recording of lifetime contributions as a basis for
future pension/benefits determination and an anchor of two mandatory pension pillars. This was
complemented by a transfer of the pension determination function from the Social Protection units
to the Pension Fund, and the creation of a unified social insurance database enabling an efficient
reform of the social insurance system.3
Social assistance was improved by consolidating social benefits and the social assistance
administration. A new unified targeting methodology was approved and was being used in all
means-tested programs. In order to make progress in creating a unified social insurance database,
a tender was held which resulted in the state publishing company Poligraphkombinat Ukraina
becoming a winner. The contract was signed with it for production of 100 thousand social
insurance IDs by the end of 2001. Also, the network of territorial centers was extended to all
rayons in the country and outreach services were expanded to include an additional 10,000 old
and disabled persons.

A framework was developed for improvements in health and education, and concrete steps along
the way were taken. A medium-term strategy of reforms in health protection sphere was
approved.4 Included in the health strategy was a program to reduce the threat of HIV/AIDS.5 The
government also approved an education sector reform strategy. A draft of the National Doctrine
for Developing Education in Ukraine in the 21st Century was developed and approved at the
Second All-Ukrainian Congress of Educationalists. Laws of Ukraine "On Out-of-School
Education, and "On Preschool Education" were adopted. The CoM Regulation "On Transition of
General Educational Establishments to New Contents, Structure and 12-Year Term of Study"
was adopted on November 16, 2000. Also, the CoM Regulation, dated May 6, 2001, "On
Approval of Program for the Informatization of General Educational Establishments,
Computerization of Village Schools for 2001-2003" was adopted.

While a significant step forward in terms of outlining a strategy to move forward toward
fundamental structural reform of the social sectors, the medium term strategies need significant
additional work. Both strategies are large on wishes and small on realistic estimates of what can
be done within the fiscal/financial envelop available to Ukraine's public sector. The strategies
were not accompanied by realistic financial projections, nor a clear program of needed investment.
Also, they did not consider the potential benefits and positive incentives that could be provided
through the ongoing fiscal decentralization effort. The linkages on that front have yet to be fully
drawn. Part of the problem here was perhaps too little input by the Bank human development and
economic management team in the formulation of the strategies. Efforts in the future need to be
focused squarely on this issue, in particular if they are to be supported by future Bank investment
projects.

Nevertheless, while working on the design of a medium-term institutional strategy to improve
health and education systems in Ukraine, the government achieved a number of tangible outcomes
such as: (a) improved control of public health risks achieved through pilots started in Donetsk
Oblast and Kiev to test the TB DOTS method adapted to national conditions; (b) primary health
care improved through new family medicine centers and introduction of new university



                                                 - 17 -

specialization in family medicine; (c) a health resource allocation pilot was started in Lviv; (d)
improved methods of education management and finance were piloted in Lviv; and (e) a national
program of 12-year compulsory education was adopted. In addition, the Ministry of Education
and Science jointly with the International Renaissance Fund, Institute of Educational Policy
(Budapest), and UNDP introduced a large-scale technical aid project for "Support Program for
Developing an Education Reform Strategy". The goal of the project is to assist the government
of Ukraine in the formation of a national education policy by means of analyzing policy, attracting
and paying due account to public opinion and supporting national discussions of education
reform. The program ensures support to the Ministry of Education and Science in developing the
draft of the National Education Development Doctrine.

Progress was also made to rationalize Ukraine's system of social and occupational privileges,
which are not justified on poverty or equity grounds, are for the most part not paid by the budget,
and yet represent a significant financial burden on communal service and transportation companies
which cannot charge for services that they are obliged to render. During 1999, 2000 and 2001
the government froze the entitlements of many categories of privileges recipients through
inclusion of an article to that effect in the annual budget laws. This resulted in a 40 percent
reduction of the number of privileged persons. However, in the lead-up to the parliamentary
elections this article was omitted from the 2002 Budget law. In 2003, the Government of Ukraine
restarted to take measures aimed at revisiting the system of social and occupational privileges.
Article 59 of the Budget law 2003 has introduced means-testing in order to limit the number of
occupational privileges' recipients to those public workers whose income is less than subsistence
minimum.        The government has also started creating the single registry of social privilege
recipients in order to eliminate double counting of entitled persons and control the amounts
requested by utility enterprises from local governments for privileges. Article 59 of Budget 2003
also limits housing and communal service entitlements to immediate family members of privileged
persons. Efforts are now ongoing to re-register all remaining privilege recipients.

_______________________________________________

1"Veksel" roughly translates to tradable "I.O.U's".

2These time limits are as follows: 10 days for acceptance of an application and decision-making by the authorities,
3 days to for the authorities to notify an applicant of the decision, and 3 days for paperwork.

3The setting up of an institutional and technical framework for pension reform was started when the pension
determination function was transferred to the Pension Fund in 11 of Ukraine's 26 oblasts. Pursuant to the
Resolution of the CoM "On Approving Priority Tasks of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for 2001" preparatory
work has started to transfer pension-determination function to the Pension Fund of Ukraine (PFU) bodies in
remaining oblasts.

4This included the following: (a) Enactment of the President of Ukraine "On Concept on Development of Public
Health Protection in Ukraine" which was signed on December 7, 2000; and (b) CoM Regulation "On Approving
Measures for implementation of the Concept on Development of Public Health Protection in Ukraine" adopted on
August 9, 2001.

5Toward this end a number of legislative documents have been adopted: (a) the Law of Ukraine "On the
Ratification of the Agreement on Co-operation in Addressing the HIV-infection Problem"; (b) enactment of the
President of Ukraine # 1182 of November 1, 2000, "On the Urgent Measures to Prevent the Spread of
HIV-infection/AIDS"; (c) Cabinet of Ministers Regulation # 116 of February 7, 2001, "On Setting up a




                                                          - 18 -

Government Commission for the Prophylaxis of HIV-infection/AIDS"; (d) Cabinet of Ministers Regulation # 790
of July 11, 2001, "On The Program for the Prophylaxis of HIV-infection/AIDS for the 2001 to 2003 Period"; (e)
Enactment of the President of Ukraine # 741 of August 28, 2001, "On Additional Measures to Step Up Efforts in
Combating HIV-infection/AIDS"; and (f) Cabinet of Ministers Regulation # 1401 of October 26, 2001, "Certain
Issues of the Government Commission for the Prophylaxis of HIV/AIDS".


4.2 Outputs by components:

Same as in Section 4.1

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N.A.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Substantial. The operation resulted in a significant institutional development impact. A few
examples are highlighted here:

l Improvement in business environment as demonstrated by reduced cost of registration,
    reduced time to register new business, and simplified licensing system;
l Transformation of ownership of agricultural land by the issuance of land certificates to more
    than 6.5 million individuals and land title deeds to 1.3 million individuals;
l Progress in transparent privatization of industrial and energy enterprises, including
    privatization of six oblenergos;
l Improved budget transparency, reform of the public administration, and elimination of tax
    exemptions;
l Introduction of institutional and technical framework for pension system reform, including a
    unified system of personal pension accounts, thereby enabling detailed recording of lifetime
    contributions as a basis for future pension/benefits determination;
l Development of a new procurement law which has wide applicability, allows a decentralized
    procurement system, and advocates sound public procurement principles;
l Progress in consolidating social benefits and the social assistance administration;
l Improved control of public health risks, improved primary health care through new family
    medicine centers and introduction of new university specialization in family medicine,
    improved methods of education management and finance, and adoption of a national program
    of 12-year compulsory education;
l Capacity building within the government to develop and manage its economic policy as well
    as its ability to interact with the Bank for economic policy and institutional strengthening.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Favorable factors.

A favorable external environment. Demand from Russia for the export of traditional products


                                                     - 19 -

such as chemicals, metals, and agro-products contributed for the country's growth. Like many
other countries in the region, the 1998 regional financial crisis had a cathartic effect on Ukraine in
terms of reinforcing fiscal austerity and correcting a number of imbalances.

Good weather in the country during the operation period benefited agricultural production,
especially at a time when the government turned to private sector for input supply and grain
purchase.

Unfavorable factors.

Political Factors.    The relationship between the executive and the parliament in Ukraine is
complex and often did not coalesce to advance necessary legislation in a timely manner, even if
there were no major disagreements on the fundamentals of reform. Political infighting affected not
only the speed of institutional reform, but also the ability of the nation to take a clear position in
its international relations. For example, some of the government policies were not supported by
parliament such as passage of legislation to permanently eliminate tax exemptions and social and
occupational privileges.

Interest Groups. Vested interests in the status quo succeeded to block some reform initiatives.
These interests took advantage of the fractured power structure, in which often the President, the
Prime Minister, the bureaucracy, and groups in the parliament followed conflicting political
agendas. Thus, often it was difficult to put together winning coalitions to advance needed
reforms.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Favorable factors:

Because the PAL I was built on the government's own program, the government used the project
to build and strengthen its own vision of economic reform.            Rather than operating in an
environment of the Bank imposing steps on the government, the government used the PAL as a
constructive tool for moving forward in a variety of areas, some of which were very difficult given
the political and interest group issues mentioned above.

The government also organized itself in a manner to accentuate institutional development and
capacity development among a broad number of government officials.               This was extremely
important because these officials are ultimately responsible for the day-to day implementation of
reforms.    The government's approach to project organization and implementation helped to
strengthen stakeholders.

Unfavorable factors.

At the beginning of the operation the government had only limited capacity for strengthening the
technical skills of public officials, which was necessary to advance detailed institution building at
the sector level. This was addressed throughout project preparation and implementation through
technical assistance funded by donors, through hands-on assistance from Bank experts across the


                                                    - 20 -

range of policy issues, and through regular meetings of working groups in each of the five
thematic areas of PAL. The working groups proved to be an excellent forum to deal with
blockages to institutional reform since they served as an "early warning" means of identifying
roadblocks, allowed the Bank to act as a catalyst or arbitrator on a case by case basis, and
informed the Bank of where special technical assistance and/or hands on attention from the team
was needed ­ especially to bring to light practices that have proven effective elsewhere in the
world. That said, the process of building capacity of the counterpart will require sustained efforts
moving forward.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
N.A.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Bank budget costs of the project totaled US$ 891,004.32 over a period of 36 months. These
costs served cross purposes, in particular by providing a unified vehicle for policy dialogue across
the government program and the CAS. They also included up-front program design costs which
allow for economies of scale vis-·-vis the PAL II and PAL III operations. Finally, as mentioned in
section 5.2 above, the Bank team worked together with the government on formulation and
implementation of the program. This helped improve the technical basis for counterparts in the
government to implement institutional reform moving forward.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely. Sustainability of the operation is likely considering the following factors:

The approval of the PAL I operation was both a recognition of the results already achieved by the
government and a provision of the necessary financial and institutional support to ensure a
sustainable macroeconomic environment, which would help maintain the reform drive.              The
government had already met the benchmarks associated with the first tranche in advance of Board
presentation. The reform results achieved subsequently have helped strengthen the pro-reform
constituencies among broad sectors of the population including pensioners, new land owners,
wage earners, SME owners and employees. Furthermore, both the President and Prime Minister
have made strong and detailed public commitments to preserve reform results and sustain the path
of reforms.

Certain outcomes such as issuance of 6.5 million land certificates and 1.3 million land title deeds,
and privatization of 6 oblenergos to strategic investors, appear are all but irreversible. Two
others, the freezing of entitlements of social and occupational privileges and the introduction of
the position of "State Secretaries" in the public administration, have unfortunately been reversed.
Ensuring the sustainability of remaining reforms, such as issuance of more land titles, and
continued transparent privatization of large industrial/energy enterprises, are undertaken by the
proposed PAL II and PAL III. Likewise, PAL II and PAL III would also ensure continued
progress across the board, including the following examples: (a) further budget transparency; (b)
improved use of public resources; (c) deepened reforms in public administration; (d) a more
efficient tax system; (e) progress in establishment of legislative, technical, and institutional


                                                    - 21 -

framework for pension reform; (f) better targeted and administered social assistance, and (g)
improved quality of social care, health care, and education.
On the other hand, Ukraine will continue to face a difficult political situation in the years ahead, as
was stressed in the 2000 CAS document.             Pre-election politics in the run up to the 2004
presidential election will pose special challenges.       Continued Bank engagement would help
enhance government's reform capacity through policy advice, technical assistance and very
importantly, a broad dialogue with parliament and civil society. The presence of a viable reform
strategy supported by the Bank and other IFIs will have a critical role to play during that time to
mobilize the pro-reform stakeholders inside and outside the country to preserve widely-supported
reform results achieved thus far and to advance the reform agenda that enjoys broad public
support. However, it must be expected that in such environment the implementation of difficult
reforms are unlikely to proceed as quickly as would be desirable.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N.A.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Highly Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of
the project was highly satisfactory. The Bank took into account the project's consistency with the
government's development priorities and the Bank's CAS, and came up with a thematic approach
which worked out very well. The Bank had a harmonious cross-sectoral team with a good skill
mix and brought in state of the art expertise at the stage of project design. Managing such a
broad team imposed additional transactions costs, but the task manager handled these elements
well.

During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project design and
all major relevant aspects such as technical, financial, economic, institutional, and financial
management. A number of preparation missions were conducted by the Bank with a hands-on
approach. The availability of PHRD Grants facilitated the preparation process, although it took
some time to get trust fund support into place. In addition, during the appraisal, the Bank
assessed the project's risks and benefits. The Bank had a consistently good working relationship
with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal, and they worked together, often in
cooperation with other donors, in developing and implementing the necessary instruments to
assure that the benchmarks were met.

The Bank's resident mission in Kyiv was fundamental to the preparation and supervision of the
project. In particular, the Poverty Reduction and Economic Management (PREM) team at the
Kyiv office played a strong coordinating role, and all of the project officers contributed
substantively in their areas of expertise. The local Bank staff provided consistent attention and
follow up.     They worked closely with the government and provided them with extensive
assistance, such as reviewing legal documents, and giving technical comments.




                                                  - 22 -

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory.
Considering the different nature in this type of an adjustment loan compared to a traditional
project, and since almost all of the benchmarks were already met prior to Board submission, the
role of supervision during implementation was limited to verifying that the second tranche
benchmarks had been met and that there had been no backsliding. The Bank had allocated
sufficient budget resources, and the project was adequately supervised.      The Bank's client
relationship was very cordial and productive.

Because PAL I was inextricably linked to the rest of the PAL series, the Bank could closely
monitor and supervise continued implementation of reforms during the preparation of the PAL II
operation. As a result, the Bank took a firm and dynamic role in monitoring the progress of the
operation beyond the disbursement of the second tranche.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Highly Satisfactory.    Overall, the Bank performance was highly satisfactory during project
preparation, appraisal and implementation.    In particular, the Bank team did a very good job,
with the government, in designing a program which would work and be sustainable in a difficult
and politically charged environment, in some areas where previous attempted projects had run
into unmanageable difficulties.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Highly Satisfactory.    During the preparation stage, the Borrower displayed a high level of
commitment to the objective of the project and covered the adequacy of design and all major
aspects such as technical, financial, economic, institutional, environmental and sociological
factors. The government officials worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continual
basis, with full cooperation and enthusiasm.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. Responsibility for PAL I preparation and implementation within government was
with the First Vice Prime Minister, supported by the Deputy Minister of Economy, a coordinating
group, and five inter-ministerial working groups headed by deputy ministers. These groups
worked actively on the implementation of the government program in five thematic areas
supported under PAL, as well as prepared inputs for PAL preparation and the necessary materials
for the CoM consideration. The working groups, which consisted of highly qualified people with
professional capacity, prepared the internal action plans to achieve the stated benchmarks,
monitor and document progress made, and prepared further steps for the subsequent operations in
the PAL series. They were very well organized and effective in dealing with various aspects of
the operation. These same groups continue to be active in the design and implementation of the
proposed PAL II and PAL III operations.

Despite the relatively good performance of the Borrower in implementation of the program, there


                                              - 23 -

is room for considerably more improvement. The quality of actions taken were sometimes mixed,
(e.g., the health and education strategies, the privatization process, etc.) and in two cases (social
and occupational privileges and public administration reform) there was some backsliding after the
PAL I disbursed (although, with respect to social and occupational privileges, this backsliding has
been largely addressed).

7.6 Implementing Agency:

N.A.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory. As discussed above,
very good efforts were made by the Borrower to prepare and implement the program in good
faith with agreements and with commitment. As described in detail in section 4, nearly all
objectives and outcomes have been accomplished. The Borrower maintained strong interest in the
progress of the project, and was proactive in resolving all the issues that arose during
implementation.

8. Lessons Learned

l Adjustment lending programs work well when based on the government's own priorities and
    when the government owns the process. This is especially important if the program involves a
    wide range of activities. In addition, having a long-term adjustment program consisting of
    three PALs may ensure sustainability against government backtracking. This would give an
    opportunity to see the progress and direction of the program and also the flexibility to make
    necessary modifications to adapt the program to changing circumstances. Further, for the
    success of the operation, it is important to ensure that adequate technical background work is
    done, and there is sufficient capacity and understanding of issues on the government's side.

l Adjustment programs are built upon the government's program, and with the government as
    a counterpart, and are thus vulnerable to changes in government and political instability.
    As governments change, it becomes important to re-establish dialogue as a basis for the
    reform program. Constituencies for particular reforms may also need to be rebuilt. This is
    something that often takes time to accomplish and may lead to delays.

l A cross-cutting, thematic design provides both flexibility and depth for addressing systemic
    institutional reform. It is flexible in that it allows more room for sequencing reforms in sync
    with opportunities as they arise and/or the pace of related institutional developments - which
    ultimately require hard work and time to achieve. Within its framework, and recognizing the
    often stepwise nature of reform progress, the approach provides discipline because there is a
    pre-agreed program of needed, and complementary reforms which are to be addressed within
    the programmatic package. The cross-cutting nature is important given the strong synergies
    between market supporting institutions. There is value in having unifying framework, across
    the Bank team and within the government, where linkages can be explored and made. The
    2000 CAS built upon this possibility and took note of lessons learned from the weak
    performance of the previous CAS experience. In particular, it noted that policy-based


                                                   - 24 -

    operations should concentrate on effective results on the ground, that they should fully reflect
    government ownership and cover the most critical systemic elements affecting the quality of
    public and private institutions.

l The concept of benchmarks, as opposed to conditionality, serves two purposes: (a) it takes
    the Bank out of the delicate situation of imposing terms and conditions; and (b) lowers the
    risk of the project, in the sense that the outcomes are already achieved. In particular, it
    confirmed that the time frame for reforms should not be driven by expectations and promises,
    but rather by the counterpart's ability to implement concrete achievements. However, the
    benchmark approach may require patience on the part of the Bank when reforms do not
    evolve as rapidly as initially envisaged.

l Good team work, commitment, and ownership on the part of the Bank as well as in the
    government's working groups played a positive role in the effective implementation of the
    project. Multi-agency representation in the working groups in particular helped to improve
    communication across agencies, which in turn helped to solve problems within the
    government. Regular meetings of the working groups helped the Bank team keep a close
    watch on developments, avoid problems before they became entrenched, organize itself
    according to client's needs, and to arrange for technical assistance where appropriate. In the
    development of a program which extends over a period of years, its is important to be
    realistic on what can be accomplished during this period. The typical three year horizon of a
    medium-term framework lends itself to the expectation that reforms may be fully completed in
    a three year period. While in some cases this may be true, in many areas it will take much
    more time (five to ten years) to fully complete the reform agenda. The strong multi-sector
    team and cross-cutting nature of the operation was an advantage, however, they also
    required efforts at both team-building and communication that go beyond those in more
    traditional projects. Such projects will need to be sure to pay sufficient attention to adequate
    staffing and resources to make sure these objectives can be obtained, and efforts should be
    made to maintain realistic assumptions about what is appropriate and achievable within the
    program horizon.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1. Formulation/Assessment of Objectives

The World Bank, upon the request of the Government of Ukraine, adopted a decision on funding
the implementation of the midterm program of Ukraine's government by extending a
Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL) in the course of 2000-2003.

The main objective of the Programmatic Adjustment Loan - 1 (PAL I) included guaranteed
support to the Government in the solution of key systematic problems as to five thematic areas
and envisaged the following objectives within the PAL I project framework:

a) in the sphere of improving financial and fiscal discipline
l discontinuation of budget offset operations; reduction of budget arrears;



                                                 - 25 -

l timely payment of pensions, further reduction of budget arrears on wages by 50% and on
    energy payments by 60% with regard to January 1, 2000;
l the stock of other budget arrears with regard to July 1, 2000 should not be increased;
l reduction of electricity/gas payment arrears.


b) in the regulatory framework
l securing positive improvement in the business environment, such as simplifying procedures for
    establishing new enterprises and making them less costly;
l simplifying licensing system;
l reduction of number of inspections.


c) securing a legal framework for complete transfer of property rights, which envisaged
reforms of agriculture and energy sector and creation of favorable conditions in Ukraine
for attracting investors
l privatization of energy companies;
l introduction of transparent privatization rules according to individual timetable;
l implementation of bankruptcy procedures;
l continuation of land reforms in agriculture, within framework which foresees elimination of
    Kolkhozes, adoption of Land Code and establishment of a system for the registration of land
    titles.

d) increasing public sector responsibility
l enhancing system of inter-budget finances in order to improve fiscal management, ensuring
    more efficient rendering of services and promotion of economic development;
l efficiency and responsibility of the public sector.


e) improve social development of the population, first and foremost the most vulnerable
strata
l development of institutional and technical framework for pension system reform;
l better social assistance;
l improving the situation in the health and education sectors; reviewing the system of social
    privileges.

2. Achievement of Objectives

The achievement of Project objectives was envisaged as to five thematic areas by:

in the sphere of securing financial discipline:
l adoption of the Edict of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on banning consideration of
    application on the use of offsets with tax arrears and other obligations to the budget;
l adoption of the Edict of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on banning non-transparent
    budget offsets on the basis of non-registered veksels;
l complete elimination of pension and wage arrears;
l adoption of the Edict of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on restructuring the arrears of
    energy distribution companies, privatized in 2001;



                                                - 26 -

l adoption of the Edict of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on granting the right to energy
    distribution companies to disconnect all non-paying consumers;
l adoption of the Edict of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on procedure for supplying
    branches of the national economy and population with natural gas in 2001, which would
    stipulate a mechanism for disconnecting non-paying consumers of gas.

on issues pertaining to improvement of the regulatory system:
l adoption of the Regulation of the Council of Ministers of Ukraine "On Procedure for State
    Registration of Subjects of Entrepreneurial Activity";
l adoption of the Law of Ukraine "On Licensing Certain Types of Economic Activity";
l conducting research on business environment, reduce the number of inspections by 20%.


in the sphere of guaranteeing property rights:
l adoption of the Land Code of Ukraine;
l issuance of more than 6.5 million land certificates and 1.3 million land title deeds;
l implementation of State Privatization Program for 2000-2002;
l setting up Privatization Advisory Group to review transparency of privatization;
l complete privatization of 6 oblenergos by strategic investors;
l preparation of a list of enterprises subject to privatization in 2002;
l adoption of the Law of Ukraine "On Peculiarities of the Privatization of UkrTeleKom";
l adoption of the Law of Ukraine "On Banks and Banking Activity";
l withdrawal of the banking license of Bank Ukraina and appointment of a liquidator.


in the sphere of improving the efficiency and responsibility of the public sector:
l adoption of Budget Code;
l adoption of the Regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "On Approval of Procedure
    for Calculating the Volume of Interbudgetary Transfers and Norms of Deduction from
    National Taxes and Fees for 2001";
l adoption of Procedure for calculating the volume of inter-budgetary transfers for determining
    methods of calculating transfers between the State Budget and budgets of oblasts, as well as
    between oblast budgets, budgets of towns and budgets of regions;
l adoption of the Regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "On Government
    Committees";
l adoption of the Enactment of the President of Ukraine "On Changes in the Structure of
    Central Bodies of Executive Power".

in the management of social and environmental risks:
l adoption of the Regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on ensuring the conducting
    of an experiment for granting pensions by Pension Fund agencies;
l introduction of a system of personified registration of data into the system of compulsory state
    pension insurance;
l adoption of the Regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers that would confirm the Procedure for
    the issue and sample of certificate on compulsory state social insurance;
l adoption of the Enactment of the President of Ukraine "On Emergency Measures for Fighting
    TB";



                                                - 27 -

l adoption of the Regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "On Comprehensive
    Measures for Introduction of Family Medicine into Health Care System" and relevant orders
    of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine "On Introduction of Amendments to List of Specialties
    of Auxiliary Medical Personnel" and "On Confirmation of Separate Documents of Family
    Medicine Issues";
l adoption and implementation of the Concept of 12-year general secondary education and
    12-mark scale for evaluating knowledge;
l adoption of the Regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "On Transition of General
    Educational Establishments to New Content, Structure and 12-Year Term of Study", which
    would approve State Standard of General Primary Education;
l elaborate and adopt a single Methodology for calculating the aggregate income of a family for
    all types of social assistance;
l adoption of the Regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine that would stipulate
    including the property status of the family during determination of targeted assistance;
l adoption of the Law of Ukraine "On State Social Assistance to Low Income Families";
l adoption of respective article in the Law of Ukraine "On State Budget of Ukraine for 2000",
    which would terminate the validity of a number of legislative acts in order to arrange
    privileges and compensations, in particular as to those individuals that enjoy professional
    privileges.

3. Main Impact Factors as to Project

Significant attention, paid during the implementation of the Project, publicity in the adoption of
political decisions, ensured social support both in the implementation of Project tasks, as well as
the tasks of the midterm program of action of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.

At the same time, the insufficient level of constructive dialogue between executive and legislative
authorities somewhat complicated the examination and adoption of draft laws on improving
economic, regulatory and social environment in Ukraine.

4. Vitality of the Project

During the work on the Project, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the World Bank reached
a qualitatively new level in building efficient structural adjustments, which are supported by the
Bank in Ukraine. Thus, within the framework of the mentioned work the sides, for the first time,
rejected the purely branch approach to the solution of problems related to the structural
adjustment of Ukraine's economy. The PAL project is an example of a comprehensive approach
to the solution of problems related to the domestic economy and society and envisaged the
carrying out of measures as to the five above-mentioned key areas.

The evident advantage of the Project is the fact that it is based on the midterm program of the
Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the implementation of which was supported by a World Bank
loan. This program was reflected in the Letter on Political Development, which the Cabinet of
Ministers sent to the World Bank in the spring of 2001.




                                                - 28 -

The mentioned development of the Programmatic Adjustment Loan project will allow it to remain
the most effective means in supporting the midterm program of reform for the government of
Ukraine in the coming years.

The new approach to cooperation, which the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the World Bank
established within the framework of the work on the PAL project, has entirely justified itself. This
is testified to by the successful implementation of the first phase of the Programmatic Adjustment
Loan in 2001 (PAL I project) by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.

The positive experience of joint work on the preparation and implementation of the PAL I project
has become a prerequisite for the second phase of the Project.

5. Preparation and Implementation of the Project by the World Bank

The Project has become the main financial instrument for the implementation of World Bank
Country Assistance Strategy.

The World Bank constantly upheld working relations with the Borrower during the stages of
preparation, appraisal and implementation through the World Bank Mission in Ukraine, during
work of the Project Mission in Kyiv, which promoted the reaching of Project objectives.

The World Bank conducted corresponding work for attracting international technical assistance,
in particular the Japanese Government Grant to support Project preparation.

Taking into consideration the above-mentioned and success of Project implementation, the
activity of the World Bank in the preparation and implementation of the Project is assessed by the
borrower as "highly satisfactory".

6. Preparation and Implementation of Project by the Borrower

The fulfillment by the borrower of the benchmarks of all five areas of the Project in full measure
and in the set terms deserves the assessment "highly satisfactory".

7. Assessment of Results

A. Financial Discipline

The Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine terminated the practice of non-transparent budgetary offsets
with the adoption of the State Budget for 2001. Pension arrears were eliminated in September
2000. Determined were the biggest debtors as to payment for electricity, the debt of six
oblenergos was restructured, which were privatized with time.

B. Regulatory System

Introduced:



                                               - 29 -

- simplified procedure for new business registration;

According to CoM Regulation "On Procedure of State Registration of Subjects of
Entrepreneurial Activity" the term of state registration should not exceed five office days. A
mechanism for accelerating registration (in the course of one day) was additionally introduced.

- simplified licensing system, based on single license streamlined application procedure;

In June 2000, parliament approved a new law on licensing, according to which it is envisaged to
simplify the licensing procedure by issuing a single license on certain types of economic activity.
The necessary regulatory acts for the introduction of this law were adopted in October 2000.
The mentioned initiatives in the legal sphere are supplemented by practical initiatives at the
lower level, directed at simplifying procedures for conducting business.

- reducing the number of regular inspections;

As evidenced by the results of the IFC survey of the business environment, the number of
inspections per one enterprise dropped from 30 in 1998 to 12 in 2001. According to the data of
a survey conducted in October 2001 by the Regional Administration of the State Committee of
Ukraine for Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, the number of inspections made up an
average of 4.52 per year.

C. Property Rights

The Land Code, adopted on October 15, 2001, stipulates that both physical persons, legal entities,
territorial societies and the state can be subjects of property rights on land. Also adopted were the
Laws of Ukraine "On Peculiarities of Privatization of the OJSC UkrTeleKom" and "On Bank and
Banking Activity".      The Privatization Advisory Group was set up in order to monitor the
transparency of privatization. With the assistance of the advisor - the Credit Suisse First Boston
investment bank, the privatization of 6 OblEnergos was completed: Open Joint Stock Company
"RivneOblEnergo", State-Run Joint Stock Power Distribution Company "KyivOblEnergo," Open
Joint Stock Power Distribution Company "ZhytomyrOblEnergo", Open                  Joint Stock Power
Distribution Company "KhersonOblEnergo", State-Run Open Joint Stock Power Distribution
Company SevastopolMiskEnergo" and State-Run Joint Stock Power Distribution Company
"KirovohradOblEnergo". The banking license of Bank Ukraina was withdrawn and a liquidator
appointed.

D. Efficiency and Responsibility of the Public Sector

Budget Code was adopted on June 21, 2001.                State procurements are carried out on a
competitive basis. Created was a small and more efficient Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as well
as special Cabinet Committees.

E. Management of Social and Environmental Risks




                                                 - 30 -

A system for the personified registration of data within the system for compulsory state pension
insurance was introduced. The function of granting pensions was transferred to agencies of the
Pension Fund of Ukraine in 11 oblasts of the country. 100,000 certificates on compulsory state
social insurance were prepared.

Approved was a single methodology for calculating aggregate income of families for all types of
social assistance. It is envisaged that its amount shall be determined with due account to the level
of subsistence wage.

Approved was the midterm strategy of reform in health care, which, besides others, includes the
Enactment of the President of Ukraine "On Concept of Developing Health Care in Ukraine"
signed on December 7, 2000 and Regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "On Approval
of Measures for Implementation of Concept of Developing Health Care in Ukraine", which was
adopted on August 9, 2001.

Worked out and approved at the Second All-Ukrainian Congress of Educationalists was a draft
National Doctrine on Developing Education in Ukraine in the XXI Century. The Verkhovna
Rada adopted the Laws of Ukraine "On Out-of-School Education" and "On Pre-school
Education". Adopted on November 16, 2002 was the Regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers "On
Transition of General Educational Establishments to New Contents, Structure and 12-Year Term
of Study ". Adopted on May 6, 2001 was a Regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine
"On Confirmation of a Program for the Informatization of General Educational Establishments
and Computerization of Village Schools in 2001-2003".

8. Future Funding
The Project remains to be the most important element in the cooperation of Ukraine and the
World Bank and the New World Bank Country Assistance Strategy for the period 2003-2007/8.

The Interagency Coordinating Council will continue to coordinate and monitor the preparation
and implementation of the Project.

The finalization of Project conditions shall remain the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy
and five interagency working groups, set up under relevant areas of the Project.

9. Main Lessons

The consistent introduction by the Cabinet of Ministers of an economic reform policy and
productive joint work of the specialists of central executive authorities of Ukraine and World
Bank experts allowed Ukraine to fulfill all measures of the PAL I Project and receive proceeds of
the World Bank loan in September and December of 2001 amounting to USD 250 million.

The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine reached success within the framework of Project
implementation in the economic and social spheres, in particular:
1. Eliminated were pension arrears, and budget arrears on wages were essentially reduced.
2. Situation was improved with settlement in the energy sector - payments for consumed



                                                - 31 -

    electricity and natural gas increased.
3. Effective measures were taken to improve the business environment.
4. The process for changing forms of ownership continued and new organizational structures
    were set to in the agrarian sector. Work continued on privatization of large industrial and
    energy enterprises.
5. Efforts were undertaken to increase the transparency of budgetary process and improvement
    of the pension system in Ukraine.

The implementation of the Programmatic Adjustment Loan Project promoted the development of
a new open mechanism for mutual actions between the government of Ukraine and the public.

The effective implementation of the Project was promoted by coordinated work, aspiration and
readiness for cooperation and availability of expert working groups both from the World Bank, as
well as Ukraine's government.

The Project implementation experience testifies to the need to further consolidate joint efforts in
conducting economic reforms accenting the enhancement of financial discipline in the public
sector, further improvement of conditions for business and attraction of foreign investments,
creating conditions for Ukraine's accession to the WTO, enhancing property rights in agriculture,
raising transparency of privatization and budgetary process.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

ICR Team:

Mark Davis (Task Team Leader)
Sati Achath (Consultant)
Yulia Snizhko (Consultant)
Anna Musakova (Program Assistant)
Nancy Davies-Cole (Program Assistant)

Comments Received from:

Deborah L. Wetzel (Sector Manager)




                                               - 32 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
A. FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE

A.1. Improve the budgetary management
and gradually phase-out the outstanding
budget and tax arrears
Eliminate budget offsets                     1st Tranche                                  Non-transparent budget offsets eliminated in
                                             Benchmark1A.1: Budget                        Budget 2001.
                                             offsets eliminated
                                             2nd Tranche                                  Budget offsets disallowed in Budget 2002.
                                             Benchmark1B.1: Budget-offsets eliminated

Significantly reduce budget arrears          1st Tranche
                                             Benchmark 1A.2: Reduce budget arrears        Pension arrears eliminated;

                                                                                          The stock of wage and social protection
                                                                                          arrears reduced by 27% compared to
                                                                                          January, 1 2000; and

                                                                                          The stock of other budget arrears was not
                                                                                          increased.
                                             2nd Tranche
                                             Benchmark 1B.2: Reduce budget arrears:       Pensions paid on time
                                             Stay current on pensions;
                                                                                          Budget arrears on wages reduced by 97%
                                             Further reduction of budget arrears on wages and on energy payments by 88.6% w.r.t. to
                                             by 50% and on energy payments by 60%         January 1, 2000
                                             w.r.t. January 1, 2000; and

                                             The stock of other budget arrears not        Other stock budget arrears totaled UAH
                                             increased w.r.t. July 1, 2001                649.4 million as of July, 2001 and they
                                                                                          reduced to UAH 631.8 million as of
                                                                                          November 1, 2001
A.2. Gradually phase out inter-enterprise and
bank-enterprise arrears. and non-transparent
barter operations
Significantly reduce electricity and gas     1st Tranche                                  Debt of six Oblenergos to wholesale
payment arrears                              Benchmark 1A.3: Reduce electricity/gas       electricity market restructured;
                                             payment arrears
                                                                                          Oblenergos given right to disconnect all
                                                                                          non-paying electricity consumers;

                                                                                          23.000 delinquent electricity customers out of
                                                                                          more than 33.000 debtors disconnected;

                                                                                          Wholesale electricity market cash collections
                                                                                          from Oblenergos increased to 50% of current
                                                                                          charges in the first half of 2001.


                                                                                          Naftaogas cash collections for gas sold
                                                                                          increased to 50% of current charges in the
                                             2nd Tranche                                  first half of 2001.
                                             Benchmark 1B.3: Reduce electricity/gas
                                             payment arrears

                                                                                          Domestic debt to Naftogas quantified and
                                                                                          restructuring plan prepared;

                                                                                          Wholesale electricity market cash collections
                                                                                          from Oblenergos increased to 60% of current
                                                                                          charges during July-Oct. 2001.




                                                                - 33 -

                                                                                           Naftogas Naftogas cash collections for gas
                                                                                           sold increased to 60% of current charges
                                                                                           during July-Oct. 2001.
B. REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
B.1. Improve the business environment by
enabling new entry and facilitating business
operation

Continue to reduce and consolidate licensing
and registration procedures.                   1st Tranche
                                               Benchmark 1A.4: Improve business            Easier business entry secured through
Publish a list of required processes for entry environment                                 1-stop shop new business registration
                                                                                           (effectiveness demonstrated through regular
                                                                                           surveys);

                                                                                           Simplified licensing system based on single
                                                                                           license streamlined application procedure in
                                                                                           place;

                                                                                           Number of inspections reduced by at least
                                                                                           20% w.r.t. 1999 level (compliance
                                                                                           established through existing surveys).

                                               2nd Tranche
                                               Benchmark 1B.4: Maintain business           One stop shop business registration in place.
                                               environment through:                        Registration term does not exceed 5 days.

                                               1-stop shop new business registration;      Licensing law approved, providing for a single
                                                                                           license
                                               Simplified licensing system based on single
                                               license streamlined application procedure;

                                               Same number of inspections;                 14 business inspections per firm for 2000,
                                               (compliance established through existing    down to 12 per firm in 2001.
                                               surveys)

PROPERTY RIGHTS
Transform the ownership and organizational
structure of the agricultural sector

C.1. Transform Kolkhozes into new
ownership/organizational forms.                1st Tranche
Enact enabling legislation.                    Benchmark 1A.5: Transform the ownership / Presidential decree on reforming the
Implement land titling legislation.            organizational structure in agriculture     agricultural sector implemented;

                                                                                           Land certificates to 6.5 million eligible
                                                                                           individuals issued;
                                                                                           State monopoly in procurement of agricultural
                                                                                           inputs/outputs reduced by 90%.


                                               2nd Tranche                                 1.81 million land title deeds issued by the
                                               Benchmark 1B.5: Reforms in agricultural     time of the 2nd tranche release
                                               sector continued
                                               1.3 million land title deeds issued



C.2. Privatize large industrial SOEs via       1st Tranche
transparent ICBs. Enable strategic investors Benchmark 1A.6: Transparent privatization of Competitive tenders for transparent
to gain management control through             large industrial / energy enterprises       privatization of 83 industrial enterprises
controlling blocks of shares. No pre-sale                                                  issued during year 2000;
conditions. Continue privatization of
oblenergos.                                                                                Transparent sales of controlling blocks of
Create a competitive market and increase                                                   shares for at least 8 industrial enterprises
private sector involvement in gas sector.                                                  completed in accordance with transparency
                                                                                           criteria approved by the Privat-ization
                                                                                           Advisory Group (PAG);




                                                                    - 34 -

                                                                                             Privatization of 6 Oblenergos to strategic
                                                                                             investors completed.
                                                                                             Contract signed for phase II of three year
                                                                                             program to carry out an audit of Naftagas
                                                                                             operations in 2000 following international
                                                                                             standards.

                                              2nd Tranche
                                              Benchmark 1B.6: Transparent privatization of PAG review completed, showing that
                                              large industrial / energy enterprises          privatization of 8 large industrial enterprises
                                                                                             meets transparency criteria
                                              Complete a PAG transparency review of          List of enterprises to be privatized in 2002
                                              privatizations completed during Jan-Sept.      prepared by the CoM
                                              2001

                                              Prepare a list of enterprises to be privatized
                                              in year 2002 consistent with the budget        Presidential decree issued canceling
                                              deficit financing needs;                       moratorium on privatization of Oblenergos
                                              Resume the process of privatizing
                                              Oblenergos to strategic investors through
                                              transparent sales

C3. Improve general competitiveness of
Ukrainian economy by reforming the telecom
sector

Based on improved regulatory framework        1st Tranche
promote a competitive market structure and    Benchmark 1A.7: Telecom privatization          Telecom privatization law passed allowing
involve participation and competition in the                                                 strategic investors (SI) to:
telecom sector by involving a strategic
investor in the delivery of telecom services.                                                Acquire a minimum of 25%+1 shares through
                                                                                             competitive process; and

                                                                                             Gain operating control of the telecom (50%+1
                                                                                             shares) by receiving for management an
                                                                                             additional block of shares owned by the state.

                                                                                             Competitive tender for advisor to privatize
                                                                                             Ukrtelecom issued.

C.4 Use bankruptcy procedures to facilitate
enterprise and bank restructuring and
promote economic growth

Facilitate bank and enterprise bankruptcy     1st Tranche Benchmark 1A.8: Resolution of Withdrawal of the Banking license of Bank
procedures (workouts, restruc-turing,         Bank Ukraina (BU)                              Ukraina and appointment of a liquidator.
liquidations) to: Reallocate resources to
viable enterprises / banks;
Reduce economic cost of maintaining
non-viable SOEs;
Help create new SMEs from asset spin-offs.



D. PUBLIC SECTOR EFFICIENCY AND
ACCOUNTABILITY
D.1. Strengthen the system of
intergovernmental finance to enhance fiscal
management, achieve more efficient service
delivery, and promote growth

Adopt Budget Code with                        1st Tranche
clear fiscal responsibilities and financing   Benchmark 1A.9: Secure budget                  Discretionary determination of
(expenditure and revenue assignments,         transparency                                   inter-governmental fiscal transfers replaced
transfers and deficit financing).                                                            with formula based system applied to
                                                                                             oblasts, cities and, indirectly, to rayon levels
                                                                                             of government in the 2001 budget.

                                              2nd Tranche                                    Implementation of the formula-based




                                                                  - 35 -

                                                Benchmark 1B.7: Secure budget                determination of inter-governmental fiscal
                                                transparency                                 transfers during Jan-October 2001
                                                                                             evaluated;

                                                                                             Formula based system applied to oblasts,
                                                                                             cities and rayon levels of government in the
                                                                                             2002 budget.

D.2. Improve the efficiency of the use of       2nd Tranche
public resources                                Benchmark 1B.8: Improved use of public       Satisfactory progress achieved in
Adopt Budget Code improving execution,          resources                                    implementing single Treasury account;
evaluation and reporting, competitive                                                        Satisfactory progress achieved during the last
procurement, performance based evaluation,                                                   quarter of 2001 in implementing an action
and civil society involvement.                                                               plan on improved financial accountability, as
                                                                                             agreed with the Bank.

D.4. Improve the performance of the public      1st Tranche
administration, clarify the new role of the     Benchmark 1A.10: Reform public               Smaller and more effective Cabinet created
Cabinet and reform the civil service            administration ­ Improved Cabinet decision   with 21 members representing a reduced
Improve Cabinet of Ministers decision making making                                          number of central bodies (from over 89 to 50
process.                                                                                     including 16 ministries);
Develop the policy-making capacity of the line
ministries and agencies.                                                                     Specialized Cabinet Committees established;

                                                                                             Functioning of the Secretariat improved and
                                                                                             its structure adapted to Cabinet needs.




D.5. Develop an efficint and transparent        1st Tranche                                  Tax exemptions granted through CoM
public revenue system                           Benchmark 1A.11: Tax exemptions              decisions/orders revoked;
Develop a transpa-rent revenue system that      eliminated
distributes fairly the public financing burden ,
minimizes compliance cost and enables           2nd Tranche
investment / growth                             Benchmark 1B.9: Tax exemptions eliminated No tax exemptions granted through CoM
                                                                                             decisions/orders;



E. MANAGEMENT OF SOCIAL AND
ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS

E.1. Establish a financially and socially viable
pension system

Achieve social and financial viability of the   1st Tranche
PAYG pillar; improve institutional and          Benchmark 1A.12: Institutional and technical Personification system introduced
technical framework for an efficient            framework for pension system reform
mandatory pension system and
future operation of funded pension pillars;     2nd Tranche Benchmark 1B.10: Institutional
                                                and technical framework for pension system
                                                reform                                       Pension determination function transferred to
                                                                                             Pension Fund in 11 oblasts by the date of
                                                                                             tranche release; Nation-wide transference of
                                                                                             pension-determination function by the end of
                                                                                             2001

                                                                                             Tender for the production of social insurance
                                                                                             IDs held and 100,000 IDs issued

E.2. Improve the quality of social asistance    1st Tranche
Improve the quality of social assistance by     Benchmark 1A.13: Better social assistance    Unified eligibility criteria and methodology for
Implementing a unified means tested                                                          targeting social assistance prepared (and
program for low income families; and                                                         adopted);
Diversifying social care provision
                                                                                             Creation of 750 territorial centers extending
                                                                                             social services to 547.000 elderly and
                                                                                             disabled people




                                                                  - 36 -

                                                                                     Out-reach services expanded to include
                                                                                     additionally 10,000 old and disabled persons.
E.3. Improve financial viability and service
delivery in the health and education sectors
Develop health/education sector strategies to
improve the quality of service delivery and    1st Tranche
financial viability through improved financial Benchmark 1A.14: Improved health and  Improved control of public health risks
management and mobilization of private         education system                      achieved through Donetsk Oblast and Kiev
resources.                                                                           pilots of TB DOTS method adapted to
                                                                                     national conditions;

                                                                                     Primary health care improved through new
                                                                                     family medicine centers and new university
                                                                                     specialization on family medicine;

                                                                                     Health resource allocation pilot started in
                                                                                     Lviv;

                                                                                     Improved methods of education and finance
                                                                                     management piloted in Lviv;

                                                                                     A national program of 12-year compulsory
                                                                                     education adopted

                                               2nd Tranche
                                               Benchmark 1B.12: Improved health and  Health sector reform strategy approved
                                               education
                                                                                     Education sector reform strategy approved

                                                                                     Adopt an AIDS prevention program for
                                                                                     2001-2003;

E.4. Streamline the system of fiscal
exemptions and privileges aimed at social
protection
Review the auxiliary system of social          1st Tranche
protection based on fiscal privileges and      Benchmark 1A.15: Special privileges   The auxiliary social protection extended
bring it in line with the mainstream social    reviewed                              through special privileges analyzed and
protection system.                                                                   evaluated

                                                                                     Professional privileges not justified on poverty
                                                                                     and equity grounds disallowed in 2001
                                                                                     Budget.

                                               2nd Tranche
                                               Benchmark 1B.12: Special privileges   Professional privileges not justified on poverty
                                               reviewed                              and equity grounds disallowed in 2002
                                                                                     Budget.


Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
                 Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate


                                               N.A.




1 End of project




                                                               - 37 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                           Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
                        Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Not applicable as this is an adjustment operation


Total Baseline Cost                                           0.00             0.00
                           Total Project Costs                0.00             0.00
                   Total Financing Required                   0.00             0.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                             0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
   Total                             0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                             0.00           0.00         0.00           0.00       0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00           0.00         0.00           0.00       0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00         0.00           0.18       0.18
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.06)      (0.06)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00         0.00           0.00       0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00         0.00           0.00       0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00         0.00           0.00       0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
                                                 - 38 -

      Total                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.18              0.18
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.06)           (0.06)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.




  Not applicable as this is an adjustment operation




                                                          - 39 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 40 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               March, 2000 -            16    Task Team Leader, 2
               June, 2001                     Economists, 3 Social sector , 2
                                              Energy sector , 2 Financial sector
                                              , 2 Private sector development, 2
                                              Environment, 2 Agriculture

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               June-July, 2001          16    Task Team Leader, 2
                                              Economists, 3 Social sector ,
                                              2 Energy sector , 2 Financial
                                              sector , 2 Private sector
                                              development, 2
                                              Environment, 2 Agriculture

 Supervision
               September, 2001            3   Task Team Leader, 2
                                              Economists


 ICR
               September,                3     Task Team Leader, 2
               2002-March,                     Consultants
               2003



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               85.6                               73
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   111.7                            611.3
  Supervision                              70.9                            106.3
  ICR                                         5                              15.0
  Total                                 278.62                             805.3




                                               - 41 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 43 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

List of Supporting Documents

 1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports;

 2. Project Progress Reports;

 3. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated May 27, 2003; and

 4. President's Report and Recommendation: Ukraine - First Programmatic Adjustment Loan
(PAL I), dated August 29, 2001 (Report No. R2001-0164).




                                           - 44 -

- 45 -

