Page  1
May
8,
1998
Mr. Roman Shpek
Chairman, National Agency for
Development and European Integration
Bogdana Khmelnytskoho
19a
Kyiv
252030
Ukraine
Re:
Japanese Grant for Preparation of Legal Reform Project
Grant No. TF029693 (Bank-Executed Portion)
Dear Mr.
Shpek:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
(the Bank) to indicate the Bank's agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding five hundred
thousand five hundred Dollars
(US$500,500) (the Grant) to Ukraine (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in Annexes I
and II to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the 
Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph
1
of Annex I to this Letter
Agreement
(Bank-Executed Activities), which will be funded by a portion of the Grant 
in an amount not exceeding one hundred and fifty thousand US Dollars
($150,000)(the 
Bank-Executed Portion) and will be governed by the terms and conditions set forth in 
Annex I to this Letter Agreement.
The Recipient also confirms that the
Recipient-executed portion of the Grant in an amount not exceeding three hundred and 
fifty thousand and five hundred Dollars
(US$350,500) (the Recipient-Executed Portion) 
will be executed by the Recipient through the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine in
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in Annex II to this Letter
Agreement.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.
This
Letter Agreement shall become effective on the date upon which the Bank dispatches to
the Recipient notice of
(i) its receipt of the copy of this Letter Agreement 
countersigned by you, and
(ii) its acceptance of the evidence, satisfactory to the 
Bank, that this Letter Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of Ukraine and is legally binding upon Ukraine in accordance
with its terms.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/
Lilia Burunciuc
Acting Director
Ukraine/Belarus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
UKRAINE
By
/s/
Roman Shpek
Chairman,
National Agency for Development
and European Integration
Date:
June
15,
1998
Page  2
ANNEX I
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the  Bank-Executed Grant Portion
1.
The technical assistance activities (the Bank-Executed Activities) for which the 
Bank-Executed Grant Portion is given are as follows:
(i)
Carrying out diagnostic studies and preparing reports summarizing 
the findings of these studies in the areas of judicial reform,
legislative drafting, legal education and information systems
required in order to assist in formulating priority activities in
each of these areas which can be funded under the proposed Loan.
(ii)
Preparing terms of reference for further detailed work to be 
carried out in each of these areas that would be usable by the
Government in retaining the requisite consultants to carry out
such work under the Recipient-Executed Grant Portion (described in 
Annex II).
2.
The  Bank-Executed Grant Portion shall be used to finance consultants
’
services
required for the  Bank-Executed Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Bank-Executed Activities on behalf of the 
Recipient.
The Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to
permit the Bank to carry out the  Bank-Executed Activities promptly and effectively, 
and to evaluate the results of the Bank-Executed Activities. The Recipient shall 
indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result
of claims against the Bank in connection with the Bank-Executed Activities, except 
those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or
external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Bank-Executed Activities will be completed by December 
31, 1999.
After that date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of
the Bank-Executed Grant Portion.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Bank-Executed Activities shall be the responsibility 
solely of the Bank and shall be done according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
No withdrawals shall be made from the Bank-Executed Portion on accountof any 
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Bank-Executed Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the 
Bank may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the
right of the Recipient to receive  Bank-Executed Grant Portion funds for the 
Bank-Executed Activities if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its obligations under this 
Letter Agreement; or
(b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the 
Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of Ukraine, to make withdrawals under any loan
agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the International
Development Association shall have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any 
fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any 
portion of the  Bank-Executed Grant Portion that is not expended by the Bank pursuant 
to this Agreement.
ANNEX II
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the
Recipient-Executed Grant Portion
1.
 Recipient-Executed Activities
1.1.
The  activities (the Recipient-Executed Activities) for which the 
Recipient-Executed Grant Portion is given are as follows:
(i)
Carrying out detailed studies, surveys or  reviews, required in 
order to define and cost activities capable of being funded under
the proposed Loan in the areas of judicial reform, legislative
drafting, legal education and information systems, including
design of cost-recovery or other mechanisms that would insure 
sustainability of the proposed activities.
(ii)
Retaining a consultant who will assist the Recipient with 
Page  3
coordinating the implementation  activities under the
Recipient-Executed Grant Portion, project preparation activities 
generally, donor activities in the area of legal reform and assist
with the design of Project implementation mechanism.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Recipient-Executed Activities with due 
diligence and efficiency;
(b)
promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for that purpose;
(c)
furnish all information covering the
Recipient-Executed Activities and the use of the proceeds of the  Recipient-Executed 
Grant Portion as the Bank shall reasonably request;
(d)
from time to time exchange
views with the Bank's representatives on the progress and results of the
Recipient-Executed Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable 
the Bank to visit the territory of Ukraine for purposes related to the
Recipient-Executed Grant Portion. Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient 
shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly upon
completion of the  Recipient-Executed Activities a report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of the  Recipient-Executed 
Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Consultants
’
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Recipient-Executed Grant Portion shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency", published by the Bank in 
August
1981
(the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services 
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank,
other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
The provisions of the
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each.
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts,
(b)
single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank,
(d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
4.
Withdrawal of  Recipient-Executed Grant Portion Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the  Recipient-Executed Grant Portion shall be credited to an 
account opened by the Bank on its books in the name of the Recipient
(the
Recipient-Executed Grant Portion Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the 
Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section
4, for expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of services required for the  Recipient-Executed 
Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the  Recipient-Executed Grant 
Portion.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the  Recipient-Executed Grant Portion and shall be used exclusively in the carrying
out of the  Recipient-Executed Activities:
Amount of the Recipient-
Executed Grant Portion
% of
Allocated
Expenditures to
Item
(in Dollars)
be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
350,500
100%
services
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall 
be made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by the Bank;
(ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or 
in the territory of the Recipient;
(iii) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for services supplied from such
territories;
(iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, if such 
Page  4
payment, to the Bank
’
s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or
(v) 
after December
31, 1999, or such later date as the Bank shall establish by written 
notice to the Recipient
(the Closing Date), except that withdrawals may be made for 
expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding application is
received by the Bank within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any
amount of the  Recipient-Executed Grant Portion remaining unwithdrawn from the
Recipient-Executed Grant Portion Account shall be canceled.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the 
Recipient-Executed Grant Portion Account, it shall deliver to the Bank a written 
application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by the Bank.
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the 
Minister of Justice or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in
writing; and
(b)
be accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
Authenticated specimen signatures of the person
authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first
application bearing his or her signature.
Each withdrawal application for an amount
of the  Recipient-Executed Grant Portion and its supporting evidence must be 
sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to
withdraw such amount from the  Recipient-Executed Grant Portion Account and that such 
amount is to be used in the carrying out of the  Recipient-Executed Activities.
The
Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the  Recipient-Executed 
Grant Portion Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the  Recipient-Executed Grant Portion 
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) 
services of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (b) services 
of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent.
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the  Recipient-Executed Grant Portion shall be 
made in the currency of the  Recipient-Executed Grant Portion.
The Bank, at the
Recipient
’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the 
currency of the  Recipient-Executed Grant Portion withdrawn from the
Recipient-Executed Grant Portion Account such currencies as shall be required to pay 
for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the  Recipient-Executed Grant 
Portion.
Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this Letter Agreement,
to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be as
reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the  Recipient-Executed Activities, the 
Recipient may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account
(the Special
Account)
in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of the Attachment to this Annex II.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the  Recipient-Executed Activities of the 
departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the
Recipient-Executed Activities or any part thereof.
(b) The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph
(a)
above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as 
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Recipient-Executed Grant Portion Account were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in 
accordance with subparagraph
(a)
above, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Recipient-Executed Grant Portion Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
Page  5
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents
)
evidencing such expenditures;
(
iii
)
enable the Bank
’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such 
records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph
(b) 
above and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Recipient-Executed Grant Portion 
Account if any of the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the 
Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or
(b)
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with
the guarantee of Ukraine, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank
or any development credit agreement with the International Development Association
shall have been suspended.
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Recipient-Executed Grant Portion 
Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Recipient-Executed Grant Portion Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph
6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take 
action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six months after the effective date hereof,
to carry out the  Recipient-Executed Activities.
Attachment to Annex II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible item(s)" means the item(s) set forth in the table in 
paragraph
4.2 of Annex II to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Recipient-Executed Activities and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the  Recipient-Executed Grant Portion; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $50,000 to 
be withdrawn from the  Recipient-Executed Grant Portion Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3
(a) of this Attachment II.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the
Recipient-Executed Grant Portion Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph
4
of this Attachment for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.
On the
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Recipient, withdraw from the Recipient-Executed Grant Portion 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
Page  6
be withdrawn by the Bank from the Recipient
-
Executed Grant Portion
Account under the eligible item(s), and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the  Recipient-Executed 
Grant Portion Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph
5.1
(b) (ii) of Annex II to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make
withdrawals from the  Recipient-Executed Grant Portion Account pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph
6.1 of Annex II to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the  Recipient-Executed Grant 
Portion shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Recipient-Executed Grant Portion Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Recipient-Executed Grant Portion shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph
2
of this Attachment; or
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B)
deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the
Bank such outstanding amount.
