Document of
FILE COpy                     The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
i~4 ".6; 90                       Report No. P-2093-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NIGERIA
FOR AN
AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN
BENUE STATE
May 27, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offiecli duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       = Naira (N)
US$1                = N 0.617
N 1                 = US$1.62
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and
measures in this report are metric.
I metric ton       =  0.98 long ton
I long ton
(=2,240 lb)      =  1.016 metric ton
1 hectare          =  2.47 acres
1 acre             =  0.405 ha
1 kilometer (Km)   =  0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS
APEC         Ayangba Project Executive Committee
APMEPU       Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and
Planning Unit
APMU         Ayangba Project Management Unit
BPMB         Benue Plateau Marketing Board
BSP          Basic Services Package
CPDCET       Centre de Perfectionnement pour le Developpement et la
Cooperation Economique et Technique of the French Aid Ministry
DC           Development Center
FDL          Federal Department of Livestock
FMARD        Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
FMG          Federal Military Government of Nigeria
FSC          Farmers' Service Center
IAR          Institute of Agricultural Research
ICCMU        Igala Cooperative Credit and Marketing Union
IITA         International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
LBA          Licensed Buying Agent
LGC          Local Government Council
MANR         Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MOW          Ministry of Works
NPMC         Nigerian Produce Marketing Company
NSMB         Northern States Marketing Board
THU          Tractor Hire Unit
WARDA        West Africa Rice Development Association
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page 1 of 4 pages
NIGERIA - AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiary:         Benue State of Nigeria
Amount:              US$35 million, equivalent
Terms:               Payable over 20 years, including 4.5 years of grace
at an interest rate of 8.2 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:     Federal Government would onlend US$31 million, to the
Benue State Government on the same terms as the Bank loan.
US$4 million would be retained by the Federal Government
to finance its component of the project. Credit to
farmers would be channeled through Farmers' Service
Centers, and would be restricted to medium- (two years)
and long-term (five years). Farmers would pay a
10 percent service charge on all seasonal loans and
interest would be between 5.5 percent and 9 percent, with
the specific rate to be charged in any one year to be
determined by the Ayangba Project Executive Committee.
Project              The project would be carried out over a five-year
Description:       investment period, 1978-1982, but 1977 would be the
start-up period and expenses incurred during that
year have been included in project costs. The project
would involve physical infrastructure, support services
and farm inputs, including: 1,300 km of feeder roads;
construction of 180 wells and an administrative center
at Ayangba; establishmenit of a seed multiplication
farm; expansion of a training center to provide for
an expanded applied research capacity and a training
program for project staff and farmers; establishment
of an evaluation unit; and construction of 30 Farmers'
Service Centers to provide adequate input supply and
credit facilities, and a market advisory service to
farmers; the provision of veterinary services and im-
provement of local small livestock; establishment of
about 1,000 hectares of township fuelwood and pole plan-
tations; establishment of 15 fishing lagoons and an
improvement and expansion of the fishery extension and
an expansion of the Agricultural Project Monitoring,
Evaluation and Planning Unit financed under Loan 1092-
UNI; and the purchase of an aircraft.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
ortheir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page 2 of 4 pages
Estimated Cost:   1/
Total           Foreign          Local
…----------    (US$ million) ------…
A.   State Component
Crop Development                           8.1                1.3            6.8
Farm Advisory Service 2/                    6.0               1.6            4.4
Livestock Development                       2.4               0.5            1.9
Forestry Development                        2.0               0.5            1.5
Fishery Development                        2.3                0.7            1.6
Roads and Water Development                 8.6               3.2            5.4
Management Administration                   8.0               2.5            5.5
Seed Multiplication                         1.8               0.3            1.5
Research                                    0.9               0.2            0.7
Training                                    2.6               0.8            1.8
Evaluation                                  3.0               0.7            2.3
Commercial Services                        11.9               2.5            9.4
Sub-Total                            57.6              14.8           42.8
Incremental Seed                           0.3                -              0.3
Incremental Fertilizer and Insecticides    5.5                3.9            1.6
Medium-Term Input Fund                      0.8               0.5            0.3
Total Base Cost                      64.2               19.2          45.0
Physical Contingencies                      3.2               0.8            2.4
Price Contingencies                       36.6               11.0           25.6
Total Costs                         104.0              31.0            73.0
B.   Federal Component
Base Costs                                  6.0               2.4            3.6
Physical Contingencies                      0.2               0.1            0.1
Price Contingencies                         3.8               1.5            2.3
Total Costs                          10.0               4.0            6.0
C.   TOTAL PROJECT COST                        114.0              35.0           79.0
1/   Project costs include a 5 percent physical contingency.      Price contingen-
cies are calculated on base costs plus physical contingencies and allow
for compounded increases based on the following annual percentages:
1977, 20 percent; 1978, 15 percent; 1979, 12 percent; and 10 percent from
1980 onwards. These estimates take account of high internal inflation,
40 percent in 1975, and of international inflation for imports.
2/   Includes tractor hire services (40 percent) and land use planning.



Page 3 of 4 pages
Financing Plan:
State
Total           IBRD        Government
--------------(US$ million)----------
A.   State Component
Development Investments
Houses and Buildings                      11.2              3.3            7.9
Vehicles                                   4.5              3.5            1.0
Other equipment and materials              2.4               1.3           1.1
Other Developments                         1.0               -             1.0
19.1               8.1          11.0
Operating Expenses
International Staff                        3.6              3.6
Local Staff                               27.4              3.9           23.5
Operating Costs                            7.5               -             7.5
38.5               7.5          31.0
Farm Inputs
Seed                                       0.3                             0.3
Fertilizer and Insecticides                5.5              3.9            1.6
Medium-Term Inputs                         0.8               -             0.8
6.6               3.9           2.7
Unallocated                               39.8             11.5           28.3
TOTAL STATE COMPONENT                    104.0              31.0          73.0
Federal
B.   Federal Component                                                      Government
International Staff                        1.4               1.4           -
Equipment                                  0.6              0.5           0.1
Local Staff                                1.9               0.3          1.6
Operating Costs                            2.2                -           2.2
Unallocated                                3.9               1.8          2.1
TOTAL FEDERAL COMPONENT                   10.0               4.0          6.0
Total                            114.0              35.0          79.0



Page 4 of 4 pages
Estimated Disbursements:
----US$ million Equivalent---
Annually            Cumulative
FY 78                            5.4                   5.4
FY 79                            6.6                  12.0
FY 80                            5.7                  17.7
FY 81                            6.4                  24.1
FY 82                            6.6                  30.7
FY 83                            4.3                  35.0
Procurement Arrangements:
Vehicles, tractors, road-making equipment, other equipment, materials
fertilizer, insecticides and other farm inputs valued at about US$13.4 million,
and vehicles and equipment for Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation
and Planning Unit valued at US$0.5 million, would be procured througlh inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines for those
contracts valued over US$75,000, and through competitive bidding and in
accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the Bank for contracts of
US$10,000 to US$75,000. For contracts under US$10,000, direct competitive
shopping would be employed. Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed
a 15 percent preference or the applicable import duty, whichever is lower.
Experience has shown that contracts for buildings, houses and Farmers' Ser-
vice Centers complexes, valued at US$11.0 million, are not attractive to
foreign contractors due to dispersed locations, small size of contracts and
competitiveness of local contractors; such contracts would be awarded on the
basis of 'Local competitive bidding.  Construction of roads and wells would
be undertaken by force account, a practice that is proving successful under
the northern projects.   A large part of project cost would be for salaries,
operating expenses, training costs, nursery operations and seed purchases
valued at US$36.3 million, and for staff costs and operating expenses of
the Agricultural Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit, valued at
US$4.1 million, and are unsuitable for competitive bidding. The services of
consultants and expatriate staff valued at US$3.5 million for the State
component and US$1.4 million for the Ayangba Project Management Unit would be
obtained in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Rate of Return:
The economic rate of return from the total investment in the project
is estimated at 27 percent.
Appraisal Report:
Report No. 1269a-UNI dated May 20, 1977.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NIGERIA
FOR AN AYANGBA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN BENUE STATE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$35 million to help
finance a project for agricultural development in the Ayangba area in the
Benue State of Nigeria. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including
a 4.5 year grace period, with interest at 8.2 percent per annum. The equiv-
alent of US$31 million from the proceeds of the loan would be onlent to
the Benue State Government on the same terms as the Bank loan. Credit to
farmers would be channeled through Farmers' Service Centers, and would be
restricted to medium- (two years) and long-term (five years). Farmers would
pay a 10 percent service charge on all seasonal loans and interest would be
between 5.5 percent and 9 percent, with the specific rate to be charged in any
one year to be determined by the Ayangba Project Executive Committee.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum on Nigeria (Report 1235-UNI) dated
June 30, 1976, was distributed to the Executive Directors. The following
section summarizes the major conclusions of that Memorandum. Country data
are attached as Annex I. An economic mission visited Nigeria in April/May
1977 and its views are reflected in the following paragraphs.
Political Background
3.        On July 29, 1975, exactly nine years after it had assumed power, the
Government of General Gowon was overthrown in a bloodless coup led by senior
army officials. Since it assumed office, the new Government, now headed by
Lieutenant-General Olusegun Obasanjo, has taken important actions in a number
of fields. In an effort to streamline the administration in the public
sector, a large number of officials in the Federal and State Governments and
public corporations were dismissed or retired from public service. Seven new
States were created as of April 1, 1976 bringing the total number of States
to nineteen. At the same time, it was decided to move the Federal Capital out
of Lagos to Abuja in the geographical center of the country, the move to be
completed within ten to fifteen years. In September 1976 a draft Constitution
was published, which has been the subject of extensive discussion ever since.
In December 1976, elections for Local Government Councils took place, the first
elections in Nigeria in over ten years. The draft Constitution, according to
the Government's timetable, is expected to be approved by a Constituent Assembly
in October 1978. After this, election of Federal and State legislatures will



- 2 -
take place leading to a complete transfer of political power to civilians by
October 1979. Up to now, the Government has stuck to the timetable of its
political program as announced in 1975, despite the assassination of the
erstwhile Head of State, the late General Murtala Mohammed, during an abortive
coup in February 1976.
Recent Economic Trends
4.        Economic growth in Nigeria over the six-year period following the
end of the civil war in January 1970 can be divided into two phases: the
first, lasting until the end of 1972, was a period of economic rehabilitation
and recovery. The economy responded quickly to the pent-up demand of the
war period. Investment and production which had been postponed during the
hostilities were rapidly realized. The second phase, starting in 1973, is
characterized by a resumption of growth generated mainly by activities in the
public sector. As excess capacity was no longer available, economic growth
during this latter period was accompanied by rapid domestic price inflation,
shortages of supply and congestion of infrastructural facilities.
5.        The performance of the directly productive sectors in recent years
has been disappointing. Agricultural growth continues to be impeded by the
low level of technology, declining productivity of existing farms and sub-
stantial migration to urban centers. The growth of crude oil output moderated
considerably after 1972, and private industries in recent years have suffered
from sharply increased costs and shortages of raw materials, parts and equip-
ment. The economy as a whole, however, continued to grow rapidly because of
the phenomenal expansion of public sector investment and services facilitated
by the rapid growth of oil revenues. The expansion of government services is
most noticeable in education. In September 1976 the Government announced a new
target of universal (free) primary education by 1981. Tuition and, in some
cases, boarding fees for other types of education would also be abolished.
Led by service sectors, GDP in real terms increased at an average rate of 6.5
percent per annum from 1972 to 1975. Benefiting from a substantial improve-
ment in the terms of trade during 1973 and 1974, the growth of real purchasing
power of the economy has been even faster. Investment expenditure rose by an
average annual rate of 11 percent. Private consumption, although decreasing
relatively from 80 percent of GNP in 1970 to 59 percent in 1975, still rose by
an average of 5.4 percent per year, thus implying an increase in per capita
consumption of some 3 percent a year in real terms.
6.        The most remarkable aspect of recent developments has been the ex-
pansion of public sector investment. Starting from a low base in 1970/71,
public capital expenditure had quadrupled in real terms by 1974/75 and doubled
again the following year. The expansion was concentrated in traditional areas
such as transport, communications, power and administration; investment in
the directly productive sectors, particularly agriculture, has been lagging.
Private investment which led the initial post-war recovery appears to have
levelled off in recent years.
7.        The Government in recent years has intensified its efforts to
indigenize the ownership of business enterprises in Nigeria. A Decree issued



- 3 -
in 1972 specified minimum Nigerian ownership in various types of enterprises.
A new Indigenization Decree was issued on January 12, 1977. Its effect will
be to greatly increase Nigerian ownership in local firms. A majority of
enterprises will henceforth have to be 60 or 100 percent Nigerian-owned.
A minimum of 40 percent Nigerian ownership applies to all remaining enter-
prises. In addition, the Government acquired 60 percent of the shares of
all foreign commercial banks in Nigeria in September 1976. In 1974 the
Government increased its equity interest in the major oil producing companies
from 35 to 55 percent and consequently has since contributed 55 percent of the
exploration expenditures.
8.        Over the past few years, Nigeria's economic development has been
increasingly dominated by the oil sector which in 1976 accounted for about 30
percent of GDP, 93 percent of export earnings and slightly over 80 percent of
total government revenues, surpassing the agricultural sector in all measures
of relative importance except employment. A sharp rise in crude oil prices
during the second half of 1973 led to unprecedented liquidity in the economy
in 1974, when the balance of payments surplus amounted to about US$5 billion
and external reserves rose to the then equivalent of two years' imports.
But after reaching a peak crude oil production of 2.3 million barrels/day
in June 1974, output began to drop, reaching a low of about 1.5 million
barrels/day by May 1975, the lowest level in four years. This drop was partly
attributable to surplus supply conditions in world markets and partly to
conservation measures. Although production recovered during the second
half of the year, output for 1975 remained some 20 percent below 1974. In
1976 oil production averaged slightly over 2.0 million barrels/day and is
currently running at between 2.2 and 2.3 million barrels/day. To stimulate
exploration for new oil reserves a tax incentive package is expected to be
announced shortly but this will not have a significant impact on output for
several years. Commodity imports in 1975 were 120 percent higher than in
1974, reflecting the sharp rise in domestic expenditures and international
inflation. As a result, the country's balance of payments surplus in 1975
dropped to about US$300 million. External reserves fell by about US$250
million in 1976 and the prospects for 1977 are for a similar or slightly
larger overall deficit. External reserves stood at just under US$5 billion
in April 1977, which is the equivalent of about five months' of current
imports of goods and services.
9.        The Federal Government's financial accounts were similarly affected
by these adverse developments. The substantial surplus of 1974/75 turned
into a large deficit in 1975/76. The Government has understandably become
less sanguine about its fiscal prospects and is attempting to moderate the
growth of public expenditure. In the Federal Budget for 1976/77, total
initial allocations amounted to N 10.4 billion, including N 2.9 billion for
recurrent and N 7.5 billion for capital expenditure, but the Government
announced at the same time its intention to limit actual expenditure on both
recurrent and capital accounts to N 6.5 billion. In their 1976/77 budgets,
most of the State Governments also emphasized the need to moderate the escala-
tion of public expenditures. Although the expenditure details of the 1977/78
budget have not yet been finalized, the outlook is for substantial public
sector deficits underlining the need for even more stringent expenditure
controls.



- 4 -
10.       Fiscal and monetary policies announced in connection with the
1977/78 budget continue to be aimed primarily at abating the rapid rate of
inflation which has become a matter of national concern. The basic cause of
inflation in the country, particularly in the urban areas where the consumer
price index rose by some 43 percent during 1975 and about 22 percent in 1976,
is the gap between effective demand and supply. Supply constraints are
related to disruptions in food production caused by the drought of 1973 and
1974, labor immigration to urban areas and congestion at the ports. Effective
demand has increased greatly due to the very substantial wage increases in the
first few months of 1975 and the rapid expansion in money supply and credit to
the private sector. Initially the inflation problem has been attacked mainly
from the supply side through the lowering of duties and the government-
sponsored importation of commodities in short supply, but more recently
efforts have also been made to limit the growth of demand, notably through
credit restrictions, a wage freeze, and dividend pay-out restrictions.
11.       In conclusion, the Nigerian economy has clearly experienced con-
siderable strain during the last two years. Recent developments, particu-
larly in 1975, have demonstrated its vulnerability to fluctuations in the
international oil market. Moreover, emerging public sector deficits could
frustrate Government efforts to further reduce inflation. Recent develop-
ments, however, have not diminished in any way the basic growth potential of
the economy.
Development Programs and Strategy
12.       With an estimated population of about 75 million, GNP per capita
(around US$310 in 1975) remains low among developing countries. All avail-
able economic and social data also indicate that living conditions of the
mass of the Nigerian people today remain well below that statistical average
and are highly inadequate. In the rural areas, economic activities based
primarily on smallholder farming with low level technology yield a per
capita income of around US$60 per annum. In the urban centers, average
household income is many times higher than in rural areas but is very un-
equally distributed and environmental conditions are poor. It is against
this background of urgent economic and social needs that one must view the
Government's policy and program to improve the living standard of the popu-
lation as formulated in its Third National Development Plan, by far the most
ambitious planning effort ever attempted in Nigeria.
13.       The Third National Development Plan covers the five years from
April 1975 to March 1980. Economic growth, in real terms, is projected to
be of the order of 9.5 percent per annum, with per capita income increasing
to about US$480 by 1980. Gross capital formation is projected to increase
from 21 percent to over 29 percent of GDP over the Plan period. Executive
capacity is expected to be the major determinant of the actual size and



- 5 -
efficiency of the investment program. The public sector investment program,
representing about two-thirds of projected total investment expenditures in
the economy, has been formulated mainly as a means of distributing oil income
to the bulk of the population and creating the necessary infrastructure for
future growth.
14.       Since coming into power in 1975, the new administration has under-
taken a comprehensive review of the Third Plan with the aim of re-ordering
its priorities so that it may more closely reflect the realities and aspira-
tions of the nation.   Although the bulk of the public sector's program remains
unchanged, prestige projects have been, where possible, eliminated or reduced
in scope and greater emphasis has been given to such areas as agriculture,
housing and health. Due to the revisions, total allocations for the Plan have
increased from about US$52 billion to US$70 billion, but lack of executive
capacity is expected to reduce the amount actually spent during the Plan
period to US$43 billion.
15.       Implementation of the Third Plan will require a massive mobiliza-
tion of skilled manpower resources by the public sector. The situation
is particularly serious in the short term: the recent massive lay-offs in
the civil service have created shortages of experienced manpower in most
government ministries, and following the creation of the additional States
in 1976, the administrative needs of the State Governments have accordingly
increased. The implementation of the Plan's investment program is currently
also seriously constrained by the limited capacity of existing infrastruc-
ture.
16.       The Government recognizes that efficient implementation of the very
ambitious Third Plan will be difficult. It has taken a number of measures
to meet some of the specific manpower requirements of the Third Plan, includ-
ing a crash program for the training of primary school teachers and the
establishment of several training institutions for both the private and public
sectors. Important changes in administrative procedures have also been
introduced to improve efficiency in Plan implementation. Short-term measures
have been taken to overcome some of the capacity limitations of the country's
infrastructure such as the Lagos port. Simultaneous with the launching of the
Third Plan in April 1975, the Federal/State revenue-sharing system was sub-
stantially revised to ensure that, during the Third Plan period, the States
would have sufficient budgetary surpluses to finance at least two-thirds
of their investment programs, thus correcting the anomalous situation during
the Second Plan period when the implementation of State investment programs
was handicapped by financial constraints, while the Federal Government was
accumulating large financial surpluses. In the meantime, as indicated in
paragraph 9 above, the pressure on State budget resources is again building up
and the Federal Government is now considering the possibility of giving State
Governments certain domestic borrowing powers to cover their budgetary deficits.
17.       There is little controversy about Nigeria's development strategy.
The importance of agriculture and rural development to the future growth
prospect of the country is generally recognized. Equally non-controversial
is the potential of the agricultural sector in terms of the available land



- 6 -
for future degelopment, the room for raising productivity and yields
through known technological improvements, and the size of the market for
both food and cash crops. It is clear, however, that the capability of
the public sector in terms of available manpower and institutions is highly
inadequate compared with the needs and potential of the sector. There is,
therefore, an important role for external institutions to assist the Govern-
ment to increase and improve its capability in preparing, appraising and
implementing rural development projects and programs and in agricultural
research and manpower training. The Bank and a number of bilateral agencies
have in recent years considerably expanded their assistance to the Government
in these areas, but much more could be done.
18.       A major objective of the Government since 1970 has been to expand
investment capability. It is now important that the public sector turn its
attention more to the problems of maintaining and managing the newly-created
economic and social facilities. Recurrent expenditures for these purposes
will soon be very large, and careful budgeting will be necessary to ensure
that newly-created facilities are efficiently utilized and managed.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
19.       In light of the expected re-emergence of a resource constraint,
Nigeria is likely to be in need of substantial external capital inflows
during the remainder of the Plan period.     The magnitude of these inflow
requirements will depend to a large extent on the degree of public ex-
penditure controls exercised by the Federal and State Governments. A
major objective of external assistance should continue to be to assist the
public sector in the preparation and execution of investment programs and in
the transfer of the skills and technology necessary to maintain and manage the
newly-created facilities and institutions. Assistance to help accelerate
investment in agriculture and rural development is particularly urgent and
consistent with the Federal Government's priorities. The Government attaches
particular importance to projects and programs which act as catalysts to
private investment efforts in these priority areas, and which increase
indigenous capability to manage and promote the growth of the economy
efficiently in the future. The Bank has become the major source of this
type of assistance to Nigeria.
20.       Nigeria's creditworthiness is not in question.    As of December 31,
1976 total external public and publicly guaranteed debt amounted to an es-
timated US$1,241 million (including undisbursed). Debt service in 1976 is
estimated at less than 1 percent of gross exports. Although the Bank
Group's share of total external debt (including undisbursed) at the end of
1976 was estimated at 58 percent, this was evidence more of Nigeria's low
level of external debt (US$16.55 per capita in 1976), than of substantial
lending by the Bank (US$9.52 per capita at the end of 1976, including un-
disbursed). The debt service burden accordingly is not a relevant factor in
determining Bank activities in the country.



- 7 -
21.       During the past three years, Nigeria has become a donor as well
as a recipient of external aid. It has increased its subscription to the
African Development Bank and announced that it will no longer seek to borrow
from that institution; donated US$1.6 million to the Consultative Group for
International Agricultural Research; contributed US$52 million to the OPEC
Special Fund; contributed two tranches totalling SDR 300 million to the IMF
Oil Facility; and increased its holding of World Bank debt instruments to
US$321.5 million, of which US$81.5 million is in the form of two-year Central
Bank bonds. However, future efforts in this direction will depend mainly on
the country's own resource requirements, and as the economy's absorptive
capacity expands relative to available resources, Nigeria's role as a donor
may have to be reduced.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
22.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as at April 30, 1977 amounted to
US$795.9 million (net of cancellations). Of total lending, US$395 million was
committed during the Second National Development Plan period (1970-1975). The
amount of loans and credits disbursed at April 30, 1977 was US$505.8 million,
leaving an undisbursed balance of loans and credits of US$290.1 million.
Transport and power together account for US$408 million or slightly more than
51 percent of total commitments; agriculture for US$200 million, about 25
percent, (most of which was committed in the last two fiscal years); and
education, industry and the post-war rehabilitation loan for the remaining 25
percent. Gross disbursements in FY75 were about US$41 million, and US$70
million in FY76. Disbursements are expected to increase substantially during
the next two years because of the rapid drawdown of the remaining highway,
port and power loans. Thereafter, the rate of disbursement will reflect the
relatively slow disbursing nature of agriculture and education projects.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
23.       The main thrust of the Bank's activities in Nigeria in recent
years has been in support of agriculture and rural development, where the
Bank because of its comparative expertise can make an effective contribu-
tion in the field of institution-building and transfer of technology.
These objectives are in consonance with the Federal Government's recently
re-stated priorities under the Third Plan, which places equal emphasis on
agriculture, housing and health, and reflects the Government's policy to
redistribute the proceeds of Nigeria's oil revenues to increase the produc-
tive capacity of the economy and thereby raise the standard of living of
its population, including the rural poor.
24.       Following a review by Government of its Plan priorities and its
relations with external financial and development organizations, including



- 8 -
the Bank, the Government has reaffirmed in recent discussions its interest
in an expanded program of Bank assistance to include possibly other sectors
in addition to agriculture. Reappraisal of the water supply project in Kaduna
State, for which the Water Board and the Federal Government have expressed
renewed interest, has been scheduled for FY78. The Bank has also recently
completed the identification of additional agricultural projects, similar to
the proposed project, in support of the Federal Government's efforts to
initiate such projects in each of the 19 States comprising the Federation. It
is expected that Bank financing would be sought for at least two of these
projects.
25.       Looking ahead, future Bank lending is likely to include provi-
sion for training in the field of project management as well as the develop-
ment of a planning and monitoring capacity in agriculture and other sectors,
which have been identified as some of the more important bottlenecks in
Nigeria's development efforts. An economic mission visited Nigeria in
April/May 1977 in response to the Federal Government's request for an expanded
program of Bank assistance, and the Bank's program of future activities will
be reviewed within the context of the mission's findings.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General
26.       Approximately 75 percent of Nigeria's population is dependent on
agriculture which accounts for about 28 percent of GDP, 5 percent of total
export earnings and 75 percent of non-oil exports. Agricultural production
is almost entirely in the hands of smallholders whose levels of technology
and productive efficiency are low.
27.       Cropping patterns vary within the country's main ecological zones.
In the forest zones of the South, where rainfall is bimodally distributed
over a wet season of up to 8 months, the agricultural economy is largely
based on tree crops with annual staples providing subsistence and subsidiary
income. In the Guinea and Sudan Savannah zones of the North, rainfall is
monomodal within a six-month spread and production is based almost entirely
on annual crops. Between these two zones is an area known as the "middle
belt" supporting southern Guinea and transitional forest savannah vegetation
and a mix of annual and tree crops, though rainfall quantity and spread is
inadequate for successful exploitation of the latter. Little development
attention has been directed towards the "middle belt" which forms an
important food producing reserve for the nation.
28.       Growth of the agricultural sector has been disappointing, averag-
ing 1.3 percent per annum from 1970-75, equivalent to only half the average
population growth. This same period has been characterized by rapidly



- 9 -
rising domestic food prices as demand, resulting from population and income
growth, outstripped domestic supply, and a marked decline in traditional
agricultural export crops - US$500 million in 1970 to US$430 million in
1975. During the same period total exports (including petroleum) increased
from US$1,350 million to US$7,854 million; importation of food and live
animals over the same period rose from US$97 million to nearly US$486
million.
Development Strategy
29.       Government is acutely aware of the need to improve performance
in the agriculture sector and to invest the substantial revenues from oil,
a wasting asset, in order to expand and diversify the rest of the economy
in which agriculture is the dominant sector. In the Third Five-Year Devel-
opment Plan, a total of US$3.56 billion has been earmarked for the sector
to support a targeted growth rate of 5 percent. The program includes de-
velopment of several major river basins for irrigation, dissemination of
modern farming techniques to smallholders, improved input distribution and
marketing services and support for various integrated development projects.
Rural development will be promoted with complementary investments in
secondary and feeder roads, rural electrification, health and other social
services.
30.       Government's main short-term objective is to improve internal
price stability in basic food crops and to ensure adequate food supplies
to the rapidly expanding urban centers. Against this background of assured
domestic food supplies, Government's longer-term objectives are to create
a prosperous and efficient agricultural industry sufficient to reduce
population drift to urban centers and to revive the role of Nigeria as an
exporter.
Development Constraints
31.       Undoubtedly, the main short-term development constraint in the
sector is the lack of effective agricultural support services. Produce
evacuation is hampered by lack of feeder roads, and many farmers have to
travel long distances to the unevenly distributed and unreliable sources
of inputs.
32.       Input demand, at the present highly subsidized prices, is high and
unsatisfied; in many areas this has encouraged a thriving black market.
However, within areas of relatively high consumption of purchased inputs,
physical yields are invariably low, and it is unlikely that economic viability,
and indeed financial viability, would be achieved at economic prices. A greater
effort is required, particularly by the agricultural research institutions,
to improve the analysis of technical, economic and financial aspects of farming
innovations adapted to the different socio-ecological conditions of Nigeria.
This information is essential for the application of a sound input supply
policy and the development of relevant delivery systems that would support
the adoption of modern farming techniques.



- 10 -
33.       Agricultural development in Nigeria is taking place against a
background of rapid development in the non-agricultural sectors and rising
standards of education, both of which react against the poor returns to labor
and drudgery associated with traditional agriculture. This has encouraged the
drift of young people away from rural areas and has resulted in a sharp rise
in wage rates for hired labor. Ultimately, a prosperous agriculture industry,
capable of reducing this drift, would only be achieved through application of
advanced farming techniques which are particularly adapted to larger farming
units, either group or individually operated.
34.       Government's development strategy takes full account of these con-
straints, but the lack of the necessary planning and organization base at either
the State or Federal level prevents the application of successful remedies.
Responsibilities of different ministries and departments remain uncoordinated,
while severe technical and managerial shortages continue to impede both planning
and executive ability.
35.       Agricultural support services remain almost entirely in the hands
of the public sector, and present Government subsidy policies have served to
remove commercial incentive for private sector participation. It is, however,
quite clear that, given Nigeria's size and massive development program,
Government may need to progressively divest itself of certain responsibilities
with regard to input and produce marketing. This would require the creation
of an economic framework appropriate to profitable intervention of private
entrepreneurs in the agriculture service sector.
Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy
36.       Since 1971, the Bank has been involved in ten tree or food crop
projects. During this time, Government and the Bank have been able to review
the progress of these projects, and together are generally satisfied with the
approach adopted. In particular, the initial success of the three northern
projects (Loans 1092, 1099 and 1164-UNI) has clearly demonstrated the advan-
tages of planned agricultural development implemented under a reformed admin-
istrative structure which allows necessary State control while affording
management full day-to-day operational autonomy. As a result, both Federal
and State Governments are anxious to replicate this structure in other States
in the Federation. There is also increasing interest in the role of the
commercial sector in agriculture which is being actively pursued under these
projects. As such, these projects are acting as catalysts of change on a much
wider basis than might initially have been envisaged.
37.       The very success of the projects has underscored and brought to the
attention of the Federal Government some important economic and development
issues that have to be taken into account in future Bank lending for agricul-
ture. First, the unnecessary fertilizer and chemical subsidies in the light
of the huge developing demand threaten to have a serious fiscal impact which
will erode the public resources which otherwise could be directed to other
more long-term agricultural investments. It is estimated, for instance, that
the Funtua Project alone could consume, at present subsidy levels, 100,000
tons of fertilizer a year by 1980. Total consumption of fertilizers might be



conservatively estimated at 500,000 tons of fertilizer per annum in 1980, and
on the basis of the present subsidy of US$194 per ton, the annual fertilizer
subsidy bill would be about US$97.2 million. Government is now undertaking a
review of these policies. Second, the current commercial bank interest rates
of 5 percent are reflected in Government's agricultural farm lending policies.
These low rates are due to a temporary liquidity situation. However, under
the ongoing projects the commercial banking institutions are voluntarily
participating and are increasingly lending to farmers; therefore under the
proposed project the Bank's contribution to onfarm lending, particularly
medium- and long-term, would be kept to the minimum necessary to act as a
catalyst. The current high liquidity of the commercial banks is unlikely to
persist indefinitely, and will be kept under constant review. Third, the need
for more stable farm prices, particularly for food crops, has becomelevident.
Government is tackling this problem by establishing a series of crop specific
marketing boards that would establish floor buying prices; however, the latter
is a new development and has yet to be properly tested. Fourth, the lack of
physical support infrastructure, including feeder roads and farm service
centers, has caused serious bottlenecks in Government-sponsored programs,
including Operation Feed the Nation and the National Accelerated Food Produc-
tion Program. On the other hand, the provision of such infrastructure in
the northern projects has demonstrated its importance and is paving the way to
the participation of the private sector in serving agriculture. Finally, the
lack of experienced manpower in the agriculture public administration is quite
probably the major constraint in the planning and implementation of development
schemes in Nigeria.
38.       The resolution of the above issues is a very difficult task that
Government recognizes, and for which it expects the financial and technical
support of the Bank Group. For instance, Government has informally approached
the Bank to review the subsidy, interest rate and pricing policies. The
recent economic mission that visited Nigeria looked into these problems. The
mission's findings as they are likely to affect future Bank lending are
currently being reviewed. The provision of physical infrastructure com-
prising roads, service centers, input distribution and improved extension
systems forms a major component of the Bank's existing and proposed agricul-
tural development projects and constitutes the minimum development criterion
to ensure an agricultural takeoff in any given area. As to management and
administration constraints, the short-term solution adopted in Bank-supported
projects in Nigeria is international recruitment and the establishment of
special project management units. But, the long-term solution would neces-
sarily involve the training of Nigerian management staff. To this end, at the
request of Government the Bank intends to consider financing an Agricultural
Management Training Institute. The Northern Projects Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit created under the Funtua Agricultural Development Project (1092-UNI) is
viewed by Government as a first step toward creating the planning and monitor-
ing capability for rural development in the Ministry of Agriculture, and
Government hopes to expand it with Bank support under the proposed project.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       A Report entitled "Appraisal of Ayangba Agricultural Development
Project, Nigeria" dated May 20, 1977 (1369a-UNI) is being distributed
separately.
40.       The proposed project was identified by a Bank mission in June 1974
and subsequently prepared by consultants. The project was appraised in
May/June 1976. Negotiations were conducted in Washington in March 1977.
The Nigerian delegation was led by Mr. G. C. Oranika, Under Secretary,
External Finance Division, Federal Ministry of Finance.
Project Description
41.       The project area covers some 13,150 km    centered around Ayangba
and embracing the Ankpa, Dekina, Bassa and Idah local government council areas
of Benue State. The project is estimated to involve 150,000 farm families
cultivating some 300,000 ha (2.0 ha/family) and would, either directly or
indirectly, benefit about one million people comprising the project area's
population.
42.       The proposed loan would assist Nigeria's Benue State Government
to finance an agricultural development project aimed at: increasing food
crop production through improved farm practices and extension services; the
development of vital crop extraction roads and water supplies; the provision
of credit facilities, market advisory services and inputs required to increase
production and farm incomes; as well as support for livestock, forestry and
fishery development. In addition, the project would provide assistance for an
expansion of the Northern Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in Kaduna
financed under Loan 1092-UNI which is to be renamed the Agricultural Projects
Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit; and for the purchase of an aircraft
to be shared by the on-going agricultural development projects in Nigeria.
43.       The project would be carried out over a five-year investment period,
1978-1983, but 1977 would be the start-up period and expenses incurred
during that year have been included in project costs. The project would
involve:
a)   increasing farm production through improved farm practices
and expanded extension services, and establishment of a
farm advisory service;
b)   providing veterinary services and improving local small
scale livestock;
c)   establishing about 1,000 ha of township fuelwood and pole
plantations;
d)   improving and expanding fishery extension services and
establishing 15 fishing lagoons;



- 13 -
e)   improving 1,300 km of feeder roads and construction of about
180 new wells;
f)   constructing ali administrative center at Ayangba; 34 senior,
48 intermediate, 129 junior, and 252 traditional staff houses;
2 training centers; a workshop complex; and 30 Farmers' Service
Centers;
g)   establishing a 200 ha seed multiplication farm at Ochaja,
including investments for farm buildings, farm machinery, seed-
cleaning equipment etc., and provision for demonstration and
research;
h)   expanding the training center at Ochaja to provide for a 60-
student capacity and establishing a training program for project
staff and farmers;
i)   providing adequate input supply and credit facilities through
30 Farmers' Service Centers and provide a market advisory service;
and
J)   expanding the Northern Projects Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit financed under Loan 1092-UNI and the provision of an
aircraft.
Project Execution
44.       The project would be managed by the Ayangba Project Management
Unit which would be established as a largely autonomous and independent unit
under the State's Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources. The Project
Management Unit would carry out the day-to-day management operations of the
project and be responsible to the Ayangba Project Executive Committee.
45.       The Ayangba Project Executive Committee would have full authority
for project execution and would approve budgets, appoint senior staff, deal
with major procurement matters and award all large contracts; the Chairman of
the Ayangba Project Executive Committee would be the Permanent Secretary of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources of Benue State. A State
notice!establishing the Ayangba Project Executive Committee and the Ayangba
Project Management Unit would be gazetted as a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 6.01 (d) of the draft Loan Agreement). Benue State would also
establish a project bank account with adequate funds as a condition of loan
effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). Relations
with the local communities would be maintained through the establishment of
three Local Advisory Committees under the chairmanship of the Resident.
46.       The Project Management Unit would be responsible for the procure-
ment, distribution and sale of fertilizers, seeds, insecticides, sprayers
and other farm inputs and equipment. Distribution would be made through
Farmers' Service Centers, of which 30 would be built under the project.



- 14 -
Farmers Service Centers would be organized into groups of five, each group
being supervised and coordinated by a Development Center which in turn would
be closely related to the newly established Local Government Councils.
47.       Given the present levels of fertilizer subsidy, it is unlikely
that seasonal credit would be required. Where possible, sales would be on
a cash basis, although deferred payment against a 10 percent price mark-up
would be available for group orders. Credit would be channeled through
Farmers' Service Centers and would be restricted to medium- (two years) and
long-term (five years) for farmers and farmer groups wishing to undertake
development backed by the project's farm advisory services. Credit would
be available for land clearing, sprayers, farm equipment and for storage
improvement. Farmers would pay a 10 percent service charge on all seasonal
loans and interest would be between 5.5 percent and 9 percent, with the
specific rate to be charged in any one year to be determined by the Ayangba
Project Executive Committee. Where possible the commercial banks and the
Nigerian Agricultural Bank would be encouraged to participate as they are
doing in the ongoing northern projects, and to take long-term responsibility
for servicing this requirement, as and when demand grows.
48.       A market intelligence and advisory service to promote better market-
ing and storage would be developed. The existing Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources produce inspection division would be improved and, where
necessary, the Project Management Unit would promote market contracts between
producers and buyers, and would act as an agent against commission in such
cases. The Project Management Unit would also be authorized to act as a
Licensed Buying Agent for those scheduled crops traded in the area.
49.       A high level of management efficiency and technical competence
would be required as the project is both large and complex. Well-educated
and trained local personnel are available in Nigeria but, because of fast
economic growth, particularly in the industrial sector, the creation of
seven additional new States, and difficulty of employing personnel from other
States, demand on available manpower is high. The most critical period will
be the start-up year and the subsequent two or three years of project imple-
mentation when basic structures would have to be developed, systems tested
and modified, and staff trained at all levels. Although, where possible,
qualified and experienced Nigerians would be recruited, many key positions
would have to be filled through international recruitment. Staff appointed
as project manager and the heads of administration, commercial services,
development services and engineering departments will be required to have
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of service satisfactory
to the Bank, and staff appointed to positions of heads of divisions must be
suitably qualified and experienced and must be appointed in consultation with
the project manager (Section 2.03(a) and (b) of the draft Project Agreement).
50.       The State Government will be required to transfer, second or other-
wise assign to the Ayangba Project Management Unit, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, competent staff in adequate numbers (Section 2.03(c)
of the draft Project Agreement).



- 15 -
51.       Internationally recruited staff would be employed either under
direct Government contract or seconded under standard World Bank secondment
contracts with the assistance of the Bank's Western Africa Region Agricultural
Projects Management Unit which would also administer their contracts. Retro-
active financing of up to US$400,000 is proposed for the appointment of key
internationally recruited staff in the start-up period, and of US$150,000
for the purchase of an aircraft to be controlled by the Federally operated
Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit. The latter
is justified since the projects are remote and far removed from urban supply
centers that service their vital logistical requirements. The project air-
craft would be shared by six projects and should have considerable impact
in making the start-up of the Ayangba and Lafia projects more timely and
effective.
52.       Training is of fundamental importance for the long-term success
of the development proposals incorporated under the project. An experienced
training officer would therefore need to be supported by a team adequately
backed by resources to conduct the wide range of training programs envisaged
under the project. The training team would consist of four instructors
and three field workers, and would be under the supervision of the project's
Chief Training Officer.
53.       Degree courses in agriculture are available to Nigerians both
within and outside Nigeria. In addition, adequate training facilities for
Agricultural Assistants and Agricultural Superintendents already exist in
Nigeria and diploma and certificate courses are given at various Federal and
State institutions, including the Yandev Training Center. However, additional
training facilities are needed for the training of agricultural instructors,
and the existing training center would be expanded under the project to a
capacity to accommodate 60 trainees. Initially, training at the center
would be focussed mainly on the training of agricultural instructors, but
later other specialized staff and advanced farmers would attend residential
courses at the center. In addition, the project would also provide scholar-
ships for management training for selected senior staff who would benefit;
specialized training for project staff through in-service training and, at
selected educational institutions, introductory courses to provide new staff
with the necessary background information; residential courses for extension
workers; refresher courses to update staff members' technical knowledge; and
specific training programs in such fields as credit, forestry and fisheries.
Project Costs
54.       Project costs for the period 1977-1982 are estimated at US$114 mil-
lion (US$110 million if taxes and duties are excluded), of which the foreign
exchange component would be US$35 million, or approximately 31 percent of
total costs. State component costs, encompassing agricultural development
in Benue State, are estimated at US$104 million of which the foreign exchange
component would be US$31 million, or 30 percent of total costs. Federal
component costs to cover Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and
Planning Unit expansion are estimated at US$10 million with a foreign exchange
component of US$4 million or 40 percent of total costs. Details of project



- 16 -
costs are given in the Loan and Project Summary. Project costs include a 5
percent physical contingency. Price contingencies are calculated on base
costs plus physical contingencies and allow for compounded increases based on
the following annual percentages: 20 percent in 1977; 15 percent in 1978; 12
percent in 1979; and 10 percent from 1980 onwards. These estimates take
account of the prevailing high internal inflation in Nigeria, 40 percent in
1975, and of international inflation for imports.
Project Financing
55.       The Bank loan of US$35 million would be equivalent to the project
foreign exchange costs. Part of the Bank loan (US$31 million) would finance
30 percent of the State component cost net of taxes, and assurances have been
given that this amount would be relent by the Borrower to Benue State under a
subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and the State on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement would be a condition
of effectiveness (Section 6.01 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The re-
mainder of the Bank loan (US$4 million) would finance 40 percent of the
Federal component costs net of taxes.
56.       The remaining funds N 44.9 million (US$72.7 million equivalent)
for the State component would be financed through the State budget. How-
ever, the State would receive a Federal Government allocation of N 16 mil-
lion (US$25.9 million equivalent), or 25 percent of project costs.
Assurances have been given that not less than N 16 million would be allocated
in the Federal Government's budget for this purpose (Section 3.02 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
57.       The project would be implemented during the five-year period 1978-
1982, but 1977 would be the start-up period, and expenditures during 1977
would be met totally by the State except for the retroactive financing that
is proposed. Details of the financing plan are given in the Loan and Project
Summary.
Procurement
58.       Vehicles, tractors, road-making equipment, other equipment,
materials, fertilizer, insecticides and other farm inputs valued at about
US$13.4 million, and vehicles and equipment for the Agricultural Projects
Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit valued at US$0.5 million, would be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines for those contracts valued over US$75,000 and through competitive
bidding and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the Bank for
contracts of between US$10,000 and US$75,000. For contracts under US$10,000,
direct competitive shopping would be employed. Domestically manufactured
goods would be allowed a 15 percent preference or the applicable import duty,
whichever is lower. Experience has shown that contracts for buildings, houses



- 17 -
and Farmers' Service Centers, valued at US$11 million, are not attractive to
foreign contractors due to dispersed locations, small size of contracts and
competitiveness of local contractors; such contracts would be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding.   Construction of roads and wells would
be undertaken on force account, a practice that is proving successful under
the northern projects.  A large part of project cost would be for salaries,
operating expenses, training costs, nursery operations and seed purchases,
valued at US$36.3 million, and for staff costs and operating expenses of the
Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit, valued at
US$4.1 million, and are unsuitable for competitive bidding. The services
of consultants and expatriate staff valued at US$3.5 million for the State
component and US$1.4 million for the Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Eval-
uation and Planning Unit would be obtained in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank. The above amounts represent baseline costs only.
Disbursement
59.       The Bank loan would be disbursed during the five-year period 1978-
1982 as follows:
State Component
-    100 percent of the total foreign exchange costs of
directly imported vehicles and equipment and spare
parts, or 70 percent of the costs of these items if
locally procured;
-    100 percent of the total foreign exchange costs of
directly imported equipment, furnishings and materials,
or 70 percent of the costs of these items if locally
procured;
-    100 percent of the total foreign exchange costs of
directly imported fertilizer and insecticides calculated
incrementally, or 70 percent of the cost of these items
if locally procured;
-    100 percent of the cost of internationally recruited
staff, including their salaries, allowances and recruit-
ment costs, and of consulting services and scholarships;
-    40 percent of the costs of buildings and houses; and
-    15 percent of the costs of local staff salaries.
Federal Component
-    100 percent of the total foreign exchange costs of
directly imported vehicles and equipment for the Agricul-
tural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning
Unit, or 70 percent of the cost of these items if locally
procured;



- 18 -
100 percent of the costs of internationally recruited
staff for the Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evalua-
tion and Planning Unit including their salaries, al-
lowances and recruitment costs, and of consulting
services;
20 percent of the costs of local staff salaries of the
Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning
Unit.
60.       Disbursement would be fully documented.   Disbursements against
the cost of local staff would be against certified records of expenditures
which would not be submitted to the Bank, but be retained by the Project
Management Unit and the Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and
Planning Unit for review by supervision missions and auditors.
Economic Benefits and Justification
61.       The economic rate of return from total investment in the project is
estimated at 27 percent. This high rate of return is consistent with similar
ongoing projects in northern Nigeria and is due mainly to the introduction of
low-cost technological innovations that are expected to result in significant
crop yield increases where applied to currently low-yielding annual crops.
A sensitivity analysis on farmer response indicates that, if crop improvement
targets were reduced from 100,000 ha to 40,000 ha, an economic rate of return
of 12 percent would still be achieved. The project's direct benefit would be
an annual incremental increase in farm production at full development of
92,000 tons of yams; 100,000 tons of cassava; 12,800 tons of rice; 26,100
tons of maize; 2,100 tons of melon; 3,400 tons of sorghum; 6,800 tons of
cowpeas and 1,100 tons of benniseed; partly offset by a reduction in millet
output of 3,200 tons. At full development, fish catches are estimated at 300
tons annually. Overall, about 150,000 farm families would benefit directly
through higher farm incomes, and the project area's population (one million)
would benefit, directly or indirectly, through improved infrastructure, in-
cluding roads and water supplies. Other secondary but largely unquantifiable
benefits include an improvement in economic farm support services resulting
from better group formation to be encouraged under the project, and a strength-
ening of the agricultural, technical, managerial and planning capabilities in
the State. Since most production would be traded locally, foreign exchange
savings and earnings are estimated at a modest US$9 million.
Risks
62.       Smallholder agricultural development projects are inherently
and conceptually complex, and full attainment of project benefits might
conceivably be jeopardized by risks such as delays in implementation and
inadequate staffing. Risks due to technical weaknesses are less, as the
technical packages are fairly simple and based on research data and experi-
ence obtained elsewhere in Nigeria. A major advantage for project implemen-
tation will be the experience to date with the northern agricultural develop-
ment projects.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and the Bank, and the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Benue
State of Nigeria, the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a Resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
64.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this Report. Additional conditions of loan effectiveness are:
(a) signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and Benue
State; (b) Benue State establishing a project bank account with adequate
funds; and (c) Benue State publishing in the Gazette a notice establishing
Ayangba Project Management Unit and Ayangba Project Executive Committee in a
form and with powers and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 27, 1977



TABLE 36                                  lag. I of 4 peg
NIG-ERIA -------- SOCIAL_INDICATORS DATA SHEE-T
LAND AREA (THOU K821                     --------                            ----------
---------------                        ~~~~~NI GEP IA                            REFERENCE CCUNTPIES 11973)
TOTAL        923 .8                                          MOST RECENT
AGEIC.        460.2                         1960       1570     ESTIMATE           PAKISTANI        GHANiA          MEFXICr
…--   - -  - -  - - -  - - -  - - -      -  - - -  - -     -  - - -  - -  -  - -  -
GNP PEE CAPITA CUSS)                          80.0       170.0       310.0               103.0        343.0        780.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
PCPUiLATICN (MID-CVR, RI-LLICNC            51.6        66.2         75.0                60.6          8.6         50.4
FCPULATICN CENISITY
PEP SQUARE KM.                           56 .0       72 .0       81.0                 75.0         36.0         26.3
PER S0. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND            127.0      140.0       159.0               249.0          64.0         52.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE EIRTIH RATE I/THOU, AV)            45.0        45.8        49.3                 47.6         49.8         43.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE C/TICOU,AV)             26.5        24.!        22. 7                20.1         2 4.4        10.?
INFANT MORTALITY RATE C/THOU)            207.0         .        163.0                12 4.3      lOt6.0         68. 5
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT AIRT)- CYrS)          33.5        28.5        41.0                 47.4         41.5         61.3
GROSS PEPROI3UCTICN PATE                    ..        3.3         3.3                  3.7          3.2          3.1
PCPULATICN O.PCWT)- RATE CS)
TOTAL                                      1.9        2.5         2.54                 2.9           .t3.4
UPRPAN                                     5.C        S.C         5.Q/                 4.3          4.5          4.8
UReAN POPULATION IC CF TOTAL)               18.c       23.0        26.0                 24.6         23.4         58.7
ACEF STRUICTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                           43.01a      44.8        45.1                 43.4         46.9         46.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                           f4 91!a     S 2.C       52. 6                5 2.7        49.5         53.1)
65 YEARS AND OVER                          2.11I!     2.2         2.3                  3.9          3.61         3 .1
AGE CEPENDENCY RATIO                         1.8/a       1.5        1.9                  C.0          1.0          1.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY PATIC                    1.47Ta      1 .2/a     1 .2/b                1 .4/a8      1.          2.3
FARILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMUJLATIVE, T)-CL) I                     1 2.9      1CI.1.                             13.          55. 5
US ER S Ct P0 MAFRRIEDC WOMEN) I.                       .           ..                              2.
EMFL C VMEN I
TOTAL LAPOR FORCE CT)-CUSANCH           18320.0 /a 256CC.C      27700. 0             181>30.0      330.2.0     133.
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICLLTURE Ct)              71.2       67.0           .                 57.3         54.3/a       43.1
UNEMPLOYED IT OF LAeRC     CPCRE)             .                                             .6. 2
INCOME 01318IRELTICN
2 OF PRIVATE INCCPE 0EC'D ES-
HIGHEST    51 OF HOUSFHIILCS                ..         .                              17.8..                    37.8
HIGHEST 231 OF HOUSFHOLDS                   ...                     .41.8                            .          60.2
LOWEST    202 OF HOUSEHnOLS                 0.          *          .                    .0           .4.2
LOWEST   40T CF H-C'JSE)-C-LCS              .           ..2 3. 2                                     . .        10.
DISTPIPUTICN' OF LRNC CWT.E0SI-IP
2 OWNED PY TOP 1CY Cr OWNERS                  ...                     .....                                       37 .1
2 CWNED eY SMALLEST IC2 C;,NFPS               ...                     .                     .                        . 3
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 56900.0 /b 246630.01 .b                      4313.U/b    12 953.0 4    1483.
POPULATION PEP NURSING PERSON             7640.0 7b  5Cio.CT         ..               8440.37 oT   jj7)0    b    63.1
POPULAT ICN PER HOCSPIITAL eEC.           2770.0 W.c222r.3        1650.0/:86.                        6.          9632.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF-
CALORIES II OF REQLIEPENNTS)            103.0        97.0        96.3                 99.3         96.0        113.3
PROTEIN (GRAMS PEQ DAY)                  68.1        60.0        63.0                 55.3         46.0         65.3
-OF WHICF ANIMAL AND PLLSE             117.0 /d    16I.                             14.0/0       13. Ii       28.0,)1k
DEATH RA6TE C /T FCU ) AGES 1-4               L..                    .                    7. 414d                  9.9Q
EDUICATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                           3 7.0       364.0       39.0                 3 9. 3       58I. 0      13)6.,3
SECONDARY SCHOOL                          3.0         4.C         5. 0                1 2. 0        9.0         2 3. 3
YFARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                 14.0        14.C        14.1                 13.0/c       i5.c         12.3
VOICATIONAL ENROILLMENIT-
CA OF SECONDARY)                          5_1         8.0         9.0                  1.0         23.0         24.,
ADULT LITERACY RATE I?)                     21.0 /a        ..                           2J.3         '9.0         76.3
F-OUS INS
FERSONS PER ROOM CLRPAN)                     .0.......                                                             2.2
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOU~T.
PIPED WATER CT)                             ..          .           .                    ..                     613 Is.
ACCESS TO PLECTRICITY
(2: OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    81. I /f       ..                               ..                     59.3
RLRAL DWELLINGS CCNNEC7TID
TO ELECTRICITY C))                          ...                     .                    ..                      8.3
CCON LMPT TON
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER TI-C_U FOP)             4.         20.         49.0                1-4. 0       79.3        27t,.3
PASSENGE.R CARS (PER THOU; FOP)              0.7         1.0        2.0                   3.3         V.0         24.3
ELECTRICITY   (KWHI/YR P00 C171             13.0       28E.1c      46.1C                6 7.3       333-.3, u. )
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                    0.1         X.3         0.3                  3.6/e        3.4          3.2
…--   - -  - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - - -  - - - - - -  - - -  - - -  - -  - - - -  - -  - - -  - - -  - -
SEP NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVFRSE



ANNEX I
Pag-e2 of 4s page..
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwee 1959 god 1961, for 1970 between 1968 end 1 970 end for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 sod 1975.
-i  fleaco. ha. been selsoted -    nobjecti-s country because its per capita ioncoe, ins the early 1970's, Is about twice Nigeria's projected per
capita income, in the aid-I1980's at 1971 pr-ices. Also Saonc's present level of development is a realistic target for Nigeria through remainder
of this Ceantary.
NIGEBaA        1960     /a, 1963;     /b  1962;     /c  Including n-North Cameon        under British admInistratiOn;       /d   1961463;     /o  Prior to 1965;
1970     La  Resin of population under 15 end 65 sod over to total labor force;          /b   Registered, not all practicing in the country.
NWIT SECENT ESTIESTEt      /a  1970-75;     Li Ratio of populetio      under 15 and 65 aLnd over to total labor forces        /i 1972.
PasTAN         1970     /a  Retin of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;          /b   Registered, not all practicing in the country;
/c  Up to matr-iculation (10th grade);       /d  Excluding population of D.I. [han and Peshawar Divieions;          La  Including
data for Bangladesh.
GHANA          1970     /a  ELxcluding unemployed;     /b   Registered, not all practicing in the country;        /ci1966468.
NEXIco         1970     /a  IncludIng assistant nurses;       /b  1965-66;     /ciInside only.
96, Nay 6, 1977
DEFINITIONI Op SOCtAL, tINDICATORS
Lsnd Ares (than ke2)                                                                      Popsiatiun per r..ruIng perso n - Population divded by comber of practicing
Total -Total surface area coprising land area and inland waters.                            male and female graduate  uss     "trained" or  certified' nure..a, an d
Agris..  Most recen.t  s siasate af agricultural area used temporariiy or pen-             aaaiiiasy persunoi with tratinig orepric.
nensly far crops, pastures, sarket 4 kitchen gardens or to lIe. fsilu.                  Popuiatiuu per hoseital bed - Popsiatian dioded by conker of hospital bedo
s-ilabie Is public sod private g-nrsi and spetLis-sd hospitl1 sod
GNP ner capics (UlS$) - GNP Per capita e           tiae   accurrest market~ prices,         rehahilitatio- centers; excludes nuring homes and estabiishs..nta for
calculated by same co-vrsiot -thd as kWnrid Bank Atlas (i973-71 basis);                   cuatodiai and prevntive care
196i; 1970 end 1971 date,                                                              Per capita supply of caiorieo (% of requirements) - Computed from energy
equivairnt of ma t fund supplies avilabie in country per capita per day;
Pa .ltinad vi tal statistic.                                                          avilabie supplies -opri-n domestin prodnotion , ismpart. less expurts, and
Population ioid-yearnilli-tt     As of July first:   if sot avilable, averge                changes in stork; net supplien euclude animal feed, seeds, qusntitie   usued
of  -c cod-year ettivates; 1Ski, 1970 and 1975 data,                                      in food process.Ing and lasses In dietributisn; requirnmntewe.r.eetioase.d
by PAO base.d on phystislgiosl coeds for nsoaI -cilviy sod health -onid-
Population dnn-tt -pnr essar Ion - Mid-year pupolacios per square kilometer                 ering eniomet        temperature, body weights, age and sos distributions, of
(li  hcars     of total urea,                                                            population, and s11ioig 10% fnr waste at hoa..ehuld i1-ni
Ponulation denity   P-cr assrt, Io of agnic. land - Compored an shov    fur               Per ..pit. suppiy of protein (grams Per day) - Prntein consent of Per capita
agricultural land only,                                                                   net nupply of food per day; net suppiy of food is defined as above; require-
mat -fral  onries established by USDAk Economic R.eserch Slervice
vital statistics                                                     provide~~~~~~~~~~n   for a1 ninisn   sImasnee of 60 grams of total pnretin par day, sod
Crude birth rate ear tkousand, average -Annual lIve births Per thousand of                  20 gr-am of an=ima  and pulse protein, of which 10 gram   should be animal
mld-yesr population; ten-year anithmestic averges ending in 19k0 sod 1970,                protein; these standards are lbunt than tbhne ef 75 gram    of .tota  protein
and fiv-year averge ending in 1975 fur mot recent estimate,                               and 23 grams of animal protein us on average for the world, proposed by PAO
Crude death rate per thousan.d, -verage - A-nual deaths per thousand of mid-year            in the Third World Food Survy.
population; ceo-year oritheeti   averges ending in 1960 and 1971 sod fIve-              Per capita protnin sanely from animal and palne - Protein supply of food
year average ending is 1975 for moat reoent estimate,                                     derived from animals sod pulses in iron Per day.
Infant motait       rte f/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year of age          Death rate (/thou) ages 1-4 - AOnsal deaths per thousand in age gronp 1-4
per thosoand lIve births.                                                                 years, to children in thia Seg group; suggestedasn indicator of
Life eoe-ta-c or birth (vr.) - Average numsber of years of life remaining at                malnutrition.
birth; usually fiv-year averagno eeding io 1960, 1970 sod 1975 for develop-
Ing conrs.Eduction
Cross reprod.oCios rate- Average nonber of lIve daughters a womn will bear                Adjusted enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrollment of nil ageu as per-
in her norma   repr-d-cti-e period if she esperiencen presen.t age-specific,               entage of primary ochool-age population; includes children aged 6h11 yearn
fertility rates; usually fiv-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                  but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; fur conntriss with
for devloping countries.                                                                  -iv-rsa1 educat ion, enorllssnt may esceed 100. sinus s-     pupils ste below
Population groth rote (%) - total - Compoond ansual growth rates of mid-year                or shov  the official school age.
population for 1950-hi, 1960-70 sod 1970-75.                                            Adjusted esrollmet r-tio - secondary school - Comrputed as above; secondary
Pspultiton growth rate 1%) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                     education requiren at least four yearn of approved primary instruction;
population; differet dsfimitio-oo   f urban arsa   nay affact cnp-rbility of              provides gone.ra1, voctional or teac.her training in-t-uticos for pupils
data among coutries,                                                                      of 12 to 17 years of age; -orrespondenecore        are generelly oxcluded.
urban population (% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different             Years of schooling provided (first and second levels) - Total years of
definitiono of urban areas may affect comparbility of data amon      coutries,            schooling; at secondary level, vocational ineitaction may be partially o
cpletely eacluded.
Age otructure (percent) - Childos   (0-li yours), -okiug-age (15-64 years),               PVcotiona1 enrollment (1 of secondary) - Voc-ti-oa1 imutitotions include
and retired (61 years and -cer) aso percentages of mid-your population,                   technical. induatrial or other program    which  porete independently ora
Age depondes-y ratio - Ratio of population under 15 sod 65 sod over to those                departments of secondary institutions.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                  Adult literay rare (1) - Literte adults (able tv read and write) as per-
tuo-oic depend-ny ratio - Ratio of populatico under 15 and 65 and over is                   centage of total adult population aged 15 years und over.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
Family pl-nina -ac-tepro       (c-avltiv-. thou) - Cu-1lai-on  . ub- rof acreptars        Hous.Ing
of birth-control device   under auspIce   of national family plsnsiug program           Persona per room (urban) - Averag    nonbor of person  per room iv occupied
since incption.                                                                           convntional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings oxclude cn.-permanent
family pla-iog -osr      7   f are      omeol - Percentag-n of married wome    cf           structuresoad unoccpied parts.
child-heaing age (15-44 years) who su     birih-coneral1 devices to oil -arrisd         Occupied dwellingsutocppe          ae    %   - Occpied covetiova1 dwellings
women it: some age group.                                                                  is urban sod rur1 areas without inside sr outside piped water facilities
as percenta ge of all onoopid dwellings.
E.tolaymet                                                                                    ..ce. to 1eetricity (, of all dwellings) - Convntional dwellings with
Total labor force (thousand) - ic-onoi-ally active persona, including armed                 electricity in lIving quarters so percent of total dwellings in urbas and
fores and unemployed hut secluding hoseei-e, studentso, ec..; definitions                 rural areas.
in variou  coutries are not coparble.                                                   Rural dwellings connected to electricity Gil - Computed as above for rural
Labor forcei in agiculture f%.) - Agricultural labor force (in farming, forestry,           dwellings only.
bunting sod fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Unemployed (P. of labor force) - Unemployed are onus1ly defined as persoss    On          C-nsoption
are able and cillin   to take a Job, stat of a Job on a given day, remained out         Radio reoeiv-ro (per thos pop) - All types of receivers for radio broadca.st
of a job, and .se,iog work fun s specified minimon Period nor euc..eding occ              to general public per thou...nd of population ; e..tludes unlicens.ed rece.ivers
nebk; may not be comparable between counries due to different definitiona                  in countries and is years when r-gistrtiZon   f radio osts us   is effect;
of unemployed and source of deta, e.g. ,   nplsyenet office statistics, sample             data for recest years may not be comparable since most countries abolished
surveys, compulsory unoployment insurance,                                                 licensing.
Pasnogr are (per thou eon) - Ps..se.ger crar competes motor cars seating
Incom distribution - Perentage of private incom       (both is cah and hind)                lesta'ight persona; exnludos ambulance, heareeu sod military
rece.ived by richest 5%, richest 20%, Poorest 201%, end poorest 40% of honse-             vehicles.
holds.                                                                                  ilectrinity (bob/yr per cep) - Aonnua consuption of industrial,ceril
Public and private electricity in kilowatt hours per capita, generally
Distribution of land ownsershie - Percent ages of land owned by wealthiest 101%             based on production dais, without al11w..ne far lse       in grids but allo--
and peoreat 10% of landowes                                                                ing for imports and enporta of 1eletricity.
Newsprint (kg/yr per can) - Per capita annual .-onsption In kilograms
Heslth and Notrition                                                                         estimated from domestic production plus net imports of newprint.
Pepolation per physician - Population divided by nosber of practicing
physicians qual Ifind from a medical school at univerity leve.



Annex I
Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GHOSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.        %                         1970-75              1974             1975
GNP at Market Prices           25379        lOO.O                           7.6              13.7              3.3
Gross Domestic Investment       6824         26.0                          18.4              18.6             35.4
Gross National Saving           7230         28.5                          10.9               6.7            -12.2
Current Account Balance          406          1.6
Exports of Goods, NFS           8433         33.2                           7.9               6.8            -15.2
Imports of Goods, NFS           7783         30.7                          20.0              36.2             29.7
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                    Labor Force-V                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.       %                  Mln..      %                    OA
Agriculture                      6785       28                  17.9       61                     379          45
Industry                        11483       47                   5.1       17                    2252          27
Services                         6380       26                   4.9       17                    1302          15
Unallocated                                                      1.3        5                                  13
Total/Average..                               
24648       100.0                 29.2     100.0                    843       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                               Central Government
Jai&-Mln.           Xof fo(                    . (N. i  Mln.)        % of GDP
1974/5        1974/5     1972/3-74-75             1974/5     1974/5      1972/3-74
Current Receipts                    5341          36.9        30.0                    4272        29.5           23.2
Current Expenditure                 2084           14.4       14.8                    1284         8.9            9.0
Current Surplus                     3257           22.5       15.2                    2988        20.6           14.2
Capital Expenditures                2184          15.1        12.0                    1684        11.6            8.1
External Assistance (net)
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                   19 71               197U               1974         1975
Million N outstanding end periodT)
Money and Quasi Money                     1005.4         1161.4       1414.1      2156.3       3622.5
Bank credit to Public Sector               531.4          519.0        497.1      1460.1        991.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector              591.2          750.2        854.4      1070.2       1770.1
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GD            14.1           15.1         15.9        14.9         23.0
General Price Index (1963 - 100)-:         115.0          111.0       130.9        143.8        205.8
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                         15              3.5        17.9          9.8         43.1
Bank credit to Prbivat Sector               19.4            2.3         3.2        393.7         32.1
Bank credit to Private Sector               24.0           26.9        12.7         26.6         65.4
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ Index of Urban Consumer Prices.
10ot applicable



Annex I
Page 4 of 4
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
1973      1974     1975                                                 US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS          3758     9916      8433              Crude Oil                           6196.2    91.1
Imports of Goods, NFS          2753     4761      7783              Groundnut products                    56.7      .8
Resource Gap (deficit = -)     1005     5155       650              Palm products                         65.5     1.0
Interest Payments (net)          24      156       487
Workers' Remittances             -        -         -
Other Factor Payments (net)     894       751      731
Net Transfers                    53       98        65               All other commodities               171.0      2.5
Balance on Current Account       81     4461       341                     Total                        6799.0   100,0
Direct Foreign Investment       285      289       211             EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                N.A      N.A       N.A                                                         US $ Mln
Amortization                 N.A      N.A       N.A
Subtotal                     73         6       325               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              1241
Capital Grants                  11       100        81                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 .
Other Capital (net)             35         73        0               Total outstanding & Disbursed               837
Other items n.e.i              -         -        -/
Increase in Reserves (+)       265      4926       309              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 19761/
Gross Reserves (end year)      630       5670     5848
Net Reserves    (end year)     583       5509     5818                Public Debt. incl. guaranteed               *
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
F'uel and Related Materials     21         88      163                Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports
of which:  Petroleum         -          -        -
Eports                     3054       9006     7637
of which: Petroleum       3054       9006     7637       IBRD/IDA LENDING. (Apr. 30,1977) (Million US $):
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                        IBRD         IDA
Through   - 1971               Since   - 1974_2'                Outstanding & Disbursed              388.9        34.5
US $ 1.00 =N 0.711972!Undisbursed                                                          2 &, . P      2.3
US $ 1.00 ~N 0.71       US $1.00 = N 0.62               Ottnigic.Udsusd                      5.
N 1.00 = US $1.40           Sn1.00 = US$1.61tad' Undiabursed                                      676.7        36.8
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
2/  Floating central rate values are appropriate.
Less than 1%
Not Available



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
ThE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
A. S    EMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
(as at April 30, 1977)
Loan or                                                    USS million
Credit                                             Amount (less csncellationa)
Number      Year      Borrower     Purpose        Bank       IDA     Undisbursed
Ten loans and one credit fully disbursed          292.1      15.5
72        1965     Nigeria       Education                20.0         2.3
427        1965      Nigeria      Roads           14.5                  2.5
694        1970     Nigeria       Transport       25.0                  0.6
764        1971     Nigeria       Cocoa Dev.       7.2                  0.1
814        1972      Nigeria      Education       17.3                 15.7
838        1972     Nigeria       Roads           26.3                 13.8
847        1972     NEPA          Power           76.0                 8.7
922        1973     NPA           Port            55.0                 29.7
929        1973     Nigeria       Education       54.0                 54.0
1045        1974     Nigeria       Cocoa Dev.      20.0                 20.0
1091        1975     Nigeria       Livestock       21.0                 19.5
1092        1975     Nigeria       Agri. Dev.      29.0                17.3
Funtua
1099        1975     Nigeria       Agr. Dev.       19.0                 7.4
Gusau
1103        1975     Nigeria       Rice Dev.       17.5                 17.5
1164        1975     Nigeria       Agr. Dev.       21.0                1%.5
Gombe
1183*       1975     Nigeria       M.W. State      29.5                 29.5
Oil Palm
1191        1976     Nigeria       E.C. State      19.0                 19.0
ol1 rale
1192*       1976     Nigeria       W. State        17.0                 17.0
Oil Palm
Total                                 760.4     35.5       290.1
of which has been repaid               83.7      1.0
Total now outstandingi'               676.7      34.5
Amount sold                16.4
of which has been repaid   13.9         2.5
Total now held by                    674.2       J4.j
Bank and IDA **
Total undisbursed                    287,8       2.3       29n,l
*   Not yet effective
** Prior to exchange rate adjustments
1/ Excluding cancellations of 4.4
B, STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as at April 30, 1977)
Fibcal                                                            Amount in US$ Million
Year                                        Type of Business     Loan    Equity   Total
1964, 1967,
1970      Arewa Textiles Ltd.               Textile Mfg.           1.0     0.6      1.6
1964      Nigerian Industrial Development
Bank, Ltd.                        Dev. Fin. Co.                  1.4     1.4
1973      Funtua Cottonseed Crushing Ltd. Veg. Oil Crushing        1.6             1.6
1974      Lafiagi Sugar Estates             Sugar                          0.1     0.1
1973      Nigerian Aluminum Extrusion Ltd. Aluminum Processing     1.0     0.3     1.3
Total Gross Cormmitments                                 3.6     2.4     6.0
Less cancellations                                    0.3             0.3
Less sold or repaid                                   1.5     1.5     3.0
Total comitments now held by IPC                         1.8     0.9      2.7
Undisbursed                                              0.5     0.1     0.6



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Credit No. 72-UNI     Education Project:  US$20.0 million Credit of March 1,
1965; Effective Date: May 10, 1966; Revised Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
The purpose of the project was to assist the Federal Government in
financing construction and equipment of secondary and technical schools and
teacher training colleges throughout the country. The project had a late
start in implementation, particularly in the three eastern states which were
affected by the civil strife between 1967 and 1970. The project is 85 percent
physically complete and thie closing date has been recently extended to permit
complete disbursement.
Loan No. 814-UNI      Second Education Project:   US$17.3 million Loan of
April 18, 1972; Effective Date: November 28, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The project comprises the construction of secondary schools and
teacher training colleges in Eastern Nigeria. Disruptions caused by the
creation of new State Governments in 1976 are no longer delaying the pro-
ject. Current delays are attributable to inadequate budgetary provisions
to meet project cash flows and consequent slowness in awarding contracts
and paying contractors. The Federal Government has attempted to allevi-
ate the problem by providing States with cash grants to finance the pro-
ject. The project should be completed by July 1978, some 30 months behind
schedule. The closing date is in the process of being extended.
Loan No. 929-UNI      Third Education Project:   US$54.0 million Loan of
August 16, 1973; Effective Date: January 14, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project, co prising the construction of secondary schools,
primary teacher training colleges and a research program for primary educa-
tion in northern Nigeria, got off to a slow start because of delays in
appointing consulting architects. The total cost of implementing this
project will be over 500 percent of Bank working paper estimates. However,
Ahmadu Bello University and Kano State no longer wish to participate in
the project and the Federal Government is implementing the project's primary
teacher training colleges under a crash nation-wide program and will not
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
seek reimbursement from the Loan for these project elements. It is anti-
cipated that the Government will propose a reduced project which would
consist entirely of construction of extensions to existing secondary schools
and new secondary schools. Project management is very weak and intensive
supervision is required on the part of Bank staff. The project should be
completed in December 1979, about 12 months behind schedule.
Loan No. 427-UNI     Western Nigeria Road Project: US$14.5 million Loan of
September 26, 1965; Effective Date: March 29, 1966;
Closing Date: March 31, 1975
The project has been completed and discussions are underway with
the Government concerning the undisbursed balance of US$2.5 million. This
was the first Bank onlending operation In Nigeria through the Federal Govern-
ment to the then Western Region for physical and institutional improvements.
The physical component involved reconstruction and improvement of three roads
together with consultants' services for construction, supervision and engineer-
ing of other roads. The Institutional components provided assistance for re-
organization of maintenance operations. The physical component was completed
with a savings of 7 percent. At the same time, the audit rates of return of
all road sections are higher than expected because of cost underruns and
higher than forecast traffic levels. The institutional component was partly
successful. However, the experience provides useful guidance for a comprehen-
sive, nation-wide study carried out under a follow-on project currently being
implemented.
Loan No. 694-UNI     Transport Rehabilitation:   US$25.0 million Loan of
June 26, 1970; Effective Date: September 18, 1970;
Revised Closing Date:   March 31, 1975
This project provided for three components: (a) the reopening of
Port Harcourt; (b) the purchase of needed equipment and materials for the
ports and the Eastern Railway Lines; and (c) the repair of roads and bridges
in the East and the general rehabilitation of the highway system. The pro-
ject is physically complete and discussions are underway with the Govern-
ment concerning the undisbursed balance of US$0.6 million. The road com-
ponent was successfully completed although the construction period was ex-
tended because the scope of the work under some contracts was extended
during project execution. The railway component was less successful because
of a lack of local funds, and management and procurement problems. The
objectives of the ports component were achieved even though there was some
delay.
Loan No. 764-UNI     Western Cocoa Project: US$7.2 million Loan of June 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 5, 1971; Closing Date:
March 31, 1977
This project, started In 1972 to plant 43,500 acres of high-yielding
hybrid cocoa by 1975, has been successful. Planting quality is good with



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
trees planted Ln 1972 and 1973 now producing. Project success can be attri-
buted to the creation and operation of the CDU as a semi-autonomous agency,
good management, well qualified staff, cooperative society support, adequate
Government funding, satisfactory infrastructure and communications network,
exceedingly good farmer acceptance, rigorous field control and proper nursery
and field preparation.
Loan No. 838-UNI      Fifth Highway Project: US$26.3 million Loan of June 26,
1972; Effective Date:   February 20, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977
The project included: (a) construction of about 100 miles of trunk
roads; (b) reconstruction of eight war-damaged bridges; (c) consultant ser-
vices for (i) supervision of the road and bridge construction; (ii) a feasibil-
ity study for 2,000 miles of road and (iii) a highway maintenance study; (d)
technical assistance to improve highway administration; and (e) procurement of
equipment for highway planning and vehicle weight control. The physical work
on the five roads and the reconstruction of the eight war-damaged bridges has
been completed. The highway maintenance study has also been substantially
completed, but the technical assistance is behind schedule.
Loan No. 847-UNI      Fourth Power Project: US$76.0 million Loan of June 30,
1972; Effective Date: June 26, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The project consists of: (a) the installation of two units of 100
MW each at the Kainji hydroplant; (b) reinforcement of four existing 330/132
KV substations; (c) construction of a second 330 KV transmission line from
Kainji to Lagos; (d) reinforcement of the distribution systems in 43 cities
and electrification of 42 sizeable townships without electricity; (e) power
development and management studies; and (d) technical assistance. In spite of
port congestion, the physical progress of the project has continued in a
satisfactory manner. While some items have been delayed and the rural elec-
trification component is being redefined as a result of additional studies,
the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Loan No. 922-UNI      Second Lagos Port Project: US$55.0 million Loan of
August 1, 1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project consists of: (a) 1,000 meters of berth (now extended by
an additional 500 meters by the Government) with associated dredged channel
and turning basin and the deepening of the existing port entrance channel; (b)
the construction of an entrance, buildings, roadways and hardstandings; (c)
the provision of containers and other cargo handling equipment; and (d) the
appointment of consultants and other experts to assist the Nigerian Ports
Authority in management and operations.   The civil works and dredging are
progressing and are expected to be completed by September 1978. The procure-
ment of container cranes is expected to be completed by late 1978. While the



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Nigerian Port Authority's finances have deteriorated because of mounting
expenditures and lack of Government approval of tariff revision proposals,
this approval is expected early in 1977/78.
Loan No. 1045         Second Cocoa Project: US$7.2 million Loan of
October 11, 1974; Effective Date: October 15, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Although the creation of new States has created some organizational/
managerial problems, the project is progressing satisfactorily in three of the
four States. The 62,000 acre total project target was achieved and exceeded
in three of the four States in 1976. The Bendel State component is proceeding
unsatisfactorily because of management/organizational problems and target
plantings will be reduced.
Loan No. 1091-UNI    Livestock Development Project: US$21.0 million
Loan of March 20, 1975; Effective Date: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1981
Project implementation has been slow due to the creation of new
States and operational difficulties. All senior staff have been recruited,
most are in post, and recruitment and training of junior and Intermediate
staff Is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1092-UNI    Funtua Agricultural Development Project: US$29.0
million Loan of March 20, 1974; Effective Date:
January 5, 1976; Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project represents an agricultural development program for
100,000 farmers involving the construction of: (a) 1,500 km of low cost
roads; (b) 85 earth dams; (c) 160 tapkis; (d) construction of an administra-
tion center; (e) 77 farm service centers; (f) developing seed multiplication
farms and training centers; (g) provision of adequate farmer extension
services; (h) credit and marketing services; (i) provislon of seasonal and
medium-term loans for farm inputs; and establishing a Project Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit. Project implementation is progressing very satisfactorily
with excellent farmer response and the full support of both Federal and State
Governments. Demand for inputs is consistently above appraisal estimates.
The senior management team is virtually complete and junior and medium level
field staff are being recruited and trained. The Northern Projects Monitor-
ing and Evaluation Unit financed under this loan is operational. Project
costs are In line with annual estimates and disbursement is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1099-UNI    Gusau Agricultural Development Project: US$19.0
million Loan of March 20, 1975; Effective Date:
January 5, 1976; Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project is progressing very satisfactorily with full support
from both Federal and State Governments. Farmer response is very good and



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
the road building program is being well received. Senior management staff
are in place and recruitment of local staff is on schedule. Project unit
costs are in line with appraisal estimates and disbursement Is proceeding
rapidly.
Loan No. 1103-UNI    Rice Project: US$17.5 million Loan of April 25, 1974;
Effective Date: January 10, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow due to the creation of new
States, land acquisition problems and other operational problems. While
most senior staff have been recruited, junior and intermediate level staff
positions remain vacant. Farmer response to the project has been good.
Loan No. 1164-UNI    Gombe Agricultural Development Project: US$21.0 million
Loan of September 29, 1975; Effective Date: December 29,
1976; Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project is being implemented satisfactorily with full support
from both Federal and State Governments. Farmer response is most favorable
with the demand for inputs exceeding appraisal estimates. The senior man-
agement team is complete; however, there has been a problem in recruiting
intermediate and junior staff.
Loan No. 1183-UNI    Mid-Western (Bendel) State Oil Palm Project: US$29.5
million Loan of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: not
yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project represents the first phase of an integrated oil palm
development project consisting of: (a) planting 8,000 ha of oil palm on
smallholdings; (b) operation of a grant/credit scheme; (c) improving 299 km
of earth roads; (d) staff and smallholder training; (e) planting/replanting
of 8,000 ha oil palm nucleus estates; (f) construction and operation of two
palm oil mills; (g) establishment of a fruit collection system; (h) estab-
lishment of a Federal Tree Crop Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, and (i)
smallscale processing studies. Loan effectiveness has been substantially
delayed because of problems relating to staff recruitment, land acquisition
and completion of the Federal and State Legal Opinions and State Loan Agree-
ment. Although project implementation started satisfactorily, it has sub-
sequently been hampered by inefficient management, lack of local staff and
some technical problems.
Loan No. 1191-UNI    East Central (Imo) State Oil Palm Project: US$19.0
million Loan of February 12, 1976; Effective Date:
April 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation was delayed due to the creation of new
States and intermediate and junior staffing problems but is now operating
satisfactorily. Substantial cost overruns are envisaged, especially labor
following the Udoji salary and wages award In 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Loan No. 1192-UNI    Western (Ondo) State Oil Palm Project: US$17.0
million Loan of September 22, 1976; Effective Date:
not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is adequately staffed with key personnel. Estate
land acquisition Is proceeding slower than projected but this does not
pose an immediate constraint. Nurseries have been established and farmer
selection arrangements for the 1977 smallholder planting season have been
initiated. The project is generally operating satisfactorily. Labor cost
overruns following the 1975 Udoji wage awards are expected.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
Ayangba Agricultural Development
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by the country to prepare the project:
12 months.
(b)   The agency which has prepared the project:    Con-
sultants financed by the Government.
(c)   Date of first presentation to the Bank:    May 1975.
(d)   Date of first Bank Mission to consider the project:
June 1975.
(e)   Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:    May 1976.
(f)   Completion of Negotiations:   March 25, 1977.
(g)   Planned date of effectiveness:   September 7, 1977.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)   The loan would be relent by the Government to Benue
State under a subsidiary loan agreement on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 55).
(b)   The project manager and the heads of administration,
commercial services, development services and engi-
neering would be appointed with qualifications, ex-
perience and terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank (para 49).
(c)   The State Government would transfer adequate number
of competent staff to APMU (para 50).
(d)   The Federal Government would allocate in its budget
not less than N 16 million toward the cost of the
State Component (para 56).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e)   Signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and Benue State (condition of effectiveness
para 55).
(f)   Benue State establishing a project bank account with
adequate funds (condition of effectiveness para 64).
(g)   Benue State publishing in Gazette a notice estab-
lishing the Ayangba Project Management Unit and the
Ayangba Project Executive Committee in a form and
with powers and responsibilities acceptable to the
Bank (condition of effectiveness para 45).



AT  ..--  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  8*          ,~~~~~~~~~,.             a'                          ER~~~~~~~~~~B D   12135R3
/ (r  A   ¢   )     R                      N         G     E    R                                                  \        i.
NIERIA \                                                                                                                               e cha ix/
-12'2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K <,p \ l5°Kt:T              o   .   ,    K    N  r>;                         
N  0~~~~~~NTO 
-12-                                                                                                             n Py  N SOOT  AAA0AN    LOeChC
\>~~~~~~~ K         T\           <                       <nn 0  rK/NO
I~~~  .-'R  A  N  ~~~~~~  Q---t-~~~~~'                                     NEtiarlA,>GUR
BEN IN       X            0Xr/                     K  A          IA       r/                                              r 
r   Wt 6    .<   .     X        ,     )       k     \          . n .,:    ,. ,S.A7Gus,u\  k                                      |
- <-t>, 2 < z° *>- t '-' t ? < ( .~~~~In,CKafnch,                                               y                                  < CHAD
iE;1        - 8        < _      O  K U T O        ,  -                   (AENO Ad  L        A+TE A  U
Fgb    ;7>>.  j1h}  ffIE AYA GGA
|~~~~ \                   ' p 0 0 I                                                                     0 c 4 5   R P t    '          <   GRA 1Rwff8 
fIAGVRP E  tARSIOOLEONAN L VLPMENT  6-
0460U0 (LOAN 109825I11
0US00 ILAN 1004-UN(1
PNORE (LOAN IIMRN64
0svgat o>-   V  <1 vi >1  @                             ielveRs            ~      ~~U4w -Mo,bll  PROPOSED
A 4N r  tU       A                                            E  (LA  0t40ANI
rECOR '((LOAN IEEE-E  IsTL
A G 0                                                             IGER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIOAL I  NDTREEN DILP PALEM
isc                                                      FOC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MOA IE(LONM 0( P0114 LA lDAI
--C~~~ f-           AGRICULTUR~~~~~~SATELNTL PROJESED          EATCENTRAL OI[LOPALM (LOA-(iN-UN
DAiS ROARS         0~~~IOIII   RICE (LOIAN 1(0 PL0. LA000 1-1
1ONBOA                   R-    C (LOAN ~1031 UN41
7                                                                 II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ATIONAL IVOSEOEII PROEUDIJO1N CO.,080
R  I ~~~V  E                          J .STATE BOUNDARIES                       -  D  WESTERN (JVMTS CII tA, NANOPEE
I-A  I                                j                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A NSATIN-E-ATON CO. RANCEEO
KILOMETERS  I . . , . ,  L`i16ODRAZING RESERVES - FUL-AI OEOLP REAAECTO
ig/                             6~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ OR A`0  RN  i`0  IO  lET  O
_Ohl   of   Bonny                     MILES
AT  N'            0'                         N   50 40 NA 80 OR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D-BB 1



z   p~     E     
z                                0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



